## Union of India - Act

## Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration) Act, 1949

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration) Act, 1949

## Act 65 of 1949

  * Published in Gazette of India on 30 May 1955 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 September 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE ABDUCTED PERSONS (RECOVERY AND RESTORATION) CONTINUANCE ACT, 1955 (Act 30 of 1955) on 17 September 1955] 
  2. [Repealed by Repealing and amending Act, 1960 (Act 58 of 1960) on 26 December 1960] 

THE ABDUCTED PERSONS (RECOVERY AND RESTORATION) CONTINUANCE ACT, 1955[17th
September, 1955]An Act to continue the Abducted Persons (Recovery and
Restoration) Act, 1949, for a further period.BE it enacted by Parliament in
the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-An Act to provide, in
pursuance of an agreement with Pakistan, for the recovery and restoration of
abducted persons.WHEREAS an agreement has been reached between the Government
of India and the Government of Pakistan for the recovery and restoration of
abducted persons;AND WHEREAS it is expedient to provide, in pursuance of the
said agreement, for the recovery of abducted persons and for their temporary
detention in camps pending restoration to their relatives;AND WHEREAS the
Governors of the United Provinces and East Punjab and the Rajpramukhs of
Patiala and the East Punjab States Union and the United State of Rajasthan
have, under the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 106 of the Government
of India Act, 1935 (26 Geo. 5., c. 2), accorded their previous consent to the
making of this law; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent :-

(1)This Act may be called the Abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration) Act,
1949.(2)It extends to the United Provinces, the Provinces of East Punjab and
Delhi, the Patiala and East Punjab States Union and the United State of
Rajasthan and shall remain in force up to 31st October 1951.

### 2. Interpretation :-

(1)In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context:-(a)"abducted person" means a male child under the age of sixteen
years or a female of whatever age who is, or immediately before the 1st day of
March, 1947, was, a Muslim and who, on or after that day and before the 1st
day of January, 1949, has become separated from his or her family and is found
to be living with or under the control of any other individual or family, and
in the latter case includes a child born to any such female after the said
date;(b)"camp" means any place established, or deemed to be established, under
section 3 for the reception and detetion of abducted persons.(2)In the
application of this Act to any Acceding State, references to the Province and
theProvincial Government shall be construed as references to that Acceding
State or the Government of that State, as the case may be, and references to
the official Gazette shall beconstrued as references to the corresponding
official publication of that State.

### 3. Establishment of camps and notification thereof and of officers in
charge :-

(1)The Provincial Government may establish as many camps in the Province as it
may consider necessary for the reception and detention of abducted persons,
and any place established in the Province before the commencement of this Act
for the reception and detention of abducted persons shall be deemed to be a
camp established by the Provincial Government within the meaning of this
section.(2)The Provincial Government shall, as soon after the commencement of
this Act as may be practicable, notify in the official Gazette all camps in
the Province and the names of officers in charge thereof.

### 4. Powers of police officers to recover abducted persons :-

(1)If any police officer, not below the rank of an Assistant Sub-Inspector or
any other police officer specially authorised by the Provincial Government in
this behalf, has reason to believe that an abducted person resides or is to be
found in any place, he may, after recording the reasons for his belief without
warrant, enter and search the place and take into custody any person found
therein who, in his opinion, is an abducted person, and deliver or cause such
person to be delivered to the custody of the officer in charge of the nearest
camp with the least possible delay.(2)In exercising any powers conferred by
sub-section (1) any such police officer may take such steps and may require
the assistance of such female persons as may, in his opinion, be necessary for
the effective exercise of such power.

### 5. Maintenance of discipline in camp :-

(1)The Provincial Government may make regulations for the transfer of abducted
persons from one camp to another and for the maintenance of health and good
order in the camp and of harmonious relations among the abducted persons
detained therein.(2)In making any regulations under this section, the
Provincial Government may provide that a breach thereof shall be tried and
punished by the officer in charge of the camp in such manner as may be
prescribed in the regulations :Provided that no abducted person shall be
liable to be tried in a criminal Court in respect of any offence made
punishable by any regulations made under this section.

### 6. Determination of question whether any person detained is an abducted
person :-

(1)If any question arises whether a person detained in a camp is or is not an
abducted person or whether such person should be restored to his or her
relatives or handed over to any other person or conveyed out of India or
allowed to leave the camp, it shall be referred to, and decided by, a tribunal
constituted for the purpose by the Central Government.(2)The decision of the
tribunal constituted under sub section (1) shall be final:Provided that the
Central Government may, either of its own motion or on the application of any
party interested in the matter, review or revise any such decision.

### 7. Handing over of abducted persons to persons authorised :-

(1)Any officer in charge of a camp may deliver any abducted person detained in
the camp to the custody of such officer or authority as the Provincial
Government may, by general or special order, specify in this behalf.(2)Any
officer or authority to whom the custody of any abducted person has been
delivered under the provisions of sub section (1) shall be entitled to receive
and hold the person in custody and either restore such person to his or her
relatives or convey such person out of India.

### 8. Detention in camp not to be questioned by Court :-

Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the detention of any abducted person in a camp in accordance with the
provisions of this Act shall be lawful and shall not be called in question in
any Court.

### 9. Protection of action taken under the Act :-

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding whatsoever shall lie against
the Central Government, the Provincial Government or any officer or authority
for, or in respect of, any act which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of this Act.

### 10. Power to make rules :-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, rules may provide
for-(a)the constitution and procedure of any tribunal appointed under section
6;(b)the manner in which any application to review or revise any decision of
the tribunal may be made under section 6 ;(c)the manner in which any abducted
person may be delivered to the custody of any officer or authority under
section 7 or restored to his or her relatives or conveyed out of India by any
such officer or authority.

### 11. Repeal of Ordinance XVIII of 1949 :-

(1)The Abducted abducted Persons (Recovery and Restoration) Ordinance, 1949
(XVIII of 1949), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything
done or any action taken in the exercise of any powers conferred by or under
the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise
of the powers conferred by this Act, as if this Act were in force on the day
on which such thing was done or action was taken.Notes ; This Act has been
repealed by the Repealing and amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), s. 2 and Sch.

