## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Statistical, Assistant in
Market Committees

TAMILNADU  
India

# Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Statistical, Assistant in
Market Committees

## Rule AD-HOC-RULES-RELATING-TO-THE-TEMPORARY-POST-OF-STATISTICAL-ASSISTANT-
IN-MARKET-COMMITTEES of 1989

  * Published on 5 July 1989 
  * Commenced on 5 July 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 July 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Statistical, Assistant in
Market CommitteesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 473,
Agriculture (AM-3), Dated 5th July 1989) - No. SRO B-191 (a-4)/89In exercise
of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 22 of the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1989) and the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:The rules hereby made
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 17th November 1981.

### 1.

The General and Special Rules applicable to the. holders of the permanent
posts of Statistical Assistant in Class I of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Subordinate Service shall apply to the holders of temporary posts of
Statistical Assistants sanctioned, from time to time in the Market Committees
in the Agricultural Marketing Department subject to the modifications
specified in the following rules:-

### 2. Constitution.

\- The post shall constitute a separate category in the said class of the said
service.

### 3. Appointment.

\- Appointment to the post shall be made as follows:-(i)By recruitment by
transfer from Assistants in Agricultural Marketing Department under the Tamil
Nadu Ministerial Service; or(ii)By recruitment by transfer from among the
holders of the posts of Junior Assistant in Market Committees in the Tamil
Nadu Ministerial Service, if no qualified persons are available in clause (i);
or(iii)By direct recruitment.

### 4. Appointing authority.

\- The appointing authority for the post shall be the Director of Agricultural
Marketing.

### 5. Qualification.

(a)Age. - No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post by direct
recruitment, if he has completed or will complete 28 years of age on the first
day of July of the year in which the selection for appointment is
made:Provided that the age limit shall be increased by five years in the case
of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and
Backward Classes.(b)Other Qualification. - No person shall be eligible for
appointment to the posts unless he possesses a degree in Statistics,
Mathematics or Economics as the main subjects:Provided that preference shall
be given to candidates who possess experience in statistical investigation.

### 6. Probation.

\- Every person appointed to the post by direct recruitment shall be on
probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period
of three years.Provided that every person appointed to the post by recruitment
by transfer, shall be on probation for a total period of one year on duty
within a continuous period of two years.

### 7. Test.

\- Every person appointed to the post shall within the period of his probation
Pass the following tests:(i)The Departmental Test for Agricultural Marketing
Department Employees.(ii)Account Test for Subordinate Officers - Part 1.

### 8. Pay.

\- There shall be paid to the holders of the post a monthly pay calculated in
the scale of pay Rs. 525-25-675-30-855-35-925 and in the scale of pay of Rs.
905-45-1445-50-1545-with effect from 1st October 1984.

