## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Overseer in Market
Committees

TAMILNADU  
India

# Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Overseer in Market Committees

## Rule AD-HOC-RULES-RELATING-TO-THE-TEMPORARY-POST-OF-OVERSEER-IN-MARKET-
COMMITTEES of 1989

  * Published on 5 July 1989 
  * Commenced on 5 July 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 July 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Overseer in Market
CommitteesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. MS. NO. 472, Agriculture
(AMI), dated 5.7.1989 - No. SRO. B/ 191 (a-3)/89In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (4) of section 22 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of1989) and the
proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Tamil
Nadu hereby makes the following rules:The rules hereby made shall be deemed to
have come into force on the 17th November 1981.

### 1.

The General and Special Rules applicable to the holders of permanent posts of
Overseer in Category 2 in Branch I-Engineering Branch in the Tamil Nadu
Engineering Subordinate Service shall apply to the holders of temporary posts
of Overseer in Marketing Committees in the Agricultural Marketing Department
sanctioned, from time to time, subject to the modifications specified in the
following rules:

### 2. Constitution.

\- The post shall constitute a separate category in the said Branch of the
said service.

### 3. Appointment.

\- Appointment to the post shall be made by direct recruitment.

### 4. Appointing authority.

\- The appointing authority for the post shall be the Secretary of the Market
Committee.

### 5. Qualifications.

(a)Age. - No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post if he has
completed or will complete 28 years of age on the first day of July of the
year in which the selection for appointment is made:Provided that the age
limit shall be increased by five years in the case of candidates belonging to
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.(b)Other Qualifications. - No person
shall be eligible for appointment to the post unless he possesses a Diploma in
Civil Engineering awarded by the Board Technical Education [Chennai]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.].

### 6. Probation.

\- Every person appointed to the post shall be on probation for a total period
of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.

### 7. Pay1.

\- There shall be paid to the holder of the post a monthly pay calculated in
the scale of pay of Rs. 400-15-490-20-650-25-700; and in the scale of pay of
Rs.705-20-745-25-845-35-1230 with effect from 1st October 1984.

### 1\. Refer to latest pay scale.

