## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Cine-Operators in Market
Committees

TAMILNADU  
India

# Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Cine-Operators in Market
Committees

## Rule AD-HOC-RULES-RELATING-TO-THE-TEMPORARY-POST-OF-CINE-OPERATORS-IN-
MARKET-COMMITTEES of 1989

  * Published on 5 July 1989 
  * Commenced on 5 July 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 July 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Ad Hoc Rules Relating to the Temporary Post of Cine-Operators in Market
CommitteesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 474, Agriculture
(AM-3), dated 5.7.1989 - No. SRO B-191 (a-5)/89In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (4) of section 22 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of1989) and the
proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Tamil
Nadu hereby makes the following rules.The rules hereby made shall be deemed to
have come into force on the 17th November, 1981.

### 1.

The general and special rules applicable to the holders of permanent post of
Artist in Category IV in Class III of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Subordinate
Service shall apply to the holders of temporary posts of Cine Operator in the-
Market Committees in the Agricultural Marketing Department sanctioned, from
time to time, subject to the modifications specified in the following rules:-

### 2. Constitution.

\- The post shall constitute a separate category in the said class of the said
service.

### 3. Appointment.

\- Appointment to the post shall be made by direct recruitment or for special
reasons by recruitment by transfer from any other service.

### 4. Appointing authority.

\- The appointing authority for the post shall be the Secretary of the Market
Committee.

### 5. Qualification.

(a)Age. - No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post, by direct
recruitment, if he has completed or will complete 28 years of age on the first
day of July of the year in which the selection or appointment is made:Provided
that the age limit shall be increased by five years in the case of candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes
[***] [Backward Class includes Most Backward Classes and De-notified
communities also.].(b)Other Qualifications. - No person shall be eligible for
appointment to the post unless he possesses the following qualifications,
namely:-(i)Must have passed in VIII Standard;(ii)Must have obtained the Cinema
Operator's Certificate issued by the Government of Tamil Nadu; and(iii)Must
have practical experience for a period of not less than three years in a
cinema theatre after obtaining the cinema operator certificate.

### 6. Pay.

\- There shall be paid to the holders of the post a monthly pay calculated in
the scale of pay of Rs. 400-15M90-20-6S0-2S-700, and in the scale of pay of
Rs. 705-20-745-25-845-35-1230- with effect from 1st October 1984.

