## Union of India - Act

## Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950

## Act 31 of 1950

  * Published on 26 January 1950 
  * Commenced on 26 January 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 January 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950

### 31. of 1950

### 1121.

Object and Reasons. On account of the setting up of the two Dominions of India
and Pakistan or on account of civil disturbances or the fear of such
disturbances a large number of people migrated from one Dominion to the other.
It was not possible for such people to make any satisfactory arrangement for
the management of the property left behind by them for the efficient
management and administration of evacuee property, the Government of
East'Punjab promulgated an Ordinance, which was converted into an Act the East
Punjab Evacuees' (Administration of Prop Act, 1947 (E.P. Act XIV of 1947).
This Act, with certain modifications, was extended to Delhi and
AjmerMerwara.On the 13th of June, 1949 an Ordinance was promulgated for the
Chief Commissioners' Provinces the Administration of Evacuee Property (Chief
Commissioners' Provinces) Ordinance, 1949 (XII of 1949). The Governor's
Provinces and States, including Hyderabad, promulgated Ordinances on similar
lines.It was, however, felt that there should be uniform legislation relating
to evacuee property throughout India, except Assam, West Bengal, Manipur,
Tripura and Cooch-Behar, where the problems are slightly different. y
amendment of the Government of India Act, 1935, the custody, management and
disposal of evacuee property was made a subject in the Concurrent Legislative
List. On the 18th of October, 1949 an Ordinance called the Administration of
Evacuee Property Ordinance (1949) (XXVII of 1949) was promulgated which
extended to all the Provinces of India (except Assam and West Bengal) and to
all the Acceding States (except Cooch-Behar, Manipur and Tripura). This
Ordinance will expire in April, 1950.It is desirable to re-enact Ordinance No.
XXVII of 1949 as an Act of the Legislature" Gazette of India, 17-12-1949, Pt.
V, page 464.Act No. 66 of 1950.- Prior to the 26th January, 1950 - the date of
coming into force of the new Constitution - Parliament had no powers to
legislate for Hyderabad State and, consequently, the Administration of Evacuee
Property Ordinance No. XXVII of 1949 was not made applicable to that State.
The State Government promulgated in December, 1949 a Regulation for the
administration of evacuee property on, practically, the same lines as the
Central Ordinance. After the coming into force of the new Constitution,
Parliament passed in April, 1950 the Administration of Evacuee Property Act
No. XXXI of 1950. This Act extends to the whole of India (including Hyderabad
State), except the States of Assam, West Bengal, Tripura, Manipur, and Jammu
and Kashmir. Unfortunately, due to an inadvertent omission, no provision was
made in the Act of Parliament repealing the previous Hyderabad Regulation
relating to the administration of evacuee property, or saving the actions
taken thereunder. The Administration of Evacuee Property (Amendment) Bill,
1950, seeks to rectify the anomaly so as to extend the scope of section 58 of
the Administration of Evacuee Property Act No. XXXI of 1950 to include the
Hyderabad Regulation with retrospective effect from the date of the
commencement of the Act. The effect of the amendment would be formally to
repeal the Hyderabad Regulation and save all actions taken thereunder. -
Gazette of India, 5-8-1950, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., P. 298.Act No. 22 of
1951.- An agreement was arrived at with the Government of Pakistan in June
1950 according to which property of Joint Stock Companies should be treated as
evacuee property if the holders of the majority of shares of such companies
have migrated to Pakistan. The existing Administration of Evacuee Property
Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950) does not admit of such property being treated as
evacuee property. It is proposed to amend the definition of evacuee property
so as to make the property of such companies evacuee property.2\. Section 17
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act was designed to bar the
jurisdiction of civil courts in matters relating to execution of decrees and
order concerning evacuee property. While it was felt that the existing section
was comprehensive enough, civil courts have found a lacuna in the section and
orderslieve been issued by some civil courts for appointment of receivers,
etc., in respect of evacuee property. Such orders are contrary to the spirit
underlying the Administration of Evacuee Property Act and also contrary to the
understanding between the Governments of India and Pakistan that evacuee
property will not be allowed to be attached, sold, etc., under orders of civil
courts. It is proposed to rectify this lacuna by this amending Bill. Gazette
of India, 30-12-1950, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., P. 660.Act No. 11 of 1953.- The
Bill is designed to incorporate in the Administration of Evacuee Property Act,
1950 (XXXI of 1950), certain changes that are considered necessary on account
of the changed circumstances since the legislation was originally enacted.
Provisions relating to "intending evacuees" in the Act are no longer
considered necesst.ry and they are accordingly being deleted. Certain
difficulties which are being experienced by a section of the population in
disposing of their property on account of the existing provisions of the Act
are also sought to be removed by means of amendments to se,tions 40 and 41 of
the Act. Opportunity has also been taken to incorporate certain other changes
which are considered necessary in the light of the experience of the working
of the Act.Gazette of India, 9-8-1952, Pt II, Section 2, Ext., p. 358.Act No.
91 of 1956.- The evacuee property law has been in operation for over eight
years. Certain provisions of the law were repealed in 1953. With the decision
to acquire the right, title and interest of evacuee owners in their properties
in India and utilise such properties for payment of compensation to displaced
persons, it was felt that there was no reason to continue the evacuee property
law as it then existed. Accordingly, certain sections of the law were
abrogated by the Administration of Evacuee Property (Amendment) Act, 1954.
Further, it was provided that no notice for declaring a property as evacuee
property should be issued after April 8, 1955.2\. After April 8, 1955, the
judicial work of the Custodians has been largely confined to the disposal of
cases pending on that date. Although by now the number of pending cases has
been brought down substantial!y, it was felt that unless the procedure was
simplified weir disposal would take considerable time causing hardship to the
affected parties. Further, such of the properties as may be declared evacuee
properties in the pending cases would not become available for utilisation
under the Compensation Scheme until these cases are finally disposed of.3\.
Under the simplified procedure :(1) Inquiry into the title of applicants for
restoration of property under section 16 will be made along with the
preliminary inquiry and not after the grant of a certificate as hitherto.
(clause 6).(2) The Custodian's powers of review and revision, and the
Custodian General's power of review have been withdrawn (clauses 8 and 9).(3)
Custodians have been debarred from reopening, in exercise of their power of
general superintendence and control, cases already decided by them (clause
2(b) (ii)).(4) Appeals in regard to properties up to the value of Rs. 2,000
would lie to the Custodian, and those exceeding that limit to the Custodian-
General. A second appeal has, however, been provided to the Custodian-General
on a point of law in the case of proceedings relating to properties of the
value not exceeding Rs. 2,000. The provisions for appeal to the District Judge
has been deleted (clauses 7 and 6).(5) Fresh trustees for properties of a
religious and charitable nature vested in the Custodians can now be appointed
by the Central Government (clause 5).

### 4. Judicial pronouncements have held that powers under section 48 are not
wide enough to enable Custodians to recover dues relating to evacuee property
arising out of leases, etc., granted by them. The section is being suitably
amended in order to carry out its real intention (clause 12).

5\. In order to facilitate the integration of the Custodians' Organisation
with the machinery set up by the Central Government for payment of
compensation to displaced persons, the Central Government have assumed the
power to appoint Custodians (clause 2). 6. Opportunity has also been taken to
delete certain provisions which have now become obsolete. - Gaz. of Ind.,
21-11-1956, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 884.Act No. 1 of 1960.- Certain
difficulties are being experienced in the working of the Administration of
Evacuee Property Act, 1950; and they are hindering the early completion of
residual work. It is proposed to amend the Act suitably to remove these
difficulties.2\. Section 8 of the Act was intended to provide for automatic
vesting of evacuee property in the Custodian where such property had vested in
any person exercising the powers of Custodian under any Provincial or State
law repealed thereby. The validity of such repealed Provincial or State law
has been questioned in certain High Courts. It is proposed to make the
position clear beyond doubt and to validate such vesting.3\. At present there
is no specific provision in the Act empowering the Custodian to determine and
recover rent or damages from statutory tenants or unauthorised occupants of
evacuee property nor for the recovery of compensation in cases where damage is
caused to evacuee property by the occupants. It is proposed to insert a new
section 10-A to empower the Custodian to determine and recover rent and
damages in such cases. Difficulties are also sometimes experienced where
evacuee and nonevacuee interests are inter-mixed and the non-evacuee owners
are unwilling or not in a position to purchase the evacuee share. In such
cases, it is necessary to empower the Custodian to purchase non-evacuee
property out of the cash balances lying with him or in the evacuee pool.
Section 10 is being suitably amended for the purpose.4\. Under the existing
Act, a Custodian has no powers to call for any returns, accounts or other
information. This power is necessary in the interest of better administration
and management of evacuee property and a new section 42 is sought to be
inserted for the purpose.5\. Instances have come to notice where some
properties were wrongly declared to be evacuee property and they were also
acquired. To afford relief in such genuine and hard cases, it is necessary to
empower the Custodian-General under section 27 to restore such property to the
non-evacuee owner, even in cases where the property has been acquired under
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954. Section 27
is being suitably amended for the purpose.6\. When the Central Government
delegates any of its powers to a State Government, there is no provision in
the existing Act enabling the State Government to redelegate the power to any
officer or authority subordinate to it. It is necessary to empower the State
Government to do so, particularly in relation to management of evacuee trust
properties and section 55 is proposed to be amended suitably for the
purpose.Gazette of India, 15-12-1959, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 1145.BE it
enacted by Parliament as follows: --

## Chapter I  
PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title and extent.-

(1)This Act may be called the Administration of Evacuee Property Act,
1950.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the States of Assam, West
Bengal, Tripura, Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, --(a)"allotment" means the
grant by a person duly authorised in this behalf of a right of use or
occupation of any immovable evacuee property to any other person, but does not
include a grant by way of lease;(b)"Custodian-General" means the Custodian-
General of Evacuee Property in India appointed by the Central Government under
section 5;(c)"Custodian" means the Custodian for the State, and includes any
Additional, Deputy or Assistant Custodian of evacuee property appointed in
that State ;(d)"evacuee" means any person,--(i)who, on account of the setting
up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan or on account of civil disturbances
or the fear of such disturbances, leaves or has, on or after the 1st day of
March, 1947, left, any place in a State for any place outside the territories
now forming part of India, or(ii)who is resident in any place now forming part
of Pakistan and who for that reason is unable to occupy, supervise or manage
in person his property in any part of the territories to which this Act
extends, or whose property in any part of the said territories has ceased to
be occupied, supervised or managed by any person or is being occupied,
supervised or managed by an unauthorised person, or(iii)who has, after the
14th day of August, 1947, obtained, otherwise than by way of purchase or
exchange, any right to, interest in or benefit from any property which is
treated as evacuee or abandoned property under any law for the time being in
force in Pakistan;Explanation I .- For the purposes of sub-clause (iii), the
acquisition of any right to, interest in or benefit from any such property as
is referred to in that sub-clause by a firm, private limited company or trust
of which any person or any member of the family of such person wholly
dependent on him for the ordinary necessaries of life is a partner, member or
beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an acquisition by that
person within the meaning of that sub-clause.(e)"intending evacuee" means any
person who, after the 14th day of August, 1947,--(i)has transferred to
Pakistan his assets or any part thereof situated in any part of the
territories to which this Act extends:Provided that the transfer to Pakistan
of any reasonable sum of money in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf by the Central Government, for the purpose of financing any transaction
in the ordinary course of his trade or for the maintenance of any member of
the family of such person shall not be deemed to be a transfer of assets
within the meaning of this sub-clause, or(ii)has acquired, if the acquisition
has been made in person by way of purchase or exchange, or if the acquisition
has been made by or through a member of his family, in any manner whatsoever,
any right to, interest in, or benefit from any property, which is treated as
evacuee or abandoned property under any law for the time being in force in
Pakistan,Explanation.- For the purposes of sub-clause (ii), the acquisition of
any right to, interest in or benefit from any such property as is referred to
in that sub-clause by a firm, private limited company or trust of which any
person is a partner, member or beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be an acquisition by that person within the meaning of that sub-
clause; or(iii)has, by the execution of any document of transfer in writing,
whether registered or not, or by means of any other document in writing,
sought to effect an exchange of the whole or any part of his property situated
in any part of the territories to which this Act extends, with any property
situated in Pakistan;and includes any person against whom an intention to
settle in Pakistan is established from his conduct or from documentary
evidence.(f)evacuee property" means any property in which an evacuee has nay
right or interest (whether personally or as a trustee or as a beneficiary or
in any other capacity), and includes any property-(1)which has been obtained
by any person from an evacuee after the 14th day of August, 1947, by any mode
of transfer, unless such transfer has been confirmed by the Custodian,
or(2)belonging to any person who, after the 18th day of October, 1949, has
done or does any of the acts specified in clause (e) of section 2, or in which
any such person has any right or interest, to the extend of such right or
interest.but does not include --(i)any ornament and any wearing apparel,
cooking vessels or other household effects in the immediate possession of an
evacuee;(ii)any property belonging to a joint stock company, the registered
office of which was situated before the 15th day of August, 1947, in any place
now forming part of Pakistan and continues to be so situated after the said
date ;(g)"member of the family" means any member of the family of any person
who is wholly dependent upon the earnings of such person for the provision of
the ordinary necessaries of life or who shares with such person in the
ordinary expenses of the household to which they jointly belong or who owns
property or carries on business jointly with such person ;(h)"prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act ;(i)"property" means property of
any kind, and includes any right or interest in such property
;(j)"unauthorised person" means any person (whether duly empowered in this
behalf by the evacuee or otherwise) who, after the 14th day of August, 1947,
has been occupying, supervising or managing the property of an evacuee without
the approval of the Custodian.

### 3. References to enactments not in force in Part B States.-

In the application of this Act to any Part B State, unless the context
otherwise requires, references to any enactment in force in Part A States but
not in force in that Part B State shall be construed.as references to the
corresponding enactment, if any, in force in that Part B State.

### 4\. Act to override other laws.-

The provisions of this Act and of the rules and orders made thereunder shall
have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by
virtue of any such law.

## Chapter II

Evacuee Property And Vesting Thereof In The Custodian

### 5. Appointment of Custodian.-

General, Deputy Custodians.-General, etc.- The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint a Custodian - General and as
many Deputy and Assistant Custodians - General as may be necessary for the
purpose of discharging the duties imposed upon the Custodian - General and the
Deputy and Assistant Custodians - General by or under this Act.

### 6. Appointment of Custodians.-

(1)The State Government may, in consultation with the Custodian - General, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for the State a Custodian, and
as many Additional, Deputy or Assistant Custodians of evacuee property as may
be necessary for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on the
Custodian by or under this Act.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, all
Custodians, Additional, Deputy or Assistant Custodians of evacuee property
shall discharge the duties imposed on them by or under this Act under the
general superintendence and control of the Custodian -- General.(3)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (2), Additional, Deputy and Assistant Custodians
shall discharge the duties imposed on them by or under this Act under the
general superintendence and control of the Custodian for the State, but the
State Government may, by general or special order, provide for the
distribution of work among them.

### 7. Notification of evacuee property.-

(1)Where the Custodian is of opinion that any property is evacuee property
within the meaning of this Act, he may, after causing notice thereof to be
given in such manner as may be prescribed to the persons interested, and after
holding such inquiry into the matter as the circumstances of the case permit,
pass an order declaring any such property to be evacuee property.(2)Where a
notice has been issued under sub-section (1) in respect of any property, such
property shall, pending the determination of the question whether it is
evacuee property or otherwise, he incapable of being transferred or charged in
any way, except with the leave of the Custodian, and no person shall be
capable of taking any benefit from such transfer or charge except with such
leave.(3)The Custodian shall, from time to time, notify, either by publication
in the Official Gazette or in such other manner as may be prescribed, all
properties declared by him to be evacuee properties under sub-section (1).

### 8. Vesting of evacuee property in the Custodians.-

(1)Any property declared to be evacuee property under section 7 shall be
deemed to have vested in the Custodian for the State.--(a)in the case of the
property of an evacuee as defined in sub-clause (i) of clause (d) of section
2, from the date on which he leaves or left any place in a State for any place
outside the territories now forming part of India ;(b)in the case of the
property of an evacuee as defined in sub-clause (ii) of clause (d) of section
2, from the 15th day of August, 1947; and(c)in the case of any other property,
from the date of the notice given under sub-section (1) of section 7 in
respect thereof.(2)Where immediately before the commencement of this Act, any
property in a State had vested as evacuee property in any person exercising
that powers of Custodian under any law repealed hereby, the property shall, on
the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be evacuee property declared as
such within the meaning of this Act and shall be deemed to have vested in the
Custodian appointed or deemed to have been appointed for the State under this
Act, and shall continue to so vest :Provided that where at the commencement of
this Act there is pending before the High Court the Custodian or any other
authority for or in any State any proceeding under section 8 or section 30 of
the Administration of Evacuee Property Ordinance, 1949 (XII of 1949), or under
any other corresponding law repealed by the Administration of Evacuee Property
Ordinance, 1949, (XXVII of 1949), then notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, such proceeding
shall be disposed of as if the definitions of 'evacuee property' and 'evacuee'
contained in section 2 of this Act had become applicable thereto.(3)Where any
property in a State belonging to a joint stock company had vested in any
person exercising the powers of a Custodian under any law previously in force,
then nothing contained in clause (f) of section 2 shall affect the operation
of sub-section (2), but the State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that the Custodian shall be divested of any such
property in such manner and after such period as may be specified in the
notification.(4)Where after any evacuee property has vested in the Custodian
any person is in possession thereof, he shall be deemed to be holding on
behalf of the Custodian and shall on demand surrender possession of it to the
Custodian or to any other person duly authorised by him in this behalf.

### 9. Power of Custodian to take possession of evacuee property vested in
him.-

If any person in possession of any evacuee property refuses or fails on demand
to surrender possession thereof to the Custodian may use or cause to be used
such force as may be necessary for taking possession of such property and may,
for this purpose, after giving reasonable warning and facility to any woman
not appearing in public to withdraw, remove or break open any lock, bolt or
any door or do any other act necessary for the said purpose.

### 10. Power and duties of the Custodian generally.-

(1)Subject to the provisions of any rules that may be made in this behalf, the
Custodian may take such measures as he considers necessary or expedient for
the purposes of securing, administering, preserving and managing any evacuee
property and generally for the purpose of enabling him satisfactorily to
discharge any of the duties imposed on him by or under this Act and may, for
such purpose as aforesaid, do all acts and incur all expenses necessary or
incidental thereto.(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
contained in sub-sections (1), the Custodian may, for any of the purposes
aforesaid, --(a)carry on the business of the evacuee ;(b)appoint a manager for
the property of the evacuee or for carrying on any business or undertaking of
the evacuee and authorise the manager to exercise any of the powers of the
Custodian under this section ;(c)enter, or authorise any other person to
enter, any land or premises to inspect any evacuee property ;(d)take all such
measures as may be necessary to keep any evacuee property in good repair
;(e)complete any building which has vested in him and which requires to be
completed ;(f)require any person, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other law for the time being in force relating to the
disclosure of any information by a public servant or any other person, to
furnish such returns, accounts or other information in relation to any
property and to produce such documents in his possession as the Custodian
considers necessary for the discharge of his duties under this Act ;(g)require
any banking company to furnish such information as the Custodian may require
with respect to remittances made after the 14th day of August, 1947, to any
such area outside India as may be specified by the Custodian, either
generally, or with reference to any person or class of persons ;(h)search any
building or place in which the Custodian has reason to believe that any
evacuee property or any document tending to show that any person is an evacuee
or that any property is evacuee property is being kept or concealed and take
possession thereof ;(i)take such action as may be necessary for the recovery
of any debt due to the evacuee ;(j)institute, defend or continue any legal
proceeding in any civil or revenue court on behalf of the evacuee or refer any
dispute between the evacuee and any other person to arbitration or compromise
any claims, debts or liabilities on behalf of the evacuee ;(k)raise on the
security of the evacuee property such loans as may be necessary ;(l)in any
case where the evacuee property which has vested in the Custodian consists of
a share or shares in a company, exercise, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913) or in the
articles of association of the company, the same rights in the matter of
making a requisition for the convening of a meeting or of presenting a
petition to the court under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1913,
or the articles of association of the company or in any other matter as the
evacuee shareholder himself could have done had he been present, although the
name of the Custodian does not appear in the register of members of the
company ;(m)incur any expenditure, including the payment of taxes, duties,
cesses and rates to Government or to any local authority or of any amounts due
to any employee of the evacuee or of any debt due by the evacuee to any person
;(n)pay to the evacuee, or to any member of his family or to any other person
as in the opinion of the Custodian is entitled thereto, any sums of money out
of the funds in his possession ;(o)transfer in any manner whatsoever any
evacuee property, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
law or agreement relating thereto :Provided that the Custodian shall not sell
any immovable property or any business or other undertaking of the evacuee,
except with the previous approval of the Custodian-General ;(p)invest any
money held by him in any of the securities approved by the Central Government
or in the prescribed manner.(q)delegate, by general or special order, all or
any of his functions under this Act to such officers or persons as he thinks
fit :Provided that the Custodian shall not delegate any of his functions under
clause (g) or clause (h) to any officer or person below the rank of an
Assistant Custodian.

### 11. Special provisions with respect to certain trust properties.-

(1)Where any evacuee property which has vested in the Custodian is property in
trust for a public purpose of a religious or charitable nature, the property
shall remain vested in the Custodian only until such time as fresh trustees
are appointed in the manner provided by law, and pending the appointment of
fresh trustees the trust property and the income thereof shall be applied by
the Custodian for fulfilling, as far as possible, the purpose of the
trust.Explanation.-- In this sub-section 'property in trust for a public
purpose of a religious or charitable nature' includes a public wakf and the
expression 'trustee' includes a mutawalli of such wakf.(2)In respect of any
Wakf--alal--aulad, --(a)where the mutawalli is an evacuee, the property
forming the subject -- matter of the wakf shall vest in the Custodian subject
to the rights of the beneficiaries under the wakf, if any, who are not
evacuees ;(b)where not all the beneficiaries are evacuees, the rights and
interests of such of the beneficiaries as are evacuees shall alone vest in the
Custodian.

### 12. Power to vary or cancel leases or allotments of evacuee property.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the Custodian may cancel any allotment or terminate any lease or amend
the terms of any lease or agreement under which any evacuee property is held
or occupied by a person, whether such allotment, lease or agreement was
granted or entered into before or after the 14th day of August, 1947.(2)Where
by reason of any action taken under sub-section (1), any person has ceased to
be entitled to possession of any evacuee property, he shall on demand by the
Custodian surrender possession of such property to the Custodian or to any
person duly authorised by him in this behalf.(3)If any person fails to
surrender possession of any property on demand under sub-section (2), the
Custodian may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other
law for the time being in force, eject such person and take possession of such
property in the manner provided in section 9.

### 13. Payments to Custodian to be valid discharge.-

(1)Any amount due to any evacuee in respect of any property which has vested
in the Custodian or in respect of any transaction entered into by the evacuee,
shall be paid to the Custodian by the person liable to pay the same.(2)Any
payment made otherwise than in accordance with sub-section (1) shall not
discharge the person paying it from his obligation to pay the amount due, and
shall not affect the right of the Custodian to enforce such obligation against
any such person.

### 14. Recouping of expenditure by Custodian.-

Any expenditure incurred by the Custodian in the exercise of any power
conferred by or under this Act shall, in relation to any evacuee property in
respect of which it has been incurred, be a charge on such property and shall,
subject to the provisions of section 51, have priority over all other charges
on the property, and such expenditure may be met or recouped by the Custodian
out of the income accruing from such property or the sale proceeds thereof.

### 15. Maintenance of accounts by Custodian.-

(1)The Custodian shall maintain a separate account of the property of each
evacuee possession where of has been taken by him, and shall cause to be made
therein entries of all receipts and expenditure in respect thereof.(2)The
accounts shall be maintained in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The State Government shall cause the accounts maintained under
this section to be inspected and audited at such intervals and by such persons
as may be prescribed.

### 16. Restoration of evacuee property.-

The custodian may on application made to him in this behalf in writing by an
evacuee or any person claiming to be the their of an evacuee, restore, subject
such terms and conditions as he may think fit to impose, the evacuee property
to which the evacuee or other person would have been entitled if this Act were
not in force :Provided that the applicant produces in support of his
application a certificate from the Central Government , or from any person
authorised by it in this behalf, to the effect that the evacuee property may
be so restored if the applicant is otherwise entitled thereto.On receipt of an
application under sub-section (1), the Custodian shall cause public notice
thereof to be given in the prescribed manner and, after holding a summary
inquiry into the claim in such manner as may be prescribed, may-(a)make a
formal order declaring that the property shall be restored to the applicant;
or(b)reject the application; or(c)refer the applicant to a civil court for the
determination of his claim and title to the property:Provided that no order
for the restoration of any evacuee property shall be made under this section
unless provision has been made in the prescribed manner for the recovery of
any amount due to the Custodian in respect of the property or the management
thereof.(3)Upon the restoration of the property to the evacuee or to the heir,
as the case may be, the Custodian shall stand absolved of all responsibilities
in respect of the property so restored, but such restoration shall not
prejudice the rights, if any, in respect of theory which any other person may
be qualified to enforce against the person to whom the property has been so
restored :Provided that every lease granted, in respect of the property by or
on behalf of the Custodian shall have effect against the person to whom
restoration is made until such lease is determined by lapse of time or by
operation of law.(4)The Custodian shall, on demand, furnish to the evacuee or
to the heir, as the case may be, a statement containing an abstract of the
account of the income received and expenditure incurred in respect of the
property.

## Chapter III

Certain Consequences Of Property Vesting In Custodian

### 17. Exemption of evacuee property from processes of court, etc.-

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no property which has
vested in the Custodian shall be liable to attachment, distress or sale in
execution of an order of court or of any other authority, and no injunction in
respect of any such property shall be granted by any court or other
authority.(2)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, any attachment
of injunction subsisting on the commencement of this Act in respect of any
evacuee properly which has vested in the Custodian shall cease to have effect
on such commencement, and any transfer of evacuee property under orders of a
court or any other authority made after the 1st day of March, 1947, shall be
set aside, if an application is made to such court or authority by or at the
instance of the Custodian within six months from the commencement of this Act.

### 18. Occupancy or tenancy rights not to be extinguished.

\- Nothing contained in any other law for the time being in force shall be
deemed to extinguish the right of occupancy in any land or the site of any
house or other building of an evacuee which has vested in the Custodian and,
notwithstanding anything contained in any such law, neither the evacuee nor
the Custodian, whether as an occupancy tenant or as a tenant for a fixed term
of any land or the site of any house or other building, shall be liable to be
ejected or deemed to have become so liable on any ground whatsoever for any
default of the Custodian.

## Chapter IV  
Property Of Intending Evacuees

### 19. Declaration of person as intending evacuee.

(1)Where the] Custodian has reason to believe that a person is an intending
evacuee, he may, by notice served in the prescribed manner, call upon such
person to show cause why he should not be declared an intending evacuee, and
shall, after holding such inquiry into the matter as the circumstances thereof
permit, and after taking such evidence as may be produced by or on behalf of
the person showing cause pass an order (stating the reasons therefor) either
declaring such person to be an intending evacuee or closing the case.(2)Any
declaration made under sub-section (1) shall be published in the Official
Gazette.(3)The Custodian may, pending determination of the question whether
any person is an intending evacuee or otherwise, attach in the prescribed
manner any property in the State in which such person has a right or interest,
and during the pendency of such attachment, the property shall be incapable of
being transferred or charged in any way, except with the leave of the
Custodian, and no person shall be capable of taking any benefit from such
transfer or charge except with such leave.

### 20. Consequences of declaration that a person is an intending evacuee.

\- No person, in respect of whom a declaration has been made under section 19
that he is an intending evacuee, shall transfer in any manner whatsoever any
immovable property, in which he has any right or interest, situated in any
part of the territories to which this Act extends, except with the previous
approval of the Custodian, and any transfer made in contravention of the
provisions of this section shall be void and of no effect.

### 21. Powers of Custodian generally in respect of property of intending
evacuees.-

For the purposes of preserving any property in which any person in respect of
whom a declaration has been made under section 19 that he is an intending
evacuee has any right or interest, the Custodian may, --(a)by order in
writing, require any such person to furnish such returns, accounts or other
information in relation to any such property and to produce such documents in
his possession as the Custodian may require ;(b)inspect the books of account
or other documents maintained by or in the possession of such person ;(c)pass
such orders or direct such action to be taken in relation to any such property
as may be considered by him to be necessary ;(d)by order in writing, prohibit
the transfer to Pakistan of any sum of money belonging to any such person or
permit such transfer subject to such conditions and restrictions as the
Custodian may think fit to impose.

### 22. Declaration of property of intending evacuee as evacuee property in
certain cases.

\- If the Custodian is satisfied --(a)that any person in respect of whom a
declaration has been made under section 19 that he is an intending evacuee,
has made a transfer of any property in contravention of section 20, or has
failed to comply with any order made under clause (c) or clause (d) of section
21 ;or(b)after such inquiry as may be prescribed, that the circumstances
relating to any person, in respect of whom a declaration has been so made on
the ground that after the 14th day of August, 1947, and before the 18th day of
October, 1949, he had done any of the acts specified in sub-clause (i) to
(iii) of clause (e) of section 2, are such as may be prescribed as
constituting a preparation for his migrating to Pakistan, the Custodian may
declare any property situated in the State in which such person has any right
or interest to be evacuee property, and on the issue of such notification any
property specified in the notification shall be deemed to be evacuee property
which vested in the Custodian within the meaning of this Act.Explanation.- The
following shall be deemed to be some of the circumstances prescribed under
clause (b), namely, --(i)the transfer to Pakistan by any person referred to in
that clause of a substantial portion of his assets situated in any part of the
territories to which this Act extends, or(ii)the acquisition of, or the
declaration of an intention to acquire, Pakistan nationality by any such
person.

### 23. Intending evacuee acquiring evacuee or abandoned property in Pakistan
for inadequate consideration to make good the deficiency.

(1)Where any person in respect of whom a declaration has been made under
section 19 that he is an intending evacuee has either personally or through
any other agency acquired, whether before or after the commencement of this
Act, any right to interest in or benefit from any property which is treated as
evacuee or abandoned property under any law for the time being in force in
Pakistan for a consideration which, in the opinion of the Custodian, is
neither reasonable nor adequate, the Custodian may, after notice to such
person and after affording him a reasonable opportunity of being heard and
after holding such inquiry as the circumstances of the case permit, determine,
by order in writing, the amount, if any, by which the consideration, in his
opinion, fails short of the real value of the property so acquired, and
require such person to pay the amount to the Custodian within such time as may
be specified in the order.(2)If the amount is not paid within the time
specified, or within such further time as the Custodian may allow, the
Custodian may take possession of so much of the property of such intending
evacuee as would be sufficient to cover the amount in the case of movable
property, or as would afford a reasonable security for the recovery of the
amount in the case of immovable property.(3)The Custodian may, for the purpose
of realising any amount payable by such intending evacuee under the provisions
of this section, transfer in any manner whatsoever any immovable property
which has been taken possession of by him under sub-section (2).

## Chapter V  
Appeals, Review And Revision

### 24. Appeals from orders under sections 7, 16, 19 and 40.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made under section 7, section 16, section
19 (1) or section 40 may prefer an appeal in such manner and within such time
as may be prescribed, --(a)to the Custodian, where the original order has been
passed by a Deputy or Assistant Custodian ;(b)to the Custodian -- General,
where the original order has been passed by the Custodian, an Additional
Custodian or an Authorised Deputy Custodian :Provided that where the appeal is
preferred on the ground that the person aggrieved is not an evacuee within the
meaning of sub-clause (iii) of clause (d) of section 2, or that the property
is not evacuee property within the meaning of sub-clause (2) of clause (f) of
section 2, the appeal shall be preferred in the manner prescribed in section
25.(2)The Custodian to whom an appeal is preferred under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) may dispose of it himself or may make it over for disposal to an
Additional Custodian or to a Deputy Custodian authorised by the Custodian in
writing in this behalf (in this Chapter referred to as the Authorised Deputy
Custodian) ;Provided that no appeal from an order of a Deputy Custodian shall
be made over for disposal to the Authorised Deputy Custodian.

### 25. Appeals from other orders.-

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order,(a)under section 7 declaring his property
to be evacuee property on the ground that he is an evacuee within the meaning
of sub-clause (iii) or sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) of clause (d) of
section 2, or that the property is evacuee property within the meaning of sub-
clause (2) of clause (f) of section 2, or(b)under section 22 declaring any
property of and intending evacuee to be evacuee property, may prefer an
appeal, in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed, to the
district judge nominated in this behalf by the State Government.(2)For the
purpose of hearing any appeal under sub-section (1) the State Government shall
nominate one or more district judges and define the local limits of their
jurisdiction.

### 26. Powers of review or revision of Custodian, etc.

(1)The Custodian, Additional Custodian or Authorised Deputy Custodian may at
any time, either on his own motion or on application made to him in this
behalf, call for the record of any proceeding under this Act which is pending
before, or has been disposed of by, an officer subordinate to him for the
purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any orders
passed in the said proceeding, any may pass such order in relation thereto as
he thinks fit:Provided that the Custodian, Additional Custodian or Authorised
Deputy Custodian shall not pass an order under this sub-section revising or
modifying any order prejudicial to any person without giving such person a
reasonable opportunity of being heard:Provided further that if one of the
officers aforesaid takes action under this sub-section, it shall not be
competent for any other officer to do so.(2)The Custodian, Additional
Custodian or Authorised Deputy Custodian ( but not a Deputy or an Assistant
Custodian) may, after giving notice to the parties concerned, review his own
order.(3)The Custodian, Additional Custodian or Authorised Deputy Custodian
may from time to time on application made to him in this behalf, review any
declaration made by him in relation to any intending evacuee:Provided that no
such application shall be entertained unless--(a)where an appeal or any other
proceeding in respect of such declaration is pending under this Act six months
have elapsed from the date of the decision in such appeal or other proceeding,
or(b)where no appeal has been preferred, six months have elapsed from the date
on which the time prescribed for the filing of an appeal under this Act in
respect of such declaration would have expired:Provided further that every
declaration made in review under this sub-section shall not take effect unless
confirmed by the Custodian-General.

### 27. Powers of revision of Custodian-General.

(1)The Custodian-General may at any time, either on his own motion or on
application made to him in this behalf, call for the record of any proceeding
in which any district judge or Custodian has passed an order for the purpose
of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any such order and
may pass such order in relation thereto as he thinks fits:Provided that the
Custodian-General shall not pass an order under this sub-section prejudicial
to any person without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where in
respect of any proceeding called for under sub-section (1), the Custodian-
General is of opinion that the district judge is in error in holding any
person not to be an evacuee or any property not to be evacuee property, shall
not pass any order in relation thereto but shall refer the matter, with his
own opinion thereon, to the High Court to which the district judge is
otherwise subordinate.(3)Any reference made under sub-section (2) shall be
heard by a Bench of the High Court consisting of not less than two Judges, and
the Custodian-General shall dispose of the proceeding in accordance with the
decision of the High Court.

### 28. Finality of orders under this Chapter.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter, every order made by
the Custodian - General, district judge, Custodian, Additional Custodian,
Authorised Deputy Custodian, Deputy Custodian or Assistant Custodian shall be
final and shall not be called in question in any court by way of appeal or
revision or in any original suit, application or execution proceeding.

## Chapter VI  
Penalties And Procedure

### 29. Penalty for failure to surrender possession of evacuee property.

\- Any person who fails to comply with a notice or demand by or on behalf of
the Custodian under the provisions of this Act to surrender possession of any
evacuee property shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

### 30. Penalty for wrongfully paying or receiving rents, etc.

\- Any person who pays to or receives from any other person any sum of money
in respect of any property which he knows or has reason to believe to be
evacuee property shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine, or with both :Provided that nothing
contained in this section shall apply to render punishable any payment made to
or received by the Custodian.

### 31\. Penalty for concealing evacuee property.

\- Any person who wilfully conceals any property which he knows or has reason
to believe to be evacuee property shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

### 32. Penalty for causing damage to evacuee property.

\- Any person who wilfully destroys or causes damage to any evacuee property
or unlawfully converts it to his own use shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

### 33. Penalty for false declaration in certain cases.

\- Any person who --(i)for the purpose of obtaining an allotment or lease of
any evacuee property, makes a declaration or statement which is false or which
he either knows or has reason to believe to be false, or does not believe to
be true, or(ii)furnishes any return, account of information which is material
to any of the purposes of this Act and which is false or which he either knows
has reason to believe to be false or does not believe to be true.shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or
with fine, or with both.

### 34. Penalty for offences not expressly provided for.

\- Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or of any rule or
order made thereunder, or obstructs the lawful exercise of any power conferred
by or under this Act, or makes default in complying with any requirement of
this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder, shall, if no express
provision is made by this Act for punishment of such contravention,
obstruction or default, by punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine or with both.

### 35. Penalty for offences by companies.

\- If the person charged with an offence under this Act is a company or other
body corporate, the director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company or other body corporate directly concerned in the management thereof
shall, unless he proves that the offence took place without his knowledge or
that he exercised due diligence to prevent such contravention, be deemed to be
guilty of such contravention.

### 36. Penalty for abetment.

\- Any person who abets any of the offences punishable under this Act shall be
punishable with the punishment provided for the offence.

### 37. Offences to be cognizable.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898,
(Act V of 1898), all offences under this Act shall be cognizable.

### 38. Procedure for prosecution.

\- No prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act shall be
instituted except with the previous sanction of the State Government or of any
officer authorised in this behalf, by general or special order, by the State
Government.

### 39. Offences may be tried summarily.

\- Any magistrate empowered to try in a summary way the offences specified in
sub-section (1) of section 260 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V
of 1898), may, if an application is made in this behalf by the complainant and
the magistrate thinks fit, try any offence under this Act in accordance with
the provisions contained in sections 262 to 265 of that Code, but nothing
contained in sub-section (2) of section 262 of that Code shall apply to any
such trial.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 40. Restriction on transfer by evacuees.

\- No transfer of any right or interest in any property made in any manner
whatsoever after the 14th day of August, 1947, by or on behalf of any person
whose property is notified or declared to be evacuee property, shall be
effective so as to confer any rights for remedies on the parties to such
transfer or on any person claiming under them unless it is confirmed by the
Custodian.(2)An application for confirmation of such transfer may be made by
the transferor or the transferee or any person claiming under, or lawfully
authorised by, either of them to the Custodian within two months from the date
of transfer or within two months from the commencement of this Act or within
two months form the date of the notification or declaration referred to in
sub-section (1), whichever is later.(3)The provisions of section 5 of the
Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (IX of 1908) shall apply to an application under
sub-section (2).(4)The Custodian shall hold and inquiry into the application
in the prescribed manner any may reject the application, if he is of opinion
that-(a)the transaction has not been entered into in good faith or for
valuable consideration, or(b)the transaction is prohibited under any law for
the time being in force, or(c)the transaction ought not to be confirmed for
any other reason.(5)If the application is not rejected under sub-section (4),
the Custodian may confirm the transfer either unconditionally or subject to
such terms and conditions as he thinks fit to impose.

### 41. Prohibition of registration of documents in certain cases.

(1)Where any document required to be registered under the Indian Registration
Act, 1908 (XVI of 1908), purports to transfer any right or interest in any
property in contravention of the provisions contained in section 20 or section
40, no registering officer shall register any such document and no revenue
officer shall sanction any mutation of names in respect thereof, unless the
party presenting the document for registration produces a certificate from the
Custodian declaring that the property is not property belonging to an
intending evacuee or that it is not evacuee property or that the transaction
has been confirmed or that the Custodian has given his previous approval to
the transfer.(2)Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, nothing contained
in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to affect the provisions contained in the
Payment of Taxes (Transfer of Property) Act 1949 (XXII of 1949), or in any
other law for the time being in force relating to the registration of
documents.

### 42. Submission of information to Custodian in respect of evacuee property.

\- As soon as may be but not later than sixty days from the commencement of
this Act, every person who is occupying, supervising or managing any property
without the approval of the Custodian which he knows or has reason to believe
to the evacuee property, shall submit to the Custodian or to any person
authorised by him in this behalf full information relating to such property,
including the date from which or the period during which he has been occupying
supervising or managing it, and a detailed account of the rents, profits,
income or other benefits received from the said property from the date from
which or for the period during which he has been occupying, supervising or
managing it.

### 43. Vesting of property in Custodian not affected by death of evacuee,
etc.

\- Where in pursuance of the provisions of this Act any property has vested in
the Custodian, neither the death of the evacuee at any time thereafter nor the
fact that the evacuee who had a right or interest in that property had ceased
to be an evacuee at any material time shall affect the vesting or render
invalid anything done in consequence thereof.

### 44. Certain officers to be public servants.

\- The Custodian-General, the Custodian and every other person duly appointed
to discharge any duties imposed on them by this Act or the rules or orders
made thereunder shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860).

### 45. Powers of the Custodian while holding inquiry.

\- For the purposes of holding and inquiry under this Act, the Custodian shall
have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), when trying a suit, in respect of the
following matters, namely :--(a)enforcing the attendance of any person and
examining him on each ;(b)compelling the discovery and production of documents
;(c)any prescribed matter ;and the inquiry by the Custodian shall be deemed to
be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the
Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860), and the Custodian shall be deemed to be a
court within the meaning of sections 480 and 482 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure , 1898, (Act V of 1898).

### 46. Jurisdiction of civil courts barred in certain matters.

\- Save as other wise expressly provided in this Act, no civil or revenue
court shall have jurisdiction---(a)to entertain or adjudicate upon any
question whether any property or any right to or interest in any property is
or is not evacuee property, or(b)to entertain or adjudicate upon any question
whether any property is or is not an intending evacuee; or(c)to question the
legality of any action taken by the Custodian General or the Custodian under
this Act; or(d)in respect of any matter which the Custodian-General or the
Custodian is empowered by or under this Act to determine.

### 47. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Custodian-General or the Custodian or any person acting under the direction of
the Custodian in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders made
thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, the State Government, the Custodian-General or the Custodian or
any other of any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any
rules or order made thereunder.

### 48. Recovery of arrears.

\- Any sum due to the State Government or to the Custodian under the
provisions of this Act may be recovered as if it were as arrear of land
revenue.

### 49. Record to be public documents.

\- All records prepared or registers maintained under this Act shall be deemed
to be public documents within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (I
of 1872), and shall be presumed to be genuine until they contrary is proved.

### 50. Notice of suits to the Custodian.

(1)If it any suit it appears to the civil or revenue court that a question
relating to the property of an evacuee or an intending evacuee is involved,
the court shall not proceed to determine that question until after notice has
been given to the Custodian.(2)A court may, at any stage of a suit or
proceeding, either on its own motion or on application made in this behalf by
the Custodian, make an order that the Custodian shall be added as a partly to
the suit or proceeding, if the court is satisfied that such addition is
necessary or proper for the satisfactory determination of the suit proceeding.

### 51. Fees payable to the Custodian.

(1)The State Government may fix the fees payable to the Custodian for the
management or disposal of any property vested in him.(2)Such fees shall be
payable out of the income or sale proceeds of such property and shall be a
first charge on the property.

### 52. Power to exempt.

\- The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
any person or class of persons or nay property or class of property form the
operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act.

### 53. Power to give directions.

\- The Central Government may give directions to any State Government as to
the carrying into execution in the State of any of the provisions contained in
this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder.

### 54. Power to Central Government to take action with regard to evacuee
property.

\- The Central Government may, for the purposes of regulating the
administration of any property which has vested in the Custodian under the
provisions of this Act, pass such order or direct such action to be taken in
relation thereto as, in its opinion, the circumstances of the case require and
as is not inconsistent with any of the provisions contained in this Act.

### 55. Delegation of powers.

(1)The Central Government may direct that any power exercisable by it under
this Act shall be exercisable also by such officer or authority subordinate to
the Central Government or by the State Government or by such officer or
authority subordinate to the State Government as may be specified in the
direction.(2)The State Government may, by general or special order, direct
that any power exercisable by it under this Act shall, in such circumstances
and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, be
exercised by an officer subordinate to the State Government.(3)Subject to the
provisions of this Act and of the rules and orders made thereunder, the
Custodian-General may delegate all or any of his powers under this Act to any
Deputy or Assistant Custodian-General.(4)Subject to the provisions of this Act
and of the rules and orders made thereunder , the Custodian may delegate all
or any of his powers under this Act to any Additional, Deputy or Assistant
Custodian, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified by the
Custodian.

### 56. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, be notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely :--(a)the terms and conditions of
service of the Custodian-General;(b)the manner in which inquires under this
Act may be held ;(c)the manner in which evacuee properties which have vested
in the Custodian may be notified ;(d)the manner in which possession of any
evacuee property may be taken by the Custodian ;(e)the manner in which any
person claiming any right to, or interest in, any property which has been
notified an evacuee property may have his claim registered and disposed
of;(f)the manner in which any attachment may be made by the Custodian ;(g)the
manner in which trust properties which have vested in the Custodian may be
administered or otherwise dealt with;(h)the circumstances in which, and the
conditions subject to which, the Custodian may sell any immovable property
vested in him, and the procedure governing the grant of leases and the period
for which leases may be granted ;(i)the circumstances in which leases and
allotments may be cancelled or terminated or the terms of any lease or
agreement varied;(j)the securities in which the Custodian may invest any
moneys held by him ;(k)the manner in which any moneys due to the Custodian may
be recovered;(l)the form and manner in which books of accounts and other
records shall be maintained by the Custodian ;(m)the form in which any notice
under this Act may be issued, the manner of this service and publication and
the form in which any demand may be made by the Custodian ;(n)the nature of
cases and the circumstances in which and the conditions subject to which
certificates for restoration of property under section 16 may be issued
;(o)the nature of cases and the circumstances in which the Custodian may refer
an applicant under section 16 to a civil court ;(p)the powers vested in a
civil court which may be exercised by the Custodian while holding any inquiry
under this Act ;(r)the form and manner in which and the time within which
appeals and applications for revision may be preferred under Chapter V and the
fees payable in respect thereof;(q)the nature of cases and the circumstances
in which the Custodian may confirm or refuse to confirm a transfer under
section 28.(s)any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed under this
Act.(3)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, take
rules providing for all or any of the following matters, namely :--(a)the
terms and conditions of service of the Custodian and other officers appointed
under this Act and for the furnishing of security by them;(b)the work to be
performed by the Custodian and the Additional, Deputy and Assistant
Custodians;(c)the delegation of powers of the Custodian to the Additional,
Deputy or Assistant Custodian ;(d)the fees payable to the Custodian for the
management and disposal of any property vested in him and the manner in which
such fees shall be paid ;(e)the persons by whom and the times at which books
of account maintained under this Act, may be inspected and audited.

### 57. Temporary amendment of section 54 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.

\- During the continuance of this Act, sub-section (3) of section 54 of the
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922) shall have effect as if after clause
(o) thereof, the following clause had been inserted, namely :--" (p) of any
such particulars to the Custodian of Evacuee Property appointed under the
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, for the purpose of enabling him
to discharge the duties imposed upon him by or under the said Act".

### 58. Repeals and savings.

(1)The Administration of Evacuee Property Ordinance, 1949 (XXVII of 1949), is
hereby repealed.(2)The repeal by this Act of the Administration of Evacuee
Property ordinance, 1949 (XXVII of 1949) shall not affect the previous
operation thereof and subject thereto anything done or any action taken in the
exercise of any power conferred by or under that Ordinance shall be deemed to
have been done or taken in the exercise of the powers conferred by or under
this Act as if this Act were in force on the day on which such thing was done
or action was taken.

