## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Italy on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of Italy on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-ITALY-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of
2012

  * Published on 17 December 2012 
  * Commenced on 17 December 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 December 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of Italy on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide
Notification New Delhi, the 17th December, 2012Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R. 897(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government having ratified the Agreement on the 16th
November, 2012, hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply
to the Government of the Republic of Italy and notifies the text of the treaty
entered into between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Italy for the transfer of prisoners between that
country and India as follows, namely : -Agreement Between the Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the
Transfer of Sentenced PersonsThe Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Italy, hereinafter referred to as "The
Contracting States",Desiring to develop their cooperation on the transfer of
sentenced persons in order to facilitate their social rehabilitation;Have
Agreed as follows:Article 1

### 1. Definitions

For the purpose of this Agreement:(a)"sentence" shall be any punishment or
measure involving deprivation of personal liberty ordered by a court for the
commitment of a criminal offence for a determinate period of time or for life
imprisonment;(b)"judgment" shall be a decision of a court imposing a
sentence;(c)"Transferring State" shall be the State in which the sentence was
imposed on the person who may be, or has been, transferred;(d)"sentenced
person" means a person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under a judgement
passed by a criminal court;(e)"Receiving State" shall be the State to which
the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve his
sentence or remainder thereof.Article 2

### 2. General principles

(1)A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on him. To that end,
he may express to the Transferring or the Receiving State his willingness to
be transferred under this Agreement.(2)Transfer may be requested by either the
Transferring or the Receiving State.(3)Transfer may also be requested by any
sentenced person who is a national of a Contracting State or by any other
person who is entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the
Contracting State.(4)The present Agreement shall not apply if the sentenced
person has been convicted for an offence under the military law.Article 3

### 3. Central Authorities

(1)Requests for transfer shall be sent through the Central Authorities of the
Contracting States.(2)The Central Authority for the Government of the Republic
of India shall be the Ministry of Home Affairs.The Central Authority for the
Government of the Republic of Italy shall be the Ministero della Giustizia -
Dipartimento per gli Affari di Giustizia - Direzione Generale della Giustizia
Penale (Ministry of Justice - Department for Justice Affairs - Directorate
General for Criminal Justice).(3)In case a Contracting State changes its
Central Authorities, it shall notify the other through diplomatic
channels.Article 4

### 4. Conditions for transfer

A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement on the following
conditions:(a)the sentenced person is a national of the Receiving State;(b)the
judgment is final;(c)no criminal proceedings are pending against the sentenced
person in the Transferring State in which his presence is required.(d)at the
time of receipt of the request for transfer, the sentence still to be served
by the sentenced person is at least one year;(e)the transfer is consented to
by the sentenced person or, where in view of his/her age or physical or mental
condition, by any of her person entitled to act on his behalf;(f)the acts or
omissions on account of which the sentence has been imposed constitute a
criminal offence according to the law of the Receiving State or would
constitute a criminal offence if committed on its territory; and(g)The
Transferring and Receiving States agree to the transfer.Article 5

### 5. Obligation to provide information

Any sentenced person to whom this Agreement may apply shall be informed by the
Transferring State of the substance of this Agreement and of the legal
consequences of transfer.Article 6

### 6. Request and supporting documents

(1)Any sentenced person may request to be transferred under this Agreement
submitting a written request to the authorities of either the Transferring or
Receiving State.(2)If the request is submitted by the sentenced person to the
Receiving State that State shall transmit it to the Transferring State.(3)The
Transferring State shall transmit to the Receiving State the following:(a)in
case the request is submitted to the Transferring State, a copy of that
request;(b)name, date and place of birth and address in the Receiving State,
if any, of the, sentenced person, along with a copy of his passport or any
other personal identification documents and fingerprints, as
possible;(c)information on the nature, duration and date of commencement of
the sentence;(d)a statement of the facts upon which the sentence was
based;(e)a certified true copy of the final judgment;(f)a copy of the law
provisions on which the sentence is based;(g)a statement indicating how much
of the sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-
trial detention, remission of sentence or any other relevant element to the
enforcement of the sentence;(h)whenever appropriate, any medical or social
report on the sentenced person, any information on his/her treatment in the
Transferring State and any recommendation for continuing his/her treatment in
the Receiving State.(i)a statement from the Transferring State agreeing to the
transfer of the sentenced person.(4)For the purpose of enabling a decision to
be made on a request under this Agreement, the Receiving State shall send the
following information and documents to the Transferring State unless either
the Receiving or the Transferring State has already decided that it will not
agree to the transfer:(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced
person is a national of the Receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of
the Receiving State which provides that the acts or omissions on account of
which the sentence has been imposed in the Transferring State constitute a
criminal offence according to the law of the Receiving State, or would
constitute a criminal offence if committed on its territory;(c)a statement of
the effect of any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement
of the sentence in the Receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer
including, if applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 3 of Article
9 of this Agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the Receiving State
to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to
administer the remaining part of the sentence still to be served;(e)any other
information or document which the Transferring State may consider
necessary.(5)Any request and any reply shall be made in writing and addressed
to the Central Authorities of the Contracting States.Article 7

### 7. Consent and its verification

(1)The Transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the
legal consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be
governed by the law of the Transferring State.(2)If the Receiving State makes
express request, before the transfer is carried out, the Transferring State
shall grant the other an opportunity to verify, through an official appointed
in compliance with the law of the Receiving State, that the consent of the
sentenced person is given voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof.Article 8

### 8. Decision

The authorities of the Contracting States, before deciding on the transfer of
a sentenced person in compliance with the aims of this Agreement, in order to
favour and facilitate the social rehabilitation of the convicted person shall
consider, among other factors, the sovereignty, security and any other
essential interest of the State, as well as the seriousness of the offence
committed, any previous conviction, the social and family bonds with the
environment of origin and health conditions.Article 9

### 9. Continued enforcement of sentence

(1)Save as provided under Article 11 of this Agreement, the Authorities of the
Receiving State shall continue to enforce the sentence complying with the
nature and duration of the sentence inflicted by the judgment of the
Transferring State.(2)The enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the
law of the Receiving State and that State alone shall be competent to take all
appropriate decisions.(3)If the sentence is by its nature or duration or both,
incompatible with the law of the Receiving State, that State may, with the
prior consent of the Transferring State, adapt the sentence to a sentence
prescribed by its own law for a similar offence. As to its nature and
duration, the adapted sentence shall, as far a possible, correspond with that
imposed by the judgement of the Transferring State. It shall, however, not
aggravate, by its nature or duration, the sentence imposed by the Transferring
State.Article 10

### 10. Review of judgment

The Transferring State alone shall have the right to decide on any application
for review of the judgment.Article 11

### 11. Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation

(1)Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation
of the sentence in accordance with its domestic law, giving immediate
communication thereof to the other State.(2)The Receiving State, after being
informed of one of the above measures of clemency, shall immediately enforce
it in compliance with its own laws.Article 12

### 12. Termination of enforcement

The Receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it
is informed by the Transferring State of any decision or measure as a result
of which that sentence ceases to be enforceable.Article 13

### 13. Information on enforcement of sentence

The Receiving State shall inform the Transferring State:(a)when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed;(b)if the sentenced person has
escaped from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In
such cases, the Receiving State shall take measures to secure his arrest for
the purpose of serving the remainder of his sentence and render him also
liable for escaping from prison under the relevant law of the Receiving
State.(c)if the Transferring State requests a special report.Article 14

### 14. Transit

(1)If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of a
sentenced person with any third State, the other shall cooperate in order to
facilitate the transit of the said sentenced person through its territory. The
State where the person transferred is directed shall submit to the other State
a request for transit in advance.(2)A State may refuse to grant transit if the
sentenced person is one of its nationals.(3)Requests for transit and relevant
replies shall be communicated as per Article 3 of this Agreement.Article 15

### 15. Costs

(1)Any cost deriving from the enforcement of this Agreement shall be borne by
the Receiving State, except for costs incurred exclusively on the territory of
the Transferring State.(2)The Receiving State may, however, demand or seek to
recover all or part of costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from any
other source.Article 16

### 16. Language

Requests and supporting documents shall be in English or accompanied by a
translation into English.Article 17

### 17. Scope of Application

This Agreement shall apply to the enforcement of sentences imposed before or
after its entry into force,Article 18

### 18. Settlement of Disputes

(1)The Central Authorities shall endeavour to mutually resolve any dispute
arising out of the interpretation, application or implementation of this
Agreement.(2)If the Central Authorities are unable to resolve the dispute
mutually, it shall be resolved through diplomatic channels.Article 19

### 19. Handing Over of Sentenced Persons

The handing over of the transferred person by the Transferring State to the
Receiving State shall occur at a place to be agreed upon between the
Transferring and Receiving States. The Receiving State shall be responsible
for the transport of the prisoner from the Transferring State and shall also
be responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside its
territory.Article 20

### 20. Final Provisions

(1)This Agreement shall be subject to ratification Each Contracting State
shall notify the other as soon as possible, in writing, through diplomatic
channels, upon the completion of its legal procedures required for the entry
into force of this Agreement. The Agreement shall come into force on the first
day of the second month of the date of the last notification.(2)Any amendment
or modification to this Agreement agreed upon by the Contracting States shall
come into force as the Agreement itself.(3)The Agreement shall remain in force
for an indefinite period. It may, however, be terminated by either Contracting
State by giving a written notice of termination to the other. The termination
shall take effect after six months from the date of such
notice.(4)Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the enforcement of sentences of persons who have been transferred
under this Agreement before the date on which such termination takes effect.In
witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at Rome
(Italy) on the 10th day of August, 2012, in the Hindi, English and Italian
languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of differences in
interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

For the Government ofthe Republic of India | For the Government ofthe Republic of Italy  
---|---

