## International Treaty - Act

## AGREEMENT FOR AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH AFGHANISTAN

TREATY  
India

# AGREEMENT FOR AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH AFGHANISTAN

  * Published on 30 September 1975 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 September 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Whereas the Government of India and the Government of Afghanistan have
concluded an Agreement through exchange of letters as set out in the Annexure
hereto, for the avoidance of double taxation of income of enterprises
operating aircraft;Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), and section 24A of the
Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of 1964), the Central Government
hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Agreement shall be given
effect to in the Union of India.TEXT OF LETTERS OF AMBASSADOR OF INDIA, KABUL,
SEPTEMBER 14, 1975 DULY CONFIRMED BY PRESIDENT - CIVIL AVIATION & TOURISM
AUTHORITY OF AFGHANISTAN GOVERNMENTExcellency,I have the honour to refer to
the Agreement dated 26th January, 1952, between the Government of India and
the Government of Afghanistan relating to air services and to the discussions
between the representatives of our two Governments on the reciprocal exemption
of the airlines of India and Afghanistan from payment of the income-tax and to
confirm on behalf of the Government of India the following understandings
reached between our two Governments :

### 1. Income derived from the operation of aircraft by the airlines of India
shall be exempt from the Afghanistan tax.

### 2. Income derived from the operation of aircraft by the airlines of
Afghanistan shall be exempt from the Indian tax.

### 3.The exemption provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall also
apply in respect of participation in pools of any kind regarding air transport
by the airlines of India or Afghanistan; the exemption shall not, however,
apply to income from operation of aircraft in internal traffic in India or
Afghanistan.

### 4. The exemption provided for in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) above shall
have the effect in relation to the income derived from the operation of
aircraft on or after the 26th day of January, 1952, on which date the
Agreement relating to air services was signed between India and Afghanistan.

In case any tax on income relatable to the aforesaid period has been recovered
by either Government as of the date of this Agreement, the same shall be
refunded by the Government on an application to be made in this behalf within
twelve months of the said date by the airlines of India or the airlines of
Afghanistan, as the case may be.

### 5. It is understood that—

(a) the term "Indian tax" means the income-tax and surtax imposed under the
tax laws of India;(b) the term "Afghanistan tax" means the income-tax and the
business transactions tax imposed by the income-tax law of Afghanistan;(c) the
terms "Indian tax" and "Afghanistan tax" shall also include any identical or
substantially similar taxes which are imposed hereafter by India or
Afghanistan respectively in addition to or in place of the existing taxes;(d)
the term "airlines of India" or "airlines of Afghanistan" means—(i) airlines
designated by the Government of India or the Government of Afghanistan, as the
case may be, in pursuance of the Agreement dated 26th January, 1952 (as
amended or revised from time to time) between the two Governments relating to
air services; or(ii) airlines which are authorised by the Government of India
or the Government of Afghanistan, as the case may be, by a general or special
arrangement between the two Governments to operate chartered flights between
or beyond their territories;(e) the term "internal traffic" shall mean traffic
which originates and terminates within India or within Afghanistan, as the
case may be;(f) the term "operation of aircraft" means a business of
transportation by air of persons, livestock, goods or mail, carried on by the
owners or lessors or charterers of aircraft, including the sale of tickets for
such transportation on behalf of other enterprises and any other activity
directly connected with such transportation.I have the honour also to propose
that this letter and Your Excellency's letter of reply confirming the
foregoing understandings shall be regarded as constituting an Agreement
between the two Governments for the avoidance of double taxation of income of
enterprises operating aircraft, which shall enter into force on the date of
Your Excellency's reply and shall remain in force indefinitely, unless either
of the Governments gives notice to the other Government of its intention to
terminate this Agreement on or before the thirtieth day of June in any
calendar year after the year 1980. In the event of such a notice, this
Agreement shall cease to be effective :(a) in India, in respect of income
assessable for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April in the
second calendar year following the calendar year in which the notice is given
and the subsequent assessment years; and(b) in Afghanistan, in respect of
income assessable for the taxable year commencing on the 1st day of Hamal,
corresponding to the 21st day of March, in the second calendar year following
the calendar year in which the notice is given and the subsequent taxable
years.[I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurance of my highest consideration.Excellency,I have the honour to
acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's letter of today's date which
reads as follows:"I have the honour to refer to the Agreement dated the 26th
January, 1952, between the Government of India and the Government of
Afghanistan relating to air services, and to the discussions between the
representatives of our two Governments on the reciprocal exemption of the
airlines of India and Afghanistan from payment of income-tax and to confirm on
behalf of the Government of India the following understandings reached between
our two Governments:1\. 'Income derived from the operation of aircraft by the
airlines of India shall be exempt from the Afghanistan Tax.2\. Income derived
from the operation of aircraft by the airlines of Afghanistan shall be exempt
from the Indian Tax.3\. The exemption provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2)
above shall also apply in respect of participation in pools of any kind
regarding air transport by the airlines of India or Afghanistan; the exemption
shall not, however, apply to income from operation of aircraft or in internal
traffic in India or Afghanistan.4\. The exemption provided for in paragraphs
(X), (2) and (3) above shall have effect in relation to the income derived
from the operation of aircraft on or after the 26th day of January, 1952, on
which date the Agreement relating to air services was signed between India and
Afghanistan.In case any tax on income relatable to the aforesaid period has
been recovered by either Government as of the date of this Agreement, the same
shall be refunded by that Government on an application to be made in this
behalf within twelve months of the said date by the airlines of India or the
airlines of Afghanistan, as the case may be.5\. It is understood that:(a) The
term "Indian Tax" means the income-tax and surtax imposed under the Laws of
India.(b) The term "Afghanistan Tax" means the Income-tax and the business
transactions tax imposed by the Income Tax Law of Afghanistan.(c) The terms
"Indian Tax" and "Afghanistan Tax" shall also include any identical or
substantially similar taxes which are imposed hereafter by India or
Afghanistan respectively in addition to or in place of the existing taxes.(d)
The term "Airlines of India" or "Airlines of Afghanistan" means —(i) Airlines
designated by the Government of India or the Government of Afghanistan, as the
case may be, in pursuance of the Agreement dated 26th January, 1952 (as
amended or revised from time to time), between the two Governments relating to
air services; or(ii) Airlines which are authorised by the Government of India
or the Government of Afghanistan, as the case may be, by a general or special
arrangement between the two Governments to operate chartered flights between
or beyond their territories.(e) The term "Internal Traffic" shall mean traffic
which originates and terminates within India or within Afghanistan, as the
case may be.(f) The term "Operation of Aircraft" means a business of
transportation by air of persons, livestock, goods or mail, carried on by the
owners or lessors or charterers of aircraft, including the sale of tickets for
such transportation on behalf of other enterprises and any other activity
directly connected with such transportation.I have the honour also to propose,
that this letter and Your Excellency's letter of reply confirming the
foregoing understandings shall be regarded as constituting an agreement
between the two Governments for the avoidance of double taxation of income of
enterprises operating aircraft, which shall enter into force on the date of
Your Excellency's reply and shall remain in force indefinitely, unless either
of the Governments gives notice to the other Government of its intention to
terminate this agreement on or before the thirtieth day of June in any
calendar year after the year 1980. In the event of such a notice, this
agreement shall cease to be effective:(a) In India, in respect of income
assessable for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April in the
second calendar year following the calendar year in which the notice is given
and the subsequent assessment years; and(b) In Afghanistan, in respect of
income assessable for the taxable year commencing on the 1st day of Hamal,
corresponding to the 21st day of March in the second calendar year following
the calendar year in which the notice is given and the subsequent taxable
years.I have further the honour to confirm the foregoing the understandings on
behalf of the Government of Afghanistan and to agree that Your Excellency's
letter and my reply thereto shall constitute an agreement between the two
Governments as stated in Your Excellency's above mentioned letter.I avail
myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my
highest consideration.]

