## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders between the Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of Hongkong

TREATY  
India

# Agreement for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders between the Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of Hongkong

## Rule AGREEMENT-FOR-THE-SURRENDER-OF-FUGITIVE-OFFENDERS-BETWEEN-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-HONGKONG of 1999

  * Published on 20 April 1999 
  * Commenced on 20 April 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 April 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders between the Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of HongkongPublished vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 275(E), dated 20th April, 1999Ministry of External
AffairsOrderG.S.R. 275(E). - Who is the Agreement for the Surrender of
Fugitive Offenders between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of Hongkong was signed in Hong Kong on 28th June, 1997, and whereas
the Later notification (From Hongkong side) as to the fulfilment of
requirements for the entry into force of the Agreement was received on 15th
October, 1997 and in terms of Article 17(1) entered into force on 14th
November, 1997 and which Agreement provides as follows:-Article 1Obligation to
SurrenderThe parties agree to surrender to each other, subject to the
provisions laid down in this Agreement, any person who is found in the
jurisdiction of the requested party and who is wanted by the requesting party
for prosecution or for the imposition or enforcement of a sentence in respect
of an offence under Article 2 of this Agreement whether such an offence was
committed before or after the entry into force of the agreement.Article
2Offences

### 1. Surrender of fugitive offenders shall be granted for an offence coming
within any of the following descriptions of offences in so far as it is
according to the laws of both Parties punishable by imprisonment or other form
of detention for at least one year, or by a more severe penalty:

(i)Murder, manslaughter or culpable homicide;(ii)Aiding, abetting, counselling
or procuring suicide;(iii)Maliciously wounding; inflicting grievous bodily
harm, assault occasioning actual bodily harm or causing injury whether by
means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or
otherwise;(iv)Bigamy;(v)Rape.(vi)An offence relating to women and
girls;(vii)Indecent assault;(viii)Stealing, abandoning, exposing or unlawfully
detaining a child;(ix)Gross indecency with a child;(x)Kidnapping; abduction;
false imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the taking of a hostage;
dealing in slaves;(xi)Offences against the law relating to drugs, including
narcotics and psychotropic substances and percursors and essential chemicals
used in the illegal manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances:(xii)Obtaining property or pecuniary advantage by deception;
cheating: criminal breach of trust; embezzlement or criminal misappropriation:
theft; robbery; burglary; blackmail: handing or receiving stolen goods; false
accounting or any other offence in respect of property involving
fraud;(xiii)Offences relating to fiscal matters, taxes or duties,
notwithstanding, that the law of the requested Party does not impose the same
kind of tax or duty or does not contain a tax, duty or customs regulation of
the same kind as the law of the requesting Party;(xiv)Smuggling; offences
against laws relating to the import and export of prohibited items, including
historical and archaeological and other items;(xv)Conspiracy to commit fraud
or to defraud;(xvi)Offences against bankruptcy law;(xvii)False statements by
company directors and other officers;(xviii)Any offence against the law
relating to false or misleading trade descriptions; counterfeiting of coins,
or forgery or uttering what is forged;(xix)An offence against the laws
relating to corruption, including bribery, secret commissions, and breach of
trust;(xx)Perjury and subornation of perjury; attempting to pervert the course
of justice;(xxi)Criminal damage, including arson, damaging property whether
used for public utilities or otherwise with intent to endanger life or with
reckless disregard as to whether the life of another would thereby be
endangered;(xxii)Offences involving the unlawful use of computers(xxiii)An
offence against the law relating to firearms, including but not limited to the
possession of a firearm or ammunition by a person who intends either himself
or through another person to endanger life or the use of a firearm by a person
with intent to resist or prevent the arrest or detention of himself or another
person(xxiv)An offence against the law relating to explosives, including but
not limited to the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property or the making or possession of an explosive
substance by a person who intends either himself or through another person to
endanger life or cause serious damage to property(xxv)Sinking or destroying a
vesssel at sea; assaults on board a ship on the high seas with intent to
destroy life or to do grievous bodily harm; revolt or conspiracy to revolt by
two or more persons on board a ship on the high seas against the authority of
the master,(xxvi)Piracy, involving ships or aircraft, according to
international law,(xxvii)Genocide or conspiracy or direct and public
incitement to commit genocide,(xxviii)Unlawful use, possession, control,
seizure or hijacking of aircraft, vessels or other means of
transportation;(xxix)Impeding the arrest or prosecution of a person who has or
is believed to have committed an offence for which surrender may be granted
under this Agreement and which is punishable according to the laws of both
Parties by imprisonment or other form of detention of a period of five years
or more(xxx)Offences against the laws relating to the protection of public
health and the environment(xxxi)Offences relating to the possession or
laundering of proceeds obtained from the commission of any offence for which
surrender may be granted under this Agreement(xxxii)Offences for which
fugitive offenders may be surrendered under International Conventions
currently applied(xxxiii)Aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the
commission of inciting, being an accessory before or after the fact to or
attempting or conspiring to commit any offence for which surrender may be
granted under this Agreement(xxxiv)Any other offences not referred to in the
previous items of this paragraph, which are punishable by imprisonment or
other form of detention for at least one year or by a more severe penalty and
which arc also offences for which surrender may be granted in accordance with
the laws of both Parties.(2)where surrender of a fugitive offender is
requested the purpose of carrying out a sentence, a further requirement shall
be that in the case of a period of imprisonment or detention at least six
month remain to be served.(3)For the purposes of this Article, in determining
whether an offence is an offence punishable under the laws of both parties the
totality of the acts or omissions alleged against the person whose surrender
is sought shall be taken into account without reference to the elements of the
offence prescribed by the law of the requesting party.(4)Where surrender of a
fugitive offender is requested for the purpose of carrying out a sentence the
requested Party may refuse to surrender him if it appears that the conviction
was obtained in his absence, unless he has the opportunity to have his case
retried in his presence, in which case he shall be considered as an accused
person under this Agreement.Article 3Basis for SurrenderA fugitive offender
shall be surrendered only if the evidence be found sufficient according to the
law of the requested Party either to justify the committal for trial of the
person sought if the offence of which he is accused had been committed in the
territory of the requested Party or to prove that he is the identical person
convicted by the courts of the requesting Party.Article 4Surrender of
Nationals(1)The Government of the Republic of India reserves the right, to
refuse the surrender of its nationals. The Government of Hong Kong reserves
the right to refuse the surrender of nationals of the State whose Government
is responsible for its foreign affairs.(2)Where the requested Party exercises
this right, the requesting Party may request that the case be submitted to the
competent authorities of the requested Party in order that proceedings for the
prosecution of the person may be considered.Article 5Death PenaltyIf the
offence for which surrender of a fugitive offender is requested under this
Agreement is punishable according to the law of the requesting Party with the
death penalty, and if in respect of such an offence the death penalty is not
provided for by the law of the requested Party, surrender may be refused
unless the requesting Party gives such assurances as the requested Party
considers sufficient that the death penalty will not be imposed or if imposed
will not be carried out.Article 6Refusal of SurrenderA fugitive offender shall
not be surrendered if the requested Party has substantial grounds for
believing:(1)(a)that the offence of which that person is accused or was
convicted is an offence of a political character:(b)that the request for his
return (though purporting to be made on account of an offence for which
surrender may be granted) is in fact made for the purpose of prosecuting or
punishing him on account of his race, religion, nationality or political
opinions: or(c)that he might, if returned, be prejudiced at his trial or
punished, detained or restricted in his personal liberty by reason of his
race, religion, nationality or political opinions(2)For the purposes of this
agreement, the following offences shall not be considered to be of a political
character:(a)murder or other wilful crime against the person of the Head of
State of the Republic of India, or, in the case of Hong Kong, the Head of
State whose government is responsible for its foreign affairs or in either
case of a member of the head of State's immediate family;(b)an offence within
the scope of the Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of
Aircraft, 1970;(c)an offence within the scope of the Montreal Convention for
the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation,
1971;(d)an offence within the scope of the New York Convention on the
Prevention an Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons,
including Diplomatic Agents, 1973;(e)an offence within the scope of the New
York International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, 1979:(f)any
offence in respect of which both parties have an obligation in accordance with
a multilateral agreement either to surrender the person sought or to submit
the case to their competent authorities for prosecution.(3)A fugitive offender
shall not be surrendered if he has been acquitted or pardoned or if his
prosecution is barred or his conviction set aside for any reason provided for
under the law of the requesting Party or the requested Party.(4)The surrender
of any person sought under the terms of this Agreement may also be refused if
it appears to the requested Party that:(a)by reason of the trivial nature of
the offence of which he is accused or was convicted; or(b)by reason of the
passage of lime since he is alleged to have committed it or to have become
unlawfully at large as the case may be: or(c)because the accusation against
him is not made in good faith or in the interests of justice: or(d)because
there exist valid humanitarian grounds it would having regard to all the
circumstances be unjust or oppressive to return him.Article 7Postponement of
SurrenderIf the person sought is being proceeded against or is under
punishment in the jurisdiction of the requested Party for any other offence,
surrender shall be deferred until the conclusion of the proceedings and the
execution of any punishment awarded.Article 8The Request and Supporting
Documents(1)Requests for the surrender of a fugitive offender shall be made by
and to the appropriate authorities of the Parties as may be notified between
them from time to time.(2)The request shall be accompanied by:(a)as accurate a
description as possible of the fugitive offender together with any other
information which would help to establish his identity, nationality and
whereabouts;(b)a statement and particulars of the offence for which surrender
is requested;(c)the text of the legal provisions, if any creating or defining
the offence a statement of the punishment which can be imposed therefor and a
specification of any time limit that is imposed on the institution of
proceedings or on the enforcement of any sentence in respect of that
offence.(3)If the request relates to an accused person, it shall also be
accompanied by a copy of the warrant of arrest issued by a judge, magistrate
or other competent authority of the requesting Party and by such evidence as,
according to the law of the requested Party, would justify his committal for
trial if the offence had been committed within the jurisdiction of the
requested Party.(4)If the request relates to a person already convicted and
sentenced, it shall also be accompanied by;(a)a certificate of the conviction
and sentence; and(b)if the person was convicted but not sentenced, a statement
to that effect by the appropriate court and a copy of the warrant of arrest:
or(c)if the person was sentenced, a statement that the sentence is enforceable
and indicating how much of the sentence has still to be served.(5)If the
information communicated by the requesting Party is found to be insufficient
to allow the requested Party to make a decision in pursuance of this
Agreement, the latter Party may request the necessary supplementary
information and may fix a time-limit for receipt thereof.Article 9Language of
DocumentationIf in a particular case the requested Party so required the
requesting Party shall supply a translation of any document submitted in
accordance with the provisions of this agreement.Article 10Provisional
Arrest(1)In urgent cases the person sought may, in accordance with the law of
the requested Party, be provisionally arrested on the application of the
competent authorities of the requesting Party. The application for provisional
arrest shall contain an indication of intention to request the surrender of
the person sought and a statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest or a
judgement of conviction against that person, and such further information, if
any as would be necessary to justify the issue of a warrant of arrest had the
offence been committed, or the person sought been convicted, within the
jurisdiction of the requested party.(2)An application for provisional arrest
may be forwarded through the same channels as a request for surrender or
through the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol).(3)The
provisional arrest of the person sought shall be terminated upon the
expiration of sixty days from the date of his arrest if the request for his
surrender shall not have been received. This provision shall not prevent the
re-arrest or surrender of the person sought if the request for his surrender
is received subsequently.Article 11Concurrent RequestsIf the surrender of a
fugitive offender is requested concurrently by one of the Parties and a State
or States with whom the Republic of India or Hong Kong, whichever is being
requested, has arrangements for the surrender of fugitive offenders, the
requested Party shall make its decision in so far as its law allows having
regard to all the circumstances including the provisions in this regard in any
Agreements in force between the requested Party and the requesting Parties,
the relative seriousness and place of commission of the offences, the
respective dates of the requests, the nationality of the person sought and the
possibility of subsequent surrender to another Slate, and notify the other
Party of its decision in the event of surrender of the fugitive to another
jurisdiction.Article 12Authentication(1)Any document that, in accordance with
Article 9, accompanies a request for surrender shall be admitted in evidence,
if authenticated, in any proceedings in the jurisdiction of the requested
Party.(2)A document is authenticated for the purposes of this Agreement
if:(a)it purports to be signed or certified by a judge, magistrate or other
officer authorised by the requesting Party; and(b)it purports to be sealed
with an official or public seal of the requesting Party or of an officer of
the requesting Party.Article 13Representation and Costs(1)The requested Party
shall make all necessary arrangements for and meet the costs of any
proceedings arising out of a request for surrender and shall otherwise
represent the interests of the requesting Party.(2)If it becomes apparent that
exceptional expenses may be incurred as a result of a request for surrender
the Parties shall consult with a view to deciding how these expenses will be
met.(3)The requested Party shall bear the expenses arising out of the arrest
and detention of the person whose surrender is sought until that person is
surrendered. The requesting Party shall bear all subsequent expenses.Article
14Arrangements for Surrender(1)If a fugitive offender is to be surrendered,
the person sought shall be sent by the authorities of the requested Party to
such convenient place of departure within that Party's jurisdiction as the
requesting Party shall indicate.(2)Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3)
of this Article the requesting Party shall remove the person sought from the
requested Party within one month or such longer period as may be permitted
under the law of the requested Party. If he is not removed within that period
the requested Party may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.(3)If
circumstances beyond its control prevent a Party from surrendering or taking
over the person to be surrendered, it shall notify the other Party. In that
case, the two Parties, upon mutual agreement, shall set a new date for
surrender and the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article shall
apply.Article 15Surrender of Property(1)When a request for surrender of a
fugitive offender is granted the requested Party shall so far as its law
allows hand over to the requesting Party all articles, including sums of
money,(a)which may serve as proof of the offence; or(b)which have been
acquired by the person sought as a result of the offence and are in his
possession or discovered subsequently.(2)If the articles in question are
liable to seizure or confiscation within the jurisdiction of the requested
Party the latter may, in connection with pending proceedings, temporarily
retain them or hand them over on condition that they are to be
returned.(3)These provisions shall not prejudice the rights of the requested
Party or of any person other than the person sought. When such rights exist
the articles shall on request be returned to the requested Party without
charge as soon as possible after the end of the proceedings.Article
16Speciality and Resurrender(1)A fugitive offender who has been surrendered
shall not be proceeded against, sentenced or detained with a view to the
carrying out of a sentence for any offence committed prior to his surrender
other than :(a)the offence in respect of which his return is ordered;(b)any
lesser offence however described disclosed by the facts in respect of which
his return was ordered provided such an offence is an offence for which he can
be returned under this Agreement;(c)any other offence being an offence for
which surrender may be granted under this Agreement in respect of which the
requested Party may consent to his being dealt with;unless he has first had an
opportunity to leave the jurisdiction of the Party to which he has been
surrendered or he has not done so within forty-five days of his having been
free to leave the jurisdiction or has returned to that jurisdiction having
left it.(2)A fugitive offender who has been surrendered shall not be re-
surrendered to another jurisdiction for an offence committed prior to his
surrender unless :(a)the requested Party consents to such re-surrender;
or(b)he has first had an opportunity to exercise his right to leave the
jurisdiction of the Party to which he has been surrendered and has not done so
within forty-five days or has Voluntarily returned to that jurisdiction having
left it.(3)A Party whose consent is requested under paragraphs (1) (c) or (2)
(a) of this Article may require the submission of any document or statement
referred to in Article 8, and any statement made by the surrendered person on
the matter.Article 17Entry into Force, Suspension and Termination(1)This
Agreement shall enter into force thirty days after the date on which the
Parties have notified each other in writing that their respective requirements
for the entry into force of this Agreement have been complied with.(2)Either
of the Parties may suspend or terminate this Agreement at any time by giving
notice to the other through the same channels as a request for the surrender
of a fugitive offender. Suspension shall take effect on receipt Of the
relevant notice. In the event of termination the Agreement shall cease to have
effect six months after the receipt of the notice.In witness whereof the
undersigned, being duly authorised by their respective government, have signed
this Agreement.Done at Hong Kong this 28th days of June, in the year one
thousand nine hundred and ninety seven in the Hindi, Chinese and English
languages, each text being equally authentic.Now therefore, in exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962
(34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the
said Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to Hong Kong with effect from
the date of publication of this notification.

