## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
Republic of Korea on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
Republic of Korea on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-REPUBLIC-OF-KOREA-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2010

  * Published on 5 May 2010 
  * Commenced on 5 May 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
Republic of Korea on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide
Notification New Delhi, the 5th May, 2010Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R. 381(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act shall apply to the Government of Republic of Korea and notifies the text
of the treaty entered into between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of Republic of Korea as follows, namely :-The Government of the
Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Korea hereinafter
referred to as the Contracting States;Desiring to facilitate the social
rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own countries; andConsidering
that this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreigners, who have been
convicted and sentenced as a result of their commission of a criminal offence,
the opportunity to serve their sentences within their own society;Have agreed
as follows:Article 1Definitions(a) "judgment" means a decision or order of a
court or tribunal imposing a sentence;(b) "receiving State" means a State to
which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve
his sentence;(c) "sentence" means any punishment or measure involving
deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a determinate period
of time or for life imprisonment, in the exercise of its criminal
jurisdiction;(d) "sentenced person" means a person undergoing a sentence of
imprisonment under an order passed by a court including the courts established
under the law for the time being in force in the Contracting States;(e)
"transferring State" means the State in which the sentence was imposed on the
person who may be, or has been transferred.Article 2General Principles

### 1. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he may express to the transferring State or the receiving
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.

### 2. The transfer of sentenced person may be requested by either of the
Contracting states to the other, on receipt of such expression of willingness
for transfer from the sentenced person.

Article 3Conditions For Transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions :

(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)the death penalty has
not been imposed on the sentenced person;(c)the judgment is final;(d)any
accompanying penalties including fine have been complied with;(e)no inquiry,
trial or any other criminal proceeding is pending against the sentenced person
in the transferring State;(f)at the time of receipt of the request for
transfer, the sentenced person still has at least six months of the sentence
to serve or is undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment;(g)that the acts or
omissions for which that person was sentenced in the transferring State are
those which would constitute a criminal offence in the receiving State;(h)the
sentenced person has not been convicted for an offence under the military
law;(i)transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the receiving State
shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or any other interest of
the transferring State;(j)consent to the transfer is given by the sentenced
person or, where in view of his age or physical or mental condition either
Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person entitled to act
on his behalf, in writing, in accordance with the law of the Contracting
State; and(k)the transferring and receiving States agree to the transfer.

### 2\. In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving States may agree
to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by the sentenced
person is less than six months.

Article 4Obligation To Furnish Information

### 1\. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the transferring
State in being transferred under this Agreement, the transferring State shall
send the following information and documents to the receiving State unless
either the receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it
will not agree to the transfer:

(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person;(b)his address, if any, in the receiving State;(c)a statement of the
facts upon which the sentence was based;(d)the nature, duration and date of
commencement of the sentence;(e)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of
the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed
against the sentenced person;(f)a medical, social or any other report on the
sentenced person, where it is relevant for the disposal of his application or
for deciding the nature of his confinement;(g)any other information which the
receiving State may specify as required in all cases to enable it to consider
the possibility of transfer and to enable it to inform the sentenced person of
the full consequences of transfer for him under its law;(h)the expression of
interest of the sentenced person to be transferred or of a person entitled to
act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the transferring State;
and(i)a statement indicating how much of the sentence has already been served,
including information on any pre-trial detention, remission, or any other
factor relevant to the enforcement of the sentence.

### 2\. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State
constituting the acts or omissions, on account of which the sentence has been
passed in the transferring State, as if such acts or omissions were an offence
under the law of the receiving State or would constitute an offence if
committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the effect of any law or
regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer including, if
applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of Article 8 of this
Agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the receiving State to accept
the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to administer the
remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person; and(e)any other
information or document which the transferring State may consider necessary.

### 3. In case the sentenced person has expressed an interest for transfer to
the receiving State, it shall inform the transferring state accordingly, which
shall thereon act in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1).

Article 5Requests And Replies

### 1\. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed
proforma, if any, and addressed through the central authority of the
requesting State through diplomatic channels to the central authority of the
requested State. Replies shall be communicated through the same channels.

### 2\. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the central authority
shall be, in relation to Republic of India, the Ministry of Home Affairs; and
in relation to the Republic of Korea, the Ministry of Justice.

### 3\. The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of its
decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.

Article 6Consent & Its Verification

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph 1 (i) of Article 3 of
this Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 7Effect of Transfer For The Receiving State

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of
this Agreement.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement, the
enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate
decisions.

Article 8Continued Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the transferring State.

### 2\. If, however, the sentence is by its nature or duration or both
incompatible with the law of the receiving State, or its law so requires, that
State may, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a
punishment or measure prescribed by its own law. As to its nature and
duration, the punishment or measure shall, as far as possible, correspond with
that imposed by the judgment of the transferring State. It shall however not
aggravate, by its nature or duration, the sentence imposed in the transferring
State.

Article 9Effect of Transfer/completion of Sentence For Transferring State

### 1\. The taking into charge of the sentenced person by the authorities of
the Receiving State shall have the effect of discontinuing the enforcement of
the sentence by the authorities in the Transferring State.

### 2\. The Transferring State shall not enforce the sentence if the Receiving
State considers enforcement of the sentence to have been completed.

### 3\. When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under
paragraph 1 (a) of Article 12 of this Agreement that the sentence has been
completed, such notification shall have the effect of discharging that
sentence in the transferring State.

Article 10Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation And Review of Judgment

### 1\. The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for the
review of the judgment.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or
commutation of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other laws.

Article 11Termination of Enforcement of SentenceThe receiving State shall
modify or terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it is informed by
the transferring State of any decision or measure as a result of which the
sentence is reduced or ceases to be enforceable.Article 12Information on
Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)if the
prisoner escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been
completed. In such cases, the receiving State shall make every effort to have
the prisoner arrested so that he serves the remainder of his sentence and that
the prisoner be prosecuted for committing an offence under the relevant law of
the receiving State on escape of prisoner.

### 2\. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 13TransitIf either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the
transfer of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting
State, shall cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of
the sentenced persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except
that it may refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its
own nationals. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall
give advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.Article
14Handing Over of Sentenced PersonDelivery of the sentenced person by the
authorities of the transferring State to those of the receiving State shall
occur on a date, time and at a place within the jurisdiction of the
transferring State as may be agreed upon by both the States.Article 15CostsAny
costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the
receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the
transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to recover all or
part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other
source.Article 16LanguageRequests and supporting documents shall be in English
or shall be accompanied by a translation into English or the official language
of the other Contracting State.Article 17Settlement of DisputesAny dispute
arising out of the interpretation, application, or implementation of this
Agreement shall be resolved through diplomatic channels if the Central
Authorities are themselves unable to reach agreement.Article 18Scope of
ApplicationThis Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences
imposed either before or after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article
19AmendmentsAny amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed by the
Contracting States shall come into effect when confirmed by an exchange of
diplomatic notes.Article 20Final Provisions

### 1\. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into
force on the date on which instruments of ratification are exchanged.

### 2\. The Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six months from
the date upon which either Contracting State gives written notice to the other
Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.

### 3\. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the enforcement of sentences of sentenced persons who have been
transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such termination
takes effect.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at New
Delhi on the 25th day of January, 2010, in the Hindi, Korean and English
languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of differences in
interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

For the Government of theRepublic of India | For the Government of theRepublic of Korea  
---|---  
Sd/- | Sd/-  
(S.M. Krishna) | (Yu Myung-hwan)  
Minister of External Affairs | Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

