## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-ISLAMIC-REPUBLIC-OF-IRAN-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-
PERSONS of 2011

  * Published on 10 February 2011 
  * Commenced on 10 February 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 February 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished
vide Notification New Delhi, the 10th February, 2011Ministry of Home
Affairs(CS Division)G.S.R. 84(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act,
2003 (49 of 2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the said Act shall apply to the Government of Islamic Republic of Iran and
notifies the text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the
Republic of India and the Government of Islamic Republic of Iran as follows,
namely :-Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Sentenced
PersonsThe Government of Republic of India and the Government of Islamic
Republic of Iran hereinafter referred to as the Contracting States;Desiring to
facilitate the social rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own
countries;Considering that this objective should be fulfilled by giving
foreigners, who have been convicted and sentenced as a result of their
commission of a criminal offence, the opportunity to serve their sentences
within their own society; andBelieving in the principles of national
sovereignty and non-intervention in internal affairs of each other,Have agreed
as follows:Article 1

### 1. Definitions

For the purpose of this Agreement:(a)"judgment" means a decision or order of a
court or any other judicial authority imposing a sentence;(b)"receiving State"
means a State to which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred
in order to serve his sentence;(c)"sentence" means any punishment or measure
involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or any other judicial
authority for a determinate period of time or for life imprisonment, in the
exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;(d)"sentenced person" means a person
undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under an order passed by a criminal
court including the courts established under the law for the time being in
force in the Contracting States;(e)"transferring State" means the State in
which the sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been
transferred.Article 2

### 2. General Principles

(1)A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he may express to the transferring State or the receiving
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.(2)Transfer may
be requested either by the transferring State or the receiving State or the
sentenced person himself or any other person entitled to act on his
behalf.Article 3

### 3. Condition for transfer

(1)A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)the
judgment is final and enforceable;(c)no inquiry, trial or any other proceeding
is pending against the sentenced person in the transferring State;(d)at the
time of receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at
least six months of the sentence to serve or is undergoing a sentence of life
imprisonment;(e)that the acts or omissions for which that person was sentenced
in the transferring State are those which are punishable as a crime in the
receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on its
territory;(f)the sentenced person has not been convicted for an offence under
the military law;(g)transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the
receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the Constitution, sovereignty,
security, public order or any other interest of the transferring
State;(h)consent to the transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in
view of his age or physical or mental condition either Contracting State
considers it necessary, by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in
accordance with the law of the Contracting State; and(i)the transferring and
receiving States agree to the transfer.(2)In exceptional cases, the
transferring and receiving States may agree to a transfer even if the
remaining period to be served by the sentenced person is less than six
months.Article 4

### 4. Obligation to furnish information

(1)If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the sentencing State
in being transferred under this Agreement, that State shall send the following
information and documents to the receiving State unless either the receiving
or the transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the
transfer:(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person;(b)his address, if any, in the receiving State;(c)a Statement of the
facts upon which the sentence was based;(d)the nature, duration and date of
commencement of the sentence;(e)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of
the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed
against the sentenced person;(f)a medical, social or any other report on the
sentenced person, where it is relevant for the disposal of his application or
for deciding the conditions which may accordingly be required for his
confinement;(g)any other information which the receiving State may specify as
required in all cases to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and
to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of
transfer for him under its law;(h)the request of the sentenced person to be
transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with
the law of the transferring State; and(i)a Statement indicating how much of
the sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-trial
detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the
sentence.(2)For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request
under this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information
and documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the
transfer:(a)a Statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a
national of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving
State constituting the acts or omissions, on account of which the sentence has
been passed in the transferring State, as if such acts or omissions were an
offence under the law of the receiving State or would constitute an offence if
committed on its territory;(c)a Statement of the effect of any law or
regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State in respect of the offence for which the person concerned has
been sentenced in the transferring State, particularly as to the effect of
paragraph 2 of Article 9 of this Agreement;(d)the willingness of the receiving
State to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to
administer the remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person;
and(e)any other information or document which the transferring State may
consider necessary.Article 5

### 5. Requests and replies

(1)Requests for transfer shall be made in writing and addressed through the
central authority of the requesting State through diplomatic channels to the
central authority of the requested State. Replies shall be communicated
through the same channels.(2)For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article,
the central authority shall be, in relation to India, the Ministry of Home
Affairs; and in relation to Islamic Republic of Iran, the Ministry of
Justice.(3)The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of
its decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.(4)Either of
the contracting States may refuse the transfer of sentenced person without the
need for any explanation.Article 6

### 6. Consent and its verification

(1)The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph 1(i) of Article 3 of this
Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.(2)The transferring State shall afford an
opportunity to the receiving State to verify that the consent is given in
accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.Article
7

### 7. Handing over of sentenced persons

The handing over of the transferred person by the transferring State to the
receiving State shall occur at a place to be agreed upon between the
transferring and the receiving State. The receiving State shall be responsible
for the transport of the prisoner from the transferring State and shall also
be responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside the territory of
the transferring State.Article 8

### 8. Effect of transfer for the receiving State

(1)The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 9 of
this Agreement.(2)Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement,
the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate
decisions.Article 9

### 9. Continued enforcement of sentence

(1)The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the
sentence as determined by the transferring State.(2)If, however, the sentence
is by its nature or duration or both incompatible with the law of the
receiving State, or its law so requires, that State may, by court or
administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or measure prescribed
by its own law. As to its nature and duration the punishment or measure
shall,as far as possible, correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the
transferring State. It shall however not aggravate, by its nature or duration,
the sentence imposed in the transferring State.(3)A sentenced person
transferred under this Agreement shall not be tried or sentenced in the
receiving State for the acts or omissions on account of which the sentence was
imposed.Article 10

### 10. Effect of completion of sentence for the transferring State

When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1(a)
of Article l3 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
transferring State.Article 11

### 11. Pardon, amnesty or combination and review of judgment

(1)Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation
of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other laws.(2)The
transferring State alone shall decide on any application for the review of the
judgment.Article 12

### 12. Termination of enforcement of sentence

The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it
is informed by the transferring State of any decision or measure as a result
of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.Article 13

### 13. Information on enforcement of sentence

(1)The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:(a)when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)if the prisoner escapes
from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In such
cases, the receiving State shall make every effort to have the prisoner
arrested so that he serves the remainder of his sentence and take necessary
action under its relevant law.(2)The receiving State shall furnish a special
report concerning the enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the
transferring State.Article 14

### 14. Transit

If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of
sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.Article 15

### 15. Costs

Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the
receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the
transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to recover all or
part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other
source.Article 16

### 16. Language

Requests and supporting documents shall be accompanied by a translation into
the language of the requested State or into EnglishArticle 17

### 17. Scope of Application

This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed
either before or after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article 18

### 18. Amendments

Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement, agreed by the Contracting
States shall come into effect following the same procedure as applicable for
entry into force of the Agreement itself.Article 19

### 19. Settlement of disputes

Any dispute regarding the interpretation and application of this agreement
shall be resolved mutually by the Central authorities through diplomatic
channels.Article 20

### 20. Final Provisions

(1)This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into force
on the date on which instruments of Ratification are exchanged.(2)The
Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six months from the date
upon which either Contracting State gives written notice to the other
Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.(3)Notwithstanding any
termination, this Agreement shall continue to apply to the enforcement of
sentences of prisoners who have been transferred under this Agreement before
the date on which such termination takes effect.In witness whereof, the
undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments,
have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at New Delhi on 9th July 2010
corresponding to 18th Tir 1389 of the Iranian Hijri-Shamsi calendar, in Hindi,
Persian and English languages, the three texts being equally authentic. In
case of differences in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

Sd/-For theRepublic of IndiaMinister ofExternal AffairsShri S.M. Krishna |  Sd/-For theIslamicRepublic of IranMinister of Economic Affairs &FinanceH.E.Dr. Seyed Shamseddin Hosseini  
---|---

