## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of France on the Transfer of Sentenced Person

TREATY  
India

# Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of France on the Transfer of Sentenced Person

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-FRANCE-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSON of
2008

  * Published on 28 May 2008 
  * Commenced on 28 May 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 May 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of France on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonPublished vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 406(E), 28th May, 2008Ministry of Home Affairs(C.S.
Division)G.S.R. 406(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act shall apply to the Republic of France and notifies the text of the
agreement entered into between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of France as follows, namely :-The Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of France hereinafter
referred to as the Contracting States;Desiring to facilitate the social
rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own countries; andConsidering
that this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreigners, who have been
convicted and sentenced as a result of their commission of a criminal offence,
the opportunity to serve their sentences within their own society;Have agreed
as follows:Article 1DefinitionsFor the purpose of this Agreement:(a)
"Judgment" means a judicial decision or order imposing a sentence.(b)
"sentence" means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty
ordered by a court or tribunal for a limited or unlimited period of time in
the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction. For the implementation of the
present Agreement, the expression "sentence" shall also cover final judicial
decisions or orders of a court or a tribunal imposing capital punishment which
have been subsequently commuted in the transferring State by amnesty or pardon
into a sentence involving deprivation of liberty for a limited or unlimited
period of time;(c) "sentenced person" means a person undergoing a sentence of
imprisonment under a decision or order passed by a criminal court or
tribunal;(d) "receiving State" means the State to which the sentenced person
may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve his sentence;(e)
"transferring State" means the State in which the sentence was imposed on the
person who may be, or has been transferred.Article 2General Principles

### 1. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on him
or her. To that end, the sentenced person may express to the transferring
State or the receiving State his or her willingness to be transferred under
this Agreement.

### 2. Transfer may be requested either by the transferring State or the
receiving State. The official request for transfer is sent to the requested
State by the requesting State. If the sentenced person expresses his or her
willingness to be transferred to the transferring State and if that State has
a prescribed procedure, the application will be made according to the said
procedure. The said application may also be made by any other person who is
entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the transferring
State.

Article 3Conditions for transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:

(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)the judgment is final
and no inquiry, trial or other criminal proceedings are pending against the
sentenced person in the transferring State;(c)at the time of receipt of the
request for transfer, the remainder of the sentence to be served is at least
six months.(d)the enforceable sentence involves deprivation of liberty and not
death penalty.(e)that the acts or omissions for which that person was
sentenced are those which are punishable as a criminal offence in the
receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on its
territory.(f)transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the receiving
State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or any other
interest of the transferring State;(g)consent to the transfer is given by the
sentenced person or, where in view of his or her age or physical or mental
condition either Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person
entitled to act on his or her behalf in accordance with the law of the
Transferring State; and(h)the transferring and receiving States agree to the
transfer.

### 2\. In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving States may agree
to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by the sentenced
person is less than six months.

Article 4Obligation to furnish information

### 1\. Any sentenced person to whom this Agreement may apply shall be
informed by the transferring State of the substance of this Agreement.

### 2\. For the purpose of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the transferring State shall send the following information
and documents to the receiving State:

(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person;(b)his or her address, if any, in the receiving State;(c)a statement of
the facts upon which the sentence was based;(d)the nature, duration and date
of commencement of the sentence;(e)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy
of the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed
against the sentenced person;(f)whenever appropriate, any medical or social
report of the sentenced person, information about his or her treatment in the
transferring State, and any recommendation for his or her further treatment in
the receiving State;(g)any other information which the receiving state may
specify as being necessary in a given case to enable it to consider the
possibility of transfer and to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the
full consequences of transfer for him or her under its law.(h)the request of
the sentenced person to be transferred or a declaration from him or her or,
where in view of his or her age or physical or mental condition either
Contracting State considers it necessary, any other person entitled to act on
his or her behalf in accordance with the law of the transferring State,
attesting his or her consent, and(i)a statement indicating how much of the
sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-trial
detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the
sentence.

### 3. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving state
establishing that the acts or omissions for which the sentenced person was
sentenced in the transferring state are punishable as a criminal offence in
the receiving state, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on
its territory.(c)a statement of the effect of any law or regulation relating
to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the receiving State after
the sentenced person's transfer including, if applicable, a statement of the
effect of paragraph 2 of Article 8 of this Agreement on his or her
transfer;(d)the statement of the willingness of the receiving State to accept
the transfer of the sentenced person and to administer the remaining part of
the sentence of the sentenced person under the provisions of this
Agreement;(e)any other information or document which the transferring State
may consider necessary.Article 5Requests and replies

### 1\. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing and addressed through
the central authority of the requesting State through diplomatic channels to
the central authority of the requested State. Replies shall be communicated
through the same channels.

### 2\. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the central authority
shall be, in relation to India, the Ministry of Home Affairs; and in relation
to the France, the Ministry of Justice.

### 3\. The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of its
decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.

Article 6Consent and its verification

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph l(g) of Article 3 of this
Agreement, does so voluntarily and with to knowledge of the legal consequences
thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed by the law of
the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 7Effect of transfer for the receiving State

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of
this Agreement.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 10 and 11 of this Agreement, the
enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate
decisions.

Article 8Continued enforcement of sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined in the transferring State.

### 2\. If, however, the sentence is by its nature or duration incompatible
with the law of the receiving State, or its law so requires, that State may,
by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or
measure prescribed by its own law. As to its nature and duration the
punishment or measure shall, as far as possible, correspond with that imposed
by the judgment of the transferring State. It shall however not aggravate, by
its nature or duration, the sentence imposed in the transferring State.

Article 9Effect of completion of sentence for the transferring StateWhen the
receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1(a) of
Article 13 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, the
sentence shall cease to be enforceable in the transferring State.Article
10Review of JudgmentThe transferring State alone shall decide on any
application for review of the judgment.Article 11Pardon, amnesty or
commutationEither of the contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or
commutation of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other
laws.Article 12Termination of enforcement of sentenceThe receiving State shall
terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it is informed by the
transferring State of any decision or measure as a result of which the
sentence ceases to be enforceable.Article 13Information on enforcement of
sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)If the
sentenced person escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has
been completed. In such cases the receiving State shall make every effort to
have the sentenced person arrested so that he or she serves the remainder of
his or her sentence, in addition to the criminal offence committed under the
relevant law of the receiving State on escape from prison.

### 2\. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 14Transit

### 1\. If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer
of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such an arrangement.

### 2\. The State intending to make such a transfer shall give advance notice
to the other State. This notification shall convey any necessary information,
including information allowing the application of the following paragraph.

### 3\. The State over whose territory the transfer is to be made may refuse
to grant transit if the sentenced person is one of its nationals or if the
offence for which the sentence was imposed is not an offence under its own
law;

### 4. The State requested to grant transit may hold the sentenced person in
custody for the period of time that is strictly necessary for the transit on
its territory;

### 5. No request for transit is required where air transportation is being
utilized over the territory of a State and if no landing is scheduled.
However, the State which makes the transit shall inform the State over whose
territory the flight is to be made.

Article 15CostsAny costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall
be borne by the receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the
territory of the transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to
recover all or part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from
some other source.Article 16LanguageRequests and supporting documents shall be
accompanied by a translation into the language or one of the official
languages of the requested State.Article 17Temporal ApplicationThis Agreement
shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed either before or
after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article 18Final provisions

### 1\. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification. Each Contracting
State shall notify the other as soon as possible, in writing, through
diplomatic channels, upon the completion of its constitutional procedures
required to allow this Agreement to come into force.

This Agreement shall come into force on the first day of the second month
following the date of the second notification.

### 2\. The Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six months from
the date upon which either Contracting State gives written notice to the other
Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.

### 3\. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the enforcement of sentences of sentenced persons who have been
transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such termination
takes effect.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at New
Delhi on the 25th day of January 2008, in Hindi, English and French languages,
the three texts being equally authentic.

For the Government of the Republic of India : | For the Government of the Republic of France :  
---|---

