## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement on Transfer of Sentenced Persons Between The Government of The
Republic of India And The Government of The United Arab Emirates

TREATY  
India

# Agreement on Transfer of Sentenced Persons Between The Government of The
Republic of India And The Government of The United Arab Emirates

## Rule AGREEMENT-ON-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-
THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-UNITED-ARAB-EMIRATES of 2012

  * Published on 1 February 2012 
  * Commenced on 1 February 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 February 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement on Transfer of Sentenced Persons Between The Government of The
Republic of India And The Government of The United Arab EmiratesPublished vide
Notification New Delhi, the 1st February, 2012Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R.58(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act shall apply to the Government of the United Arab Emirates and notifies the
text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of the United Arab Emirates for the transfer of
prisoners between that country and India as follows, namely -The Government of
the Republic of India and the Government of the United Arab Emirates
(hereinafter referred to as the Contracting States);Desiring to facilitate the
social rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own countries;
andConsidering that this objective should be fulfilled by giving citizens of
Contracting States, who have been convicted and sentenced as a result of their
commission of a criminal offence, the opportunity to serve the sentence within
their own societyArticle 1

### 1. Definitions

(a)"judgment" means a decision or order of a court or tribunal imposing a
sentence,(b)"Administrating State" means a State to which the sentenced person
may be, or has been transferred, in order to serve his sentence;(c)"sentence"
means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a
court or tribunal for a determinate period of time or for life imprisonment,
in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;(d)"sentenced person" means a
person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under an order passed by a
criminal court including the courts established under the law for the time
being in force in the Sentencing State;(e)"Sentencing State" means the State
in which the sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been
transferred.Article 2

### 2. General Principles

(1)A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he may express to the Sentencing State or the Administering
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.(2)Transfer may
be requested by any sentenced person who is a national of the Administering
State or by any other person who is entitled to act on his behalf by making an
application in the manner prescribed.(3)Subject to the provisions of this
Agreement, a request for transfer may also be made by the Sentencing State or
the Administering State subject to the condition that the consent of the
sentenced person has been obtained before a request for transfer is
made.Article 3

### 3. Condition for Transfer

A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions(a)the person is a national of the Administering
State,(b)the death penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person;(c)the
judgment is final and executable,(d)no inquiry, trial or any other proceeding
is pending against the sentenced person in the Sentencing State,(e)at the time
of receipt of the request far transfer, the, sentenced person still has at
least six months of the sentence to serve or is undergoing a sentence of life
imprisonment, unless otherwise agreed mutually between the Contracting
States,(f)that the acts or omissions for which that person was sentenced in
the-Sentencing State are those which are punishable as a crime in the
Administering State, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on
its territory,(g)the sentenced person has not been convicted for an offence
under the military law;(h)transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the
Administering State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or
any other interest of the Sentencing State,(i)consent to the transfer is given
by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or physical or mental
condition either Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person
entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of that Contracting
State, and(j)the Sentencing and Administering States agree to the
transferArticle 4

### 4. Obligation to Furnish Information

(1)if the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the Sentencing State
in being transferred under this Agreement, the Sentencing State shall send the
following information and documents to the Administering State unless either
the Administering or the Sentencing State has already decided that it will not
agree to the transfer.(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of
the sentenced person;(b)his address, if any, in the Administering State,(c)a
statement of the facts upon which the sentence was based;(d)the nature,
duration and date of commencement of the sentence;(e)a certified copy of the
judgment and a copy of the relevant provisions of the law under which the
sentence has been passed against the sentenced person;(f)a medical or any
other report concerning the sentenced person, if necessary, and any
information regarding the treatment he has been Administering in the
Sentencing State and any recommendation in respect of which such treatment is
followed in the Administering State, where it is relevant for the disposal of
his application or for deciding the nature of his confinement,(g)any other
information which the Administering State may specify as required in all cases
to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and to enable it to
inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of transfer for him under
its law;(h)the request of the sentenced person to be transferred or of a
person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the
Sentencing State, and(i)a statement indicating how much of the sentence has
already been served, including information on any pre-trial detention,
remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the
sentence(2)For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request
under this Agreement, the Administering State shall send the following
information and documents to the Sentencing State unless either the
Administering or the Sentencing State has already decided that it will not
agree to the transfer:(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced
person is a national of the Administering State,(b)a copy of the relevant, law
of the Administering State constituting the acts or omissions, on account of
which the sentence has been passed in the Sentencing State, ,as if such acts
or omisSions were an offence under the law of the Administering State or would
constitute an offence if committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the
effect of any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of
the sentence in the Administering State after the sentenced person's transfer
including, if applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of Article
8 of this Agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the Administrator
Sate to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to
administrator the remaining part of the sentence of the sentence person
and,(e)any other information or document which the Sentence Sate may consider
necessary.Article 5

### 5. Requests and Replies

(1)Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed proforma
and supporting document if any and addressed by the central authority central
authority of the requesting State through diplomatic channels to the central
authority of the requested State Replies shall be communicated through the
same channels,(2)Transfer requests and supporting documents shall be
accompanied by a translation in the official language of the requested
Contracting State or in English.(3)For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this
Article, the central authority shall be, in relation to India the Ministry of
Home Affairs and in relation to India to the UAE shall be Ministry of
Justice.(4)The requested state shall promptly inform the requesting State of
its decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.Article 6

### 6. Consent and its Verification

(1)The Sentencing State shall ensure, that the person required to give consent
to the transfer in accordance with paragraph (i) of Article 3 of this
agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure forgiving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the Sentencing State:(2)The Sentencing State shall afford an
opportunity to the Administering state to verify that the consent is given in
accordance With the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.Article
7

### 7. Effect of Transfer for the Administering state

(1)The competent authorities of the Administering State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of
this Agreement.(2)Subject to the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement,
the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the
Administering State and that State alone shall be competent to take all
appropriate decisions.Article 8

### 8. Continued Enforcement of Sentence

(1)The Administering State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the Sentencing State.(2)if, however, the
sentence is by its nature or duration or both incompatible with the law of the
Administering State, or its law so requires, that State may, by court or
administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or measure prescribed
by its own law As to its nature and duration the punishment or measure shall,
as far as possible, correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the
Sentencing State it shalt however not aggravate, by its nature or duration,
the sentence imposed in the Sentencing State.Article 9

### 9. Effect of Completion of Sentence for the Sentencing State

When the Administering State notifies the Sentencing State under paragraph 1
(a) of Article 12 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
Sentencing State.Article 10

### 10. Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation and Review of Judgment

(1)The Sentencing State alone shall decide on any application for the review
of the Judgment(2)Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty
or commutation of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other
laws and with the consent of the Sentencing State.Article 11

### 11. Termination of Enforcement of Sentence

The Administering State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as
it is informed by the Sentencing State of any decision or measure as a result
of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.Article 12

### 12. Information on Enforcement of Sentence

(1)The Administering State shall notify the Sentencing State.(a)when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)if the prisoner escapes
from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed in such
cases the Administering State shall make every effort to have the prisoner
arrested so that he serves the remainder of his sentence and that the prisoner
be prosecuted for committing an offence under the relevant law of the
Administering State on escape of prisoner(2)The Administering State shall
furnish a special report concerning the enforcement of the sentence, if so
required by the Sentencing StateArticle 13

### 13. Transit

If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of
sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.Article 14

### 14. Costs

Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the
Administering State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the
Sentencing State. The Administering State may, however, seek to recover all or
part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other
source.Article 15

### 15. Settlement of Conflicts:

Any conflict regarding the interpretation or execution of this Agreement shall
be settled by discussions between both Contracting States through diplomatic
channels.Article 16

### 16. Scope of Application

This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed
either before or after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article 17

### 17. Amendments

This Agreement may be amended or revised as deemed necessary by mutual written
consent of the Contracting States Any amendments or modifications to this
Agreement agreed by the Contracting States shall come into effect when
confirmed by an Exchange of diplomatic Notes.Article 18

### 18. Entry into Force and Termination

(1)This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the last notification
where one Party informs the other Party through diplomatic channels of the
completion of its internal procedures necessary for its entry into
force.(2)Either Party may at any time terminate this Agreement by giving six
months advance written notice to the other Party indicating its intention to
terminate the Agreement.(3)Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement
shall continue to apply to the enforcement of sentences of sentenced persons
who have been transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such
termination takes effect.The undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done at New Delhi on
23 November 2011 in two originals each in Hindi, Arabic and English languages,
All the three texts being authentic, in the case of any divergence in
interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

Government of the Republic of India | Government of the United Arab Emirates  
---|---  
Sd/- | Sd/-  
(P. Chidambaram) Minister of Home Affairs |  (Lt. Gen. Saif Bin Zayed Al Nahyan) DeputyPrime Minister and Minister of interior

