## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between The Government of Republic of India And The Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia on The Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between The Government of Republic of India And The Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia on The Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-KINGDOM-
OF-SAUDI-ARABIA-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2010

  * Published on 30 June 2010 
  * Commenced on 30 June 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 June 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between The Government of Republic of India And The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia on The Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 567(E), dated 30th June, 2010Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R. 567(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall
apply to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and notifies the text of the agreement
entered into between the Government of the Republic of India and the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia for the transfer of prisoners between that country and India
as follows, namely:-The Republic of India and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
(hereinafter referred to as the Contracting States), in support of existing
relationships, desiring to establish cooperation in the transfer of Sentenced
Persons from nationals of the two States, for the purpose of rehabilitating
them socially and psychologically, and realizing the benefits resulting from
cooperation in said field, have agreed on the following:Article 1DefinitionsIn
application of the provisions of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings as assigned to them, unless the teXt requires otherwise:

### 1. Transferring State: The State in which the sentence was imposed on the
person;

### 2. Receiving State: The state to which the sentenced person is to be
transferred for serving his sentence or remainder thereof;

### 3. Sentenced Person: Any person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment
under an order pursuant to a judgment passed by a court or a competent
authority established under the law for the time being in force in either of
the Contracting States;

### 4. Sentence: Any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty
ordered by a court or a competent authority in the exercise of its criminal
jurisdiction;

### 5. Judgment: Any final order or decision rendered by a court or a
competent authority.

Article 2General Principles

### 1\. Either Contracting State may transfer the Sentenced Persons to
complete the sentence passed against nationals of the other State in the
Country of their nationality in accordance with provisions of this Agreement.

### 2\. Each of the Contracting States shall, as soon as possible, notify the
other State of final and enforceable judicial judgments awarding Sentences
passed within its territory against nationals of the other State.

Article 3Central Authorities

### 1\. Authorities in charge of the implementation of this Agreement for the
Contracting States are:

\- For the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: Ministry of Interior.\- For the Republic
of India: Ministry of Home Affairs.In case either Contracting State changes
its competent authorities, it shall notify the other State of the same through
official channels.

### 2\. Correspondence between the competent authorities of the Contracting
States regarding the implementation of provisions of this Agreement shall be
in writing and through the official channels of the two countries.

Article 4Conditions For TransferTransfer of sentenced person of either
Contracting State shall be subject to the following conditions:

### 1\. The act or omission for which a sentence is imposed in the
Transferring State is also punishable as a crime by way of deprivation of
liberty under the legislation of the Receiving State;

### 2\. The Sentenced Person is a national of the Receiving State, at the time
of submitting the request;

### 3\. The judgment is final and enforceable;

### 4\. No Criminal Proceedings are pending against the Sentenced Person in
the Transferring State;

### 5\. Both Contracting States consent to the transfer request;

### 6. The Sentenced person consents, in writing, to be transferred. In case
he is unable to express his willingness in writing, the consent could be given
by his representative or one of his relatives entitled to act on his behalf;

### 7. The term of the remaining sentence shall not be less than six months at
the time of submission of the request. Yet, the Contracting States may - as,
an exception - agree to the transfer if the remaining period of the sentence
is less than six months;

### 8. Unless his insolvency is established, the Sentenced Person shall have
paid off all sentenced if financial obligations, private or public, or shall
guarantee payment thereof as the Transferring State deems fit.

Article 5Transfer RequestTransfer requests may be submitted by any of the
following:

### 1\. Transferring State.

### 2\. Receiving State.

### 3\. The Sentenced Person, his representative, or relatives entitled to act
on his behalf. The request, in this regard, shall be submitted to either
state.

Article 6Obligation To Furnish InformationThe Transferring State shall provide
the following information and documents:

### 1\. The name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person, and his address, if any, in the Receiving State, along with a copy of
his passport or any other personal identification documents, and Fingerprints
of the Sentenced Person, as possible

### 2\. A brief statement on circumstances, time and venue of the crime as
well as its characterization in accordance with its legislations.

### 3\. A medical, social, or any other report on the Sentenced Person.

### 4\. A certified copy of the final and enforceable judgment.

### 5\. A statement of the duration, date of commencement of the sentence and
remaining enforceable period of the punishment and the period of relevant
preventive detention served.

### 6\. A statement including the consent of the Sentenced Person or his legal
representative to the transfer.

### 7\. A statement from the Transferring State agreeing to the transfer of
the Sentenced Person.

Article 7Consent And VerificationUpon the request of the Transferring State
the Receiving State shall submit the following:

### 1\. An official document establishing that the Sentenced Person is a
national of the Receiving State.

### 2\. A copy of its legislations or laws which indicate that the acts or
omissions leading to the sentence amounts to a crime at the Receiving State.

### 3\. A statement from the Receiving State accepting the transfer of the
Sentenced Person.

Article 8Sharing of Information

### 1\. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall inform the
Sentenced Person of the, decision taken with regard to his transfer request.
The Sentenced Person has the right to be informed regarding the status of his
request.

### 2\. Either Contracting State may request the other State to provide
supplementary information or documents related to the request for transfer.

Article 9Physical Transfer & Costs

### 1\. Upon approval of the transfer of the Sentenced Person, the
Transferring State shall transfer him to the Receiving State on the date and
venue agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting States.

### 2\. The Receiving State si1all bear costs of transporting the Sentenced
Person, and resulting from the enforcement of the sentence within its
territory.

Article 10Continued Enforcement of SentenceUpon transfer of the Sentenced
Person:

### 1\. The Receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as stipulated in the judgment determined by the court or the
competent authority in the Transferring State.

### 2\. The Competent authority of the Receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court order or administrative order as
maybe required under its national law.

### 3\. If the legislations of the Receiving State provide for maximum limit
for the same offence and the term of the sentence rendered by the Transferring
State exceeds such maximum limit, the Receiving State shall adapt the sentence
to such maximum limit as provided for in its legislations.

### 4\. The Receiving State shall be obliged not to increase the sentence as
to its duration or replace the sentence with a fine.

### 5\. The sentence shall be enforced in accordance with the applicable laws
of the Receiving State, which shall solely have jurisdiction to take all
decisions relating to such enforcement.

Article 11Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation

### 1\. Pardon, Amnesty or commutation granted only by the Transferring State
shall be applicable to the Sentenced Person.

### 2\. The Transferring State shall promptly notify the Receiving State of
any decisions taken in its territory which entails terminating the enforcement
of the sentence or part thereof. The competent authorities of the Receiving
State shall immediately implement these decisions.

Article 12Review of JudgmentThe Transferring State shall solely have the
judicial and legal jurisdiction for review of the judgment.Article 13Re-Trial
of the Sentenced PersonA Sentenced Person transferred under the provisions of
this Agreement may not be retried by the Receiving State for acts or omissions
for which the Sentenced Person has already been sentenced by the competent
authorities of the Transferring State.Article 14Information on Enforcement of
SentenceThe Receiving State shall notify the Transferring State of the
following:

### 1\. When the enforcement of the sentence has been completed. Such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
Transferring State.

### 2\. If the Sentenced Person escapes from custody, and the steps taken by
the Receiving State to secure his arrest.

### 3\. Any other matter relating to tt1eenforcement of the sentence.

Article 15LanguageThe requests and supporting documents shall be in English or
shall be accompanied by a translation into English.Article 16TransitIf either
of the Contracting States wishes to transfer one of its nationals from a third
country through the territory of the other Contracting State, it shall submit
a request to this effect to that State. The other Contracting State shall
facilitate the transit through its territory if such transit does not conflict
with its legislations.Article 17Cooperation For ImplementationThe competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall conduct consultations to reach the
most efficient means for the application of this Agreement. They may also
agree on practical measures that may be necessary to facilitate the
application of this Agreement.Article 18Settlement of DisputesThe Contracting
States shall settle any dispute that may arise regarding the interpretation or
application of this Agreement through consultations between their competent
authorities. In case of not reaching an agreement, the dispute shall be
settled through diplomatic channels.Article 19Scope of ApplicationThis
Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of the sentence issued by the
competent authorities of the Two Contracting States before or after this
Agreement's entry into effect.Article 20AmendmentsThis Agreement may be
amended by an agreement of the Contracting States, which shall enter into
force following the same procedure as is applicable for the entry into force
of this Agreement.Article 21Final Provisions

### 1\. The Contracting States shall complete all the necessary legal and
constitutional procedures for entry into force of this agreement. It shall
enter into force after thirty days from the date of receipt of last
communication through Diplomatic Channels regarding the completion of such
procedures.

### 2\. This Agreement shall remain in force for an indefinite period.

### 3\. Either State may terminate this Agreement by a written notice
submitted through diplomatic channels to the other State. This Agreement shall
terminate after the lapse of six months from the date of receipt of such
notice. This shall have no effect on requests submitted during the validity of
the Agreement.

Done at Riyadh on 14 Rabea Alawal, 1431H, corresponding to February 28, 2010,
in two originals in the Hindi, Arabic and English languages, all texts being
equally authentic. In case of difference of interpretation of the provisions
of this Agreement, the English text shall prevail.

For the Republic of India | For the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia  
---|---  
Sd/- | Sd/-  
Ghulam Nabi AzadMinister of health & Family Welfare |  Naif bin AbdulaziaSecond DeputyPrime MinisterMinister of Interior

