## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
People's Republic of Bangladesh on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
People's Republic of Bangladesh on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-PEOPLE-S-REPUBLIC-OF-BANGLADESH-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-
PERSONS of 2010

  * Published on 5 May 2010 
  * Commenced on 5 May 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of
People's Republic of Bangladesh on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished
vide Notification New Delhi, the 5th May, 2010Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R 380(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act shall apply to the Government of the Republic of Bangladesh and notifies
the text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of the Republic of Bangladesh as follows, namely:-The
Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh hereinafter referred to as the Contracting
States;Desiring to facilitate the social rehabilitation of sentenced persons
in their own countries; andConsidering that this objective should be fulfilled
by giving foreigners, who have been convicted and sentenced as a result of
their commission of a criminal offence, the opportunity to serve their
sentences within their own country;Have agreed as follows:Article
1DefinitionsFor the purpose of this agreement:(a) 'judgment' means a decision
or order of a court or tribunal imposing a sentence;(b) 'receiving State'
means a State to which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred
in order to serve his sentence;(c) 'sentence' means any punishment or measure
involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a
determinate period of time or for life imprisonment, in the exercise of its
criminal jurisdiction;(d) 'sentenced person' means a person undergoing a
sentence of imprisonment under an order passed by a criminal court including
the courts established under the law for the time being in force in the
Contracting States;(e) 'transferring State' means the State in which the
sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been transferred.Article
2General Principles

### 1. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he/she may express to transferring State or the receiving
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.

### 2. Transfer may be requested by any sentenced person who is a national of
a Contracting State or by any other person who is entitled to act on his
behalf in accordance with the law of the Contracting State by making an
application to the Contracting State and in the manner prescribed by the
Government of that Contracting State.

Article 3Conditions for transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:

(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)the death penalty has
not been imposed on the sentenced person;(c)the judgment is final;(d)no
inquiry or any other proceeding is pending against the sentenced person in the
transferring State;(e)at the time of receipt of the request for transfer, the
sentenced person still has at least six months of the sentence to serve or is
undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment;(f)that the acts or omissions for
which that person was sentenced in the transferring State are those which are
punishable as a crime in the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal
offence if committed on its territory;(g)the sentenced person has not been
convicted for an offence under the military law;(h)transfer or custody of the
sentenced person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the
sovereignty, security or any other interest of the transferring
State;(i)consent to the transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in
view of his age or physical or mental condition either Contracting State
considering it necessary, by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in
accordance with the law of the Contracting State; and(j)the transferring and
receiving State agree to the transfer

### 2\. In exceptional cases the transferring and the receiving State may
agree to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by the sentenced
person is less than six months.

Article 4Obligation to furnish information

### 1\. If sentenced person has expressed an interest to the sentencing State
in being transferred under this Agreement, the transferring State shall send
the following information and documents to the receiving State unless either
the receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it will not
agree to the transfer:

(a)the name, sex and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person;(b)his/her address, if any, in the receiving State;(c)a statement of
the facts including a brief description of the incident upon which the
sentence was based;(d)the nature, duration and date of commencement of the
sentence;(e)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant
provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed against the
sentenced person;(f)a medical, social or any other report on the sentenced
person, where it is relevant for the disposal of his application or for
deciding the nature of his confinement;(g)any other information which the
receiving State may specify as required in all cases to enable it to consider
the possibility of transfer and to enable it to inform the sentenced person of
the full consequences of transfer for him under its law;(h)the request of the
sentenced person to be transferred or of a person, entitled to act on his
behalf in accordance with the law of the transferring State; and(i)a statement
indicating how much of the sentence has already been served including
information on any pre-trial detention, remission, or any other factor
relevant to the enforcement of the sentence.

### 2\. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer;

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State
constituting the act or omissions, on account of which the sentence has been
passed in the transferring State, as if such act or omissions were an offence
under the law of the receiving State or would constitute an offence if
committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the effect of any law or
regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer including, if
applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of Article 8 of this
agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the receiving State to accept
the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to administer the
remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person; and(e)any other
information or document which the transferring State may consider
necessary.Article 5Request and replies

### 1\. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed
proforma, if any, and addressed through the central authority of the
requesting State through diplomatic channels to the central authority of the
requested State. Replies shall be communicated through the same channels.

### 2\. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the central authority
shall be, in relation to India, the Ministry of Home Affairs, and in relation
to Bangladesh shall be the Ministry of Home Affairs.

### 3. The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of its
decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.

Article 6Consent and its verification

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph 1 (i) of Article 3 of
this Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 7Effect of transfer for the receiving State

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of
this Agreement.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement, the
enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State.

Article 8Continued enforcement of sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the transferring State.

### 2\. If however, the sentence is by its nature or duration or both,
incompatible with the law of the receiving State, or its law, so requires,
that State may, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a
punishment or measure prescribed by its own law with the consent of the
transferring State. As to its nature and duration the punishment or measure
shall, as far as possible, correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the
transferring State. It shall however not aggravate, by its nature or duration,
the sentence imposed in the transferring State

Article 9Effect on completion of sentence for the transferring StateWhen the
receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1(a) of
Article 12 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
transferring State.Article 10Pardon, amnesty or commutation and review of
judgment

### 1\. The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for the
review of the judgment.

### 2\. Unless both the Contracting States otherwise agree, the transferring
State alone may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation of the sentence in
accordance with its Constitution or other laws.

### 3\. The transferring State shall inform the receiving State of such
decision without delay.

Article 11Termination of enforcement of sentenceThe receiving State shall
terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it is informed by the
transferring State of any decision or measure as a result of which the
sentence ceases to be enforceable.Article 12Information on enforcement of
sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)If the
prisoner escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been
completed. In such cases the receiving State shall make every effort to have
the prisoner arrested so that the prisoner be prosecuted for committing an
offence under the relevant law of the receiving State on escape of prisoner.

### 2\. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 13Transit

### 1\. If either Contracting State enters into arrangement for the transfer
of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals.

### 2\. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.

Article 14CostsAny costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall
be borne by the receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the
territory of the transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to
recover all or part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from
any other source.Article 15Territorial application

### 1\. This Agreement shall apply to the territory of the Republic of India
and of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.

### 2\. The application of this Agreement to any territory, in respect of
which extension has been made in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article,
may be communicated to the other through the diplomatic channels.

Article 16LanguageRequests and supporting documents shall be accompanied by a
translation into English.Article 17Scope of applicationThis Agreement shall be
applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed before or after the entry
into force of this Agreement.Article 18AmendmentsAny amendments or
modifications to this Agreement agreed by the Contracting States shall come
into effect when confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.Article 19Final
provisions

### 1\. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into
force on the date on which instruments of ratification are exchanged.

### 2\. The Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six months from
the date upon which either Contracting State gives written notice to the other
Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.

### 3\. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the enforcement of sentences of sentenced persons who have been
transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such termination
takes effect.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done at New Delhi on the
11th day of January in the year 2010, in two originals each in Hindi, Bangla
and English languages. All the texts being equally authentic, in case of any
divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

Sd/- | Sd/-  
---|---  
For the Government of the Republic of India |  For the Government of the People's Republic ofBangladesh

