## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-ARAB-REPUBLIC-OF-EGYPT-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS
of 2008

  * Published on 14 May 2008 
  * Commenced on 14 May 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 May 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished
vide Notification No. G.S.R. 377(E), dated 14th May, 2008Ministry of Home
Affairs(CS Division)G.S.R. 377(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act,
2003 (49 of 2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the said Act shall apply to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
and notifies the text of the agreement entered into between India and the
Egypt as follows, namely :-The Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, hereinafter referred to as the
Contracting States;Desiring to facilitate the social rehabilitation of
sentenced persons into their own countries; andBelieving that in order to
achieve the above mentioned goals it is necessary to give to persons who
committed criminal offences and were sentenced to deprivation of liberty the
opportunity to serve their sentence in the State of their Citizenship.Have
agreed as follows:Article 1DefinitionsFor the purposes of this Agreement:(a)
"judgement" means a decision or order of a court or tribunal imposing a
sentence;(b) "receiving state" means the State to which the convicted offender
may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve his sentence;(c) "sentence"
means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a
judgement for a limited or unlimited period of time on account of a criminal
offence;(d) "sentenced person" means a person undergoing a sentence of
imprisonment under an order passed by a criminal court including the courts
established under the law for the time being in force in contracting
States;(e) "transferring State" means the State in which the sentence was
imposed on the person who may be, or has been transferred.Article 2General
Obligations

### 1. The Contracting States shall mutually undertake to afford each other,
according to the provisions of this Agreement, the widest measure of
cooperation in respect of the transfer of sentenced persons to the State of
their Citizenship in order to serve the remaining part of their sentences.

### 2. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he may express to the transferring State or the receiving
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.

### 3. Transfer may be requested either by the transferring State or the
receiving State.

Article 3Conditions for Transfer

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:

(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)death penalty has not
been imposed on the sentenced person;(c)the judgment is final;(d)no inquiry,
trial or any other proceeding is pending against the sentenced person in the
transferring state;(e)at the time of receipt of the request for transfer, the
sentenced person still has at least six months of the sentence to serve or the
sentence is indeterminate.(f)that the acts or omissions for which that person
was sentenced in the transferring state are those which are punishable as a
crime in the receiving State, or, would constitute a criminal offence if
committed on its territory;(g)the sentenced person has not been convicted for
an offence under the military law;(h)transfer of custody of the sentenced
person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty,
security or any other interest of the transferring State;(i)the consent to the
transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or
physical or mental condition either Contracting State considers it necessary,
by any other person entitled to act on his behalf according to the laws of the
Contracting States; and(j)the transferring and receiving States agree to the
transfer.

### 2\. In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving States may agree
to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by the sentenced
person is less than six months.

Article 4Obligation to Furnish Information

### 1\. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the sentencing
State in being transferred under this Agreement, the transferring State shall
send the following information and documents to the receiving State, as soon
as practicable after the judgement becomes final, unless either the receiving
State or the transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to
the transfer:-

(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced
person;(b)his address, if any, in the receiving State;(c)a statement of the
facts upon which the sentence was based;(d)the nature, duration and date of
commencement of the sentence;(e)a certified copy of the judgement and a copy
of the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed
against the sentenced person;(f)a medical, social or any other report
regarding the antecedents and character of the sentenced person, where it is
relevant for the disposal of his application or for deciding the nature of his
confinement;(g)any other information which the receiving State may specify as
required in all cases to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and
to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of
transfer for him/her under its law;(h)the request of the sentenced person to
be transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with
the law of the transferring state;(i)a statement indicating how much of the
sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-trial
detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the
sentence.

### 2\. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State
constituting the act or omission as the offence, on account of which the
sentence has been passed in the transferring State as if such act or omission
was an offence under the law of the receiving State or would constitute a
criminal offence if committed on its territory;(c)a statement of fact, or any
law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence of
the sentenced person in the receiving State upon his transfer including, if
applicable, a statement of the effect of Article 9 (2) on the sentenced
person;(d)the willingness of the receiving State to accept the transfer of
sentenced person and an undertaking to administer the remaining part of the
sentence of sentenced person;(e)any other information or document which the
transferring State may consider necessary.

### 3\. The sentenced person may be informed in writing of any decision taken
on the request for transfer by either State.

Article 5Requests and Replies

### 1\. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed
proforma, if any, and addressed through the Central Authority of the
transferring State through diplomatic channels to the Central Authority of the
receiving State. Replies shall be communicated through the same channels.

### 2\. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Central Authority
shall be, in relation to Republic of India, "the Ministry of Home Affairs",
and in relation to the Arab Republic of Egypt it shall be the "Department of
International cooperation, Ministry of Justice".

### 3\. The receiving State shall promptly inform the transferring State of
its decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.

### 4. Either of the Contracting States may refuse the transfer of sentenced
person without the need to provide any explanation.

Article 6Consent and its Verification

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph (1) (i) of Article 3 of
this agreement does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 above.

Article 7Handing over of Sentenced Persons

### 1\. The handing over of the transferred person by the transferring State
to the receiving State shall occur at a place to be agreed upon between the
transferring and receiving State. The receiving State shall be responsible for
the transport of the prisoner from the transferring State and shall also be
responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside the territory of the
transferring State.

Article 8Effect of Transfer for the Receiving State

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under conditions set out in Article 9.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement, the
enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate
decisions.

Article 9Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the transferring State;

### 2\. If, however, the sentence is by its nature or duration or both
incompatible with the laws of the receiving State, or its laws so require, it
may, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or
measure prescribed by its own law. As to its nature and duration the
punishment or measure shall, as far as possible, correspond with that imposed
by the judgement of the transferring State. It shall however not aggravate, by
its nature or duration, the sentence imposed in the transferring State.

### 3\. A sentenced person transferred under this Agreement shall not be tried
or sentenced in the receiving State for the acts or omissions on account of
which the sentence was imposed in the transferring State and shall not be
detained for those acts or omissions except in accordance with this Agreement.

Article 10Effect of Completion of Sentence for the Transferring State

### 1\. The taking into charge of the sentenced person by the authorities of
the receiving State shall have the effect of suspending the enforcement of the
sentence in the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State may no longer enforce the sentence if the
receiving State considers enforcement of the sentence to have been completed.

Article 11Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation

### 1\. Unless both the contracting states otherwise agree, the transferring
State alone may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation of the sentence in
accordance with its constitution or other laws.

### 2\. The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for
review of the judgement.

Article 12Termination of Enforcement

### 1\. The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as
soon as it is informed by the transferring State of any decision or measure as
a result of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.

Article 13Information on Enforcement of Sentence

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)if the
sentenced person escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has
been completed, in such cases the receiving State shall take the necessary
action under its relevant law.

### 2\. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 14Transit

### 1\. If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer
of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
an advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.

Article 15Costs

### 1\. Any cost incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne
by the receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of
the transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to recover all
or part of the cost of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other
source.

Article 16Language

### 1\. Requests and supporting documents shall be accompanied by a
translation into the language of the receiving State or into English.

Article 17Temporal Application

### 1\. This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences
imposed either before or after its entry into force.

Article 18Amendments

### 1\. Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed by the
Contracting States shall come into effect when confirmed by an Exchange of
Diplomatic notes.

Article 19Settlement of Disputes

### 1\. Any dispute regarding the interpretation and application of this
Agreement shall be resolved mutually by the Central Authorities through
diplomatic channels.

Article 20Final Provisions

### 1\. This agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into
force on the date on which instruments of ratification are exchanged.

### 2\. The present Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six
months from the date on which either Contracting State gives written notice to
the other Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.

### 3\. This agreement shall, however, continue to apply to the sentenced
persons who have been transferred in conformity with its provisions before the
date of its termination.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at Egypt
on the 8th day of January, 2008, in the Hindi, Arabic and English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of differences in interpretation
the English text shall prevail.

