## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Maldives on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of Maldives on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-
GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-MALDIVES-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of
2012

  * Published on 21 June 2012 
  * Commenced on 21 June 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 June 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of Maldives on the Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide
Notification New Delhi, the 21st June, 2012Ministry of Home Affairs(CS
Division)G.S.R.493(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections
(1) and (2) of section 3 of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of
2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act shall apply to the Government of Republic of Maldives and notifies the
text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of Republic of Maldives for the transfer of prisoners
between that country and India as follows, namely :-The Government of the
Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Maldives hereinafter
referred to as the Contracting States;Desiring to facilitate the social
rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own countries; andConsidering
that this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreign nationals, who have
been convicted and sentenced as a result of their commission of a criminal
offence, the opportunity to serve their sentences within their own
society;Have agreed as follows:Article 1

### 1. Definitions.

For the purpose of this Agreement:(a)"judgment" means a decision or order of a
court or tribunal imposing a sentence;(b)"receiving State" means a State to
which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve
his sentence or remainder thereof;(c)"sentence" means any final punishment or
measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a
determinate period of time, or for life imprisonment, in the exercise of its
criminal jurisdiction;(d)"sentenced person" means a person undergoing a
sentence of imprisonment under a judgement passed by a criminal court
including the courts established under the law for the time being in force in
the Contracting States;(e)"transferring State" means the State in which the
sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been transferred.Article
2

### 2. General Principles.

### 1\. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be
transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on
him. To that end, he may express to the transferring State or the receiving
State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.

### 2\. Transfer may be requested by any sentenced person who is a national of
a Contracting State or by any other person who is entitled to act on his
behalf in accordance with the laws of the Contracting State or by making an
application to the Contracting State and in the manner prescribed by the laws
of the Contracting State.

Article 3

### 3. Central Authorities.

### 1\. Authorities in charge of the implementation of this Agreement for the
Contracting States are:

For the Republic of India: the Ministry of Home Affairs;For the Republic of
Maldives: the Ministry of Home Affairs.

### 2\. In case either Contracting State changes its competent authorities, it
shall notify the other State of the same through diplomatic channels.

Article 4

### 4. Conditions for transfer.

### 1\. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:

(a)the person is a national of the receiving State;(b)the death penalty has
not been awarded to the sentenced person;(c)the judgment is final;(d)no
criminal proceedings are pending against the sentenced person in the
transferring State in which his presence is required;(e)the sentenced person
has not been convicted for an offence under the military law;(f)at the time of
receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at least
six months of the sentence to serve;(g)that the acts or omissions for which
that person was sentenced in the transferring State are those which are
punishable as a crime in the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal
offence if committed on its territory;(h)transfer of custody of the sentenced
person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty,
security or any other interest of the transferring State;(i)consent to the
transfer if given by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or
physical or mental condition either Contracting State considers it necessary,
by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law
of the Contracting State; and(j)the transferring and receiving States agree to
the transfer.

### 2\. In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving States may agree
to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by the sentenced
person is less than six months.

Article 5

### 5. Obligation to furnish information.

### 1\. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the transferring
State in being transferred under this Agreement, the transferring State shall
send the following information and documents to the receiving state unless
either the receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it
will not agree to the transfer:

(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced person
and his address, if any, in the receiving State along with a copy of his
passport or any other personal identification documents, and fingerprints of
the sentenced person, as possible;(b)a statement of the facts upon which the
sentence was based;(c)the nature, duration and date of commencement of the
sentence;(d)a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant
provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed against the
sentenced person;(e)a medical, social or any other report regarding the
antecedents and character of the sentenced person, where it is relevant for
the disposal of his application or for deciding the nature of his
confinement;(f)any other information which the transferring State may specify
as required to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and to enable
it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of transfer for
him/her under its law;(g)the request of the sentenced person to be transferred
or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the
transferring State,(h)a statement indicating how much of the sentence has
already been served, including information on any pre-trial detention,
remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the sentence,
and(i)A statement from the Transferring State agreeing to the transfer of the
Sentenced Persons.

### 2\. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under
this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following information and
documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the
transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:

(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national
of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State
which provides that the acts or omissions on account of which the sentence has
been imposed in the transferring State constitute a criminal offence according
to the law of the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if
committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the effect of any law or
regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer including, if
applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of Article 9 of this
Agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the receiving State to accept
the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to administer the
remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person; and(e)any other
information or document which the transferring State may consider
necessary.Article 6

### 6. Requests and replies.

### 1\. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed
proforma, if any, and addressed by the central authority of the transferring
State through diplomatic channels to the central authority of the receiving
State. Replies shall be communicated through the same channels.

### 2\. The receiving State shall promptly inform the transferring State of
its decision whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.

Article 7

### 7. Consent and its verification.

### 1\. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph 1 (i) of Article 4 of
this Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.

### 2\. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving
State to verify that the consent is given in accordance with the conditions
set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

Article 8

### 8. Effect of transfer for the Receiving State.

### 1\. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 9 of
this Agreement.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement, the
enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving
State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate
decisions.

Article 9

### 9. Continued enforcement of sentence.

### 1\. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of
the sentence as determined by the transferring State.

### 2\. If the sentence is by its nature or duration, or both, incompatible
with the law of the receiving State, that State may, with the prior consent of
the transferring State, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence
to a punishment or measure prescribed by its own law. As to its nature and
duration the punishment or measure shall, as far as possible, correspond with
that imposed by the judgment of the transferring State. It shall however not
aggravate, by its nature or duration, the sentence imposed by the transferring
State.

Article 10

### 10. Effect of completion of sentence for the transferring State.

When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1 (a)
of Article 13 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
transferring State.Article 11

### 11. Review of judgement and Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation of sentence.

### 1\. The transferring State alone shall have the right to decide on any
application for the review of the judgement.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or
commutation of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other laws.

Article 12

### 12. Termination of enforcement of sentence.

### 1\. The transferring State shall promptly notify the receiving State of
any decisions taken in its territory which entails terminating the enforcement
of the sentence or part thereof.

### 2\. The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence or
part thereof as soon as it is informed by the transferring State of any
decision or measure as a result of which the sentence ceases to be
enforceable.

Article 13

### 13. Information on enforcement of sentence.

### 1\. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:

(a)when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)If the
sentenced person escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has
been completed, in such cases, the receiving State shall take measures to
secure his arrest for the purposes of serving the remainder of his sentence
and to render him/her liable for committing an offence under the relevant laws
of the receiving State.

### 2\. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the
enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the transferring State.

Article 14

### 14. Transit.

### 1\. If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer
of sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit;

(a)if the sentenced person is one of its own nationals,(b)if the request may
infringe upon the sovereignty, safety, public order or any other essential
interest of the Contracting State.

### 2\. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give
advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.

Article 15

### 15. Costs.

Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the
receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the
transferring State. The receiving State may, however, demand or seek to
recover all or part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from
some other source.Article 16

### 16. Language.

Requests and supporting documents shall be in English or shall be accompanied
by a translation into English.Article 17

### 17. Scope of application.

This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed
either before or after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article 18

### 18. Settlement of Disputes.

(1)The Central Authorities shall endeavour to mutually resolve any dispute
arising out of the interpretation, application or implementation of this
Agreement.(2)If the Central Authorities are unable to resolve the dispute
mutually, it shall be resolved through diplomatic channels.Article 19

### 19. Handing over of sentenced persons.

The handing over of the transferred person by the transferring State to the
receiving State shall occur at a place to be agreed upon between the
transferring and receiving State. The receiving State shall be responsible for
the transport of the prisoner from the transferring State and shall also be
responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside the territory of the
transferring State.Article 20

### 20. Amendments.

Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed to by the Contracting
States shall come into force in the same manner as the Agreement
itself.Article 21

### 21. Final provisions.

### 1\. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification. Each Contracting
State shall notify the other as soon as possible, in writing, through
diplomatic channels, upon the completion of its legal procedures required for
the entry into force of this Agreement. The Agreement shall come into force on
the first day of the second month of the date of the last notification.

### 2\. The Agreement remain in force for an indefinite period. It may,
however, be terminated by either of the Contracting State by giving a written
notice of termination to the other Contracting State. The termination shall
take effect after six months of the date of such notice.

### 3\. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the enforcement of sentences of prisoners who have been transferred
under this Agreement before the date on which such termination takes effect.

In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.Done in duplicate at Male
the 12th day of November 2011, in the Hindi, English languages, all texts
being equally authentic. In case of differences in interpretation, the English
text shall prevail.

Sd/-Ranjan MathaiForeign SecretaryForthe Government ofthe Republic of India |  Sd/-Mohamed NaseerForeignSecretaryFor the Government ofthe Republic of Maldives  
---|---

