## International Treaty - Act

## Agreement Between the Republic of India and Federal Republic of Brazil on
the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

TREATY  
India

# Agreement Between the Republic of India and Federal Republic of Brazil on
the Transfer of Sentenced Persons

## Rule AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-FEDERAL-REPUBLIC-OF-
BRAZIL-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2019

  * Published on 2 April 2019 
  * Commenced on 2 April 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 April 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Agreement Between the Republic of India and Federal Republic of Brazil on the
Transfer of Sentenced PersonsPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.282(E),
dated 2.4.2019Ministry of Home Affairs(Women Safety Division)G.S.R.282(E). -
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 3
of the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of 2003), the Central
Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to
the Federal Republic of Brazil. The full text of the Agreement on Transfer of
Sentenced Persons signed by the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of
Brazil on 15.10.2013 is given below. The Agreement was ratified by the
Republic of India on 1.1.2014 and by Federal Republic of Brazil on 24.10.2018.
The Instruments of Ratification were exchanged on 24.1.2019.The Republic of
India and the Federative Republic of Brazil hereinafter referred to as the
Contracting States;Desiring to facilitate the social rehabilitation of
sentenced persons into their own countries;andConsidering that this objective
should be fulfilled by giving foreigners, who have been convicted and
sentenced as a result of their commission of a criminal offence, the
opportunity to serve their sentences within their own society;Have agreed as
follows:Article 1

### 1. Definitions.

For the purpose of this Agreement:(a)"Judgment" means a decision or order of a
court or tribunal imposing a sentence;(b)"Receiving State" means a State to
which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve
his sentence;(c)"Sentence" means any punishment or measure involving
deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a determinate period
of time, in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;(d)"Sentenced person"
means a person who is serving a definitive and enforceable sentence in the
transferring State under a judgment passed by a criminal court in the
Contracting States;(e)"Transferring State" means the State in which the
sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been transferred.Article
2

### 2. General Principles.

(1)The States agree to maintain highest possible mutual cooperation in all
matters related to the transfer to sentenced persons pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this Agreement;(2)A person sentenced in the territory of one
Contracting State may be transferred to the territory of the other Contracting
State in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve
the sentence imposed on him and to that end, may express to the transferring
State or to the receiving State his or her wish to be transferred under the
terms of this Agreement;(3)Transfer may be requested by any sentenced person
who is a national of a Contracting State or by any other person who is
entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the Contracting
State(s).Article 3

### 3. Conditions for Transfer.

(1)A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the
following conditions:(a)the sentenced person is a national of the receiving
State;(b)the death penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person;(c)the
judgment is final;(d)no inquiry, trial or any other proceeding is pending
against the sentenced person in the transferring State;(e)at the time of
receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at least
one year of the sentence to serve;(f)that the acts or omissions for which that
person was sentenced in the transferring State are those which are punishable
as a crime in the receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if
committed on its territory;(g)the sentenced person has not been convicted for
an offence under the military law;(h)transfer of custody of the sentenced
person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty,
security or any other interest of the transferring State;(i)consent to the
transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or
physical or mental condition either Contracting State considers it necessary,
by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law
of the Contracting State; and(j)Both the transferring and the receiving State
agree to the transfer.(2)In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving
States may agree to a transfer even if the remaining period to be served by
the sentenced person is less than one year.Article 4

### 4. Obligation to Furnish Information.

(1)If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the sentencing State
in being transferred under this Agreement, the transferring State shall send
the following information and documents to the receiving State unless either
the receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it will not
agree to the transfer:(a)the name and nationality, date and place of birth of
the sentenced person;(b)his address or his relative(s) address, if any, in the
receiving State;(c)a statement of the facts upon which the sentence was
based;(d)the nature, duration and date of commencement of the sentence;(e)a
certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant provisions of the
law under which the sentence has been passed against the sentenced person;(f)a
medical, social or any other report on the sentenced person, where it is
relevant for the disposal of his application or for deciding the nature of his
confinement;(g)any other information which the receiving State may specify as
required in all cases to enable it to consider the possibility of transfer and
to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of
transfer for him under its law;(h)the written request of the sentenced person
to be transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance
with the law of the transferring State; and(i)a statement indicating how much
of the sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-
trial detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of
the sentence.(2)Documents presented by the Contracting States pursuant to the
provision of this Agreement shall be exempt from Consular
Authentication.(3)For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a
request under this Agreement, the receiving State shall send the following
information and documents to the transferring State unless either the
receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it will not agree
to the transfer:(a)a statement or document indicating that the sentenced
person is a national of the receiving State;(b)a copy of the relevant law of
the receiving State which provides that the acts or omissions on account of
which the sentence has been passed in the transferring State, as if such acts
or omissions were an offense under the law of the receiving State, or would
constitute an offence if committed on its territory;(c)a statement of the
effect of any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of
the sentence in the receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer
including, if applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of Article
8 of this Agreement on his transfer;(d)the willingness of the receiving State
to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to
administer the remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person;
and(e)any other information or document which the transferring State may
consider necessary.

### 4\. The convicted person shall be informed of any decision made by the
Contracting States.

Article 5

### 5. The Central Authorities.

(1)Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed proforma,
if any, and addressed through the central authority of the Requesting State
through diplomatic channels to the central Authority of the Requested State.
Replies shall be communicated through the same channels.(2)For the purpose of
paragraph 1 of this Article, the Central Authority shall be, in relation to
the Republic of India, the Ministry of Home Affairs; and in relation to the
Federative Republic of Brazil, the Ministry of Justice.(3)The requested State
shall promptly inform the requesting State of its decision whether or not to
agree to the requested transfer.Article 6

### 6. Consent and its Verification.

(1)The transferring State shall ensure that the person is required to give
consent to the transfer in accordance with paragraph 1(i) of Article 3 of this
Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal
consequences thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed
by the law of the transferring State.(2)The transferring State shall afford an
opportunity to the receiving State to verify that the consent is given in
accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.Article
7

### 7. Effect of Transfer for the Receiving State.

(1)The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the
enforcement of the sentence through a court or administrative order, as may be
required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of
this Agreement.(2)A Sentenced person who has been transferred under the
provisions of this Agreement shall not be arrested or put on trial or
sentenced by the receiving State for the same offence for which he has already
been sentenced in the transferring State.(3)Subject to the provisions of
Article 10 & 11 of this Agreement, the enforcement of the sentence shall be
governed by the law of the receiving State and that State alone shall be
competent to take all appropriate decisions.Article 8

### 8. Continued Enforcement of Sentence.

(1)The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the
sentence as determined by the transferring State.(2)If, however, the sentence
is by its nature or duration, or both, incompatible with the law of the
receiving State, or its law so requires, that State may, by court or
administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or measure prescribed
by its own law. As to its nature and duration the punishment or measure shall,
as far as possible, correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the
transferring State. It shall, however, not aggravate, by its nature or
duration, the sentence imposed in the transferring State.Article 9

### 9. Physical Transfer & Costs.

(1)Upon approval of the transfer of the sentenced person, the transferring
State shall handover the sentenced person to the Receiving State on the date
and venue agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting
States.(2)Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be
borne by the receiving State, except costs incurred exclusively in the
territory of the transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to
recover all or part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from
some other source.Article 10

### 10. Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation and Review of Judgment.

(1)The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for review of
the judgment.(2)Only the transferring State may grant pardon, amnesty or
commutation of the sentence in accordance with its Constitution or other
laws.Article 11

### 11. Termination of Enforcement of Sentence.

(1)The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as
it is informed by the transferring State of any decision or measure as a
result of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.(2)On being notified of
any change in the sentence, the receiving State shall immediately adopt the
necessary measures to put them into effect.Article 12

### 12. Information on Enforcement of Sentence.

(1)The receiving State shall notify the transferring State:(a)when the
enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or(b)If the prisoner escapes
from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In such
cases the receiving State shall make every effort to have the prisoner
arrested so that he serves the remainder of his sentence.(2)The receiving
State shall furnish a special report concerning the enforcement of the
sentence, if so required by the transferring State.Article 13

### 13. Effect of Completion of Sentence for the Transferring State.

When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1(a)
of Article 12 of this Agreement that the sentence has been completed, such
notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the
transferring State.Article 14

### 14. Transit.

(1)If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of
sentenced persons with any third State, the other Contracting State shall
cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced
persons being transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may
refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals.(2)The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall
give advance notice to the other Contracting State of such transit.(3)The
advance notice as mentioned in 14(2) above, for transit of sentenced persons
will not be necessary, in case of an unforeseen landing in the territory of
the transit State, except in the case of military aircraft.(4)The transit
State may or may not permit the passage of the sentenced person through its
territory, and so inform the other Contracting State.Article 15

### 15. Language.

Requests and supporting documents shall be accompanied by a translation into
the language or one of the official languages of the requesting State. For the
Federative Republic of Brazil, the official language shall be Portuguese and
for the Republic of India, it shall be English.Article 16

### 16. Scope of Application.

This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed
either before or after the entry into force of this Agreement.Article 17

### 17. Settlement of Disputes.

Any dispute between the Contracting States regarding the interpretation of the
provisions set forth in this Agreement shall be settled by means of
negotiations between the respective Central Authorities. In case of not
reaching an agreement, the dispute shall be resolved through diplomatic
channels.Article 18

### 18. Amendments.

Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed to by the Contracting
States shall come into force in the same manner as the Agreement
itself.Article 19

### 19. Final Provisions.

(1)This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into force
thirty days after the date on which instruments of ratification are
exchanged.(2)The Agreement shall remain in force for an indefinite period. It
may, however, be terminated by either of the Contracting State by giving a
written notice of termination. The termination shall take effect six months
after the date of such notice.(3)Notwithstanding any termination, this
Agreement shall continue to apply to the enforcement of sentences of sentenced
persons who have been transferred under this Agreement before the date on
which such termination takes effect.In witness whereof the undersigned, being
duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this
Agreement.Done in duplicate at Brasilia on this 15th day of October of the two
thousand and thirteen in the Hindi, Portuguese andEnglish languages, all texts
being equally authentic.

For the Republic of India | For the Federative Republic of Brazil  
---|---

