## Union of India - Act

## All India Council for Technical Education (Grant of Approvals for the
Technical Institutions) guidelines, 2024-27

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# All India Council for Technical Education (Grant of Approvals for the
Technical Institutions) guidelines, 2024-27

  * Published on 15 January 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 January 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of its powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 23 read
with Sections 10 and 11 of the All India Council for Technical Education Act,
1987 (52 of 1987) and in supersession of the All India Council for Technical
Education (Grant of Approvals for the Technical Institutions) Regulations,
2020 notified in the Gazette of India vide F. No: AB/AICTE/REG/2020 dated 4th
February, 2020, & 1st Amendment Regulation, 2021 dated 24th February, 2021 in
Gazette notification the AICTE makes the following guidelines:**Preamble.** \-
To regulate/ facilitate the Technical Institutions to maintain quality and
adherence to norms in line with the mandate of AICTE and to create an enabling
environment for the Technical Institutions to become high quality
Institutions, AICTE, in exercise of powers conferred under sub section (1) of
Section 23 read with Sections 10 and 11 of the All India Council for Technical
Education Act, 1987, hereby makes the following guidelines namely:-

### 1. Short Title, Application and Commencement.

1.1 These guidelines shall be called the All India Council for Technical
Education (Grant of Approvals for the Technical Institutions) guidelines,
2024-27.1.2 These Guidelines are applicable for the applications submitted by
the Institutions/ Institutions Deemed to be University offering/ propose to
offer a Technical Programme at Diploma/ Post Diploma Certificate/ Under
Graduate Degree/ Post Graduate Diploma/ Post Graduate Degree Level as
under:_a. Setting up a new Technical Institution;__b. Extension of Approval
based on Self-Disclosure;__c. Introduction/ Continuation of seats for Non
Resident Indian(s);__d. Change of Site/ Location;__e. Conversion of Diploma
Level into Degree Level and vice-versa;__f. To start new Programme/ Level in
the existing Institutions;__g. Merger of Institutions under the same or
different Trust/ Society/ Company operating in the same Campus or City;__h.
Extension of Approval of the existing Institutions after a break in the
preceding Academic Year/ Hiberenation/ Restoration of Intake;__i.
Introduction/ Continuation of supernumerary seats for Foreign Nationals/
Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)/Children of Indian Workers in Gulf
Countries;__j. Conversion of Women's Institution into Co-ed Institution and
vice-versa;__k. Increase in Intake/ Additional Course(s);__l. Introduction of
Integrated/ Dual Degree Course;__m. Closure of the Institution;__n.
Introduction/ Continuation of Fellow Program in Management;__o. Change in the
Name of the Course(s)/ Merger of the Courses/ Reduction in Intake/ Closure of
Programme(s)/ Course(s);__p. Change in the Name of the Institution or
affiliating University/Board/ Change of type of Institution;__q. Change in the
Bank details;__r. Change in the Name of the Trust/ Society/ Company;__s.
Approval for Multiple Years;__t. Collaboration and Twinning Programme between
Indian and Foreign Universities/ Institutions in the field of Technical
Education, Research and Training;__u. Introduction of Open and Distance
Learning Courses/ Online Learning Courses/Extension of Approval of the
Courses/ Increase in Approved Intake in the Courses/ Introduction of New
Courses/ Closure of Courses in Open and Distance Learning mode; and_ _v.
Approval to open the Off-campus by the existing affiliating Institutions_ 1.3
These guidelines shall come into force with effect from the date of their
publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

In these guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires2.1 _"Academic
Year"_ means academic activities of the concerned affiliating University/
Board/ Technical Institution in a Year (Odd Semester followed by Even
Semester).2.2 _"Act"_ means the All India Council for Technical Education Act,
1987 (52 of 1987).2.3 _"Adjunct Faculty"_ means resource person as per the
guidelines specified in the Approval Process Handbook.2.4 _"Affidavit"_ is a
written sworn statement of fact voluntarily made by a deponent under an oath
or affirmation administered by a person authorized to do so by Law. Such
statement is witnessed as to the authenticity of the deponent's signature by a
taker of oaths, such as a Notary Public or Commissioner of Oaths.2.5 _"AICTE
Web-Portal"_ means the Web site hosted by the Council at URL www.aicte-
india.org.2.6 _"Applicant"_ is the one who makes an application to the Council
for seeking any kind of approval under these guidelines.2.7 _"Approval Process
Handbook (APH)"_ is a Handbook published by AICTE, prescribing norms and
procedures for processing of applications submitted for grant of various
approvals from time to time.2.8 _"Approved Institution"_ means the Technical
Institution approved by the Council.2.9 _"Approved Intake"_ means the maximum
number of students that can be admitted in a Course (excluding the
Supernumerary Seats) as approved by the Council.2.10 _"Autonomous
Institution"_ means an Institution to which autonomy is granted by UGC and is
designated to be so by the Statutes of Affiliating University/ Board or by
AICTE to Standalone Institutions.2.11 _"Break in EoA"_ means break in the
Extension of Approval of the Institution in the previous year(s) and
_"Hibernation"_ means approval in abeyance with the prior approval of the
Council.2.12 _"Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT)"_ means a project financing,
wherein a private entity receives a concession from the public sector to
finance, design, construct and operate a facility stated in the concession
contract.2.13 _"Chairman"_ means the Chairman of AICTE as described under sub-
section 4(a) of Section 3 of AICTE Act, 1987.2.14 _"Co-ed Institution"_ means
the Institution admitting male, female and transgender students.2.15
_"Commission"_ means the University Grants Commission (UGC) established under
Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956.2.16 _"Company"_ means
a Company established/ registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act,
2013.2.17 _"Competent Authority for Admission"_ means an Organization that
has, the legally delegated authority, capacity, or power to do admission to
Technical Institutions in the State Government/ UT concerned.2.18 _"Compliance
Report"_ means the Report submitted by the Technical Institution complying
with the requirements as specified in the Approval Process Handbook for the
deficiencies observed by Expert Visit Committee/ issues mentioned in the Show
Cause Notice.2.19 _"Constituent College"_ means an Institution/ Department/
College/ School as a part of the University.2.20 _"Council"_ means All India
Council for Technical Education established under Section 3 of the Act.2.21
_"Course"_ means one of the branches of learning in a Programme such as Civil
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, etc2.22 _"Division"_ Means:A batch of a
maximum of Sixty (60) seats in Diploma/ Under Graduate Degree Courses in
Engineering and Technology/ Hotel Management and Catering Technology/ Under
Graduate and Post Graduate Courses in Computer Applications / Management
Programme as applicable, excluding supernumerary seats, if any;A batch of a
maximum of Forty (40) seats in Diploma/ Under Graduate Degree Courses in
Planning Programme, excluding supernumerary seats, if any;A batch of a maximum
of Thirty (30) seats in Diploma/ Under Graduate Degree Courses in Applied Arts
and Crafts Programme, excluding supernumerary seats, if any;A batch of a
maximum of Thirty (30) seats in Diploma/ Under Graduate Degree Courses in
Design Programme, excluding supernumerary seats, if any;A batch of a maximum
of Thirty (30)seats in Post Graduate Courses in Engineering and Technology/
Planning/ Applied Arts and Crafts/ Hotel Management and Catering Technology
Programme, excluding supernumerary seats, if anyA batch of a maximum of Sixty
(60)seats in Integrated Degree Courses in Engineering and Technology/ Hotel
Management and Catering Technology/ MCA Programme and Integrated/ Dual Degree
Course in MBA Programme, excluding supernumerary seats, if any;A batch of a
maximum of Forty (40) seats in Integrated Degree Course in Planning Programme,
excluding supernumerary seats, if any; andA maximum of Twenty (20) Seats per
year in Fellow in Management Program2.23 EoA means Extension of Approval
granted by AICTE for the conduct of Technical Programme(s)/ Course(s) to an
Institution for that Academic Year.2.24 _"Approval for Multiple Years;"_ means
Extension of Approval granted by AICTE for the conduct of Technical
Programme(s)/ Course(s) to an Institution for more than one Academic Year.2.25
Executive Committee means the Committee constituted by the Council under
Section 12 of AICTE Act, 1987.2.26 _"Expert Visit Committee (EVC)"_ means the
Committee constituted by the Regulation Bureau as per the composition
specified in the Approval Process Handbook published from time to time to
verify physically/virtually the availability of Infrastructural and other
facilities of an Institution.2.27 _"Faculty Member"_ means an individual
qualified as per AICTE Regulations, working on Full Time basis in an
Institution/ University.2.28 _"Regular Mode"_ Means courses offered in the
physical/face to face mode.2.29 _"Foreign National"_ Means Citizen of the
Countries other than India who are not of Indian origin as defined under
OCI.2.30 _"Government Aided Institutions"_ means Technical Institution that
meets 50% or more of its recurring expenditure out of the grant received from
the Government or Government Organizations.2.31 _"Government Institution"_
means Technical Institution established and/ or fully maintained by the
Government.2.32 _"Head of the Institution"_ means the Vice-Chancellor in case
of a University or an Institution Deemed to be University, the Principal/
Director/ such other designation as the administrative Head of the Institution
of the Technical Institution referred.2.33 _"Institution Deemed to be
University"_ means an Institution for Higher Education so declared, on the
recommendation of the Commission, by the Central Government under Section 3 of
the University Grants Commission Act, 1956.2.34 _"Lateral Entry"_ means
admission of students into the second year of Diploma/ Under Graduate Degree
Courses as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.2.35 _"Level"_ means
Diploma, Post Diploma Certificate, Under Graduate Degree, Post Graduate
Diploma and Post Graduate Degree Programmes.2.36 _"Minority Institution"_
means an Educational Institution established and administered by a minority or
minorities and recognized by Competent Authority as Minority Institution upto
the duration specified.2.37 _"NBA"_ means the National Board of Accreditation,
an autonomous body initially set up by AICTE, registered under Societies
Registration Act, 1860.2.38 _"Open and Distance Learning (ODL)"_ mode means a
mode of providing flexible learning opportunities by overcoming separation of
teacher and learner using a variety of media, including print, electronic,
MOOCs, online and occasional interactive face-to-face meetings arranged by an
Institution through Learner Support Services to deliver teaching-learning
experience, including practical or work experience.2.39 _"Private University"_
means a University duly established through a State/ Central Act by a
sponsoring body viz., a Society registered under the Societies Registration
Act 1860, or any other corresponding Law for the time being in force in a
State or a Public Trust or a Company registered under Section 8 of the
Companies Act, 2013.2.40 _"Programme"_ means the field of Technical Education,
i.e. Engineering and Technology, Planning, Applied Arts and Crafts, Design,
Hotel Management and Catering Technology, Computer Application, Management and
such other Programmes/ Area as notified by AICTE Act, 1987.2.41 _"Public
Private Partnership (PPP)"_ means a Partnership based on a contract or
concession agreement, between a Government or Statutory entity on the one side
and a Private Sector enterprise on the other side.2.42 _"Restoration of
Intake"_ means restoring back to the _"Approved Intake"_ of the Institution
that was existing prior to any penal action.2.43 _"Self-Financing
Institution"_ means an Institution started by a Trust/ Society/ Company and
does not receive grant/ fund from Central/ State Government/ UT for meeting
its recurring expenditure.2.44 _"Society"_ means a Society registered under
Societies Registration Act, 1860.2.45 _"Standalone Institutions"_ means those
Institutions which are not affiliated to any of the University/ Board, but are
imparting education by means of conducting regular courses leading to Diploma,
Post Diploma Certificate, Post Graduate Certificate and Post Graduate Diploma
Levels in Management, Travel and Tourism, Innovation and Entrepreneurship,
Computer Applications and Design.2.46 _"Standing Appellate Committee (SAC)"_
means a Committee constituted by the Chairman as per the composition specified
in the Approval Process Handbook for considering the appeals of the Technical
Institutions.2.47 _"Standing Complaint Scrutiny Committee (SCSC)"_ means a
Committee constituted by the Chairman as per the composition specified in the
Approval Process Handbook for the Scrutiny of Complaints received against the
Technical Institutions.2.48 _"Standing Hearing Committee (SHC)"_ means a
Committee constituted by the Chairman as per the composition specified in the
Approval Process Handbook to review the Reports of the Expert Visit Committee/
replies received for Show Cause Notices.2.49 _"State Level Fee Committee"_
means a Committee notified by the concerned State Government/ UT for
Regulation of fee to be charged by the Technical Institutions.2.50
_"Supernumerary seats"_ includes TFW, OCI/ Foreign Nationals/ Children of
Indian Workers in the Gulf Countries, Lateral Entry, PwD, J&K PM-USPY, Gifted
Children, Working Professional (at Diploma / UG/ PG level across all
programmes) and any other seats as notified from time to time, over and above
the "Approved Intake".".2.51 _"Technical Institution"_ means an Institution
set up by the Government, Government aided and Self-Financing/ Trust/ Society/
Company for conducting Course(s)/ Programme(s) in the field of Technical
Education, Training and Research in Engineering and Technology, Planning,
Applied Arts and Crafts, Design, Hotel Management and Catering Technology,
Computer Application, Management, and such other Programmes and areas as
notified by AICTE Act, 1987.2.52 _"Total Approved Intake"_ includes Intake
approved in all the Programme(s)/ Course(s) of an Institution.2.53 _"Trust"_
means a Trust registered under the Indian Trust Act, 1882 as amended from time
to time or any other relevant Acts.2.54 _"University"_ means a University
defined under Clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act,
1956.2.55 _"University Department"_ means a Department established and
maintained by the University.2.56 _"Working Professional"_ means someone who
has completed a formal education at ITI/Diploma/Under Graduate level and is
employed in a job having knowledge, skills, and expertise in relevant/related
domain.2.57 Any other word and expression used herein and not defined but
defined in the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987 (52 of
1987), shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to them in the said
Act.

### 3. Relevance of Grant of Approval.

3.1 After commencement of these guidelinesa. New Technical Institutions either
by Government/ Government aided or Self-financing Institutions shall be
started ONLY after obtaining approval of the Councilb. Existing Government/
Government aided/ Self-financing Institutions/ Institutions Deemed to be
Universities (except Category I/ II) shall either conduct/ increase/ reduce
the intake in the existing Course(s)/ Programmes or introduce new
Programme(s)/ Course(s) at any Level in Regular mode only after obtaining
approval of the Council.c. In no eventuality, a Technical Institution without
prior approval of AICTE and Affiliating University/ Board concerned, shall be
allowed to participate in the counselling and admission process to admit
students.d. Affiliating University/ Board shall not enroll students admitted
in such Technical Institutions, which do not have requisite prior approval of
the Council.e. Central/ State Government/ UT concerned shall not admit
students to any Programme of a Technical Institution, which do not have
requisite prior approval of the Council (Except for Institutions Established
under Central Act/State Legislation).f. Institutions Deemed to be Universities
offering Technical Course(s)/ Programme(s) shall not admit students without
prior approval of the Council.g. Existing Standalone Institutions/
Institutions Deemed to be Universities shall either conduct/ increase/ reduce
the intake in the Open and Distance Learning Courses or introduce Courses at
any Level ONLY after obtaining approval of the Council.3.2 a. New Institution
in Engineering and Technology shall be permitted with a preference for
offering courses having multidisciplinary nature in-line with NEP 2020 in STEM
areas, subject to the conditions as specified in Approval Process Handbook
published from time to time.b. Under Graduate Degree Courses with Minor Degree
/ Hons. in Emerging Areas shall be allowed as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook from time to time..

### 4. Generic Conditions for Approval.

4.1 a. The Applicants shall not name the Technical Institution in such a way
that the abbreviated form of the name of the Technical Institution becomes
IIM/ IIT/ IISc/ NIT/ AICTE/ UGC/ MOE/ GoI. The Applicant shall also not use
the word(s) Government/ India/ Indian/ National/ All India/ All India Council/
Commission, anywhere in the name of the Technical Institution and other names
as prohibited under the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use), Act,
1950. Provided that the restrictions mentioned above shall not be applicable,
if the Technical Institution is established by Government of India or its name
is approved by the Government of India.b. The Institutions which were already
given approval with those words shall change/ drop the word from the Name of
the Institution, as the Stake holders may misinterpret them to be Government/
Government Aided Institutions. If any Institution (other than Government/
Government Aided) continue to use 'Indian', 'National', etc. in the Name of
the Institution, the Council shall remove such words while issuing EoA.c.
Applicants for New Institutions shall not use the names of the Existing
Institutions within the State.4.2 a. "AICTE does not recognize the
Programme(s)/ Course(s) in Technical Education offered through distance mode
or online mode except in Management, Computer Applications and Travel and
Tourism, AI, Data Science, Logistics, Cyber Security, Block Chain".b. Existing
Institutions conducting / intend to conduct BBA/BMS/BCA Shall apply to AICTE
for Apprpoval as per the Norms.4.3 To maintain the quality of Education, 60%
of the eligible Courses in any Technical Institution shall be accredited in
the next 3 years time, else EoA shall not be issued by the Council.4.4
Supernumerary seatsa. Fifteen percent (15%) supernumerary seats over and above
the "Approved Intake" per Course shall be approved in AICTE approved
Institutions and University Departments, for admitting students belonging to
Foreign Nationals/ Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)/ Children of Indian Workers
in the Gulf Countries. One third (1/3rd) of these 15% seats shall be reserved
for the Children of Indian Workers in the Gulf Countries.Any vacant seat in a
given Course, out of 1/3 rd seats reserved for Children of Indian Worker in
the gulf countries shall be reverted to the seats of 2/3rd meant for
OCI/Foreign Nationals and vice-versa. Further, any vacant seat in the "Foreign
Nationals/ Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)/ Children of Indian Workers in Gulf
Countries" after the last round of the admission of the concerned State
Government/ UT may be filled with NRI seats, subject to the approval from
AICTE for the NRI seats and fulfillment of requisite norms as specified in the
Approval Process Handbook.Further, a batch of 60 or half a batch of 30 for
working professionals at Diploma / UG level or a batch of 30 or half a batch
of 15 at PG in Engineering and Technology. Similarly a batch of 60/40 or a
batch of 30 /20 at Diploma/UG/ PG Levels (as applicable) in respect of other
programmes shall be considered as Supernumerary.b. Mandatory provision of
supernumerary seats under Tuition Fee Waiver Scheme in all the Courses and
Programmes shall be applicable to all Technical Institutions as specified in
the Approval Process Handbook.4.5 Admission under Lateral Entry in Diploma/
Under Graduate Degree Course(s).a. Lateral Entry to Second Year Diploma
Course(s) shall be permissible up to a maximum of 10% of the "Approved Intake"
which shall be over and above, supernumerary to the "Approved Intake", plus
the unfilled vacancies of the First year as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.b. Any Foreign National who has obtained Diploma in a Foreign
Institution (having an equivalency Certificate issued by the Association of
Indian Universities) or Diploma in an Indian Institution shall also be
eligible for Lateral Entry into the Second Year Under Graduate Degree
Course(s). The Institutions having approval for the supernumerary seats in
such Course(s) are ONLY eligible to admit the Foreign Nationals as per the
norms, else the Institution shall apply for the same on AICTE Web-Portal.
However, the total Foreign Nationals admitted under supernumerary seats and
the Lateral Entry shall not exceed the 15% of the "Approved Intake" in an
Academic year.c. NRI candidates shall also be permitted for admission in
Lateral Entry to Second Year, subject to the approval from AICTE for the NRI
seats and fulfilment of requisite norms as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.d. Vacant seats arising out of the students withdrawing the admission
in the First Year shall also be considered for Lateral Entry.e. The Council
shall not permit the Introduction or Continuation of Lateral Entry Separate
Division in Second Year Engineering and Technology/ MCA Courses.4.6 The State
Government/ UT/ Directorate of Technical Education/ Directorate of Medical
Education shall ensure that 10% of reservation for Economically Weaker Section
(EWS) as per the reservation policy for admission, operational from the
Academic year 2019-20 without affecting the reservation percentages of SC/ ST/
OBC/ General. However, this would not be applicable in the case of Minority
Institutions referred to the Clause (1) of Article 30 of Constitution of
India.Such Institution shall be permitted to increase the annual permitted
strength over a maximum period of two years beginning with the Academic Year
2019-20.EWS vacant seats shall be considered for the Lateral Entry to Second
Year Course(s) with the same reservation policy for admission.4.7 Requirements
for the new/ existing Institutions/ Institutions Deemed to be Universities
conducting Technical Programmesa. ALL the Technical Institutions shall fulfil
the requisite norms as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.b. Land
required shall be with clear title in the name of the trust / society /
company or on a long term lease for a minimum period of 30 years. The Live
Lease has to be at least equal to Maximum duration of the program / course at
the time of submission of application.c. The Promoter Trust/ Society/ Company
of a new Technical Institution shall have to construct the required Built-up
area for setting up of Institution, as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.d. NOC from Affiliating University/ Board/ State Government/ UT shall
be required, as applicable, for such applications as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook.4.8 The Institutions shall not directly or indirectly, demand
or charge or accept, capitation fee or demand any donation, by way of
consideration for admission to any seat in any Course.4.9 The Council shall
not permit the Post Graduate Course(s) (except MCA and Management), if the
Institution is not offering an Under Graduate (Core) Course in the same
Programme. However, the same is permitted to State/ Central Universities or
Autonomous Government Institutions offering Only Post Graduate Courses in
Engineering and Technology.4.10 The Council shall not permit any institution
to conduct of PGDM/PGCM Courses along with Management courses at PG Level
(MBA) affiliated to any University. However, institutions running PGDM/PGCM
courses can run any other Programs/Courses affiliated to University/Board in
the same Institution". Further, Universities seeking approval of a technical
program from AICTE shall mandatorily take approval for ALL technical
program(s)/course(s) under the purview of AICTE. NO partial approval shall be
granted. If it is noticed that a university/ deemed to be university has taken
such partial approval, violating the clause, entire approval shall be
withdrawn and penal action shall be taken.4.11 In general, the teaching
learning process shall take place either in the form of "face to face" mode in
a class room (Regular Course) or "Open and Distance Learning" mode by
providing flexible learning using a print, electronic, MOOCs, online and
occasional interactive face-to-face meetings.The Courses offered in the
timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift and Part Time shall be
considered as Regular Courses. The Institutions shall have to fulfil all
facilities such as Infrastructure, Faculty and other requirements to offer the
Regular Courses as per the norms specified in the Approval Process Handbook
for the Total Approved Intake and the Institutions may conduct the Courses in
the timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift and Part Time not
exceeding the "Approved Intake" of each Course, as per the convenience of all
stakeholders. All such Institutions shall create the necessary Faculty,
Infrastructure and other facilities within 2 Years to fulfil the norms.
Student enrolment details shall be uploaded in the Web-Portal.The Institutions
shall run Skill Development Courses, Student Developmental Activities such as
Research Park, Start-up Centre, Innovation Club, Entrepreneurship, etc. in the
excess Built-up area.4.12 The AICTE approved Institutions shall be permitted
to collaborate with each other for Student Exchange Programme so that the
students admitted in an Institution may spend one Semester in another
Institution.4.13 An Institution can only allow up to 40% of the total Courses
being offered in a particular Programme in a Semester through the Online
Learning Courses provided through SWAYAM platform as per the AICTE (Credit
Framework for online learning course through SWAYAM) Regulations, 2016 and as
amended from time to time. This is not applicable in case of Diploma level in
Engineering and Technology Programme.4.14 a. For establishing an Institution
offering Diploma/UG/PG Level courses in technical Programmes, based on the
approved intake and duration of the course per programme, the built-up area
requirement will be calculated. The land required for the same will be based
on prevailing FSI/FAR norms applicable for that location as declared by the
respective competent authority to house the required built-up area. The same
shall be applicable for the Institutions to be established/ already
established in Mega/Metro/Urban/Rural areas.b. The minimum built up area
required for classrooms in the programme Engineering and Technology shall be
as mentioned in APH.c. The maximum intake allowed for Institutions established
for the first time (as in Table below)

Sl. No. | Programme | Level | Intake  
---|---|---|---  
1. | Engineering and Technology | Diploma | 360  
Post Diploma | 360  
UG | 360  
PG | 150  
2. | Computer Applications | UG | 300  
PG Diploma/Degree | 300  
3. | Management | UG | 300  
PG Diploma/Degree | 360  
  
d. For the existing Institutions, there is no upper limit in terms of
increasing the intake across all the programmes subject to fulfillment of the
norms as specified.e. The New / Existing Institutions shall be permitted to
start multiple levels/Programmes subject to relevant conditions mentioned in
Approval Process Handbook published from time to time.f. All the institutions
shall be permitted to conduct Vocational/Skill Development Courses.4.15 a. All
Technical Education Regulatory (TER) charges mentioned in Approval Process
Handbook published from time to time shall be increased annually @ 10%
(approx).b. New / Existing Institutions applying for multiple Programmes/
Levels shall be required to remit a security deposit equal to sum total of
security deposit applicable for each Programme /Level.

### 5. Submission of the applications.

5.1 Application for grant of approval under these guidelines shall be made by
any of the following:a. Chairperson/ Secretary in case of the Trust/ Society/
Company;b. An Officer authorized by the concerned Central/ State Government/
UT in case of Central or State Government/ UT Administration or a Society/
Trust registered with them; andc. An Officer authorized by the Trust/ Society/
Company/ Central/ Sate Government/ UT under Public Private Partnership or
Build Operate Transfer (BOT) mode made by them, as the case may be.d.
Principal/ Director of the Technical Institution or Head of the Institution or
an Officer of the Institution duly authorized by the Promoter of such
Institution or Chairperson/ Secretary in case of the Trust/ Society/ Company
or Vice Chancellor/ Registrar of Institution Deemed to be University and
Central/State/State Private University.5.2 A Company having any foreign equity
directly or indirectly as shareholding shall not be permitted to apply for
setting up a Technical Institution.5.3 Central, State and Private Universities
may apply for approval by providing Infrastructure and other requirements as
specified in the Approval Process Handbook.5.4 a. Institutions Deemed to be
Universities shall seek prior approval of the Council under Clause 1.2 of
these guidelines. The requirements, eligibility and procedure shall be as
specified in the Approval Process Handbook.Further to that, the Institution
Deemed to be Universities shall also have to fulfil the norms as per UGC
Regulations.b. Universities seeking approval for the first time from AICTE
shall submit an application as a new Technical Institution for all their
existing Technical Programme(s) and Course(s). Institution Deemed to be
University having multiple Campuses/ Off Campuses/ Constituent Colleges shall
apply separately / together for approval.5.5 The Council shall publish, from
time to time, Approval Process Handbook detailing the documents to be attached
to the application, the Technical Education Regulatory (TER) Charges to be
remitted, the norms and standards, requirements and the procedure by which the
applications are processed for grant of approval of the new/ existing
Institutions.5.6 a. The Applicant for setting up a New Technical Institution
shall obtain a unique USER ID following the procedure specified in the
Approval Process Handbook published from time to time.The Applicant for new
Institutions shall be required to submit online application through National
Single Window System (NSWS) and existing Institutions on AICTE web Portal with
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) for the cases listed in Clause 1.2 of
these guidelines using their unique USER ID allotted to them by remitting the
prescribed Technical Education Regulatory (TER) Charges as specified in the
Approval Process Handbook published from time to time through AICTE's Payment
gateway on the Web-Portal, failing which the application shall not be
considered.b. Only those applications submitted within the cut-off date,
including payment shall be considered for processing.c. The Web-Portal permits
the generation of Deficiency Report for the applications.d. The Applicants
shall edit the data till the final submission of the application on the Web-
Portal.After pressing the "submit" tab, the data shall not be allowed for any
further editing till the processing of the application is completed.e. If an
Applicant/ Institution has wrongly submitted an application, the same shall be
processed as per the procedure specified in the Approval Process Handbook.f.
After the submission of the application, if an Applicant intends to revoke the
application for a specific purpose (other than Extension of Approval) or
withdraw the application for Closure of the Institution/ Programme(s)/
Course(s), the same shall be processed as per the procedure specified in the
Approval Process Handbook.g. Applicants have to upload documents in the Web-
Portal/ submit to the Scrutiny/ Re- Scrutiny Committee/ Expert Visit
Committee, as applicable, as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.h. An
Affidavit shall be submitted/ uploaded by the Applicants in the Format as
specified in the Approval Process Handbook, on a Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of
Rs. 100/- duly sworn before a First Class Magistrate or Notary or an Oath
Commissioner, inter alia, stating that the information given in the
application is true and that if it is found at any time that any part of the
information has been suppressed and/or misrepresented and/or the information
given in the application is false, the Council shall be free to take action
including Withdrawal of Approval/ not considering for grant of approval and/
or any other legal action as it may deem fit.i. In case of rejection of an
application, the applicable TER Charges shall be refunded as specified in the
Approval Process Handbook.j. The applications eligible to submit "Year round"
along with the applicable TER Charges as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook shall make payment through online mode.k. The applications submitted
after the cutoff date mentioned in the Public Notice shall not be processed
during the current Academic Year.

### 6. Processing of the applications and Grant of Approval.

6.1 The applications received shall be processed as per the norms and
procedures specified in the Approval Process Handbook as notified by the
Council from time to time, in addition to the existing Central, State and
Local Laws.6.2 For setting up a new Technical Institutiona. The State
Government/ UT and the Affiliating University/ Board shall forward their views
on the applications received under Clause 1.2. of these Guidelines to the
Regulation Bureau, AICTE not later than one week from the last date of
submission of application as notified. In the absence of the receipt of views
from the State Government/ UT/ Affiliating University/ Board on the
application, the Council shall proceed for further processing.b. AICTE gives
approval to institutions based on the compliance of the Norms /Standards
prescribed by the Council from time to time. It is the Sole Responsibility of
the Institution to get Permission/NOC from Government /Affiliating
University/Board.c. The applications received under Clause 1.2. a of these
Guidelines, shall be processed by a Scrutiny Committee/ Re- Scrutiny Committee
duly formed by the Regulation Bureau, AICTE as per the composition as
specified in the Approval Process Hand Book and the Applicant shall present
all the original documents along with self- attested copies to the
Committee.d. In case of "Nil Deficiencies" at Scrutiny/Re-Scrutiny level, the
same shall be processed further by an Expert Visit Committee formed by the
Regulation Bureau, AICTE as per the composition as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook and shall verify Physically / Online the availability of
infrastructural facilities of the Institution.e. The recommendations of the
Expert Visit Committee shall be placed before the Executive Committee for its
recommendation for approval or otherwise.The decision of the Executive
Committee shall be uploaded on the Web-Portal in the form of a Letter of
Approval (LoA) or Letter of Rejection (LoR) with the specific reasons for
rejection of the application.f. Applicants for starting new Technical
Institutions other than Government whose applications are recommended for
Letter of Approval (LoA) by the Executive Committee shall be informed for the
creation of Security Deposit.The existing Institutions approved by the other
Regulatory Bodies, applying for the first time to the Council for approval are
exempted from the payment of Security Deposit as mentioned in APH.The
Applicant shall submit the payment proof of the Security Deposit along with an
Affidavit within 15 days from the date of intimation to the concerned Regional
Coordinator, else a penalty of 10% and 50% of the value of the Security
Deposit shall be imposed upto 31st May and 31st July of the Calendar Year
respectively, beyond which the approval shall be withdrawn.g. The online
Security Deposit amount created by the Technical Institution with AICTE shall
be permitted to be withdrawn after a term of 10 years or in case of the
Closure of the Programme/ Institution, subject to the submission of relevant
documents. The interest accrued on the Security Deposit shall be credited to
the Council and shall be utilized by AICTE for Institutional Development
activities, Quality Improvement Programme for Faculty and giving scholarships
to students, etc. However, the term of the Security Deposit could be extended
for a further period as may be decided on case to case basis and/or forfeited
in case of any violation of norms, conditions and requirements and/or Non-
performance by the Institution and/or complaints against the Institution.h.
Validity of the Letter of Approval for the new Technical Institutions, if
issued, shall be for two Academic Years from the date of issue of Letter of
Approval, only for obtaining affiliation from the respective University/ Board
and fulfiling State Government/ UT requirements for admission in the current
Academic Year.ALL the Applicants issued LoA for starting the new Technical
Institutions shall apply on AICTE Web-Portal for Extension of Approval as
specified in the Approval Process Handbook from the next Academic Year
onwards, irrespective of the admission of the students or otherwise.On expiry
of the validity of two Academic Years, the LoA issued stands cancelled, if no
students were admitted in the Institution and the Applicant shall make a fresh
application for the issuance of Letter of Approval.i. New Technical
Institutions granted Letter of Approval and existing Institutions granted
approval for introduction of new Course(s), Division(s), Programme(s),
variation in intake capacity shall comply with appointment of Faculty and
Principal/ Director as the case may be, as per the policy of the
Council.Institutions other than Minority Institutions shall appoint Faculty/
Principal/ Director and other technical supporting staff and administrative
staff strictly in accordance with the methods and procedures of the concerned
Affiliating University/ Board/ State Government/ UT particularly in case of
selection procedures and selection Committees.The information about these
appointments of staff in the prescribed format shall be uploaded on the Web-
Portal of AICTE.j. An Expert Visit Committee may be conducted any time before
the first batch of students have passed out, to verify the fulfilment of the
norms as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.6.3 For the existing
Institutionsa. For applications submitted under Clause 1.2, the Council shall
grant the desired approval, only after confirming that the Applicant had
fulfiled all the norms and standards through the procedure as specified in the
Approval Process Handbook. The Council reserves the right to inspect and if
any of the information submitted is found to be false, shall initiate penal
action as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.b. In case of the
existing Institutions, if an EVC was conducted or Show Cause notice was
issued, the same shall be placed before the Standing Hearing Committee (SHC)
as applicable and processed as per the procedure specified in the Approval
Process Handbook. If the Institution is aggrieved by the decision of the
Executive Committee, the Institution shall have the right to appeal once to
the Council, as per the procedure specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.c. If the application for the Conversion of Women's Institution into
Co-ed Institution and vice-versa/ Conversion of Diploma Level into Degree
Level and vice-versa/ To start new Programme/ Level is not approved, EoA of
the Institution shall be issued, however, the deficiencies noted by the
Scrutiny/ Re- Scrutiny/ Expert Visit Committee shall be fulfiled before the
issue of EoA for the next Academic Year.d. The application for the Closure of
Institution shall be valid for the duration of the respective Programme
offered by the Institution within which the Institution should submit the
required mandatory documents. Else, AICTE may close the Institution with the
intimation to the Affiliating University/ Board and the State Government/
Union Territory and shall issue a Public Notice regarding the same.The
application for the Closure of the Programme(s)/ Course(s) shall be valid for
the duration of the respective Course offered by the Institution within which
the Institution should submit the required mandatory documents. Else, AICTE
shall initiate appropriate action to close the Programme(s)/ Course(s).e.
Change in name of the Trust/ Society/ Company including merger of two or more
Trusts/ Societies/ Companies having the same common objects of education etc.
shall be permitted as per the respective Laws laid down in the Acts.A Trust/
Society may create a new Company to hold their assets, and once the transfer
of assets is complete, the Trust/ Society may be dissolved and the ownership
may be transferred to the Company. Such viability shall vary depending on the
jurisdiction and context.f. Institutions shall be eligible for new Course(s)/
expansion of existing Course(s) as per APH.g. Institutions having an "Approved
Intake" less than a Division size in any of the Course(s) as prescribed by the
Council may apply for intake of full Division size themselves and shall
maintain Faculty: Student ratio accordingly,subject to "Zero Deficiency" based
on Self-Disclosure on AICTE Web-Portal.h. Institutions may apply for reduction
in Intake in any of the Course(s) within a Division by themselves in AICTE
Web- Portal and maintain Faculty: Student ratio accordingly without NOC from
affiliating University/ Board/ State Government/ UT and the reinstatement
shall be permitted within a Division. Institutions may apply for reinstatement
for the same by themselves in AICTE Web-Portal.i. The Institutions applying
for new Course(s) at the Post Graduate Level shall be eligible for the same
only after two batches of students pass out. Such Institutions shall be
permitted for new Course(s) to a maximum of FIVE Courses/ Divisions, subject
to "Zero Deficiency" based on Self-Disclosure on AICTE Web-Portal. However,
for every Post Graduate Course, there should be at least one Professor with
Ph.D. qualification.j. Well performing Institutions providing quality
Technical Education through accreditation of Courses by NBA/ UGC approved
academic autonomy/ AICTE approved Graded Autonomy to Standalone Institutions,
shall be duly recognized by AICTE and considered for grant of approvals for
Multiple years EoA as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.k. The
Institution shall be given an opportunity to comply the deficiencies, if any,
before the Scrutiny/ Re-Scrutiny Committee, to fulfil the criteria of "Zero
Deficiency" based on Self- Disclosure, for processing the application, as
applicable.l. Applicants, whose applications are recommended for a new
Programme shall create the Security Deposit as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook. The Applicant shall submit the payment proof of the Security
Deposit along with an Affidavit within 15 days from the date of intimation to
the concerned Regional Coordinator, else a penalty of 10% and 50% of the value
of the Security Deposit shall be imposed upto 30th May and 31st July of the
Calendar Year respectively, beyond which the approval shall be withdrawn.6.4
The uploading of the Scrutiny/ Re-Scrutiny/ Expert Visit Committee Report
shall be done by the concerned Regional Coordinator.6.5 If any member of the
Scrutiny/ Re-Scrutiny/ Expert Visit Committee is unable to attend or refuses
or incapacitated to take part in the Committee, then Regional Coordinator with
prior or post-facto approval of the Member Secretary, AICTE shall opt to
choose another expert from the approved panel of the experts manually.6.6
Institution Deemed to be Universitya. The Council shall approve the Technical
Programme(s)/ Course(s) offered by the Institutions Deemed to be Universities
falling under Category I/ II as notified by UGC. Such Institutions Deemed to
be Universities shall have to adhere to the norms and standards as specified
by AICTE from time to time and an Affidavit to this effect shall be submitted
to AICTE and UGC.The application submitted by an Institution Deemed to be
University falling under Category III as notified by UGC shall be processed as
per the procedure mentioned in Clause 6.2/ 6.3 (as applicable) of these
Guidelines.b. Universities shall also submit applications for other Categories
in Clause 1.2 of these Guidelines. The requirements, eligibility and procedure
shall be as per the concerned Clauses of the Approval Process Handbook.
However, Expert Visit Committee for the Introduction of supernumerary seats
for OCI/ Foreign Nationals/ Children of Indian Workers in the Gulf Countries
for Category I/ II Universities shall be exempted.c. State University/ Central
University/ Institution Deemed to be University (Government) are not required
to pay the Security Deposit.Institution Deemed to be University (Private)/
Private Universities which were in existence for more than 10 years with UGC
are exempted from the payment of Security Deposit.Universities which were
granted approval from AICTE earlier as a Technical Institution and created
Security Deposit and got released after the maturity period are not required
to pay the Security Deposit, else the University shall pay the Security
Deposit for the remaining period of 10 years, as applicable.d. Institutions
Deemed to be Universities offering Technical Programme(s) approved by the
Council, falling under Category I/ II as declared by UGC shall have to submit
an application to the Council indicating the increase in Intake in the
Courses/ New Course(s) in emerging areas. The Council shall be granting
approval to those Courses. However, such Universities shall have to update the
data in AICTE Web-Portal on annual basis and comply the norms and standards as
specified by AICTE from time to time. The University shall annually submit
Affidavit to AICTE and UGC to this effect. If any complaints are received
about the violation of the norms, AICTE shall inspect the University and
inform the UGC to take appropriate action. In case of Institution Deemed to be
University, the action as specified in the Approval Process Handbook shall be
initiated and informed to the UGC.e. Universities that have been recognized as
an Institute of Eminence (IoE) by the Ministry of Education (MoE), Government
of India shall be exempted from going through the process of approval.
However, such Universities shall have to update the data in AICTE Web-Portal
on annual basis and comply the norms and standards as specified by AICTE from
time to time. The University shall annually submit Affidavit to AICTE and UGC
to this effect. If any complaints are received about the violation of the
norms, AICTE shall inspect the University and inform the MoE and UGC to take
appropriate action. In case of Institution Deemed to be University, the action
as specified in the Approval Process Handbook shall be initiated and informed
to the MoE and UGC.6.7 Open and Distance Learning Coursesa. The applications
submitted by the Standalone Institutions/ Institutions Deemed to be
Universities for conducting Courses in Open and Distance Learning mode shall
be processed as per the norms and procedure specified in the Approval Process
Handbook. Further, the Institutions shall submit the application to the
Council every year for the Extension of Approval of the Courses/ Increase in
Approved Intake in the Courses/ Introduction of new Courses/ Closure of
Courses in Open and Distance Learning mode.6.8 Vocational Education Coursesa.
All the AICTE Approved Institutions are permitted to offer Vocational Courses.
However, the Institution shall submit the Details of the Courses and Other
Information to the Council every Year.6.9 The applications submitted under
Clause 1.2 of these Guidelines shall be processed as per the procedure
specified in the Approval Process Handbook. The consolidated list of all the
Institutions with the "Approved Intake" shall be placed by the Regulation
Bureau before the Executive Committee/ Council for the grant of Extension of
Approval as applicable for the Technical Institutions to continue to conduct
Technical Programme(s) and Course(s). The decisions taken by the Executive
Committee are ratified by the Council. The same shall be notified on the Web-
Portal. Further the Institution shall download the Extension of approval
letter along with "Approved Intake" through the Institution login. All Orders
shall be uploaded by 30th April of the Calendar Year and the detailed speaking
orders (in case of reduction in intake, No Admission, etc.) shall be uploaded
in the Web- Portal not later than15th May of the Calendar Year.6.10 The
Council shall not grant any conditional approval to any Institution.6.11 AICTE
shall also conduct inspections from time to time with or without notifying the
dates, in such cases where specific complaints of falsification of documents,
misrepresentation, violation of norms of standards, malpractices, etc. are
received. Institutions at random would be subjected to surprise inspection for
the fulfilment of the norms of Approval Process Handbook and appropriate
action including Withdrawal of Approval and any other action deemed necessary,
shall be initiated against the Applicants, as the case may be.6.12 For the
Programmes/ Courses of the Institutions whose approval is withdrawn/ suspended
by the Council, the concerned State Government/ UT shall redistribute the
students to other nearby AICTE approved Technical Institutions affiliated to
the University/ Board and the Council shall allow supernumerary seats in such
Institutions to accommodate the redistributed students appropriately till they
complete the Programmes/ Courses.6.13 Directorate of Technical Education/
State Government/ UT/ Affiliating University/ Board shall download the intakes
for various Courses for the Institutions under their jurisdiction, from Web-
Portal through their login.6.14 Student's eligibility for admission to all the
Programmes/ Courses shall be as specified in the Approval Process Handbook and
as per the reservation policy of the Central Government/ respective State
Government/ UT, as the case may be.Any Foreign National who had obtained
School Leaving Certificate/ Diploma/ Degree in a Foreign Institution shall
produce an Equivalency Certificate issued by the Association of Indian
Universities for admission to an Institution/ University in India. The
commencement and end of Classes for the academic sessions for all the Courses/
Programmes/ Levels shall be followed as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.6.15 Any Institution offering Technical Programme(s)/ Course(s)
without approval of the Council shall be termed as unapproved Institution.

### 7. Appeal before Standing Appellate Committee.

7.1 An Institution/ Applicant, if aggrieved by the decision of Executive
Committee shall have the right to appeal once to the Council, within 7 days
from the date of uploading of LoR.All the appeals submitted by the Applicants/
Institutions shall be placed before the Standing Appellate Committee. The
final decision of the Council shall be uploaded on or before 30th April of the
Calendar Year.7.2 An Officer of the Council shall place the records before the
Standing Appellate Committee. Two representatives of the Institution shall be
invited to present their case along with the compliance and supporting
documents before the Standing Appellate Committee.7.3 The recommendations of
Standing Appellate Committee shall be placed before the Council, whose
decision shall be final.7.4 The decision of the Council about the grant of
approval or otherwise shall be communicated to the Applicant through Web-
Portal on or before 30th April of Calendar Year, with the reasons for
rejection of the application.

### 8. Time Limit for the grant of LoA/ EoA.

LoA/ EoA shall not be granted after 30th April of every Calendar Year in view
of the order dated 13.12.2012 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
CA no.9048/2012 titled as Parsvanath Charitable Trust and others Vs AICTE and
Ors.In case, the deficiencies are complied with subsequently during the
Academic Year, the approval shall be granted under extraordinary
circumstances, for the next Academic Year.

### 9. Requirements to be fulfiled after the grant of Approval.

9.1 All Technical Institutions shall upload the information in respect of
their Director/Principal, Faculty members and students admitted in each Course
in the format available on the Web-Portal of the Council and update the
information from time to time. Scanned copies of PAN Card, Adhaar Card (if
available) and Form 16 of all the faculty members shall also be uploaded on
the Web-Portal.9.2 The Institutions shall adopt the minimum standards and
qualifications as specified in the Approval Process Handbook. However,
Institutions Deemed to be Universities/ Institutions having
Accreditation/Autonomy status shall surpass the minimum standard and
qualifications specified.9.3 The Applicants are expected to provide the
Council true and complete information and documents required for various
purposes. If the information given and/or the documents provided to the
Council are found to be false, incomplete and/or the Applicants have failed to
disclose factual information and/or suppressed/ misrepresented the
information, the Council shall initiate action including Withdrawal of
Approval/ any other action as deemed necessary against the Applicants.If any
document submitted is found to be fraudulent, criminal case shall be filed
against the Principal of the Institution and the Chairman/ Secretary of the
Trust/ Society/ Company.9.4 In the event of denial of Extension of Approval
for the existing Courses or grant of Extension of Approval as per the Clauses
6.11 and 9.3 of these Guidelines, such Institutions shall not be considered
for Extension of Approval till such proceedings are settled and the Promoters/
Institutions are cleared of the charges of violations.

### 10. Release of Security Deposit.

The Trust/ Society/ Company shall apply online and upload/ submit the relevant
documents in AICTE Web-Portal for the release of the Security Deposit and the
same shall be processed as per the procedure specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.

### 11. Action in case of violation of Guidelines.

11.1 An Institution offering any Technical Programme in violation of these
Guidelines shall be liable for initiation of legal action including Withdrawal
of Approval, if any, and/or legal criminal action by the Council against the
Institution and/or its Promoter Trust/ Society/ Company and individuals
associated, as the case may be.11.2 If any Technical Institution contravenes
any of the provisions of relevant Regulations, the Council after making
appropriate inquiry through Standing Hearing Committee (SHC) and after
providing an opportunity of being heard through the Standing Appellate
Committee (SAC) shall withdraw the approval granted. In case of Withdrawal of
Approval to the Institution, the Technical Institution/ Trust/ Society/
Company shall apply afresh for approval after completion of two Academic Years
for setting up a New Technical Institution as per the procedure specified in
the Approval Process Handbook.11.3 In case of any litigation pertaining to the
penal action initiated by the Council for an Institution, for the
contravention of any of the relevant Regulations, such Institution shall have
to apply as specified in the Approval Process Handbook, as applicable in the
next Academic Year in AICTE Web-Portal, in the absence of any specific court
order to the contrary.11.4 Penal Action in case of Violation of the
Regulations/ Approval Process Handbooka. Non-Submission/ Submission of
incomplete application for Extension of Approvalb. Non-Fulfilment of the
requirement of qualified Principal/ Directorc. Non-Fulfilment of Faculty:
Student ratio, not adhering to the pay scales and/or qualifications prescribed
for Facultyd. Non-Fulfilment in Computer, Software, Internet, Printers,
Laboratory Equipment, Books, Journals and Library facilities requirements,
etc.e. Non-Fulfilment of Essential requirements for Technical Institution.f.
Non-Fulfilment of Location/ Built-up Area/ Land as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook at the time of year of establishment or the current Academic
Year.g. Excess admission.h. Charging excess fee than the fee prescribed by the
concerned State/ Fee Regulatory Committee.i. Institutions not allowing Expert
Visit Committee for physical verification of Infrastructural facilities/
Institutions not having Occupancy Certificate/ Completion Certificate/
Building License/ Form D/ Barrier free environment/ Institutions Deemed to be
Universities not having NAD/ Institutions demanding for the Original Degree
Certificates from the Faculty members at the time of joining the Institutionj.
Violation of norms of admission by the Institutions/ Universities conducting
PGDM/ PGCM Courses/ PGDM Institutions not having NAD or Institutions offering
PGDM Course(s) in Regular or ODL mode not uploading student enrollment data
and list of students completed the Course(s) successfully along with their
CGPA/ % of marks in the AICTE Web-Portal.k. The Institutions violating the
Regulations/ Approval Process Handbook as above shall be liable to any one or
more of the following punitive actions as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook, by the Council: Suspension of approval for NRI and supernumerary
seats for one Academic Year Five times the total fees collected per student
shall be levied against each excess admission Reduction in "Approved Intake"
No admission in one/ more Course(s) for one Academic Year Not eligible to
receive any grant from AICTE Withdrawal of approval for Programme(s)/
Course(s) Withdrawal of approval of the Institution Withdrawal of graded
autonomy granted by the Council The Council may initiate penal action for not
regularizing and ensuring the timely and full payment of the salary of the
Staff through Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) by nationalized banks.11.5
Institutions not following the guidelines issued by the Council regarding
refund of fee for cancellation of admission or delaying refunds/ violating the
norms in case of Collaboration and Twinning Programmes shall be liable to
punitive actions as specified in the Approval Process Handbook by the
Council.11.6 AICTE shall initiate appropriate penal action, if Plagiarism is
found in the academic, research, project work, journal publication, etc. of
the Institutions. Each Institution shall have a Plagiarism Software to check
the integrity of the work of the students and Faculty by ensuring that all
content is unique.11.7 If any of the information mentioned in the Affidavit is
proved as false, legal action including penal action shall be initiated on the
deponent.11.8 In case of Institutions where FDRs were encashed before the date
of maturity or not depositing the required Security Deposit at the time of
LoA, a penalty of 10% of the value of the FDR shall be imposed. However,
Institutions that had not created FDR/created FDR for lesser duration/ lesser
amount than prescribed at the time of LoA have to create the same accordingly
as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.11.9 Penalty amount shall be
paid online to the Council as per the instructions.

### 12. Complaint Cases.

12.1 All Institutions shall have Grievance Redressal mechanism as notified by
the Council.12.2 In case of receipt of any complaint(s) about an Institution,
the same shall be processed by Public Grievance Redressal Cell (PGRC),
AICTE.12.3 The complaint shall be placed before a Standing Complaint Scrutiny
Committee (SCSC) and the Complainant may be called (at his/ her own cost), if
necessary. Based on the recommendation of SCSC, a warning or Show Cause Notice
may be issued to the Institution or EVC may be conducted and processed further
as per Clause 6.3.b of these Guidelines. If necessary, the complainant may be
called to appear before Standing Hearing Committee at his/ her own cost.12.4
As per CVC guidelines Anonymous/ Pseudonymous complaints shall not be
processed.

### 13. Implementation of punitive action.

13.1 Under extraordinary circumstances, if Punitive action (except fine) is
approved by the Council beyond 30th April of the Calendar year, the same shall
be implemented for the next Academic Year only.13.2 In an extraordinary
circumstance, to implement the withdrawal of approval in the current Academic
Year, students admitted shall be shifted to the nearby AICTE approved
Institutions in consultation with the concerned University/ Board/ State
Government/ UT.

### 14. Procedure for restoration against punitive action except in case of
Withdrawal of Approval.

Institutions shall have to make an application for restoration of intake and
the same shall be processed as specified in the Approval Process Handbook.

### 15. TER Charges for conducting an additional Scrutiny/ Expert Visit/
Standing Hearing/ Standing Appellate Committee.

15.1 In an extraordinary circumstance, if an additional Scrutiny/ Expert Visit
Committee has to be conducted inclusive of the Court directions to any type of
Institutions, the Applicant has to pay the TER Charges as specified in the
Approval Process Handbook.15.2 In an extraordinary circumstance, if an
additional Standing Hearing Committee/ Standing Appellate Committee has to be
conducted based on the Court directions to any type of Institutions, then the
Applicant has to pay the TER Charges as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook.

### 16. Social Responsibility.

As a part of discharging social responsibilities, all Technical Institutions
approved by the Council are expected to conduct National Skill Qualification
Framework (NSQF) complied Skill Development Courses to give training to a
minimum of 120 students per year. These Programmes shall be conducted based on
the needs of the local community where the Institution is located.

### 17. Conduct of any other Academic Courses.

The Institutions may conduct Academic Courses of any other Regulatory Body
using the existing facilities in excess or by creating additional facilities
as per the provisions laid down in the norms and standards of the respective
Regulatory Body without affecting the quality of education prescribed by both
the Regulatory Bodies after taking NOC from the Council following the
procedure specified in the Approval Process Handbook. However, the Applicant
has to make Material/ Non- Material amendment of the Building Plan, Site Plan,
etc. approved by the concerned Competent Authority to suit the requirements of
the new Programme.

### 18. Power delegated to Chairman of AICTE.

Council has delegated the power to the Chairman of AICTE for taking decision
on urgent matters that needs to be communicated to the Institutions in between
period of two Executive Committee/ Council meetings. However, such cases shall
be placed before the next Executive Committee/ Council for ratification.

### 19. Interpretation.

Any question arising out of the interpretation of these Guidelines shall be
decided by the Council and the decision of the Council shall be binding and
final.

### 20. Power to relax.

The Council shall in exceptional cases, for removal of any hardship or in the
national interest or such other reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any
of the provisions of these Guidelines in respect of any class or category of
Institutions.

