## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Annamalai University Act, 2013

TAMILNADU  
India

# Annamalai University Act, 2013

## Act 20 of 2013

  * Published on 24 September 2013 
  * Commenced on 24 September 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 September 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Annamalai University Act, 2013Act No. 20 of 2013Statement of Objects and
Reasons. - Raja Sir Annamalai Chettiar was maintaining colleges near
Chidambaram in which higher instruction was imparted in English, Tamil and
Sanskrit studies. In the year 1928 he agreed with then Local Government to
hand over those institutions with all the properties attached thereto and
further to give a sum of.RS. 20 lakhs for the purposes of establishing and
maintaining at Annamalai Nagar a teaching and residential University wherein
he and his heirs shall be entitled to certain powers and privileges.2\.
Accordingly, the Annamalai University was established under the Annamalai
University Act, 1928 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1929) as unitary type for
encouragement of higher education and research in Tamil Nadu in which Raja Sir
Annamalai Chettiar was recognized as its Founder. Since then Raja Sir
Annamalai Chettiar and his heirs, as Founder of the University, were
exercising the powers and privileges conferred under the Act. Under the said
Act, the Founder besides being the Pro-Chancellor of the University, is also
an officer of the University. Though the position of the Founder appears to be
a honorary one, the past experience indicates that the powers and privileges
conferred on the Founder has been grossly abused.3\. Under the said Act, the
Founder shall recommend a panel of three names to the Chancellor for him to
choose one among them as Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor so appointed
being the Principal Executive Officer have power to appoint clerical and other
servants and also being a Board Member along with the Founder for the
selection of Teachers and Registrar of the University is always under an
obligation to execute the desires of the Founder.4\. The post of the Founder
being a hereditary one and for life, the University established by law is
being administered by a Vice-Cnancellor recommended by the Founder, a private
individual, who derives right: through inheritance. Such privilege is
incompatible with an egalitarian social order and also work against the spirit
of good governance.5\. During the month of November 2012 fearing retrenchment
and reduction in emoluments, the Joint Action Council of Annamalai University
teaching and non-teaching staff association engaged in hunger strikes,
abstaining from work, gate meetings and protest which resulted in campus
unrest and postponement of examinations. Inspite of releasing Block Grant by
the Government every year running to several crores, the University has landed
in unprecedented financial crisis primarily due to appointment of excess
staff, transfer of University funds, investments of funds for other purposes
and non- adherence of statutory obligations.6\. To safeguard the welfare of
the students and to allay the apprehensions of the staff, the Government
constituted a Special Local bund Auditing Team to assess the financial and
other irregularities in the Annamalai University and to submit a detailed
report to the Government. The Government also constituted a High Level
Committee to analyze the audit report of the Special Local Fund Auditing Team
and to suggest suitable recommendations on the affairs of the University.7\.
The provisions of the Annamalai University Act, 1928 are not similar to the
provisions of other University Acts in the State. The peculiar feature of the
University Act which vest vast powers and privileges on the Founder, had led
to maladministration of the University. The composition of authorities of the
University also requires changes in order to provide adequate representation
for the present day stake holders. As it is the social Obligation of the
Government to protect the livelihood of the teaching and non-teaching staff of
the University and to ensure the imparting of higher education to the rural
students in and around Annamalai Nagar, the Government have decided to bring
the existing Annamalai University Act on par with other enactments governing
the Universities in the State and to repeal the said Tamil Nadu Act I of
1929.8\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.[Dated
24.9.2013]An Act to repeal and re-enact the law relating to Annamalai
University.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Sixty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Annamalai University Act, 2013.(2)It extends to
the territorial jurisdiction of the University which shall not extend beyond a
radius of sixteen kilometres from its convocation hall situated at Annamalai
Nagar in Cuddalore District.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Dean" means the
Dean of each Faculty;(b)"Faculty" means the Faculty of the
University;(c)"Government" means the State Government;(d)"law in force"
includes any enactment, regulation, order, rule, direction or notification in
force in the State of Tamil Nadu;(e)"hostel" means a unit of residence for
students of the University maintained or recognized by the
University;(f)"prescribed" means prescribed by the statutes, ordinances or
regulations made under this Act;(g)"statutes", "ordinances" and "regulations"
mean respectively the statutes, ordinances and regulations of the University
made or continued in force under this Act;(h)"teachers" mean such Assistant
Professors, Associate Professors, Professors, Deans, Directors and other like
persons as may be declared by the statutes to be teachers;(i)"University"
means the Annamalai University deemed to have been established under section
3;(j)"University Grants Commission" means the commission established under
section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956;(k)"University
laboratory" means a laboratory maintained by the University, whether
instituted by it or not, and intended for the carrying on, and advancement of,
research work;(l)"University library" means a library maintained by the
University, whether instituted by it or not.

## Chapter II  
The University

### 3. Establishment of University.

(1)On and from the date of commencement of this Act, the Annamalai University
established under the Annamalai University Act, 1928 shall be deemed to have
been established and incorporated under this Act and is hereby declared to be
the University by the aforesaid name.(2)The University shall be a body
corporate, shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and shall sue and
be sued by the said name.(3)The headquarters of the University shall be
located within the limits of the Annamalai Nagar or in any place within a
radius of sixteen kilometres around those limits.

### 4. Objects and powers of University.

\- The University shall have the following objects and powers, namely:-(1)to
provide for instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may
determine including professional studies and technology;(2)to provide for
research and for the advancement and dissemination of knowledge;(3)to
institute degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic distinctions;(4)to hold
examinations and to confer degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions on persons who-(a)have pursued an approved course of study in a
University college or laboratory unless exempted therefrom in the manner
prescribed by the statutes and have passed the prescribed examinations of the
University; or(b)have carried on research under conditions prescribed;(5)to
confer honorary degrees or other academic distinctions under conditions
prescribed;(6)to institute, maintain and manage institutes of research,
colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums and other institutions necessary
to carry out the objects of the University;(7)to institute Assistant
Professorships, Associate Professorships, Professorships and any other
teaching or research posts required by the University and to appoint persons
to such Assistant Professorships, Associate Professorships, Professorships and
other teaching or research posts;(8)to institute and award fellowships,
travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions, medals and
prizes in accordance with the statutes;(9)to establish, maintain and manage
hostels, to recognize hostels not maintained by the University and to withdraw
recognition therefrom;(10)to supervise and control hostels and to regulate and
enforce discipline among the students of the University and to make
arrangements for promoting their health and general welfare;(11)to hold and
manage endowments and other properties and funds of the University;(12)to
borrow money with the approval of the Government on the security of the
property of the University for the purposes of the University;(13)to fix fees
and to demand and receive such fees as may be prescribed;(14)to make grants
from the funds of the University for the maintenance of a National Cadet
Corps;(15)to institute and provide funds for the maintenance of-(a)publication
bureau;(b)an employment bureau;(c)students' unions;(d)University athletic
clubs; and(e)other similar associations;(16)to co-operate with any other
University, authority or association or any other public or private body
having in view the promotion of purposes and objects similar to those of the
University for such purposes as may be agreed upon, on such terms and
conditions, as may, from time to time, be prescribed;(17)generally to do all
such other acts and things as may be necessary or desirable to further the
objects of the University;(18)to offer courses of study through distance
education system in accordance with the law in force; and(19)to establish and
maintain study centre in any part of India or outside India in accordance with
the law in force.

### 5. Visitation.

(1)The Government shall have the right to cause an inquiry to be made by such
person or persons as they may direct in respect of any matter connected with
the University.(2)The Government shall, in every case, give notice to the
University of their intention to cause an inquiry to be made and the
University shall be entitled to be represented at such inquiry.(3)The
Government shall communicate to the University their views with reference to
the result of such inquiry and may, after ascertaining the opinion of the
University thereon, advise the University upon the action to be taken and fix
a time limit for taking such action.(4)The University shall, within the time
limit so fixed, report to the Government the action taken or proposed to be
taken on the advise tendered by the Government.(5)If the University does not
take action within the time fixed or if the action taken by the University is
in the opinion of the Government not satisfactory, the Government may, after
considering any explanation offered or representation made by the University,
issue such directions as they may deem fit and the University shall comply
with such directions.(6)In the event of the Academic Councilor the Syndicate
not complying with those directions within such time as may be fixed in that
behalf by the Government, the Government shall have power to appoint some
person or body to carry them out.

## Chapter III  
Officers of the University

### 6. Officers of the University.

\- The University shall consist of the following officers, namely:-(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The
Registrar;(5)The Deans;(6)The Finance Officer;(7)The Controller of
Examination; and(8)Such other persons as may be declared by the statutes to be
officers of the University.

### 7. Chancellor.

(1)The Governor of the State of Tamil Nadu shall be the Chancellor of the
University.(2)The Chancellor shall be the head of the University and shall,
when present, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
titles, diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to
receive them.(3)No honorary degree or other distinction shall be conferred by
the University upon any person without the approval of the Chancellor.(4)The
Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be conferred or imposed on him by or under this Act.

### 8. Pro-Chancellor.

(1)The Minister in-charge of Higher Education in the State of Tamil Nadu shall
be the Pro-Chancellor of the University.(2)In the absence of the Chancellor,
or during the Chancellor's inability to act, the Pro-Chancellor shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties of the Chancellor.(3)The Pro-Chancellor
shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred on him
by or under this Act.

### 9. Vice-Chancellor.

(1)Every appointment of the Vice-Chancellor shall be made by the Chancellor
from out of a panel of three names recommended by the Committee referred to in
sub-section (2) and such panel shall not contain the name of any member of the
said Committee:Provided that if the Chancellor does not approve any of the
persons in the panel sore commended by the Committee, he may take steps to
constitute another Committee, in accordance with sub-section (2) to give a
fresh panel of three different names and shall appoint one of the persons
named in the fresh panel as Vice-Chancellor.(2)For the purpose of sub-section
(1), the Committee shall consist of three persons of whom one shall be
nominated by the Chancellor, one shall be nominated by the Government and one
shall be nominated by the Syndicate:Provided that the person so nominated
shall not be a member of any of the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-
Chancellor shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible
for reappointment for a further period of three years: Provided that the Vice-
Chancellor may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Chancellor and
after giving two months notice, resign his office: Provided further that a
person appointed as Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office if, during the
term of his office or any extension thereof, he completes the age of seventy
years.(4)When any temporary vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-
Chancellor, or when the Vice- Chancellor is, by reason of illness, absence or
for any other reason, unable to exercise the powers and perform the duties of
his office, the senior-most Professor of the University shall exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the Vice- Chancellor till the Syndicate makes
the requisite arrangements for exercising the powers and performing the duties
of the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time officer of
the University and his emoluments and other terms and conditions of service
shall be as follows:-(a)There shall be paid to the Vice-Chancellor a fixed
salary of seventy-five thousand rupees along with special allowances of five
thousand rupees per mensem or such higher salary as may be fixed by the
Government from time to time and he shall be entitled without payment of rent
to the use of a furnished residence throughout his term of office and no
charge shall fall on the Vice-Chancellor personally in respect of the
maintenance of such residence. He may be entitled to such other perquisites as
may be provided in the statutes.(b)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to
such terminal benefits and allowances as may be fixed by the Syndicate with
the approval of the Chancellor from time to time:Provided that, where as
employee of,-(i)the University; or(ii)any other University or college or
institution, is appointed as Vice-Chancellor, he shall be allowed to continue
to contribute to the Provident Fund to which he is a subscriber, and the
contribution of the University shall be limited to what he had been
contributing immediately before his appointment as Vice-Chancellor.(c)The
Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to travelling allowances at such rates as
may be fixed by the Syndicate.(d)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to
earned leave on full pay at one- eleventh of the periods spent by him on
active service: Provided that when the earned leave applied for by the Vice-
chancellor, in sufficient time before that date of expiry of the term of his
office, is refused by the Chancellor in the interest of the University and if
he does not avail of the leave before the date of expiry of the term of his
office, he shall be entitled to draw cash equivalent to leave salary after
relinquishment of his office in respect of earned leave at his credit subject
to a maximum of two hundred and forty days.(e)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled, on medical grounds or otherwise, to leave without pay for a period
of not exceeding three months during the term of his office:Provided that such
leave may be converted into leave on full pay to the extent to which he is
entitled to earned leave under clause(d).(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall not be
removed from his office except by an order of the Chancellor passed on the
ground of willful omission or refusal to carry out the provisions of this Act
or for abuse of the powers vested in him and on the advice tendered by the
Government on consideration of the report of an inquiry ordered by them under
sub-section(7).(7)For the purposes of holding an inquiry under sub-section
(6), the Government shall appoint a person who is or has been a judge of the
High Court or who is or has been an officer of the Government not below the
rank of Chief Secretary to Government. The inquiry authority shall hold the
inquiry after giving an opportunity to make representation by the Vice-
Chancellor and shall submit a report to the Government on the action to be
taken including penalty, if any, to be imposed, and the Government shall on
consideration of the report advise the Chancellor. The Chancellor shall act in
accordance with such advice, as far as may be, in any case within three
months.

### 10. Power and duties of Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the principal executive and academic head of
the University.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall, in the absence of the Chancellor
and Pro-Chancellor, preside at the convocation of the University and confer
degrees, titles, diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled
to receive them.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise control over the affairs
of the University and shall be responsible for the due maintenance of
discipline in the University.(4)The Vice-Chancellor shall ensure the faithful
observance of the provisions of this Act and the statutes, ordinances and
regulations made thereunder.(5)In any emergency, which in the opinion of the
Vice-Chancellor requires immediate action to be taken, he shall, by order,
take such action as he deems necessary and shall, at the earliest opportunity,
report the action taken to such officer or authority or body as would have in
the ordinary course dealt with the matter:Provided that no such order shall be
passed unless the person likely to be affected, has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.(6)Any person, aggrieved by any order of the Vice-
Chancellor under sub-section (5), may prefer an appeal to the Syndicate within
thirty days from the date on which such order is communicated to him and the
Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the order passed by the Syndicate on such
appeal.(7)The Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the decision of the
Syndicate regarding the appointment, suspension and dismissal of the teachers
and other persons employed in the University.(8)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
the ex-officio Chairman of the Syndicate, Academic Council and the Finance
Committee. The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to be present at, and to
address, any meeting of any authority or other body of the University, but
shall not be entitled to vote thereat, unless he is a member of the authority
or body.(9)The Vice-Chancellor shall convene meetings of the Syndicate, the
Academic Council and the Finance Committee.(10)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
responsible for the co-ordination and integration of teaching and research
extension education and curriculum development.(11)The Vice-Chancellor shall
exercise such other powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by
statutes.

### 11. Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University
appointed by the Syndicate. The qualifications and the method of recruitment
shall be such as may be prescribed. The terms and conditions of service of the
Registrar shall be as follows:-(a)The holder of the post of Registrar shall be
an academician not below the rank of a Professor in the University;(b)The
Registrar shall hold office for a period of three years: Provided that the
Registrar shall retire on attaining the age of sixty years or on the expiry of
period specified in this clause, whichever is earlier.(c)The emoluments and
other terms and conditions of service of the Registrar shall be such as may be
prescribed.(d)When the office of the Registrar is vacant of when the Registrar
is, by reason of illness, absence or for any other cause, unable to perform
the duties of his office, the duties of the office of the Registrar shall be
performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the
purpose.(2)(a)The Registrar shall have power to take disciplinary action
against such of the employees, excluding teachers of the University and
academic staff, as may be specified in the orders of the Syndicate and to
suspend them pending inquiry, to administer warnings to them or to impose on
them the penalty of censure or withholding of increments:Provided that no such
penalty shall be imposed unless the person concerned has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be
taken in regard to him.(b)An appeal shall lie to the Vice-Chancellor against
any order of the Registrar imposing any of the penalties specified in clause
(a).(c)In any case where the inquiry discloses that penalty beyond the powers
of the Registrar is called for, the Registrar shall, upon conclusion of the
inquiry, make a report to the Vice-Chancellor along with his recommendations
and the Vice-Chancellor shall pass an order imposing any penalty:Provided that
an appeal shall lie to the Syndicate against an order of the Vice-Chancellor
imposing any penalty.(d)No appeal under clause (b) or clause (c) shall be
preferred after the expiry of sixty days from the date on which the order
appealed against was received by the appellant.(3)Save as otherwise provided
in this Act, the Registrar shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Syndicate,
the Academic Council, the Faculties and the Board of Studies, but shall not be
deemed to be a member of any of these authorities:(4)It shall be the duty of
the Registrar,-(a)to be the custodian of the records, the common seal and such
other property of the University as the Syndicate shall commit to his
charge;(b)to issue all notice convening meetings of the Syndicate, the
Academic Council, the Faculties, the Boards of Studies, the Boards of
Examiners and of any Committee appointed by the authorities of the
University;(c)to keep the minutes of all the proceedings of the meetings of
the Syndicate, the Academic Council, the Faculties, the Boards of Studies, the
Boards of Examiners and of any Committee appointed by the authorities of the
University;(d)to conduct the official correspondence of the Syndicate;(e)to
supply to the Chancellor copies of the agenda of the meetings of the
authorities of the University as soon as they are issued and the minutes of
the proceedings of such meetings; and(f)to exercise such other powers and
perform such other duties as may be specified in the statutes, the ordinances
or the regulations or as may be required, from time to time, by the Syndicate
or the Vice-Chancellor.(5)In all suits and other legal proceedings by or
against the University, the pleadings shall be signed and verified by the
Registrar and all process in such suits and proceedings, shall be issued to,
and served on, the Registrar.

### 12. Dean.

(1)The Dean shall be appointed by the Vice- Chancellor from among the
professors in the Faculty for a period of three years and he shall be eligible
for reappointment:Provided that a Dean on attaining the age of sixty years
shall cease to hold office as such:Provided further that if at anytime there
is no Professor in a Faculty, the Vice-Chancellor shall exercise the powers of
the Dean of the Faculty.(2)When the office of the Dean is vacant or when the
Dean is, by reason of illness, absence or any other cause, unable to perform
his duties of his office, the duties of his office shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(3)The Dean shall be
the Head of the Faculty and shall be responsible for the conduct and
maintenance of the standards of teaching and research in the Faculty. The Dean
shall have such other functions as may be prescribed by the ordinance.(4)The
Dean shall have the right to be present and to speak at any meeting of the
Board of Studies or Committees or the Faculty, as the case may be, but shall
not have the right to vote thereat unless he is a member thereof.

### 13. Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall be the whole-time salaried officer of the
University appointed by the Syndicate for such period as may be specified by
the Syndicate in this behalf.(2)Every appointment of the Finance Officer shall
be made by the Syndicate on the recommendations of the Vice-Chancellor from a
panel of three names of officers forwarded by the Government.(3)The emoluments
and other terms and conditions of service of the Finance Officer shall be such
as may be prescribed.(4)The Finance Officer shall retire on attaining the age
of fifty-eight years or on the expiry of the period specified by the Syndicate
under sub-section (1), whichever is earlier.(5)When the office of the Finance
Officer is vacant or when the Finance Officer, is by reason of illness,
absence or for any other cause unable to perform the duties of his office, the
duties of the Finance Officer shall be performed by such person as the Vice-
Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(6)The Finance Officer shall be the ex-
officio Secretary to the Finance Committee, but shall not be deemed to be a
member of such Committee.(7)The Finance Officer shall,-(a)exercise general
supervision over the funds of the University and shall advise the University
as regards its financial policy; and(b)exercise such other powers and perform
such other financial functions as may be assigned to him by the Syndicate or
as may be prescribed:Provided that the Finance Officer shall not incur any
expenditure or make any investment exceeding such amount as may be prescribed
without the previous approval of the Syndicate.(8)Subject to the control of
the Syndicate, the Finance Officer shall,-(a)ensure that the limit fixed by
the Syndicate for recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a year are not
exceeded and that all moneys are expended on the purposes for which they are
granted or allotted;(b)be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts,
financial estimates and the budget of the University and for their
presentation to the Syndicate;(c)keep a constant watch on the cash and bank
balance and of investments;(d)watch the progress of the collection of revenue
and advise on the methods of collection employed;(e)ensure that the registers
of buildings, lands, furniture and equipments are maintained upto date and
that stock checking is conducted, of equipments and other consumable materials
in all offices, special centres, specialized laboratories;(f)bring to the
notice of the Vice-Chancellor any unauthorised expenditure or other financial
irregularity and suggest appropriate action to be taken against person at
fault; and(g)call from any office, department, centre, laboratory and college
maintained by the University, any information or returns that he may consider
necessary for the performance of his duties.(9)The receipt of the Finance
Officer or of the person or persons duly, authorised in this behalf by the
Syndicate for any money payable to the University shall be a sufficient
discharge for payment of such money.

### 14. Controller of Examinations.

(1)The Controller of Examinations shall be an academician and a whole-time
officer of the University appointed by the Syndicate on the recommendation of
the Vice-Chancellor for such period and on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed.(2)The Controller of Examinations shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as may be prescribed.

### 15. Vice-Chancellor and other Officers, etc, to be public servants.

\- The Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar, the Finance Officer, the Controller of
Examinations and other employees of the University shall be deemed, when
acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act,
to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code.

## Chapter IV  
Authorities of the University

### 16. Authorities of University.

\- The authorities of the University shall be the Syndicate, the Academic
Council, the Finance Committee, Faculties and Board of Studies and such other
bodies of the University as may, from time to time, be declared by the
statutes to be authorities of the University.

### 17. Disqualification for membership.

(1)No person shall be qualified for election or 1 nomination as a member of
any of the authorities of the University, if on the date of such election or
nomination, he is-(a)of unsound mind; or(b)an applicant to be adjudicated as
an insolvent or an undischarged insolvent; or(c)sentenced by a Criminal Court
to imprisonment for any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)In case of
dispute or doubt as to whether a person is disqualified under sub-section (1),
the Syndicate shall determine and its decision shall be final.

### 18. Disqualification for election or nomination to Syndicate and Academic
Council in certain cases.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained.in clause (a) of sub-section (5) of
section 19 and sub-section (3) of section 22 no person who has held office as
a member for a total period of six years in the Syndicate or the Academic
Council or in both, of the University shall be eligible for election or
nomination to either of the said two authorities:Provided that for the purpose
of computing the total period of six years referred to in this sub-section,
the period of three years during which a person held office in one authority
either by election or by nomination and the period of three years during which
he held office in another authority either by election or by nomination shall
be taken into account and accordingly such person shall not be eligible for
election or nomination to either Syndicate or the Academic Council:Provided
further that for the purpose of this sub-section, if a person who has held
office for a period not less than one year in anyone of the authorities
referred to in this sub-section in a casual vacancy shall be deemed to have
held office for a period of three years in that authority:Provided also that
for the purpose of this sub-section, if a person was elected or nominated to
one authority and such person become a member of another authority by virtue
of the membership in the first mentioned authority, the period for which he
held office in the first mentioned authority alone shall be taken into
account.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall have application in respect
of-(i)ex-officio members referred to in section 19;(ii)ex-officio members
referred to in section 22, but not including members of the Syndicate who are
not otherwise members of the Academic Council referred to in item (f) in sub-
section (1) of section 22.

### 19. Syndicate.

(1)The Chancellor shall, as soon as may be, after the Administrator is
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 55, constitute the Syndicate.(2)The
Syndicate shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the following
members, namely:-Class I - Ex-officio Members.(a)The Secretary to Government,
in-charge of Higher Education;(b)The Secretary to Government, in-charge of
Health and Family Welfare;(c)The Secretary to Government, in-charge of
Law;(d)The Director of Collegiate Education;(e)The Director of Technical
Education; and(f)The Director of Medical Education.Class II - Other
Members.(a)Two members elected by the Academic Council from among its
members;(b)One member from among the Deans of Faculties nominated by the
Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor;(c)One member having
special knowledge in the field of Law, Higher Education or Medical Science
nominated by Chancellor on the recommendation of the Government;(d)One member
nominated by the Chancellor from Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes, Most
Backward, Backward or Minority Classes on the recommendation of the
Government;(e)One member representing Public or Private Sectors, Industries
and Research Institutions having special knowledge and practical experience in
industry and Commerce, nominated by the Chancellor on the recommendation of
the Government;(f)One member elected by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly
from among its members;(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio
Chairperson of the Syndicate.(4)(a)In case the Secretary to Government in-
charge of Higher Education or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Health
and Family Welfare or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Law, is unable
to attend the meetings of the Syndicate for any reason, he may depute any
officer of his department, not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to
Government to attend the meetings. The officer so deputed shall have the right
to take part in the discussion of the meeting and shall have the right to
vote.(b)In case the Director of Collegiate Education or Director of Technical
Education or Director of Medical Education is unable to attend the meetings of
the Syndicate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his department, not
below the rank of Deputy Director, to attend the meetings. The officer so
deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussion of the meeting and
shall have the right to vote.(5)(a)Save as otherwise provided, the members of
the Syndicate, other than the ex-officio members, shall hold office for a
period of three years and such members shall be eligible for election or
nomination for another period of three years.(b)Where a member is elected or
nominated to the Syndicate in a casual vacancy, the period of office held for
not less than one year by any such member shall be construed as a full period
of three years:Provided that a member of the Syndicate who is elected or
nominated in his capacity as a member of a particular electorate or body, or
the holder of a particular appointment, shall cease to be a member of the
Syndicate from the date on which he ceases to be a member of that electorate
or body, or the holder of that appointment, as the case may be:Provided
further that where an elected or nominated member of the Syndicate is
appointed temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which he is entitled
to be a member of the Syndicate ex-officio , he shall, by notice in writing
signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from
the date of his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he will
continue to be a member of the Syndicate by virtue of his election or
nomination or whether he will vacate office as such member and become a member
ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On
failure to make such a choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office
as an elected or a nominated member.(6)When a person ceases to be a member of
the Syndicate, he shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the
University of which he may happen to be a member by virtue of his membership
of the Syndicate.(7)The members of the Syndicate shall not be entitled to
receive any remuneration from the University except such daily and travelling
allowances as may be prescribed:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-
section shall preclude any member from drawing his normal emoluments to which
is entitled by virtue of the office he holds.(8)A member of the Syndicate,
other than ex-officio member, may tender resignation of his membership at any
time before the term of his office expires. Such resignation shall be conveyed
to the Chancellor by a letter in writing by the member, and the resignation
shall take effect from the date of its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 20. Powers of Syndicate.

(1)The Syndicate shall have the following powers, namely:-(a)to make statutes
and amend or repeal the same;(b)to make ordinances and amend or repeal the
same;(c)to co-operate with other Universities, other academic authorities and
colleges in such manner and for such purposes as it may determine;(d)to
provide for instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may
think fit;(e)to provide for research and advancement and dissemination of
knowledge;(f)to institute Assistant Professorships, Associate Professorships,
Professorships and any other teaching or research posts required by the
University;(g)to provide for such lectures and instructions for students, as
the Academic Council may determine;(h)to institute degrees, titles, diplomas
and other academic distinctions;(i)to confer degrees, titles, diplomas and
other academic distinctions on persons who-(i)have pursued an approved course
of study in the University or have been exempted therefrom in the manner
prescribed and have passed the prescribed examinations of the
University;(ii)have carried on research under conditions prescribed;(j)to
confer honorary degrees or academic distinctions on the recommendations of not
less than two-thirds of the members of the Syndicate;(k)to establish and
maintain hostels;(l)to institute fellowships, travelling fellowships,
scholarships, studentships, exhibitions, medals and prizes;(m)to prescribe the
fees to be charged for admission to the examinations, degrees, titles and
diplomas of the University and for all or any of the purposes specified in
section 4;(n)to consider and take such action as it may deem fit on the annual
report, the annual accounts and the financial estimates;(o)to institute
publication bureau, students' unions, employment bureau and University
athletic clubs and to maintain them;(p)to enter into any agreement with the
Central or any State Government or with a private management for any purposes
not repugnant to the provisions of this Act;(q)to make statutes regulating the
method of election to the authorities of the University and the procedure at
the meeting of the Syndicate, Academic Council and other authorities of the
University and quorum of members required for the transaction of business by
the authorities of the University other than the Academic Council;(r)to hold,
control and administer the properties and funds of the University;(s)to direct
the form, custody and use of the common seal of the University;(t)to regulate
and determine all matters concerning the University in accordance with this
Act, the statutes, the ordinances and the regulations;(u)to administer all
properties and funds placed at the disposal of the University for specific
purposes;(v)(i)to appoint the Assistant Professors, Associate Professors,
Professors and the teachers of the University, fix their emoluments, if any,
define their duties and the conditions of their services and provide for
filling up of temporary vacancies;(ii)to prescribe the mode of appointment of
administrative and other similar posts and fix their emoluments, if any,
define their duties and the conditions of their services and provide for
filling up of temporary vacancies;(w)to suspend and take disciplinary action
on the Assistant Professors, Associate Professors, Professors and the Teachers
and other employees of the University;(x)to accept, on behalf of the
University, endowments, bequests, donations, grants and transfers of any
movable and immovable properties made to it;(y)(i)to raise, on behalf of the
University, loans from the Central or any State Government or the public or
any corporation owned or controlled by the Central or any State Government;
and(ii)to borrow money, with the approval of the Government, on the security
of the property of the University for the purposes of the University;(z)to
prescribe the qualifications of teachers of the University;(aa)to award
fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions,
medals and prizes in accordance with the statutes;(ab)to charge and collect
such fees as may be prescribed;(ac)to conduct the University examinations and
approve and publish the results thereof;(ad)to make ordinances regarding the
admission of students to the University or prescribing examinations to be
recognised as equivalent to University examinations;(ae)to appoint members to
the Boards of Studies;(af)(i)to appoint examiners, after consideration of the
recommendation of the Boards of Studies; and(ii)to fix their
remuneration;(ag)to supervise and control the residence and discipline of the
students of the University departments and make arrangements for securing
their health and well-being;(ah)to institute and manage University centres,
laboratories, libraries, museums, institutes of research and other
institutions established or maintained by the University;(ai)to manage hostels
instituted by the University;(aj)to manage any publication bureau, students'
unions, employment bureau and University athletic clubs instituted by the
University;(ak)to review the instruction and teaching of the University;(al)to
promote research within the University and to require reports, from time to
time, of such research;(am)to exercise such other powers and perform such
other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by this Act or the statutes,
ordinances and regulations; and(an)to delegate any of its powers to the Vice-
Chancellor, to a committee from among its own members or to a committee
appointed in accordance with the statutes.(2)The Syndicate may consult the
Academic Council in respect of any matter where it considers such consultation
is necessary.

### 21. Meetings of Syndicate.

(1)The Syndicate shall meet at least once in every two months at such time and
places and shall, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3),
observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its
meetings as may be prescribed.(2)One-third of the total strength of the
members of the Syndicate shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the
Syndicate.(3)The Vice-Chancellor or in his absence any member chosen by the
members present, shall preside at a meeting of the Syndicate.(4)All questions
at any meeting of the Syndicate shall be decided by a majority of the votes of
the members present and voting and in the case of an equality of votes, the
Vice-Chancellor or the member presiding, as the case may be, shall have and
exercise a second or casting vote.(5)(a)The Syndicate may, for the purpose of
consultation invite ai.y person having special knowledge or practical
experience in any subject under consideration to attend any meeting. Such
person may speak in, and otherwise take part in, the proceedings of such
meeting but shall not be entitled to vote.(b)The person so invited shall be
entitled to such daily and travelling allowances as are admissible to a member
of the Syndicate.

### 22. Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall consist of the following persons, namely:-Class
I - Ex-officio Members.(a)The Vice-Chancellor;(b)The Director of Collegiate
Education;(c)The Director of Technical Education;(d)The Director of Medical
Education;(e)The Deans of Faculties; and(f)The Members of the Syndicate who
are not otherwise Members of the Academic Council.Class II - Other
Members.(a)Five members elected by the teachers of the University from among
themselves, of whom two shall be Professors;(b)Three members from among the
Deans of Faculties nominated by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the
Vice-Chancellor;(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman of,
and the Registrar shall be the ex-officio Secretary to, the Academic
Council.(3)The term of office of the members other than ex-officio members
shall be three years.(4)The Chancellor may, after giving a reasonable
opportunity' of being heard, remove any member of the Academic Council other
than an ex-officio member from office, if such member is, in the opinion of
the Chancellor, incapable of acting as a member or has abused his position as
a member, so as to render his continuance as such member detrimental to the
interests of the University.

### 23. Powers and duties of Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of the University
and shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, have the
control and general regulation of teaching and examination in the University
and be responsible for the maintenance of the standards thereon.(2)The powers
and duties of the Academic Council shall be,-(a)to exercise general control on
teaching and other educational programmes and maintain and promote the
standards thereof;(b)to make regulations and amend or repeal the same;(c)to
make regulations-(i)regarding the admission of students to the University and
the number of students to be admitted;(ii)regarding the courses of study
leading to degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions;(iii)regarding
the conduct of examinations and maintenance and promotion of standards of
education;(iv)prescribing equivalence of examinations, degrees, titles,
diplomas and certificates of other Universities, Colleges, Institutions and
Boards;(v)for the assessment, evaluation and grading of students'
performance;(d)to advise the Syndicate on all academic matters including the
control and management of libraries;(e)to make recommendation to the Syndicate
for the institution of Assistant Professorship, Associate Professorship,
Professorship and other teaching posts including posts in research and in
regard to the duties and emoluments thereof;(f)to formulate, modify or revise
schemes for the constitution or reconstitution of departments of teaching and
research;(g)to make recommendations to the Syndicate regarding under graduate
and post-graduate teaching and research;(h)to make recommendations to the
Syndicate for the conferment of honorary degrees or other distinctions;(i)to
review and act upon the proposals of Boards of Studies in formulating rules,
regulations, syllabi and methods of evaluation, introduction of new courses
and modification of existing courses;(j)to make recommendations to the
Syndicate regarding institution of fellowships and scholarships;(k)to
recommend to the Syndicate measures for promoting collaboration between
industries and Government employers on the one hand and the University on the
other;(l)to delegate to the Vice-Chancellor or to any of the committees of the
Academic Council, any of its powers;(m)to assess and make recommendations
laying down standards of accommodation, equipment, apparatus, library,
maintenance and other physical facilities required for each faculty; and(n)to
exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed.

### 24. Meetings of Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall meet at least twice in every year on dates to be
fixed by the Vice-Chancellor. One of such meetings shall be called the annual
meeting. The Academic Council may also meet at such other dates as it may,
from time to time, determine.(2)One-third of the total strength of the members
of the Academic Council shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the
Academic Council:Provided that such quorum shall not be required at a
convocation of the University, or a meeting of the Academic Council held for
the purpose of conferring degrees, titles, diplomas or other academic
distinctions.(3)The Vice-Chancellor may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall
upon a requisition in writing signed by not less than fifty per cent of the
total members of the Academic Council, convene a special meeting of the
Academic Council.

### 25. Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(a)The Vice-Chancellor;(b)The Secretary to Government in-charge of
Finance;(c)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Higher Education;(d)The
Secretary to Government in-charge of Health and Family Welfare;(e)Two members
nominated by the Syndicate from among its members;(2)If for any reasons, the
Secretary to Government, in-charge of Finance or the Secretary to Government,
in-charge of Higher Education or the Secretary to Government, in-charge of
Health and Family Welfare is unable to attend the meetings of the Finance
Committee, he may depute any officer of his department not below the rank of
Deputy Secretary to Government. Die officer so deputed shall have the right to
take part in the discussion of the meeting and shall have the right to
vote.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman and the Finance
Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Finance Committee.(4)All the
members of the Finance Committee, other than ex-officio members shall hold
office for a period of three years.(5)The Finance Committee shall meet at
least twice in every year to examine the accounts and to scrutinize proposals
for expenditure.(6)The annual accounts and the financial estimates of the
University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance
Committee for consideration and comments and thereafter submitted to the
Syndicate for approval.(7)The Finance Committee shall recommend limits for the
total recurring expenditure and the total non-recurring expenditure for the
year based on the income and resources of the University which, in the case of
productive works, may include the proceeds of loans.(8)The Finance Committee
shall-(a)review the financial position of the University, from time to
time;(b)make recommendation to the Syndicate on every proposal involving
investment or expenditure for which no provision has been made in the annual
financial estimates or which involves expenditure in excess of the amount
provided for in the annual financial estimates;(c)prescribe the methods and
procedure and forms for maintaining the accounts of the University;(d)make
recommendation to the Syndicate on all matters relating to the finances of the
University; and(e)perform such other functions as may be prescribed.(9)The
financial estimates of the University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be
laid before the Finance Committee for consideration and comments. The said
estimates, as modified by the Finance Committee, shall then be laid before the
Syndicate for consideration. The Syndicate may accept the modifications made
by the Finance Committee.

### 26. Faculties and Boards of Studies.

(1)The University shall include such Faculties of Arts, Science and such other
Faculties, as may be prescribed by the statutes.(2)Each Faculty shall have a
Dean who shall be appointed in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)Each
Faculty shall comprise of such departments of teaching with such assignment of
subjects of study as may be prescribed.(4)There shall be a Board of Studies
for each Faculty, the constitution and functions of which shall be such as may
be prescribed.(5)The constitution and functions of the Faculties shall, in all
other respects, be such as may be prescribed.

### 27. Constitution of other authorities.

\- The constitution and powers of such other bodies, as may be declared by the
statutes to be authorities of the University, shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 28. Constitution of committees and delegation of powers.

\- All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit; such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the
authority in each case, may deem fit.

## Chapter V  
Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations

### 29. Statutes.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the holding of convocation to confer
degrees;(b)the conferment of honorary degrees and academic distinctions;(c)the
constitution, powers and functions of the authorities of the University;(d)the
manner of filling vacancies among members of the authorities;(e)the allowances
to be paid to the members of the authorities and committees thereof;(f)the
procedure at meetings of authorities including the quorum for the transaction
of business at such meetings;(g)the authentication of the orders or decisions
of the authorities;(h)the formation of departments of teaching at the
University;(i)the term of office and method of appointment and conditions of
service of the officers of the University other than the Chancellor and the
Pro-Chancellor;(j)the qualifications of the teachers and other persons
employed in the University;(k)the classifications, the method of appointment
and determination of the terms and conditions of service of teachers and other
persons employed in the University;(l)the institution of pension, gratuity,
insurance or provident fund for the benefit of the officers, teachers and
other persons employed by the University;(m)the institution of fellowships,
scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes and the
conditions of award thereof;(n)the establishment and maintenance of halls,
hostel and laboratories;(o)the conditions for residence of students of the
University in the halls and hostels and the levy of fees and other charges for
such residence;(p)any other matter which is required to be or may be
prescribed by the statutes.

### 30. Statutes, how made.

(1)The Syndicate may from time to time, make statutes and amend or repeal the
statutes in the manner hereinafter provided in this section.(2)The Academic
Council may propose to the Syndicate the draft of any statute or of any
amendment to, or of repeal of, a statute, to be passed by the Syndicate and
such draft shall be considered by the Syndicate at its next meeting:Provided
that the Academic Council shall not propose the draft of any statute or of any
amendment to a statute relating to matters other than academic affairs.(3)The
Syndicate may consider the draft proposed by the Academic Council under sub-
section (2) and may either pass the draft statute or reject or return it with
or without amendments to the Academic Council for reconsideration.(4)(a)Any
member of the Syndicate may propose to the Syndicate the draft of a statute or
of any amendments to, or of repeal of, a statute and the Syndicate may either
accept or reject the draft, if it relates to matter not falling within the
purview of the Academic Council.(b)In case such draft relates to a matter
within the purview of the Academic Council, the Syndicate shall refer it for
consideration to the Academic Council, which may, either report to the
Syndicate that it does not approve the draft or submit the draft to the
Syndicate in such form as the Academic Council may approve and the Syndicate
may either pass with or without amendments or reject the draft.(5)A statute or
an amendment to or repeal of, a statute passed by the Syndicate shall be
submitted to the Chancellor who may assent thereto or withhold his assent. A
statute or an amendment to or repeal of, a statute passed by the Syndicate
shall have no validity until it has been assented to by the Chancellor.

### 31. Ordinances.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, the ordinances may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the admission of
the students to the University;(b)the courses of study leading to all degrees,
titles, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the University;(c)the
conditions of residence of students and the levy of fees for residence in
hostels;(d)the conditions under which the students shall be admitted to the
courses of study leading to degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions of the University;(e)the conduct of examinations of the
University and the conditions on which students shall be admitted to such
examinations;(f)the manner in which exemption relating to the admission of
students to examinations may be given;(g)the conditions and mode of
appointment and duties of examining bodies and examiners;(h)the maintenance of
discipline among the students of the University;(i)the fees to be charged for
courses of study, research, experiment and practical training and for
admissions to the examinations for degrees, titles, diplomas and other
academic distinction of the University;(j)the qualifications and emoluments of
teachers; and(k)any other matter which by this Act or the statutes is required
to be or may be prescribed by the ordinances.

### 32. Ordinances, how made.

(1)In making ordinances, the Syndicate shall consult-(a)the Boards of Studies
when such ordinances affect the appointment and duties of examiners; and(b)the
Academic Council when they affect the conduct or standard of examinations, or
the conditions of residence of students.(2)All ordinances made by the
Syndicate shall have effect from such date as it may direct, but every
ordinance so made shall be submitted as soon as may be to the Chancellor and
the Academic Council and shall be considered by the Academic Council at its
next succeeding meeting.(3)The Chancellor may direct that the operation of any
ordinance shall be suspended until such time as the Academic Council has had
an opportunity of considering the same.

### 33. Regulations, how made.

(1)The Academic Council may make regulations consistent with this Act, the
statutes and the ordinances to carry out the duties assigned to it
thereunder.(2)All such regulations shall have effect from such date as the
Academic Council may direct but every regulation so made shall be submitted as
soon as may be to the Syndicate for its consideration at its next meeting.

## Chapter VI  
Admission of Students

### 34. Admission to University courses.

(1)No person shall be admitted to a course of study in the University for
admission to the examinations for degrees, titles or diplomas of the
University unless he-(a)has passed the examination prescribed therefor;
and(b)fulfills such other academic conditions as may be prescribed by the
University.(2)Every candidate for a University examination shall, unless
exempted from the provisions of this sub-section by a special order of the
Syndicate made on the recommendation of the Academic Council, be enrolled as a
member of a University. Any such exemption may be made subject to such
conditions as the Syndicate may think fit.

### 35. Selection and admission of students.

(1)The Government may specify by general or special order, the policy,
guidelines, method and procedure for selection of candidates for admission to
a course of study or training in the University.(2)Admission to professional
degree courses such as engineering, medicine, dental, agriculture and other
allied courses in the University shall be made following the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional Educational Institutions Act, 2006.

### 36. Admission to University examinations.

\- No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless he is
enrolled as a member of a University, and has satisfied the requirements as to
the attendance required under the regulations for the same or unless he is
exempted from such requirements of enrollment or attendance or both by an
order of the Syndicate passed on the recommendation of the Academic Council
made under the regulations prescribed. Exemptions granted under this section
shall be subject to such conditions as the Syndicate may think fit.

## Chapter VII  
Funds and Accounts

### 37. Permanent Endowment Fund.

(1)The University shall have a fund called the Permanent Endowment Fund which
it shall invest and keep invested in securities issued or guaranteed by the
Central Government or by any State Government.(2)The said Permanent Endowment
Fund shall consist of-(a)the sum of twenty lakhs of rupees given by the
Hon'ble Rajah Sir S.R.M. Annamalai Chettiar;(b)the sum of twenty-seven lakhs
of rupees given to it by the Government; and(c)any contributions to this Fund
made by the Government, the Central Government, any local or other public body
or others.

### 38. General Fund.

\- The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited,-(a)its
income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any contribution or
grant made by the Central Government, any State Government, the University
Grants Commission or like authority, any local authority or any corporation
owned or controlled by the Government; and(c)endowments and other receipts.

### 39. Other funds.

\- The University may have such other funds as may be prescribed by the
statutes.

### 40. Management of funds.

\- The funds and all moneys Of the University shall be managed in such manner
as may be prescribed.

### 41. Annual report.

\- The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate and
shall be submitted to the Academic Council on or before such date as may be
prescribed and shall be considered by the Academic Council at its next annual
meeting. The Academic Council may pass resolutions thereon and communicate the
same to the Syndicate which shall take action in accordance therewith. The
Syndicate shall inform the Academic Council of the action taken by it. A copy
of the report with a copy of the resolution thereon, if any, of the Academic
Council shall be submitted to the Government.

### 42. Annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts shall be submitted to such examination and audit, as
the Government may direct and a copy of the annual accounts and audit report
shall be submitted to the Government.(2)The University shall settle objections
raised in the audit and carry out such instructions as may be issued by the
Government on the audit report.(3)The Government shall cause the annual
accounts and the audit report to be laid before the Legislative Assembly
together with their comments.

## Chapter VIII  
Conditions of Service

### 43. Pension, Gratuity, etc.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers
and other persons employed in the University such pension, gratuity, insurance
and provident funds as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to such
conditions, as may be prescribed.(2)Where the University has so instituted a
provident fund under sub-section (1), the Government may declare that the
provisions of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 shall apply to such fund as if the
University were a local authority and the fund a Government Provident
Fund.(3)The University may, in consultation with the Finance Committee, invest
the provident fund amount in such manner, as it may determine.

### 44. Conditions of service.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selection, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers,
teachers and other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the word "officer"
shall not include the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.

### 45. Selection Committee.

(1)There shall be a Selection Committee for making recommendations to the
Syndicate for appointment to the posts of Assistant Professor, Associate
Professor, Professor, Librarian and other posts of teachers of the
University.(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts specified
in sub-section (1) shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, a nominee of the
Government and such other persons as may be prescribed:Provided that the
selection for such appointment by the Selection Committee shall be made in
accordance with the guidelines that may be issued by the University Grants
Commission or other agencies concerned in relation to such appointment.(3)The
Vice-Chancellor shall preside at the meetings of a Selection Committee.(4)The
meetings of a Selection Committee shall be convened by the Vice-
Chancellor.(5)The procedure to be followed by a Selection Committee in making
recommendations shall be laid down in the ordinances.(6)If the Syndicate is
unable to accept the recommendations made by a Selection Committee, it shall
record its reasons and submit the case to the Chancellor for final
orders.(7)Appointments to temporary posts or vacancies shall be made in the
manner indicated below:-(a)If the temporary vacancy is for a duration longer
than one academic session, it shall be filled on the advice of the Selection
Committee in accordance with the procedure indicated in the foregoing
provisions:Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in the
interest of work it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may be
made on a temporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in clause
(b) for a period not exceeding six months.(b)If the temporary vacancy is for a
period less than a year, appointment to such vacancy shall be made on the
recommendation of a local Selection Committee consisting of the Dean of the
Faculty concerned, the Head of the Department and a nominee of the Vice-
Chancellor:Provided that if the same person holds the offices of the Dean and
Head of the Department, the Selection Committee may consist of two nominees of
the Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that in case of sudden casual vacancies
in teaching posts caused by death or any other reason, the Dean may, in
consultation with the Head of Department concerned, make a temporary
appointment for a month and report to the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar
about such appointment.(c)No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if he is not
recommended by a regular Selection Committee for appointment under this Act,
be continued in service on such temporary employment unless he is subsequently
selected by a local Selection Committee or a regular Selection Committee, for
a temporary or a permanent appointment, as the case may be.

### 46. Terms and conditions of Service of Heads of Department.

(1)Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be a
Professor or Director and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions
of appointment shall be such as may be prescribed by the ordinances:Provided
that if there is more than one Professor in any Department, the Head of the
Department shall be appointed in the manner prescribed by the
ordinances:Provided further that in a Department where there is no Professor,
an Associate Professor or an Assistant Professor may be appointed as Head of
the Department in the manner prescribed by the ordinances.(2)It shall be open
to a Professor or an Associate Professor or an Assistant Professor to decline
the offer of appointment as Head of the Department.(3)A person appointed as
Head of the Department shall hold office as such for a period of three years
and shall be eligible for reappointment.(4)A Head of the Department may resign
his office at any time during his tenure of office.(5)A Head of the Department
shall perform such functions as may be prescribed by the ordinances.

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 47. Filling up of casual vacancies.

\- All casual vacancies among the members other than ex-officio members of any
authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as
conveniently may be, by the person or body who or which, nominated or elected
the member whose place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected
to a casual vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the
residue of the term for which the person whose place he fills would have been
a member:Provided that vacancies arising by efflux of time among elected
members of any authority or other body of the University may be filled at
elections which may be fixed by the Vice-Chancellor to take place on such days
not earlier than two months from the date on which the vacancies arise, as he
thinks fit:Provided that no casual vacancy shall be filled, if such vacancy
occurs within six months before the date of the expiry of the term of the
member of any authority or other body of the University.

### 48. Proceedings of University authorities and bodies not to be invalidated
by vacancies.

\- No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of a vacancy or of any defect
or irregularity in the election or nomination of a member of any authority or
other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in such act or
proceeding not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground that the
authority or other body of the University, did not meet at such intervals as
required under this Act.

### 49. Removal from membership of University.

(1)The Syndicate may, remove by an order in writing made in this behalf, any
person from membership of any authority of the University by a resolution
passed by a majority of the total membership of the Syndicate and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Syndicate present
and voting at the meeting, if such person has been convicted by a Criminal
Court for an offence which in the opinion of the Syndicate involves moral
turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross misconduct and for the same
reason, the Syndicate may withdraw any degree or diploma conferred on or
granted to that person by the University.(2)The Syndicate may also by an order
in writing made in this behalf remove any person from the membership of any
authority of the University if he becomes of unsound mind or has applied to be
adjudicated or has been adjudicated as an insolvent.(3)No action under this
section shall be taken against any person unless he has been given a
reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to be
taken.(4)A copy of every order passed under sub- section (1) or sub-section
(2), as the case may be, shall as soon as may be after it is so passed, be
communicated to the person concerned in the manner prescribed by regulations.

### 50. Dispute as to Constitution of University authorities and bodies.

\- If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or
nominated as, or is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the
University or other body of the University, the question shall be referred to
the Chancellor whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 51. Power to obtain information.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
information from the University on any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
furnish to the Government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may place the same before the Chancellor and the
Pro-Chancellor.

### 52. Special mode of appointment.

(1)The Syndicate may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of Professor in the University on
such terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do
so, appoint him to the post.(2)Syndicate may appoint a teacher or any other
academic staff working in any other University or Organisation for undertaking
a joint project in accordance with the manner laid down in the ordinances.

### 53. Power to give direction.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the University in giving effect to the provisions of this
Act, the Government may, by notification, make such provision, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to them to be
necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such
notification shall be issued after the expiry of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or
under any other provisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is
issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the
expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Assembly makes any modification in any such notification or the Assembly
decides that the notification should not be issued, the notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case maybe, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification.

### 54. Power to give directions.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
University, as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this
Act and it shall be the duty of the University, to comply with such
directions.

## Chapter X  
Transitory Provisions

### 55. Appointment of Administrator by Government.

(1)Immediately after the commencement of this Act, the Government shall
appoint an administrator to exercise the powers and discharge the functions of
the Vice-Chancellor under this Act till a Vice-Chancellor is appointed in
accordance with the provisions of section 9:Provided that the person so
appointed shall be a Professor of the University or any other University or
college or an officer of the Government not below the rank of Secretary to
Government.(2)The person appointed as administrator under sub-section (1)
shall hold office for a period of one year or till the necessity ceases,
whichever is earlier.

### 56. Appointment of Registration by Government.

(1)Immediately after the commencement of this Act, the Government shall
appoint any person to exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the
Registrar under this Act till a Registrar is appointed in accordance with the
provisions of section 11:Provided that the person so appointed shall be a
professor of the University or any other University or college or officer of
the Government not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to Government.(2)The
person appointed as Registrar under sub- section (1) shall hold office for a
period of one year or till the necessity ceases, whichever is earlier.

### 57. Removal of doubts.

(1)For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that-(a)the Vice-Chancellor of
the Annamalai University, appointed under the Annamalai University Act, 1928
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the 1928 Act) and holding office
as such immediately before the commencement of this Act shall cease to be the
Vice-Chancellor of the University;(b)the Registrar of the Annamalai
University, holding office as such immediately before the commencement of this
Act shall cease to be the Registrar of the University;(c)members of the
authorities of the Annamalai University, elected or nominated or otherwise as
such members under the 1928 Act and holding office as such members in any of
the authorities of the Annamalai University, immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall cease to be such members.(2)Within three months
from the date of commencement of this Act or such further period not exceeding
six months as the Government may, by notification specify, the Administrator
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 55 shall make arrangements for re-
constituting the Syndicate, the Academic Council and other authorities of the
University in accordance with the provisions of this Act;(3)The Syndicate,
Academic Council and other authorities of the University re-constituted under
sub-section (2) shall commence to exercise their functions on such date as the
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.(4)Until such time the
Syndicate, Academic Council and other authorities of the University are duly
constituted under sub-section (2), the Administrator appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 55 may constitute any committee comprising of officers,
temporarily to exercise and perform any of the powers and duties of such
authorities.(5)It shall be the duty of the Administrator to draft such
statutes, ordinances and regulations as may be necessary and submit them to
the respective authorities for their disposal. Such statutes, ordinances and
regulations when framed shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.

### 58. Repeal and savings.

(1)The Annamalai University Act, 1928 (hereinafter in this section referred to
as the 1928 Act) is hereby repealed.(2)Upon such repeal, the provisions of
sections 8 and 18 of the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 shall
apply.(3)Notwithstanding such repeal-(a)all colleges established and
maintained by the Annamalai University under the 1928 Act shall be deemed to
have been established and maintained by the University which is deemed to have
been established under this Act;(b)all property, whether movable or immovable,
including lands, buildings, equipments, books and library and all rights of
whatsoever kind owned by or vested in, or held in trust immediately before the
date of commencement of this Act by the Annamalai University as well as
liabilities legally subsisting shall stand transferred to, and vest in, the
University which is deemed to have been established under this Act;(c)all
benefactions accepted or received immediately before the date of commencement
of this Act by the Annamalai University shall be deemed to have been accepted
or received by the University which is deemed to have been established under
this Act, and all the conditions on which such benefactions were accepted or
received shall be deemed to be valid under this Act, notwithstanding that such
conditions are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act;(d)all references
to the Annamalai University in any Act or any rule, notification, proceeding,
order, regulation, by-law made thereunder shall be construed as reference to
the University which is deemed to have been established under this Act;(e)all
appointment of the officers (other than the Vice-Chancellor and the
Registrar), teachers and employees of the said University and subsisting
immediately before the date of commencement of this Act shall be deemed to
have been made under, and for the purposes of, this Act, and such officers,
teachers and employees shall continue to hold office, in the University which
is deemed to have been established under this Act, subject to the conditions
governing the terms of their office of employment; and(f)all statutes and
regulations made under the 1928 Act shall, so far as they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, continue to be in force and be deemed to have
been made under the corresponding provisions of this Act until they are
superseded or modified by statutes, ordinances and regulations made under this
Act.

