## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Application and Appeals Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Application and Appeals Rules

## Act 894 of 1961

  * Published on 29 July 1961 
  * Commenced on 29 July 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 July 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Application and Appeals RulesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No.
3158, Revenue, dated 29th July 1961, SRO No. A-894 of 1961Published in Part V,
Page 931 of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 30th August 1961.G. O. Ms. No.
3158, Revenue, dated 29th July 1961, SRO No. A-894 of 1961. - In exercise of
the powers conferred by clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of section 116 of the
Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules,
namely:-

### 1.

These Rules may be called the Applications and Appeals Rules.

### 2.

All applications, affidavits and memoranda of appeals presented to the
Government, the Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner
and the Assistant Commissioner shall be written, typewritten or printed,
fairly and legibly on substantial white foolscap folio paper and separate
sheets shall be stitched together book-wise. The writing or printing may be on
both sides of the paper, and numbers shall be expressed in figures.

### 3.

(1)An application to the Government, the Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner,
the Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner not being an application
under section 21, 21-A or section 114 shall be headed with a cause title as
set out in Form I appended to these Rules. The names of the parties shall be
separately numbered and described as applicants and respondents, as the case
may be.(2)A memorandum of appeal or an application for revision under section
21,21-A or section 114 shall be headed with a cause-title setting out the name
of the authority against whose decision the appeal or application is
preferred, the serial number and date of such decision and the names of the
parties separately and respondents or as applicants and respondents, as the
case may be. The cause-title shall be as set out in Form-II appended to these
rules.(3)An interlocutory application (i.e.) an application in any application
or appeal already instituted, shall bear the same cause-title as in the
application or the appeal, with the addition of the following at the
top:-Miscellaneous Application No.............of 20....

### 4.

All applications or memorandum of appeal shall state in distinct paragraphs
the reliefs sought and the grounds on which they are sought and shall be
verified at the foot in the manner provided for the verification of a plaint
in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 5.

All applications, memorandum of appeal and interlocutory applications shall be
presented in person by the parties or any of them or their duly authorized
pleaders at the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Department
concerned or that of the Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner, the Deputy
Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner, as the case may be, or sent by
registered post to the Secretary to Government of the department concerned, to
the Chief Ministerial Officer of the office of the Commissioner, the Joint
Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner, as the case
may be.

### 6.

Where an application or memorandum of appeal or other proceeding is presented
on behalf of a party by a pleader, such pleader shall file a vakalathnama duly
executed and attested in the manner required by the Civil Rules of Practice
framed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras. Where a pleader files a
vakalathnama in a proceeding, a fresh or additional vakalathnama shall not be
necessary in interlocutory applications or connected proceedings before the
same authority.

### 7.

The party presenting an application or memorandum of appeal to the
Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant
Commissioner, as the case may be, shall file along with it as many true copies
thereof as there are respondents together with two additional copies. Such
copies shall be duly signed by the parties or any of them or their pleader.

### 8.

Every memorandum of appeal and every application under section 21,2. - A or
section 114 for revision of a proceeding, other than a proceeding of a trustee
shall be accompanied by an authenticated or a certified copy of the order and
a certified copy of the annexure, if any, to such order, appealed or sought to
be revised.AppendixForm IForm prescribed in rule 3(1) of the rules under
section 116(2) (II) of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959)Before the Government of Tamil
Nadu.Before the Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Administration Department.Before the Joint/deputy Commissioner for Hindu
Religious and Charitable Endowments Administration Department.Before the
Assistant Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Administration Department.Application No of 20............Under section
...........of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959)BetweenApplicants(s)andRespondents (s)Form
IIForm Prescribed in rule 3(2) of the rules under section 116(2) (II) of the
Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959)Before the Government of Tamil Nadu.Before the Commissioner or
Joint/deputy Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Administration Department.Revision/Appeal
No.................................20.............................Under
section....of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and CharitableEndowments Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959).BetweenApplicants (s)andRespondents (s)From
the Order No. .....................................................
dated.....................................................of the
Commissioner/the Joint/Deputy Commissioner/the Assistant Commissioner/the
trustee of Sri...........................................................

