## Union of India - Act

## Banking Companies Act, 1949

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Banking Companies Act, 1949

## Act 37 of 1949

  * Published in Gazette of India on 7 September 1960 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 September 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1956 (Act 95 of 1956) on 1 January 1956] 
  2. [Amended by The Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1956 (Act 95 of 1956) on 1 January 1956] 
  3. [Amended by The Banking Companies (Second Amendment) Act, 1960 (Act 37 of 1960) on 19 September 1960] 

An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to banking companies.WHEREAS
it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to banking
companies;It is hereby enacted as follows:—

## Part I – PRELIMINARY

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement

(1)This Act may be called the Banking Companies Act, 1949.(2)It extends to the
whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. [Subs.by Act 20 of 1950
s.2, for the former sub-section.](3)It shall come into force on such date
{16th March, 1949, see Notification No.F.4(46)-FI / 49, dated the 10th March
1949, Gazette of India, 1949, Pt.I, p.326.} as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf.

### 2. Application of other laws not barred

The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not, save as
hereinafter expressly provided, in derogation of the Indian Companies Act,
1913, and any other law for the time being in force.

### 3. Act not to apply to co-operative banks

Nothing in this Act shall apply to a co-operative bank registered under the
Co-operative Societies Act, 1912, or any other law for the time being in force
in any {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.4, for ” State “.} [part of India] relating
to co-operative societies.

### 4. Power to suspend operation Act

(1)The Central Government, if on a representation made by the Reserve Bank in
this behalf it is satisfied that it is expedient so to do may by notification
in the Official Gazette suspend for such period, not exceeding sixty days, as
may be specified in the notification, the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act, either generally or in relation to any specified
banking company.(2)In a case of special emergency, the Governor of the Reserve
Bank, or in his absence a Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank nominated by him
in this behalf may, by order in writing, exercise the powers of the Central
Government under sub-section (1) so however that the period of suspension
shall not exceed thirty days, and where the Governor or the Deputy Governor,
as the case may be does so, he shall report the matter to the Central
Government forthwith, and the order shall, as soon as may be, be published in
the Gazette of India.(3)The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, extend from time to time the period of any suspension
ordered under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) for such period, not
exceeding sixty days at any one time, as it thinks fit so however that the
total period does not exceed one year.(4)A copy of any notification issued
under sub-section (3) shall be laid on the table of Parliament as soon as may
be after it is issued.

### 5. Interpretation

(1)In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,—(a)”approved securities ” means securities in which a trustee may
invest money under clause (a), clause (b), clause (bb), clause (c) or clause
(d) of section 20 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, and such securities of, or
fully guaranteed by Part B States as the Reserve Bank may be authorized to
purchase under clause (8) of section 17 of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934;(b)” banking ” means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or
investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or
otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, order or otherwise;(c)” banking
company ” means any company which transacts the business of banking { “Subs.by
Act 20 of 1950, s.3 for ” in any State “.} [in India];Explanation.—Any company
which is engaged in the manufacture of goods or carries on any trade and which
accepts deposits of money from the public merely for the purpose of financing
its business as such manufacturer or trader shall not be deemed to transact
the business of banking within the meaning of this clause;(d)” company ” means
any company which may be wound up under the Indian Companies Act,1913;{Cl.(e)
omitted by Act 52 of 1953, s.2}(f)” demand liabilities ” means liabilities
which must be met on demand and ” time liabilities ” means liabilities which
are not demand liabilities;(g)” gold ” includes gold in the form of
coin.whether legal tender or not, or in the form of bullion or ingot, whether
refined or not;{Ins.by Act 20 of 1950, s.5.}[(gg) ” India ” means tne States
to which this Act extends ;](h)” managing agent ” means a person, firm or
company entitled to the management of the whole affairs of a banking company
by virtue of an agreement with the company or by virtue of the memorandum or
articles of association relating thereto, and under the control and direction
of the directors except to the extent, if any, otherwise provided for in the
agreement, memorandum or articles of association, and includes any person,
firm or company occupying such position by whatever name
called;Explanation.—If a person occupying the position of managing agent calls
himself manager or managing director, he shall nevertheless be deemed to be a
managing agent for the purposes of this Act;(i)” private company ” has the
same meaning as in the Indian Companies Act, 1913;(j)“prescribed” means
prescribed by rules made under this Act;(k)” registrar ” has the same meaning
as in the Indian Companies Act, 1913;(I)” Reserve Bank ” means the Reserve
Bank of India;(m)” scheduled bank ” means a bank for the time being included
in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; and(n)” secured
loan or advance ” means a loan or advance made on the security of assets the
market value of which is not at any time less than the amount of such loan or
advance; and “unsecured loan or advance ” means a loan or advance not so
secured.{ Sub-section (2) was omitted by the A.O.1950.}

## Part II – BUSINESS OF BANKING COMPANIES

### 6. Forms of business in which banking companies may engage

(1)In addition to the business of banking, a banking company may engage in any
one or more of the following forms of business, namely:—(a)the borrowing,
raising, or taking up of money; the lending, or advancing of money either upon
or without security; the drawing.making, accepting.discounting.buying, selling
collecting and dealing in bills of exchange, hoondees, promissory notes,
coupons, drafts, bills of lading, railway receipts, warrants, debentures,
certificates, scrips and other instruments, and securities whether
transferable or negotiable or not; the granting and issuing of letters of
credit, traveller’s cheques and circular notes; the buying, selling and
dealing in bullion and species; the buying and selling of foreign exchange
including foreign bank notes; the acquiring, holding, issuing on commission,
underwriting and dealing in stock, funds, shares, debentures, debenture stock,
bonds, obligations, securities and investments of all kinds; the purchasing
and selling of bonds scrips or other forms of securities on behalf of
constituents or, others the negotiating of loans and advances; the receiving
of all kinds of bonds, scrips or valuables on deposit or for safe custody or
otherwise; the providing of safe deposit vaults; the collecting and
transmitting of money and securities;(b)acting as agents for any Government or
local authority or any other person or persons; the carrying on of agency
business of any description including the clearing and forwarding of goods,
giving of receipts and discharges and otherwise acting as an attorney on
behalf of customers, but excluding the business of a managing agent of a
company;(c)contracting for public and private loans and negotiating and
issuing the same;(d)the effecting, insuring, guaranteeing, underwriting,
participating in managing and carrying out of any issue, public or private, of
State, municipal or other loans or of shares, stock, debentures, or debenture
stock of any company, corporation or association and the lending of money for
the purpose of any such issue;(e)carrying on and transacting every kind of
guarantee and indemnity business;(f)managing, selling and realising any
property which may come into the possession of the company in satisfaction or
part satisfaction of any of its claims;(g)acquiring and holding and generally
dealing with any property or any right, title or interest in any such property
which may form the security or part of the security for any loans or advances
or which may be connected with any such security;(h)undertaking and executing
trusts;(i)undertaking the administration of estates as executor, trustee or
otherwise;(j)establishing and supporting or aiding in the establishment and
support of associations.institutions, funds, trusts and conveniences
calculated to benefit employees or employees of the company or the dependents
or connections of such persons; granting pensions and allowances and making
payments towards insurance; subscribing to or guaranteeing moneys for
charitable or benevolent objects or for any exhibition or for any public,
general or useful object;(k)the acquisition, construction, maintenance and
alteration of any building or works necessary or convenient for the purposes
of the company;(l)selling, improving, managing, developing, exchanging,
leasing.mortgaging, disposing of or turning into account or otherwise dealing
with all or any part of the property and rights of the company;(m)acquiring
and undertaking the whole or any part of the business of any person or
company, when such business is of a nature enumerated or described in this
sub-section:(n)doing all such other things as are incidental or conducive to
the promotion or advancement of the business of the company;(o)any other form
of business which the Central Government may; by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify as a form of business in which it is lawful for a banking
company to engage.(2)No banking company shall engage in any form of business
other than those referred to in sub-section (1).

### 7. Use of word bank banker banking

After the expiry of two years from the commencement of this Act no company,
other than a banking company, shall use as part of its name any of the words ”
bank “, ” banker ” or ” banking ” and no company shall carry on the business
of banking { Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in any State “.} [in India],
unless it uses as part of its name at least one of such words:Provided that
nothing in this section shall apply to any association of banks formed for the
protection of their interests and registered under section 26 of the Indian
Companies Act, 1913.

### 8. Prohibition of trading

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 or in any contract, no banking
company shall directly or indirectly deal in the buying or selling or
bartering of goods, except in connection with the realization of security
given to or held by it, or engage in any trade, or buy, sell or barter goods
for others otherwise than in connection with bills of exchange received for
collection or negotiation or with such of its business as is referred to in
clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 6:Provided that this section shall
not apply to any such business as aforesaid which was in the course of being
transacted on the commencement of this Act, so however, that the said business
shall be completed before the expiry of one year from such
commencement.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “goods ” means
every kind of movable property, other than actionable claims, stocks, shares,
money, bullion and specie, and all instruments referred to in clause (a) of
sub-section (1) of section 6.

### 9. Disposal of non-banking assets

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, no banking company shall hold
any immovable property howsoever acquired, except such as is recuired for its
own use, for any period exceeding seven years from the acquisition thereof or
from the commencement of this Act, whichever is later or any extension of such
period as in this section provided, and such property shall be disposed of
within such period or extended period, as the case may be:Provided that the
banking company may, within the period of seven years as aforesaid, deal or
trade in any such property for the purpose of facilitating the disposal
thereof:Provided further that the Reserve Bank may in any particular case
extend the aforesaid period of seven years by such period not exceeding five
years where it is satisfied that such extension would be in the interests of
the depositors of the banking company.

### 10. Prohibition of employment of managing agents and restrictions on
certain forms of employment

(1)No banking company—(a)shall employ or be managed by a managing agent,
or(b)shall employ any person—(i)who is or at any time has been adjudicated
insolvent, or has suspended payment or has compounded with his creditors, or
who is or has been convicted by a Criminal Court or an offence involving moral
turpitude; or(ii)whose remuneration or part of whose remuneration takes the
form of commission or of a share in the profits of the company; or(iii)whose
remuneration is, according to the normal standards prevailing in banking
business, on a scale disproportionate to the resources of the company;
or(c)shall be managed by any person—(i)who is a director of any other company,
not being a subsidiary company of the banking company; or(ii)who is engaged in
any other business or vocation; or(iii)who has a contract with the company for
its management for a period exceeding five years at any one time:Provided that
the said period of five years shall, in relation to contracts subsisting on
the 1st day of July, 1944, be computed from that date:Provided further that
any contract with the company for its management may be renewed or extended
for a further period not exceeding five years at a time if and so often as the
directors so decide.(2)If any question arises in any particular case whether
the remuneration is, according to the normal standards prevailing in banking
business, on a scale disproportionate to the resources of the company for the
purpose of sub-clause (iii) of clause (b) of sub-section (1), the decision of
the Reserve Bank thereon shall be final for all purposes.

### 11. Requirement as to minimum paid-up capital and reserves

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 103 of the Indian Companies
Act, 1913, no banking company in existence on the commencement of this Act,
shall, after the expiry of three years from such commencement or of such
further period not exceeding , one year as the Reserve Bank, having regard to
the interests of the depositors of the company, may think fit in any
particular case to allow, carry on business {Subs, by Act 20 of 1950,s.3, for
” in any State”.} [in India], and no other banking company shall, after the
commencement of this Act, commence or carry on business {Subs, by Act 20 of
1950,s.3, for ” in any State”.} [in India], unless it has paid-up capital and
reserves of such aggregate value as is hereinafter required by this
section.(2)In the case of a banking company incorporated {Subs., ibid., for
“elsewhere than in a State”.} [outside India], the aggregate value of its
paid-up capital and reserves shall not be less than fifteen lakhs of rupees,
and, if it has a place or places of business in the city of Bombay or Calcutta
or both, twenty lakhs of rupees:Provided that no such banking company shall be
deemed to have complied with the provisions of this sub-section, unless it
deposit and keeps deposited with the Reserve Bank an amount not less than the
minimum required by this sub-section, either in cash or in unencurnbered
approved securities or partly in cash and partly in such securities.(3)In the
case of any banking company to which the provisions of sub-sectlon (2) do not
apply, the aggregate value of its paid-up capital and reserves shall not be
less than—(i)if it has places of business in more than one State, five lakhs
of rupees, and if any such place or places of business is or are situated in
the city of Bombay or Calcutta or both, ten lakhs of rupees;(ii)if it has all
its places of business in one State none of which is situated in the city of
Bombay or Calcutta, one lakh of rupees in respect of its principal place of
business, plus ten thousand rupees in respect of each of its other places of
business situated in the same district in which it has its principal place of
business, plus twenty-five thousand rupees in respect of each place of
business situated elsewhere in the State otherwise than in the same
district:Provided that no banking company to which tllis clause applies shall
be required to have paid-up capital and reserves exceeding an aggregate value
of five lakhs rupees:Provided further that no manking company to which this
clause applies and which has only one place of business shall be required to
have paid-up capital and reserves exceeding an aggregate value of fifty
thousand rupees;(iii)if it has all its places of business in one State, one or
more of which is or are situated in the city of Bombay or Calcutta, five lakhs
of rupees, plus twenty-five thousand rupees in respect of each place of
business situated outside the city of Bombay or Calcutta, as the case may
beProvided that no banking company to which this clause applles shall be
required to have paid-up capital and reseves exceeding an aggregate value of
ten lakhs of rupees.Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, a place
of business situated{Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in a State “.} [in
India] other than that in which the principal place of business of the banking
company is situated shail, if it is not rnore than twenty-five miles distant
from such principal place of business, be deemed to be situated within the
same State as such principal place of business.(4)Any amount deposited and
kept deposited with the Reserve Bank under the proviso to sub-section (2) by
any banking company incorporated {Subs, ibid., for “elsewhere than in a State
“.}[outside India] shall, in the event of the company ceasing for any reason
to carry on banking business {Subs, ibid., for ” in the States “.} [in India],
be an asset of the company on which the claims of all the creditors of the
company { Subs, ibid., for ” in the States “.} [in India] shall be a first
charge.(5)For the purposes of this section ” value ” means the real or
exehangeable value, and not the nominal value which may be shown in the books
of the banking company concerned.(6)If any dispute arises in computing the
aggregate value of the paid-up capital and reserves of any banking company, a
determination thereof by the Reserve Bank shall be final for the purposes of
this section.

### 12. Regulation of Paid-up capital, subscribed capital and authorised
capital, and voting rights of share holders

:- No banking company shall carry on business {Subs.ibid., for ” in any State
“.} [in India], unless it satisfies the following conditions, namely:—(i)that
the subscribed capital of the company is not less than one-half of the
authorised capital, and the paid-up capital is not less than one-half of the
subscribed capital and that, if the capital is increased, it complies with the
conditions of prescribed in this clause within such period not exceeding two
years as the Reserve Bank may allow;(ii)that the capital of the company
consists of ordinary shares only or of ordinary shares and such preference
shares as may have been issued prior to the 1st day of July, 1944;(iii)that,
subject to the provisions contained in clause (iv) here of, the voting rights
of any one shareholder, whether a preference shareholder or an ordinary
shareholder, are strictly proportionate to the contribution made by him to the
paid-up capital of the company;(iv)that the voting rights of any one
shareholder do not exceed five per cent.of the total voting rights of all the
share holders:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to
any banking company incorporated before the 15th day of January, 1937.

### 13. Restriction on commission, broker-age, discount, etc., on sale of
shares

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sections 105 and 105A of
the Indian Companies Act, 1913, no banking company shall pay out directly or
indirectly by way of commission, brokerage, discount or remuneration in any
form in respect of any shares issued by it, any amount exceeding in the
aggregate two and one-half per cent.of the paid-up value of the said shares.

### 14. Prohibition of charge on unpaid capital

No banking company shall create any charge upon any unpaid capital of the
company, and any such charge shall be invalid.

### 15. Restrictions as to payment of dividend

No banking company shall pay any dividend on its shares until all its
capitalised expenses (including preliminary expenses, organisation expenses,
share-selling commission, brokerage, amounts of losses incurred and any other
item of expenditure not represented by tangible assets) have been completely
written off.

### 16. Prohibition of common directors

No banking company incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for “in a
State”.} [in India] shall have as a director any person who is a director of
another banking company.

### 17. Reserve fund

Every banking company incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for “in a
State”.} [in India] shall maintain a reserve fund, and shall, out of the net
profits of each year and before any dividend is declared, transfer a sum
equivalent to not less than twenty per cent.of such profits to the reserve
fund until the amount of the said fund is equal to the paid-up
capital.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression ” net
profits ” shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section (3) of section
87C of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.

### 18. Cash reserve

Every banking company not being a scheduled bank shall maintain by way of cash
reserve in cash with itself, or in an account opened with the Reserve Bank, or
partly in cash with itself and partly in such account, a sum equivalent to at
least two per cent.of its time liabilities and five per cent.of its demand
liabilities and shall file with the Reserve Bank before the fifteenth day of
every month three copies of a statement of the amount so held on Friday of
each week of the preceding month with particulars of its time and demand
liabilities on each Friday.

### 19. Restriction on nature of subsidiary companies

(1)A banking company shall not form any subsidiary company except a subsidiary
company formed for one or more of the following purposes, namely, the
undertaking and executing of trusts, the undertaking of the administration of
estates as executor, trustee or otherwise, the providing of safe deposit
vaults or, with the previous permission in writing of the Reserve Bank, such
other purposes as are incidental to the business of banking.(2)Save as
provided in sub-section (1), no banking company shall hold shares in any
company, whether as pledgee, mortgagee or absolute owner, of an amount
exceeding thirty per cent.of the paid-up share capital of that company or
thirty per cent.of its own paid-up share capital and reserves, whichever is
less:Provided that any banking company which is on the date of the
commencement of this Act holding any shares in contravention of the provisions
of this sub-section shall not be liable to any penalty therefor if it reports
the matter without delay to the Reserve Bank and if it brings its holding of
shares into conformity with the said provisions within such period, not
exceeding two years, as the Reserve Bank may think fit to allow.(3)Save as
provided in sub-section (1) and notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (2), a banking company shall not, after the expiry of one year from
the date of the commencement of this Act, hold shares, whether as pledgee,
mortgagee or absolute owner, in any company in the management of which any
managing director or manager of the banking company is in any manner concerned
or interested.

### 20. Restrictions on loans and advances

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained insection 54A of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, no banking company shall make any loans or
advances on the security of its own shares, or grant unsecured loans or
advances to any of its directors or to firms or private companies in which it
or any of its directors is interested as partner or managing agent or to any
individuals, firms or private companies in cases where any of the directors is
a guarantor.(2)Every banking company shall, before the close of the month
succeeding that to which the return relates, submit to the Reserve Bank a
return in the prescribed form and manner, showing all unsecured loans and
advances granted by it to companies in which it or any of its directors is
interested as director or managing agent or guarantor.(3)If on examination of
any return submitted under sub-section (2) it appears to the Reserve Bank that
any loans or advances referred to in that sub-section are being granted to the
detriment of the interests of the depositors of the banking company, the
Reserve Bank may, by order in writing, prohibit the banking company from
granting any such further loans or advances or impose such restrictions on the
grant thereof as it thinks fit, and may by like order direct the banking
company to secure the repayment of any such loan or advance within such time
as may be specified in the order.

### 21. Power of Reserve Bank to control advances by banking companies

(1)Where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient in
the public interest so to do, it may determine the policy in relation to
advances to be followed by banking companies generally or by any banking
company in particular, and when the policy has been so determined, all banking
companies or the banking company concerned, as the case may be, shall be bound
to follow the policy as so determined.(2)Without prejudice to the.generality
of the power vested in the Reserve Bank under sub-section (1), the Reserve
Bank may give directions to banking companies, either generally or to any
banking company or group of banking companies in particular, as to the
purposes for which advances may or may not be made, the margins to be
maintained in respect of secured advances and the rates of interest to be
charged on advances, and each banking company shall be bound to comply with
any directions as so given.

### 22. Licensing of banking companie

(1)Save as hereinafter provided, no company shall carry on banking
business{Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in any State “.} [in India] unless
it holds a licence granted by the Reserve Bank in such behalf.(2)Every banking
company in existence on the commencement of this Act, before the expiry of six
months from such commencement, and every other company before commencing
banking business {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in any State “.} [in
India], shall apply in writing to the Reserve Bank for a licence under this
section:Provided that in the case of a banking company in existence or the
commencement of this Act, nothing in sub-section ( ]) shall be deemed to
prohibit the company from carrying on banking business until it is granted a
licence in pursuance of sub-section (2) or is by notice in writing informed by
the Reserve Bank that a licence cannot be granted to it:Provided further that
the Reserve Bank shall not give a notice as aforesaid to a banking company in
existence on the commencement of this Act before the expiry of the three years
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 11 or of such further period as the
Reserve Bank may under that sub-section think fit to allow.(3)Before granting
any licence under this section, the Reserve Bank may require to be satisfied
by an inspection of the books of the company or otherwise that all or any of
the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:—(a)that the company is in a
position to pay its depositors in full as their claims accrue;(b)that the
affairs of the company are not being conducted to the detriment of the
interests of its depositors;(c)in the case of a company incorporated {Subs.by
Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ‘ elseswhere than in a State “} [outside India] that
the Government or law of the country in which it is incorporated does not
discriminate in any way against banking companies registered {Subs., ibid.,
for ‘ in a State “.} [in India], and that the company complies with all the
provisions of this Act, applicable to banking companies incorporated {Subs.,
ibid, for ” outside the States’} [outside India].(4)The Reserve Bank
may—(a)cancel any licence granted under this section where any of the
conditions set out in sub-section (3), on the fulfilment of which it required
to be satisfied when granting the licence, ceases to be fulfilled or if the
company ceases to carry on banking business {Subs., ibid-, for ” in the States
“.} [in India] or goes into liquidation;(b)at any time after granting a
licence under this section require that any of the said conditions, on the
fulfilment of which it did not require to be satisfied when granting the
licence, shall be fulfilled to its satisfaction within such time as it may
specify, and if the condition is not so fulfilled, cancel the licence.(5)Any
banking company aggrieved by the cancellation of its licence under sub-section
(4) may appeal to the Central Government, and the decision of the Central
Government on such appeal shall be final.

### 23. Restricitions on opening of new and transfer of existing places of
business

No banking company shall open a new place of business in any part of India or
change, otherwise than within the same city, town or village, the location of
an existing place of business situated in any part of India, and no banking
company incorporated in India shall open a new place of business outside India
or change, otherwise than within the same city, town or village in any country
or area outside India, the location of an existing place of business situated
in that country or area without first obtaining the prior permission in
writing of the Reserve Bank]; and before giving any such permission the
Reserve Bank may require to be satistied by an inspection under section 35 or
otherwise as to the financial condition and history of the company, the
general character of its management, the adequacy of its capital structure and
earning prospects and that public interest will be served by the opening or,
as the case may be, change of location, of the place of business: [Subs., ibid
s.6.for certain words.]Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to
the opening for a period not exceeding one month of a temporary place of
business within a city, town or village or the environs thereof within which
the banking company already has a place of business for the purpose of
affording banking facilities to the public on the occasion of an exhibition,
conference or mela.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section ” place of
business ” includes any sub-office, pay office, sub-pay-office and any place
of business at which deposits are received, cheques cashed or moneys lent.

### 24. Maintenance of a percentage of assets

(1)After the expiry of two years from the commencement of this Act, every
banking company shall maintain in cash, gold or unencumbered approved
securities, valued at a price not exceeding the current market price, an
amount which shall not at the close of business on any day be less than 20 per
cent.of the total of its time and demand liabilities {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950,
s.3, for ” in the States “} [in India].Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section liabilities shall not include the paid-up capital or the reserves or
any credit balance in the profit and loss account of the company or the amount
of any loan taken from the Reserve Bank.(2)In computing the amount for the
purposes of sub-section (l) the deposit required under the proviso to sub-
section (2) of section 11 to be made with the Reserve Bank by a banking
company incorporated {Subs., ibid., for “elsewhere than in a State”} [outside
India] and any balance maintained by a banking company with the Reserve Bank
or its agent or both, including in the case of a scheduled bank the balance
required under sub-section (1) of section 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934, to be so maintained, shall be deemed to be cash maintained.(3)For the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of thls section, every
banking company shall, not later than fifteen days after the end of the month
to which it relates, furnish to the Reserve Bank in the prescribed form and
manner a monthly return showing particulars of its assets maintained in
accordance with this section, and its time and demand liabilities at the close
of business on each Friday during the month, or if any Friday is a public
holiday under the NegotiabIe Instruments Act, 1881, at the close of business
on the preceding working day.

### 25. Assets in India

(1)The assets{Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in the States.} [in India] of
every banking company at the close of the last working day of every quarter
shall not be less than seventy-five per cent.of its demand and time
liabilities therein.(2)Every banking company shall, within one month from the
end of every quarter, submit to the Reserve Bank a return in the prescribed
form and manner of the assets and liabilities referred to in subsection (1) as
at the close of the last working day of the previous quarter.(3)For the
purposes of this section,—{Subs.By Act 20 of 1950, s.7.}[(a) ” assets in India
” shall be deemed to include export bills drawn in, and import bills drawn on
and payable in, India and expressed in such currencies as the Reserve Bank may
from time to time approve in this behalf and also such securities as the
Reserve Bank may approve in this behalf notwithstanding that all or any of the
said bills or securities are held outside India ;](b)” quarter ” means the
period of three months ending on the last day of March, June, September or
December.

### 26. Return of unclaimed deposits

:- Every banking company shall, within thirty days after the close of each
calendar year, submit a return in the prescribed form and manner to the
Reserve Bank as at the end of such calendar year of all accounts {Subs.by Act
20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in the States.} [in India] which have not been operated
upon for ten years giving particulars of the deposits standing to the credit
of each such account:Provided that in the case of money deposited for a fixed
period the said term of ten years shall be reckoned from the date of the
expiry of such fixed period.

### 27. Monthly return and power to call for other returns and information

:- (1) Every banking company shall before the close of the month succeeding
that to which it relates submit to the Reserve Bank a return in the prescribed
form and manner showing its assets and liabilities {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950,
s.3, for ” in the States.} [in India] as at the close of business on the last
Friday of every month or if that Friday is a public holiday under the
Negotiable Instru- ments Act, 1881, at the close of business on the preceding
working day.(2)The Reserve Bank may, at any time, by notice in writing,
require a banking company to furnish it within the time specified therein or
such further time as the Reserve Bank may allow, with statements and
information relating to the business of such banking company, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power rnay call for information
every half-year regarding the classification of advances and investments of
banking companies in respect of industry, commerce and agriculture.

### 28. Power to publish information

The Reserve Bank, if it considers it in the public interest so to do, may
publish any information obtained by it under section 27 in such consolidated
form as it thinks fit.

### 29. Accounts and balance sheet

:- (1) At the expiration of each calendar year every banking company
incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in a State “} [in India], in
respect of all business transacted by it, and every banking company
incorporated {Subs., ibid., for ” outside the States ” } [outside India], in
respect of all business transacted through its branches {Subs.by Act 20 of
1950, s.3, for ” in a State “} [in Tndia], shall prepare with reference to
that year a balance-sheet and profit and loss account as on the last working
day of the year in the Forms set out in the Third Schedule or as near thereto
as circumstances admit:Provided that in the case of a banking company
incorporated {Subs., ibid., for ” outside the States ” } [outside India], the
profit and loss account may be prepared as on a date not earlier than two
months before the last working day of the year(2)The balance-sheet and profit
and loss account shall be signed—(a)in the case of a banking company
incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” in a State “} [in India], by
the manager or the principal officer of the company and where there are more
than three directors of the company, by at least three of those directors, or
where there are not more than three directors, by all the directors, and(b)in
the case of a banking company incorporated {Subs., ibid., for ” outside the
States “} [outside India] by the manager or agent of the principal office of
the company {Subs., ibid., for ” in the States “.} [in
India].(3)Notwithstanding that the balance-sheet of a banking company is under
sub-section (1) required to be prepared in a form other than the form marked F
in the Third Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913, the requirements of
that Act relating to the balance-sheet and profit and loss account of a
company shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act, apply to
the balance-sheet or profit and loss account, as the case may be, of a banking
company.(4)The Central Government, after giving not less than three months’
notice of its intention so to do by a notification in the Offlcial Gazette,
may from time to time by a like notification amend the Forms set out in the
Third Schedule.

### 30. Audit

:- (1) The balance-sheet and profit and loss account prepared in accordance
with section 29 shall be audited—(a)in the case of a banking company
incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950 s.3, for ” in a State “.} [in India], by
a person duly qualified under any law for the time being in force to be an
auditor of companies;(b)in the case of a banking company incorporated {Subs,
ibid-, for ‘ outside the States “.} [outside India], either by such an auditor
as aforesaid, or by a person duly qualified to be an auditor under the law of
the country in which the company is incorporated.(2)The auditor shall have the
powers of, exercise the functions vested in, and discharge the duties and be
subiect to the liabilities and penalties imposed on, auditors of companies by
section 145 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.(3)In addition to the matters
which under the aforesaid Act the auditor is required to state in his report,
he shall, in the case of a banking company incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of
1950 s.3, for ” in a State “.} [in India], state in his report,—(a)whether or
not the information and explanations required by him have been found to be
satisfactory;(b)whether or not the transactions of the company which have come
to his notice have been within the powers of the company;(c)whether or not the
returns received from branch offices of the company have been found adequate
for the purposes of his audit;(d)whether the profit and loss account shows a
true balance of profit and loss for the period covered by such account;(e)any
other matter which he considers should be brought to the notice of the
shareholders of the company.

### 31. Submission of returns

The accounts and b alance-sheet referred to in section 29 together with the
auditor’s report shall be published in the prescribed manner and three copies
thereof shall be furnished as returns to the Reserve Bank within three months
from the end of the period to which they refer:Provided that the Reserve Bank
may in any case extend the said period of three months for the furnishing of
such returns by a further period not exceeding three months.

### 32. Copies of balance sheets and accounts to be sent tp registrar

(1)Where a banking company in any year furnishes its balance-sheet and
accounts in accordance with the provisions of section 31 it rnay, or when it
is a private company, shall, at the same time send to the registrar three
copies of such balance-sheet and accounts and of the auditor’s report, and
where such copies are so sent.it shall not be necessary for the company to
file copies of the balance-sheet and accounts with the registrar as required
by sub-section ( 1) of section 134 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, and such
copies so sent shall be chargeable with the same fees and shall be dealt with
in all respects as if they were filed in accordance with that section.(2)When
in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 27 the Reserve Bank requires any
additional statement or information in connection with the balance-sheet and
accounts furnished under section 31, the banking company shall, when supplying
such statement or information, send a copy thereof to the registrar.

### 33. Display of audited balance sheet by companies incorporated outside
India

Every banking company incorporated {Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.3, for ” outside
the States “} [outside India] shall, not later than the first Monday in August
of any year in which it carries on business, display in a conspicuous place in
its principal office and in every branch office {Subs., ibid., for ” in the
States “}[in India] a copy of its last audited balance-sheet and profit and
loss account prepared under section 29, and shall keep the copy so displayed
until replaced by a copy of the subsequent balance-sheet and profit and loss
account so prepared, and every such banking company shall display in like
manner copies of its complete audited balance-sheet and profit and loss
account relating to its banking business as soon as they are available, and
shall keep the copies so displayed until copies of such subsequent accounts
are available.

### 34. Accounting provisions of this Act not retrospective

Nothing in this Act shall apply to the preparation of accounts by a banking
company and the audit and submission thereof in respect of any accounting year
which has expired prior to the commencement of this Act.and notwithstanding
the other provisions of this Act, such accounts shall be prepared, audited and
submitted in accordance with the law in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act.

### 35. Inspection

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 138 of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, the Reserve Bank at any time may, and on being
directed so to do by the Central Government shall, cause an inspection to be
made by one or more of its officers of any banking company and its books and
accounts; and the Reserve Bank shall supply to the hanking company a copy of
its report on such inspection.(2)It shall be the duty of every director or
other offlcer of the banking company to produce to any officer making an
inspection under sub-section (1) all such books, accounts and other documents
in his custody or power and to furnish him with any statements and information
relating to the affairs of the banking company as the said officer may require
of him within such time as the said officer may specify.(3)Any person making
an inspection under sub-section (1) may examine on oath any director or other
officer of the banking company in relation to its business, and may administer
an oath accordingly.(4)The Reserve Bank shall, if it has been directed by the
Central Government to cause an inspection to be made, and may, in any other
case, report to the Central Government on any inspection made under this
section, and the Central Government, if it is of opinion after considering the
report that the affairs of the banking company are being conducted to the
detriment of the interests of its depositors, may, after giving such
opportunity to the banking company to make a representation in connection with
the report as, in the opinion of the Central Government, seems reasonable, by
order in writing—(a)prohibit the banking company from receiving fresh
deposits;(b)direct the Reserve Bank to apply under section 38 for the winding
up of the banking company:Provided that the Central Government may defer for
such period as it may think fit, the passing of an order under this sub-
section, or cancel or modify any such order, upon such terms and conditions as
it may think fit to impose.(5)The Central Government may, after giving
reasonable notice to the banking company, publish the report submitted by the
Reserve Bank or such portion thereof as may appear necessary.

### 36. Further powers and functions of Reserve Bank

(1)The Reserve Bank may—(a)caution or prohibit banking companies generally or
any banking company in particular against entering into any particular
transaction or class of transactions, and generally give advice to any banking
company;(b)on a request by the companies concerned and subject to the
provisions of section 45, assist, as intermediary or otherwise, in proposals
for the amalgamation of such banking companies;(c)give assistance to any
banking company by means of the grant of a loan or advance to it under clause
(3) of sub section (1) of section 18 of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934;(d)during the course, or after the completion, of any inspection of a
banking company under section 35, by order in writing, require the
company—(i)to call a meeting of its directors for the purpose of considering
any matter arising in the course of or out of such inspection or of meeting an
officer of the Reserve Bank to discuss any such matter;(ii)to make, within
such time as may be specified in the order, such changes in its management as
the Reserve Bank may consider necessary in consequence of the state of affairs
disclosed during or by the inspection.(2)The Reserve Bank shall make an annual
report to the Central Government on the trend and progress of banking in the
country svith particular reference to its activities under clause (2) of
section 17 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, including in such report
its suggestions, if any, for the strengthening of banking business throughout
the country.(3)The Reserve Bank may appoint such staff at such places as it
considers necessary for the scrutiny of the returns, statements and
information furnished by banking companies under this Act, and generally to
ensure the efficient performance of its functions under this Act.

## Part III – SUSPENSION OF BUSINESS AND WINDING UP OF BANKING COMPANIES

### 36A. High Court defined:-

A In this Part and in Part III-A “High Court” in relation to a banking
compaany, means the High Court exercising jurisdiction in the place where the
registered office of the banking company is situated or, in the case of a
banking company incorporated outside India , where its principal place of
business in India is situated. [ Ins.by Act 52 of 1953 s.:3]

### 37. Suspension of business

(1)The {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.}[High Court] may on the application
of a banking company which is temporarily unable to meet its obligations make
an order ( a copy of which it shall cause to be forwarded to the Reserve Bank)
staying the commencement or continuance of all actions and proceedings against
the company for a fixed period or time on such terms and conditions as it
shall think fit and proper, and may from time to time extend the period so
however that the total period of moratorium shall not exceed six months.(2)No
such application shall be maintainable unless it is accompanied by a report of
the Reserve Bank indicating that in the opinion of the Reserve Bank the
banking company will be able to pay its debts if the application is
granted:Provided that the { Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court “.} [High
Court] may, for sufficient reasons, grant relief under this section even if
the application is not accompanied bv such report, and where such relief is
granted, the {Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court “.} [High Court] shall
call for a report from the Reserve Bank on the affairs of the banking company,
on receipt of which it may either rescind any order already passed or pass
such further orders thereon as may be just and proper in the
circumstances.(3)When an application is made under sub-section (1), the High
Court may appoint a special officer who shall forthwith take into his custody
or under his control all the assets, books, documents, effects and actionable
claims to which the banking company is or appears to be entitled and shall
also exercise such other powers as the High Court may deem fit to confer on
him, having regard to the interests of the depositors of the banking
company.[Ins.by Act 52 of 1953 s.:3]

### 38. Winding up by High Court

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in section 162 or section 271
of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, and without prejudice to its powers under
section 37, the {Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court “.} [High Court]
shall order the winding up of a banking company if it is unable to pay its
debts and the [Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court “.][High Court] shall
also order the winding up of a banking company if the Reserve Bank applies in
this behalf to the {Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court “.} [High
Court].(2)The Reserve Bank may make an application under this section only if
it is directed so to do by order under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of
section 35 or if the banking company has failed to comply within due time with
the demand contained in a notice under sub-section (5) of section
46.(3)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in section 163 of the
Indian Companies Act.1913.a banking company shall be deemed to be unable to
pay its debts if it has refused to meet any lawful demand for payment made at
any of its offices or branches within two working days, if such demand is made
at a place where there is an office, branch or agency of the Reserve Bank, or
within five working days, if such demand is made elsewhere, and if the Reserve
Bank certifies in writing that the banking company is unable to pay its
debts.(4)A copy of every application by the Reserve Bank under sub-section (1)
shall be sent by the Reserve Bank to the registrar.

### 38A. Court liquidator:-

(1)There shall be attached to every High Court a court liquidator to be
appointed by the Central Government for the purpose of conducting all
proceedings for the winding up of banking companies and performing such other
duties in reference thereto as the High Court may impose.(2)Where there is a
court liquidator attached to a High Court and an order is passed by the High
Court for the winding up of any banking company, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in section 171A or section 175 of the Indian Companies Act,
1913, the court liquidator shall become the official liquidator of the banking
company.(3)Where there is a court liquidator attached to a High Court and any
proceeding for the winding up of a banking company in which any person other
than the Reserve Bank or the court liquidator has been appointed as official
liquidator is pending before the High Court immediately before the
commencement of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, or the date on
which the court liquidator is so attached to the High Court, whichever is
later, then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 176 of the Indian
Companies Act, 1913, the person appointed as the official liquidator shall, on
such commencement or, as the case may be, on the aforesaid date, be deemed to
have vacated his office as such and the vacancy so caused shall be deemed to
be folled up by the appointment of the court liquidator as the official
liquidator:Provided that where the High Court, after giving the court
liquidator and the Reserve Bank an opportunity of being heard, is of opinion
that the appointment of the court liquidator would be detrimental to the
interests of the depositors of the banking company, it may direct the person
appointed as the official liquidator to continue to act as such.(4)Where
having regard to the number of banking companies wound up and other
circumstances of the case, the Central Government is of opinion that it is not
necessary or expedient to attach for the time being a court liquidator to a
High Court, it may, from time to time, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that this section shall not have effect in relation to that
High Court. [ns.by Act 52 of 1953, s.6]

### 39. Reserve Bank to be official liquidator

Notwithstanding anything contained [Ins.by Act 52 of 1953, s.7.] [in section
38A of this Act or] in section 175 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, where in
any proceeding for the winding up by the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.}
[High Court] of a banking company, an application is made by the Reserve Bank
in this behalf, the Reserve Bank {Ins.by Act 23 of 1955, s.53 and Sch.IV.} [or
the State Bank of India, as the case may be, as stated in such application]
shall be appointed as the official liquidator of the banking company in such
proceeding.

### 40. Stay of proceedings

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 173 of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.} [High
Court] shall not make any order staying the proceedings in relation to the
winding up of a banking company, unless the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court
“.} [High Court] is satisfied that an arrangement has been made whereby the
company can pay its depositors in full as their claims accrue.

### 41. Report of liquidator

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 177B of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, where a winding up order is made in respect of a
banking company, the official liquidator shall submit a preliminary report to
the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.} [High Court] within two months from
the date of the order giving the information required by that section so far
as it is available to him, to enable the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.}
[High Court] to order the payment of a preliminary dividend if sufficient
assets are available.

### 42. Power to dispense with meetings of creditors, etc

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sections 178A and 183 of
the Indian Companies Act, 1913, the {Subs., ibid., s.4, for ” Court “.} [High
Court] may, in the proceedings for winding up a banking company, dispense with
any meetings of creditors or contributories or with the appointment of a
committee of inspection if it considers that no object will be secured thereby
sufficient to justify the delay and expense.[Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.8, for
the original s.43.]

### 43. Booked depositors credits to be deemed proved

In any proceeding for the winding up of a banking company, every depositor of
the banking company shall be deemed to have filed his claim for the amount
shown in the books of the banking company as standing to his credit and,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 191 of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, the High Court shall presume such claims to have
been proved, unless the official liquidator shows that there is reason for
doubting its correctness.

### 43A. Preferential payment to small depositors:-

(1)In every proceeding for the winding up of a banking company, after the
preferential payments referred to in section 230 of the Indian Companies Act,
1913, have been made, there shall be paid, to every depositor in the savings
bank account of the banking company, a sum of one hundred rupees or the
balance at his credit, whichever is less, in priority to all other debts from
out of the remaining assets of the banking company available for payment of
general creditors.(2)The aforesaid payments shall rank equally among
themselves and be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet
them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportion.]

### 44. Restriction on voluntary winding up

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 203 of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, no banking company which holds a licence granted
under section 22 may be voluntarily wound up unless the Reserve Bank certifies
in writing that the company is able to pay in full all its debts to its
creditors as they accrue, and without prejudice to the provisions contained in
sections 218 and 220 of that Act, the {Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ”
Court “.} [High Court] shall, on the application of the Reserve Bank, order
the winding up of the company by the {Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.4, for ” Court
“.} [High Court] if at any stage during the voluntary winding up proceedings
the company is not able to meet such debts as they accrue.

### 44A. Procedure for amalgamation of banking companies:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
no banking company shall be amalgamated with another banking company, unless a
scheme containing the terms of such amalgamation has been placed in draft
before the shareholders of each of the banking companies concerned separately,
and approved by a resolution passed by a majority in number representing two
thirds in value of the shareholders of each of the said companies, present
either in person or by proxy at a meeting called for the purpose.(2)Notice of
every such meeting as is referred to in sub-section (1) shall be given to
every shareholder of each of the banking companies concerned in accordance
with the relevant articles of association, indicating the time, place and
object of the meeting, and shall also be published at least once a week for
three consecutive weeks in not less than two newspapers which circulate in the
locality or localities where the registered offices of the banking companies
concerned are situated, one of such newspapers being in a language commonly
understood in the locality or localities.(3)Any shareholder, who has voted
against the scheme of amalgamation at the meeting or has given notice in
writing at or prior to the meeting to the company concerned or to the
presiding officer of the meeting that he dissents from the scheme of
amalgamation, shall be entitled, in the event of the scheme being sanctioned
by the Reserve Bank, to claim from the banking company concerned, in respect
of the shares held by him in that company, their value as determined by the
Reserve Bank when sanctioning the scheme and such determination by the Reserve
Bank as to the value of the shares to be paid to the dissenting shareholder
shall be final for all purposes.(4)If the scheme of amalgamation is approved
by the requisite majority of shareholders in accordance with the provisions of
this section, it shall be submitted to the Reserve Bank for sanction and
shall, if sanctioned by the Reserve Bank by an order in writing passed in this
behalf, be binding on the banking companies concerned and also on all the
shareholders thereof.(5)Where a scheme of amalgamation is sanctioned by the
Reserve Bank under the provisions of this section, the Reserve Bank shall
transmit a copy of the order sanctioning the scheme to the registrar before
whom the banking companies concerned have been registered, and the registrar
shall, on receipt of any such order, strike off the name of the company
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the amalgamated banking company)
which by reason of the amalgamation will cease to function.(6)On the
sanctioning of a scheme of amalgamation by the Reserve Bank, the property of
the amalgamated banking company shall, by virtue of the order of sanction, be
transferred to and vest in, and the liabilities of the said company shall, by
virtue of the said order be transferred to, and become the liabilities of, the
banking company which under the scheme of amalgamation is to acquire the
business of the amalgamated banking company, subject in all cases to the terms
of the order sanctioning the scheme. [Ins.by Act 20 of 1950, s.8.]

### 45. Restriction on compromise or arrangement between banking company and
creditors

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
no [Subs., ibid-, s 4, for ” Court.”] [High Court] shall sanction a compromise
or arrangement between a banking company and its creditors or any class of
them or between such company and its creditors or any class of them or between
such company and its members or any class of them unless the compromise or
arrangement is certified by the Reserve Bank [Subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.9, for
“as not being detrimental to the interests of the depositors of such company
“.] [in writing as not being incapable of being worked and as not being
detrimental to the interests of the depositors of such banking
company.[Subs.by Act 20 of 1950, s.9.][Renumbered as sub-section (1) of
section 45 by Act 52 of 1953, s.9](2)Where an application under section 153 of
the Indian Companies Act, 1913 is made in respect of a banking company, the
High Court may direct the Reserve Bank to make an inquiry in relation to the
affairs of the banking company and the conduct of its directors and when such
a direction is given, the Reserve Bank shall make such inquiry and submit its
report to the High Court. [Ins, ibid.][Part III-A consisting of ss.45A to 45X,
were subs.by Act 52 of 1953, s.10, for the former Part III-A.]

## Part III – A SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SPEEDY DISPOSAL OF WINDING UP
PROCEEDINGS

### 45A. Part III-A to override other laws:-

The provisions of this Part and the rules made thereunder shall have effect
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 or the Code of Civils Procedure, 1908 or the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 or any other law for the time being in force or any
instrument having effect by virtue of any such law; but the provisions of any
such law or instrument in so far as the same are not varied by, or
inconsistent with, the provisions of this Part or rules made thereunder shall
apply to all proceedings under this Part.

### 45B. Power of High Court to decide all claims In respecf of banking
companies.:-

The High Court shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in section 45C,
have exclusive jurisdiction to entertain and decide any claim made by or
against a banking company which is being wound up (including claims by or
against any of its branches in India) or any application made under section
153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, by or in respect of a banking company
or any question of priorities or any other question whatsoever, whether of law
or fact, which may relate to or arise in the course of the winding up of a
banking company, whether such claim or question has arisen or arises or such
application has been made or is made before or after the date of the order for
the winding up of the banking company or before or after the commencement of
the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953.

### 45C. Transfer of pending proceedings:-

(1)Where a winding up order is made or has been made in respect of a banking
company, no suit or other legal proceeding, whether civil or criminal, in
respect of which the High Court has jurisdiction under this Act and which is
pending in any other court immediately before the commencement of the Banking
Companies (Arnendment) Act, 1953, or the date of the order for the winding up
of the banking company, whichever is later, shall be proceeded with except in
the manner hereinafter provided.(2)The official liquidator shall, within three
months from the date of the winding up order or the commencement of the
Banking, Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, whichever is later, or such further
time as the High Court may allow, submit to the High Court a report containing
a list of all such pending proceedings together with particulars thereof.(3)On
receipt of a report under sub-section (2), the High Court may, if it so thinks
fit, give the parties concerned an opportunity to show cause why the
proceedings should not be transferred to itself and after making an inquiry in
such manner as may be provided by rules made under section 45U, it shall make
such order as it deems fit transferring to itself all or such of the pending
proceedings as may be specified in the order and such proceedings shall
thereafter be disposed of by the High Court.(4)If any proceeding pending in a
court is not so transferred to the High Court under sub-section (3), such
proceeding shall be continued in the court in which the proceeding was
pending.(5)Nothing in this section shall apply to any proceeding pending in
appeal before the Supreme Court or a High Court.

### 45D. Settlement of list of debtors:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time
being in force, the High Court may settle in the manner hereinafter provided a
list of debtors of a banking company which is being wound up.(2)Subject to any
rules that may be made under section 52, the official liquidator shall, within
six months from the date of the winding Up order or the commencement of the
Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, whichever is later, from time to
time, file to the High Court lists of debtors containing such particulars as
are specified in the Fourth ScheduleProvided that such lists may, with the
leave of the High Court, be filed after the expiry of the said period of six
months.(3)On receipt of any list under sub-section (2), the High Court shall,
wherever necessary, cause notices to be issued on all persons affected and
after making an inquiry in such manner as may be provided by rules made under
section 45U, it shall make an order settling the list of debtors:Provided that
nothing in this section shall debar the High Court from settling any such list
in part as against such of the persons whose debts have been settled without
settling the debts of all the persons placed on the list.(4)At the time of the
settlement of any such list, the High Court shall pass an order for the
payment of the amount due by each debtor and make such further orders as may
be necessary in respect of the relief claimed, including reliefs against any
guarantor or in respect of the realisation of any security.(5)Every such order
shall, subject to the provisions for appeal, be final and binding for all
purposes as between the banking company on the one hand and the person against
whom the order is passed and all persons claiming through or under him on the
other hand, and shall be deemed to be a decree in a suit.(6)In respect of
every such order, the High Court shall issue a certificate specifying clearly
the reliefs granted and the names and descriptions of the parties against whom
such reliefs have been granted, the amount of costs awarded and by whom, and
out of what funds and in what proportions, such costs are to be paid; and
every such certificate shall be deemed to be a certified copy of the decree
for all purposes including execution.(7)At the time of settling the list of
debtors or at any other time prior or subsequent thereto, the High Court shall
have power to pass any order in respect of a debtor on the application of the
official liquidator for the realisation, management, protection, preservation
or sale of any property given as security to the banking company and to give
such powers to the official liquidator to carry out the aforesaid directions
as the High Court thinks fit.(8)The High Court shall have power to sanction a
compromise in respect of any debt and to order the payment of any debt by
instalments.(9)In any case in which any such list is settled ex parte as
against any person, such person may, within thirty days from the date of the
order settling the list, apply to the High Court for an order to vary such
list, so far as it concerns him, and if the High Court is satisfied that he
was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing on the date fixed for the
settlement of such list and that he has a good defence to the claim of the
banking company on merits, the High Court may vary the list and pass such
orders in relation thereto as it thinks fit:Provided that the High Court may,
if it so thinks fit, entertain the application after the expiry of the said
period of thirty days.(10)Nothing in this section shall—(a)apply to a debt
which has been secured by mortgage of immovable property, if a third party has
any interest in such immovable property; or(b)prejudice the rights of the
official liquidator to recover any debt due to a banking company under any
other law for the time being in force.

### 45E. Special provisions to make calls on contributories:-

Notwithstanding that the list of the contributories has not been settled under
section 184 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, the High Court may, if it
appears to it necessary or expedient so to do, at any time after making a
winding up order, make a call on and order payment thereof by any contributory
under sub-section (1) of section 187 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, if
such contributory has been placed on the list of contributories by the
official liquidator and has not appeared to dispute his liability.

### 45F. Documents of banking company to be evidence:-

(1)Entries in the books of account or other documents of banking company which
is being wound up shall be admitted in evidence in all proceedings by or
against the banking company; and all such entries may be proved either by the
production of the books of account or other documents of the banking company
containing such entries or by the production of a copy of the entries,
certified by the official liquidator under his signature and stating that it
is a true copy of the original entries and that such original entries are
contained in the books of account or other documents of the banking company in
his possession.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary eontained in the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872, all such entries in the books of account or other
documents of a banking company shall, as against the directors of the banking
company in respect of which the winding up order has been made before the
commencement of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, be prima facie
evidence of the truth of all matters purporting to be therein recorded.

### 45G. Public examination of directors and auditors:-

(1)Where an order has been made for the winding up of a banking company.the
offieial liquidator shall submit a report whether in his opinion any loss has
been caused to the banking company since its formation by any act or omission
(whether or not a fraud has been committed by such act or omission) of any
person in the promotion or formation of the banking company or of any director
or auditor of the banking company.(2)If, on consideration of the report
submitted under sub-section (1), the High Court is of opinion that any person
who has taken part in the promotion or formation of the banking company or has
been a director or an auditor of the banking company should be publicly
examined, it shall hold a public sitting on a date to be appointed for that
purpose and direct that such person, director or auditor shall attend thereat
and shall be publicly examined as to the promotion or formation or the conduct
of the business of the banking company, or as to his conduct and dealings, in
so far as they relate to the affairs of the banking company:Provided that no
such person shall be publicly examined unless he has been given an opportunity
to show cause why he should not be so examined.(3)The official liquidator
shall take part in the examination and for that purpose may, if specially
authorised by the High Court in that behalf, employ such legal assistance as
may be sanctioned by the High Court.(4)Any creditor or contributory may also
take part in the examination either personally or by any person entitled to
appear before the High Court.(5)The High Court may put such questions to the
person examined as it thinks fit.(6)The person examined shall be examined on
oath and shall answer all such questions as the High Court may put or allow to
be put to him.(7)A person ordered to be examined under this section may, at
his own cost, employ any person entitled to appear before the High Court who
shall be at liberty to put to him such questions as the High Court may deem
just for the purpose of enabling him to explain or qualify any answer given by
him:Provided that if he is.in the opinion of the High Court, exculpated from
any charges made or suggested against him, the High Court may allow him such
costs in its discretion as it may deem fit.(8)Notes of the examination shall
be taken down in writing, and shall be read over to or by, and signed by, the
person examined and may thereafter be used in evidence against him in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, and shall be open to the inspection of any
creditor or contributory at all reasonable times.(9)Where on such examination,
the High Court is of opinion (whether a fraud has been committed or
not)—(a)that a person, who has been a director of the banking company, is not
fit to be a director of a company, or(b)that a person, who has been an auditor
of the banking company or a partner of a firm acting as such auditor, is not
fit to act as an auditor of a company or to be a partner of a firm acting as
such auditor,The High Court may make an order that that person shall not,
without the leave of the High Court, be a director of, or in any way, whether
directly or indirectly, be concerned or take part in the management of any
company or, as the case may be, act as an auditor of, or be a partner of a
firm acting as auditors of, any company for such period not exceeding five
years as may be specified in the order.

### 45H. Special provisions for assessing damages against delinquent
directors, etc:-

(1)Where an application is made to the High Court under section 235 of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 against any promoter,director, manager, liquidator
or officer of a banking company for repayment or restoration of any money or
property and the applicant makes out a prima facie case against such person,
the High Court shall make an order against such person to repay and restore
the money or property unless he proves that he is not liable to make the
repayment or restoration either wholly or in part:Provided that where such an
order is made jointly against two or more such persons, they shall be jointly
and severally liable to make the repayment or restoration of the money or
property.(2)Where an application is made to the High Court under section 235
of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the High Court has reason to believe
that a property belongs to any promoter, director, manager, liquidator or
officer of the banking company, whether the property stands in the name of
such person or any other person as an ostensible owner, then the High Court
may, at any time, whether before or after making an order under sub-section
(1), direct the attachment of such property, or such portion thereof, as it
thinks fit and the property so attached shall remain subject to attachment
unless the ostensible owner can prove to the satisfaction of the High Court
that he is the real owner and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 relating to attachment of property shall, as far as may be, apply to such
attachment.

### 45I. Duty of directors and officers of banking company to assist in the
realisation of property:-

Every director or other officer of a banking company which is being wound up
shall give such assistance to the official liquidator as he may reasonably
require in connection with the realisation and distribution of the property of
the banking company.

### 45J. Special provisions for punishing offences in relation to banking
companies being wound p:-

(1)The High Court may, if it thinks fit, take cognizance of and try in a
summary way any offence alleged to have been committed by any person who has
taken part in the promotion or formation of the banking company which is being
wound up or by any director, manager or officer thereof:Provided that the
offence is one punishable under this Act or under the Indian Companies
Act,(2)When trying any such offence as aforesaid, the High Court may also try
any other offence not referred to in sub-section (1) which is an offence with
which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, be charged
at the same trial.(3)In any case tried summarily under sub-section (1), the
High Court—(a)need not summon any witness, if it is satisfied that the
evidence of such witness will not be material;(b)shall not be bound to adjourn
a trial for any purpose unless such adjournment is, in the opinion of the High
Court, necessary in the interests of justice;(c)shall, before passing any
sentence, record judgment embodying the su-bstance of the evidence and also
the particulars specified in section 263 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, so far as that section may be applicable;and nothing contained in sub-
section (2) of section 262 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 shall apply
to any such trial.(4)All offences in relation to winding up alleged to have
been committed by any person specified in sub-section (1) which are punishable
under this Act or under the Indian Companies Act, 1913, and which are not
tried in a summary way under sub-section (1) shall, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary contained in that Act or the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
or in any other law for the time being in force, be taken cognizance of and
tried by a Judge of the High Court other than the Judge for the time being
dealing with the proceedings for the winding up of the banking
company.(5)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 the High Court may take cognizance of any offence
under this section without the accused being committed to it for trial and all
such trials shall be without the aid of a jury.

### 45K. Power of High Court to enforce schemes of arrangements etc:-

(1)Where a High Court makes an order under section 153 of the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 sanctioning a compromise or arrangement in respect of a banking
company, it shall have powerset to supervise the carrying out of the
compromise or arrangement and may at the time of making such order or at any
time thereafter give such directions in regard to any matter or make such
modifications in the compromise or arrangement as it may consider necessary
for the proper working of the compromise or arrangement.(2)If the High Court
is satisfied that a compromise or arrangement sanctioned under section 153 of
the Indian Companies Act, 1913 cannot be worked satisfactorily with or without
modifications, it may, either on its own motion or on the application of any
person interested in the affairs of the banking company, make an order winding
up the banking company and such an order shall be deemed to be an order made
under section 162 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.(3)The provisions of this
section shall, so far as they may, also apply to a banking company in respect
of which an order under section 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913
sanctioning a compromise or arrangement has been made before the commencement
of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953.

### 45L. Public examination of directors and auditors, etc., in respect of
banking company under schemes of arrangment:-

(1)Where an application for sanctioning a compromise or arrangement in respect
of a banking company is made under section 153 of the Indian Companies Act,
1913, or where such sanction has been given and the High Court is of opinion,
whether on a report of the Reserve Bank or otherwise, that any person who has
taken part in the promotion or formation of the banking company or has been a
director or auditor of the banking company should be publicly examined, it may
direct such examination of such person and the provisions of section 45G
shall, as far.as may be, apply to the banking company as they apply to a
banking company which is being wound up.(2)Where a compromise or arrangement
is sanctioned under section 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 in respect
of a banking company, the provisions of section 235 of the said Act and of
section 45H of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply to the banking company
as they apply to a banking company which is being wound up as if the order
sanctioning the compromise or arrangement were an order for the winding up of
the banking company.

### 45M. Special provisions for banking companies working under schemes of
arrangment at the commencement of the Amendment Act:-

Where any compromise or arrangement sanctioned in respect of a banking company
under section 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 is being worked at the
commencement of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, the High Court
may, if it so thinks fit on the application of such banking company,—(a)excuse
any delay in carrying out any of the provisions of the compromise or
arrangement; or(b)allow the banking company to settle the list of its debtors
in accordance with the provisions of section 45D and in such a case, the
provisions of the said section shall, as far as may be, apply to the banking
company as they apply to a banking company which is being wound up as if the
order sanctioning the compromise or arrangement were an order for the winding
up of the banking company.

### 45N. Appeals:-

(1)An appeal shall lie from any order or decision of the High Court in a civil
proceeding under this Act when the amount or value of the subject-matter of
the claim exceeds five thousand rupees.(2)The High Court may by rules provide
for an appeal against any order made under section 45J and the conditions
subject to which any such appeal would lie.(3)Subject to the provisions of
sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) and notwithstanding anything contained in
any other law for the time being in force, every order or decision of the High
Court shall be final and binding for all purposes as between the banking
company on the one hand, and all persons who are parties thereto and all
persons claiming through or under them or any of them, on the other hand.

### 45O. Special period of limitation:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indian Limitation
Act, 1908 or in any other law for the time being in force, in computing the
period of limitation prescribed for a suit or application by a banking company
which is being wound up, the period commencing from the date of the
presentation of the petition for the winding up of the banking company shall
be excluded.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Indian Limitation Act, 1908 or section 235 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913
or in any other law for the time being in force, there shall be no period of
limitation for the recovery of arrears of calls from any director of a banking
company which is being wound up or for the enforcement by the banking company
against any of its directors of any claim based on a contract, express or
implied; and in respect of all other claims by the banking company against its
directors, the period of limitation shall be twelve years from the date of the
accrual of such claims.(3)The provisions of this section, in so far as they
relate to banking companies being wound up, shall also apply to a banking
company in respect of which a petition for the winding up has been presented
before the commencement of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953.

### 45P. Reserve Bank to tender advice in winding up proceedings:-

Where in any proceeding for the winding up of a banking company in which any
person other than the Reserve Bank has been appointed as the official
liquidator and the High Court has directed the offcial liquidator to obtain
the advice of the Reserve Bank on any matter (which it is hereby empowered to
do), it shall be lawful for the Reserve Bank to examine the record of any such
proceeding and tender such advice on the matter as it may think fit.

### 45Q. Power to inspect:-

(1)The Reserve Bank shall, on being directed so to do by the Central
Government or by the High Court, cause an inspection to be made by one or more
of its officers of a banking company which is being wound up and its books and
accounts.(2)On such inspection, the Reserve Bank shall submit its report to
the Central Government and the High Court.(3)If the Central Government, on
consideration of the report of the Reserve Bank, is of opinion that there has
been a substantial irregularity in the winding up proceedings, it may bring
such irregularity to the notice of the High Court for such action as the High
Court may think fit.(4)On receipt of the report of the Reserve Bank under sub-
section (2) or on any irregularity being brought to its notice by the Central
Government under sub-section (3), the High Court may, if it deems fit, after
giving notice to and hearing the CentraI Government in regard to the report,
give such directions as it may consider necessary.

### 45R. Power to call for returns and information:-

The Reserve Bank may, at any time by a notice in writing, , require the
liquidator of a banking company to furnish it, within , such time as may be
specified in the notice or such further time as the Reserve Bank may allow,
any statement or information relating to or connected with the winding up of
the banking company; and it shall be the duty of every liquidator to comply
with such requirements.Explanation.—For the purposes of this section and
section 45Q, a banking company working under a compromise or arrangement but
prohibited from receiving fresh deposits, shall, as far as may be, be deemed
to be a banking company which is being wound up.

### 45S. Cheif Presidency Magistrate and Distr.Magistrate to assist official
liquidator in taking charge of property of banking company being wound up:-

(1)For the purpose of enabling the official liquidator or the special officer
appointed under sub-section (3) of section 37 to take into his custody or
under his control, all property, effects and actionable claims to which a
banking company, which has been ordered to be wound up, is or appears to be
entitled, the official liquidator or the special officer, as the case may be,
may request in writing the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District
Magistrate, within whose of jurisdiction any property, books of account or
other documents of such banking company may be situate or be found, to take
possession thereof, and the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District
Magistrate, as the case may be, shall, on such request being made to him, take
possession of such property, books of account or other documents and forward
them to the official liquidator or the special officer.(2)For the purpose of
securing compliance with the provisions of sub-section ( l), the Chief
Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate may take or cause to be taken
such steps and use or cause to be used such force as may, in his opinion, be
necessary.

### 45T. Enforcement of orders and decisions of High Court:-

(1)All orders made in any civil proceeding by a High Court may be enforced in
the same manner in which decrees of such court made in any suit pending
therein may be enforced.(2)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, a liquidator may apply for the execution
of a decree by a court other than the one which made it on production of a
certificate granted under sub-section (6) of section 45D and on his certifying
to such other court in writing the amount remaining due or relief remaining
unenforced under the decree.(3)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section ( 1) or sub-section (2) any amount found due to the banking company by
an order or decision of the High Court may, with the leave of the High Court,
be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.

### 45U. Power of High Court to make rules:-

The High Court may make rules consistent with this Act and the rules made
under section 52 prescribing—(a)the manner in which inquiries and proceedings
under Part III or Part III-A may be held;(b)the offences which may be tried
summarily;(c)the authority to which, and the conditions subject to which,
appeals may be preferred and the manner in which such appeals may be filed and
heard;(d)any other matter for which provision has to be made for enabling the
High Court to effectively exercise its functions under this Act.

### 45V. References to directors etc., shall be construed as including
references to past directors, etc:-

For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that any reference in this
Part to a director, manager, liquidator, officer or auditor of a banking
company shall be construed as including a reference to any past or present
director, manager, liquidator, officer or auditor of the banking company.

### 45W. Part II not to apply to banking companies being wound up:-

Nothing contained in Part II shall apply to a banking company which is being
wound up.

### 45X. Validation of certain proceedings:-

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 45B or any other provision of
this Part or in section 11 of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1950, no
proceeding held, judgment delivered or decree or order made before the
commencement of the Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953, by any court
other than the High Court in respect of any matter over which the High Court
has jurisdiction under this Act shall be invalid or be deemed ever to have
been invalid merely by reason of the fact that such proceeding judgment,
decree or order was held, delivered or made by a court other than the High
Court.]

## Part IV – MISCELLANEOUS

### 46. Penalties

(1)Whoever in any return, balance-sheet or other document required by or under
or for the purposes of any provision of this Act, wilfully makes a statement
which is false in any material particular, knowing it to be false, or wilfully
omits to make a material statement, shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.(2)If
any person fails to produce any book, account or other document or to furnish
any statement or information which under sub-section (2) of section 35 it is
his duty to produce or furnish, or to answer any question relating to the
business of a banking company which he is asked by an officer making an
inspection under that section, he shall be punishable with a fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees in respect of each offence, and if he persists
in such refusal, to a further fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every
day during which the offence continues.(3)If any deposits are received by a
banking company in contravention of an order under clause (a) of sub-section
(4) of section 35, every director or other officer of the banking company,
unless he proves that the contravention took place without his knowledge or
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent it, shall be deemed to be
guilty of such contravention and shall be punishable with a fine which may
extend to twice the amount of the deposits so received.(4)If any other
provision of this Act is contravened, or if any default is made in complying
with any requirement of this Act, or of any order made thereunder, every
director and other officer of the banking company who is knowingly a party to
the contravention or default shall be punishable with a fine not exceeding
five hundred rupees, and where the contravention or default is a continuing
one, with a further fine not exceeding fifty rupees for every day during which
it continues.(5)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (4), if any
banking company fails to comply with the provisions of section 24 or section
25, the Reserve Bank shall by notice in writing make a demand on the banking
company to comply with the said provisions within thirty days from the receipt
of the notice, and if the banking company fails so to do, the Reserve Bank may
apply under section 38 for the winding up of the banking company.

### 47. Congnzance of offences

No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under section 46
except upon complaint in writing made by an officer of the Reserve Bank
generally or specially authorised in writing in this behalf by the Reserve
Bank, and no Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate
of the first class shall try any such offence.

### 48. Application of fines

A Court imposing any fine under this Act may direct that the whole or any part
thereof shall be applied in or towards payment of the costs of the
proceedings, or in or towards the rewarding of the person on whose information
the fine is recovered.

### 49. Special provisions for private banking companies

The exemptions, whether express or implied, in favour of a private company in
sections 17, 77 83B, 86H, 91B, and 91D, and sub-section (5) of section 144 of
the Indian Companies Act, 1913, shall, not operate in favour of a private
company which is a banking company

### 50. Certain claims for compensation barred

No person shall have any right, whether in contract or other-wise, to any
compensation for any loss incurred by reason of the operation of any of the
provisions contained in sections 10 and 16 or by reason of the compliance by a
banking company with any order given to it under sub-clause (ii) of clause (d)
of sub-section (1) of section 36.

### 51. Application of certain provisions to the State Bank of India

Without prejudice to the provisions of the State Bank of India Act, 1955, the
provisions of sections 10, 13 to 17, 19 to 21, 23 to 31, 34 to 36, 37, 45, 46
to 48, 50, 52 and 53 shall also apply, as far as may be, to and in relation to
the State Bank of India as they apply to and in relation to banking
companies:Provided that nothing contained in section 46 shall apply to any
directors nominated under clauses (e) and (f) of section 19 of the State Bank
of India Act, 1955.[Subs.by Act 23 of 1955, s.53 and Sch.IV.]

### 52. Power of Cerntral Government to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank, make
rules [See the Banking Companies Rules, 1949, Ministry of Finance Notification
No.F.4(55)-F- 1/49, dated the 26th Mareh, 1949, Gazette of India, 1949, Pt I,
P.389.] to provide for all matters for which provision is necessary or
expedient for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act and
all such rules shall be published in the Official Gazette.(2)In particular,
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for the details to be included in the returns required by this Act and
the manner in which such returns shall be submitted [Ins.by Act 52 of 1953,
s.11.][and the form in which the official liquidator may file lists of debtors
to the Court having jurisdiction under Part III or Part III-A and the
particulars which such lists may contain and any other matter which has to be,
or may be, prescribed.](3)All rules made under this section shall be subject
to the condition of previous publication, and the date to be specified under
clause (3) of section 23 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, shall not be less
than six months from the date on which the draft of the proposed rules was
published:Provided that in respect of the first occasion on which rules are
made under this section, the provisions of this sub-section shall not
apply.(4)The Central Government may, by rules made under this section annul,
alter or add to, all or any of the provisions of the Fourth Schedule. [Ins.by
Act 52 of 1953, s.11.]

### 53. Power to exempt in certain cases

The Central Government may, on the recommendation of the,Reserve Bank,
declare, by notification in the Official Gazette, that any or all of the
provisions of this Act shall not apply to any banking company or to any class
of banking companies either generally or for such period as may be specified.

### 54. Protection of action taken under Act

(1)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government,
the Reserve Bank or any officer for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.(2)Save as otherwise expressly
provided by or under this Act, no suit or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Central Government, the Reserve Bank or any officer for any damage
caused or likely to be caused by anything in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of this Act.

### 55. Amendment of Act II of 1934

The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, shall be amended in the manner specified
in the fourth column of the First Schedule, and the amendments to section 18
thereof as specified in the said Schedule shall be deemed to have had effect
on and from the 20th day of September, 1947.

### 56. Repeals

(1)The enactments mentioned in the third column of the Second Schedule shall
be repealed to the extent specified in the fourth column
thereof.(2)Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of any Ordinance mentioned
in the Second Schedule, anything done or any action taken, in the exercise of
any power conferred by any Ordinance so repealed, shall for all purposes be
deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise of powers conferred by this
Act as if this Act had been in force on the day such thing was done or such
action was taken.

## THE FIRST SCHEDULE

(See section 55)[AMENDMENTS] Not reprinted.

## THE SECOND SCHEDULE

(See-section 56)REPEALSYear No. Short title Extent of repeal1\. 2 3 41913\.
VII The Indian Com- The whole of Part XA.panies Act, 1913.1946\. XXVII The
Banking Companies (Restriction of Branches) Act, 1946. The whole.1946\. IV The
Banking Companies (Inspection) Ordinance, 1946. The whole.1948\. XXV The
Banking Companies (Control) Ordinance, 1945. The whole.

## THE THIRD SCHEDULE

[This Schedule has been printed as amended by Notification No.S.R.O.2020,
dated the 22nd April, 1951, Gazette of India, Pt.II, Sec.:S, p.2155.](See
section 29)FORM AFORM OF BALANCE SHEETCAPITAL AND LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND
ASSETSRs. P. Rs. P. Rs.CAPITAL P. Rs. P.(I) Authorised Capital 1. CASH :………….
Shares of Rs. ……….each In hand and with Reserve Bank, {Ins by Act…………. Shares
of Rs. ……….each 61 of 1981 s. 61 and the Second Sch. (w.e.f.……………………………………………
1-5-1982)} [ National Bank], State Bank ofIndia, State Co-operative Bank and
CentralCo-operative Bank——————BALANCES WITH OTHER BANKS :(I) Current
deposits(ii) Savings bank deposits(ii) Subscribed Capital (iii) Fixed
deposits—————–…………. Shares of Rs. ……….each…………. Shares of Rs. ……….each 3.
MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT…………………………………………… NOTICE :(iii) Amount called up 4.
Investments :On …………. Shares at Rs. ……… each less (I) In central and State
Governmentcalls unpaid On …. Shares at Rs……. each securities ( at book value
)less calls unpaid of (iii) above, held byFace Value Rs. ………………….(a)
Individuals ……………………(b) Co-operative institutions …. Market Value
Rs………………….(c) State Government …….(ii) Other Trustee Securities …..RESERVE
FUNDS AND OTHER (iii) Shares in co-operative institution otherRESERVES than in
item (5) below ……..(I) Statutory Reserve …… (iv) Other investment ( to be
specified )……………..(ii) Agricultural ( Credit StabilizationFund
)……………..INVESTMENT OUT OF THE(iii) Building Fund ……………… PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY
STATEPARTNERSHIP FUNDS :(iv) Dividend Equalization Fund ……………In Shares of :(v)
Special Bad Debts Reserve(I)Central Co-operative Banks(vi) Bad and Doubtful
Debts Reserve(ii) Primary Agricultural Credit societies(vii) Investment
Depreciation Reserve(iii) Other societies(viii) Other Funds and reserves ( to
bespecified ) ……………..ADVANCE :PRINCIPAL / SUBSIDIARY STATEPARTNERSHIP FUND
ACCOUNT : (I) Short-term loans, cash credits, overdraftsand bills discounted
….For share capital of :(I) Central co-operative banks(ii) Primary
agricultural credit societies……………(iii) Other societies ………………..CAPITAL AND
LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND ASSETSRs. P.Rs. P. Rs.P. Rs. PDEPOSITS AND
OTHERACCOUNTS :(I) Fixed deposits * Of which secured against(a) Individuals **
(a) Government and other approvedsecurities(b) Central co-operative banks(b)
Other tangible securities @(c) Other societies ……………Of the advance, amount due
fromindividuals …………….(ii) Savings Bank DepositsOf the advances, amount
overdue(a) Individuals ** ……………………..(b) Central co-operative banks Considered
bad and doubtful of recovery……………..(c) Other societies(ii) Medium-terms
loans(iii) Current deposits : Of which secured against :(a) Individuals ** (a)
Government and other approvedsecurities ……(b) Central co-operative banks(b)
Other tangible securities @(c) Other societiesOf the advances, amount due
from(iv) Money at call and short notice individuals ………….Of the advances,
amount overdue :BORROWINGS :Considered bad and doubtful of recovery(I) From
the Reserve Bank of India {Ins. byAct 61 of 1981, s. 61 and the Second Sch. (
(iii) Long term loansw.e.f. 15-2-1984)} [ the National Bank ],State / Central
co-operative bank : Of which secured against :(a) Short term loans, cash
credits and (a) Government and other approvedoverdrafts securitiesOf which
secured against : (b) Other tangible securities @(A) Government and other
approved Of the advances, amount due fromsecurities individuals(B) Other
tangible securities @ Of the advances, amount overdue(b) Medium term loans of
which secured Considered bad and doubtful of recoveryagainst :(A) Government
and other approvedsecurities 7. INTEREST RECEIVABLE :(B) Other tangible
securities @ Of which overdue(c) Long – term loans Considered bad and doubtful
of recoveryOf which secured against :(A) Government and other
approvedsecurities(B) Other tangible securities @(ii) From the State Bank of
India(a) Short-term loans, cash credits and overdraftsOf which secured against
:CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND ASSETSRs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P.(A)
Government and other approvedsecurities ………… 8. BILLS RECEIVABLE BEING
BILLSFOR COLLECTION As per contra(B) Other tangible securities @(b) Medium
terms-loans 9. BRANCH ADJUSTMENTSOf which secured against :PREMISES LESS
DEPRECIATION(A) Government and other approvedsecurities …………FURNITURE AND
FIXTURES LESS(B) Other tangible securities @ DEPRECIATION(c) Long-term loans
……………………..OTHER ASSETS ( to be specified )Of which secured against :(A)
Government and other approved 13. NON-BANKING ASSETS ACQUIREDsecurities IN
SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS (standing mode of valuation )(B) Other tangible
securities @PROFIT AND LOSS(iii) From the State Government(a) Short-term
loansOf which secured against :(A) Government and other approvedsecurities(B)
Other tangible securities @(b) Medium term loansOf which secured against :(A)
Government and other approvedsecurities(B) Other tangible securities @(c) Long
term loansOf which secured against :(A) Government and other
approvedsecurities(B) Other tangible securities @(iv) Loans from other sources
( source andsecurity to be specified )BILLS FOR COLLECTION BEINGBILLS
RECEIVABLE As per contraCAPITAL AND LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND ASSETSRs. P. Rs.
P Rs. P. ]. P.BRANCH ADJUSTMENTSOVERDUE INTEREST RESERVEINTEREST PAYABLEOTHER
LIABILITIES(I) Bills payable ………………..(ii) Unclaimed dividends …………(iii)
Suspense …………………(iv) Sundries …………………..PROFIT AND LOSSProfit as per last
balance-sheetLess appropriationsAdd profit for the year brought from theProfit
and Loss Account ……………….——————-Total ——————-——————- Total——————-CONTINGENT
LIABILITIES(i) Outstanding liabilities for guaranteesissued ………….(ii) Others
………………………….——————-Total——————-FORM BFORM OR PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTProfit and
Loss account for the year ended ……….EXPENDITURE INCOMERs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs.
P.Interest on deposits borrowings etc. 1. Interest and discount
………………………………..Salaries and allowances and provident 2. Commission exchange and
brokeragefund ………. ………………Directors and local committee members’fee and
allowances 3. Subsidies and donations ………….Rent taxes, insurance, lighting
etc.…………………….. 4. Income from non-banking assets andprofit from sale of or
dealing with suchLaw charges ………………. assets ……………………Postage, telegrams and
telephone charges 5. Other receipts …………….…………….Loss (if any )
…………………Auditor’s fees …………….Depreciation on and repairs in
property…………………….Stationery, printing and advertisementetc. ……………….Loss from
sale of or dealing with nonbanking assets ……………Other expenditure ……………Balance
of profit ………………——————-——————- TotalTotal ——————-——————-General Instructions
-The corresponding figures ( to the nearest rupee, if so desired ) for the
year immediately preceding the year to which the profit and loss account
relates should be shown in separate columns.”

## THE FIRST SCHEDULE

( See section 55 )AMENDMENTSYear No Short title Amendments1 2 3 41934\. 2 The
Reserve Bank of (1) In section 17, to clause (15A), theIndia Act, 2934
following shall be added namely :-” and under the Banking companies Act, 1949(
iv of 1949) “.(2) (a) Section 18 shall be renumbered as subsection (1) of that
section and in sub-section(1) as so renumbered, –(I) in clause (3) after the
words ” of thatsection “, the following words shall be added,namely :-” or
when the loan or advance, is made tobanking company as defined in the
BankingCompanies Act, 1949 (iv of 1949 ), againstsuch other form of security
as the Bank mayconsider sufficient “;(ii) for the words ” under this
section”wherever they occur, the words ” under thissub-section ” shall be
substituted :(b) after sub-section (1) as so renumbered , thefollowing sub-
section shall be inserted, namely:-“(2) Where a banking company to which aloan
or advance has been made under theprovisions of clause (3) of sub-section (1)
iswound up, any sums due to the Bank in respectof such loan or advance shall
subject only to theclaims, if any, of any other banking company inrespect of
any prior loan or advance made bysuch banking company against any security bea
first charge on the assets of the bankingcompany”(3) In section 42, for sub-
section (6) thefollowing sub-section shall be substitutednamely :-(6) The Bank
shall save as hereinafterprovided by notification in the Gazette ofIndia,-(a)
direct the inclusion in the Second Scheduleof any bank not already so included
whichcarries on the business of banking in anyprovince of India and which –(i)
has a paid-up capital and reserves of anaggregate value of not less than five
lakhs ofrupees, and(ii) Satisfies the Bank that its affairs are notbeing
conducted in a manner detrimental to theinterest of its depositors; and(iii)
is a company as defined in clause (2) ofsection 2 of the Indian Companies Act,
1913 (7of 1913 ) or a corporation or a companyincorporated by or under any law
in force inany place outside the Provinces of India :(b) direct the exclusion
from that schedule ofany scheduled bank –(I) the aggregate value of whose
paid-upcapital and reserves becomes at any time lessthan five lakhs of rupees
or(ii) which is in the opinion of the Bank aftermaking an inspection under
section 35 of theBanking companies Act, 1949 conducting itsaffairs to the
detriment of the interests of itsdepositors, or(iii) which goes into
liquidation or otherwiseceases to carry on banking business :Provided that the
Bank may, on application ofthe scheduled bank concerned and subject tosuch
conditions if any, as it may impose, deferthe making of a direction under sub-
clause (i)or sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) for such periodas the Bank
considers reasonable to give the SCHEDULE bank an opportunity of increasingthe
aggregate value of its paid-up capital andreserves to not less than five lakhs
of rupees or,as the case may be, of removing the defects inthe conduct of its
affairs ;(c) alter the description is that Schedulewhenever any scheduled bank
changes itsname.Explanation.– In this sub-section theexpression ‘value’ means
the real orexchangeable value and not the nominal valuewhich may be shown in
the books of the bankconcerned; and if any dispute arises incomputing the
aggregate value of the paid-upcapital and reserves of a bank, a
determinationthereof by the Bank shall be final for thepurposes of this sub-
section.

## THE THIRD SCHEDULE

[This schedule has been printed as amended by Notion. No. S.R.O. 2020 dated
22-12-1951 Gazette of India, 1951 Pt. II Sec. 3 p. 2155, No . 1137 dated
24-11-1958, Gazette of India 1958, Pt. II Sec. 3(I) p. 1113 and Notifn. No.
S.O. 786 (E) dated 2–12-1973 Gazette of India, Extraordinary 1973, Pt II Sec.
3 (ii) p. 2415.](See section 29 )FORM AFORM OF BALANCE-SHEETCAPITAL AND
LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND ASSETSRs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P.CAPITAL (a) 1. Cash
:Authorised Capital……………………. Shares of Rs. In hand and with Reserve Bank,
{Ins. by Act………………………….. each 61 of 1981 s. 61 and the Second Sch. ( w.e.f
1-5-1982)}Issued Capital …………………. [ National Bank ] and Imperial Bank…………….
Shares of Rs. ………….. (including foreign currency notes)Subscribed
CapitalBALANCING WITH OTHER BANKS…………. Shares of Rs. ………….………………………………… each
(Showing whether on deposit or currentAmount called up at Rs. ……………. account
)per share(I) {Subs. by Act 20 of 1950, s. 3 for ” inLess calls unpaid …………………
the States”.} [ in India ],Add forfeited shares …………….(ii) {Subs. by s. 3
ibid. for ” outside theRESERVE FUND AND OTHER States”.}RESERVES [ outside
India ]DEPOSITS AND OTHER ACCOUNT 3. MONEY AT CALL AND SHORTFixed deposits
…………………….. NOTICESaving Bank Deposits Current AccountsContingency Accounts,
etc.(I) From banks ……………..(ii) From others …………………BORROWINGS FROM OTHERBANKING
COMPANIES AGENTS ETC.(I) {Subs. by Act 20 of 1950, s. 3 for ” inthe States”.}
[ in India [in India ]………………………. 4. INVESTMENTS ( Stating mode ofvaluation,
e,. g. cost or market value ) : (f)(ii) {Subs. by s. 3 ibid. for ” outside
theStates”.} (I) Securities of the Central and State[ outside India ] …………….
Governments and other Trustee securities,including treasury Bills of the
Central andParticulars : state Governments.(I) Secured ( stating the nature of
security ) (ii) Shares ( classifying into preference,…………………….. ordinary
deferred and other classes of shares(ii) Unsecured …………………. and showing
separately shares fully paid-upand partly paid-up )(iii) Debentures or
bonds(iv) Other investments to be classifiedunder proper heads.(v) Gold
………………….CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES PROPERTY AND ASSETSRs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs.
P.BILLS PAYABLE ………… 5. ADVANCES ( other than bad and doubtfuldebts for which
provisions has been made to thesatisfaction of the auditors ).BILLS FOR
COLLECTION BEING BILLSRECEIVABLE AS PER CONTRA (I) Loans. Cash Credits, Over-
drafts, etc:(I) payable [ in India ] …… (I) {Subs. by Act 20 of 1950 s. 3 for
” in any state“.}[ in India ] ……….(ii) payable [ outside India ] (ii) {Subs.
by s 3. ibid., for ” outside the States “.}[ outside India ] …………….OTHER
LIABILITIES (C) (II) Bills discounted and purchased ( excludingTreasury Bills
of the Central and State ACCEPTANCES, ENDORSE- Government )MENTS AND OTHER
OBLIGATIONS PERCONTRA (I) payable in India …………(ii) payable outside India
……..Particulars of Advances;PROFITS AND LOSS (I) Debts considered good for
which the bankingcompany is fully secured …………….Profit as per last balance-
sheet(ii) Debts considered good for which the bankingLess appropriations
company holds no other security than the debtorspersons security …….Add
profits for the year brought from the Profit andLoss Account ……… (iii) Debts
considered good secured by thepersonal liabilities of one or more parties
inaddition to the personal security of the debtors…………(iv) Debts considered
doubtful or bad, notprovided for(v) Debts due by directors or officers of
thebanking company or any of them either severallyor jointly with any other
persons.CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES PROPERTIES AND ASSETSRs. P. Rs. P Rs. P. Rs.
PCONTINGENT LIABILITIES(d) (vi) Debts due by companies or firms in which
thedirectors of the banking company are interested asdirectors, partners or
managing agents or in the caseof private companies as members.(vii) Maximum
total amount of advances includingtemporary advances made at any time during
theyear to directors or managers or officers of thebanking company or any of
them either severally orjointly with any other persons (ff)(viii) Maximum
total amount of advances, includingtemporary advances granted during the year
to thecompanies or firms in which the directors of thebanking company are
interested as directors, partnersor managing agents or, in the case of
privatecompanies, as members (ff)(ix) Due from banking companies.BILLS
RECEIVABLE BEING BILLS FORCOLLECTION AS per capita(i) payable {Subs. by Act 20
of 1950, s. 3, for ” inthe States ”}[in India](ii) payable {Subs. by s. 3,
ibid., for ” outside theStates ”.}[ outside India]CONSTITUENTS’ LIABILITIES
FORACCEPTANCE, ENDORSEMENT AND OTHEROBLIGATIONS per contraPREMISES LESS
DEPRECIATIONS(g) FURNITURE AND FIXTURES lessDEPRECIATIONS (g)OTHER ASSETS,
INCLUDING SILVER ( to bespecified ) (h)NON-BANKING ASSETS ACQUIRED
INSATISFACTION OF CLAIMS (Starting mode ofvaluation)(i)CAPITAL AND
LIABILITIESRs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs. PPROFIT AND LOSS_______________
_____________Total Total_______________ _____________NOTES(a) Capital:—(i) The
various classes of capital, if any, should be distinguished.(ii) Shares issued
as fully paid-up pursuant to any contract without payments being received in
eash should be stated separately.(iii) Where cirumstances permit, issued and
subscribed capital and amount called up may be shown as one item.e.g., Issued
and Subscribed Capital……………Shares of Rs………paid-up.(iv) In the case of banking
companies incorporated {Subs, ibid., for ” outside the States “.} [outside
India] the amount of deposit kept with the Reserve Bank of Indiaunder sub-
section (2) of section 11 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, should be shown
under this head, the amount however, should not be extended to the outer
column.{ Net loss on sale or revaluation of investments, gold and silver,
land, premises and other assets, if any, may be deducted from income.}(c)
Under this heading may be included such items as the following: pension or
insurance funds, advance payments and unexpired discounts, liabilities to
subsidiary companies and any other liabilities.(d) These should be classified
under the following categories:—(i) Claims against the banking company not
acknowledged as debts.(ii) Money for which the banking eompany is contingently
liable showing separately the amount of any guarantee given by the banking
company on behalf of directors or officers.(iii) Arrears of cumulative
preference dividends.(iv) Liability on bills of exchange re-discounted.(v)
Liability on account of outstanding Forward Exchange Contracts.{Net loss on
sale or revaluation of investments, gold and silver, land, premises and other
assets, if any, may be deducted from income.}(f) Where the value of the
investments shown in the outer column of the balance-sheet is higher than the
market value, the market value shall be shown separately in brackets.(ff)
Maximum total outstanding balance in all such accounts as a unit on any day
during the year should be given under this heading..(g) Premises wholly or
partly occupied by the banking company for the purposes of business should be
shown against ” Premises less depreciation “.In the ease of fixed capital
expenditure, the original cost, and additions thereto and deductions therefrom
during the year should be stated, as also the total depreciation written
off.Where sums have been written off on a reduction of capital or revaluation
of assets, every balance-sheet after the first balance-sheet subsequent to the
reduction or revaluation should show the reduced figures with the date and
amount of the reduction made.Furniture, fixtures and other assets which have
been completely written off need not be shown in the balance-sheet.(h) Under
this heading may be included such items as the following, which must be shown
under headings suitably described: preliminary, formation and organisation
expenses, development expenditure, commission and brokerage on shares,
interest accrued on investments but not collected,investments in shares of
subsidiary companies and any other assets.(i) Value shown shall not exceed the
market value and in cases where the market value is not ascertainable, the
estimated realisable value.

## The Third Schedule.

FORM BFORM OF PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTProfit and Loss Account for the year
ended DecemberEXPENDITURE * INCOME (LESS PROVISION MADE DURING THE YEAR FOR
BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS AND OTHER USUAL OR NECESSARY PROVISIONSInterest paid on
deposits, borrowings, etc. Interest and discountSalaries and allowances and
provident Fund {Certainwords omitted by Notifn. No. S.O. 3555, dated 17th
Commission, exchange and brokerage. RentDecember, 1963, Gazette of India,
1963, Pt. ll, Sec. 3 {Certain words omitted by Notifn. No. S.O.(ii)page
4323.}**** 3555, dated 17th December, 1963, Gazette ofIndia, 1963, Pt. ll,
Sec. 3 (ii) page 4323.}****Directors and Local Committee Members fees
andallowances Net profit on sale of investments, gold andProvident Fund
silver, land, premises and other assets (notRent, taxes, insurance, lighting
etc. credited to Reserves or any particular Fund orAccount)Law charges
;Postage telegrams and stamps. Net profit on revaluation of investments
goldAuditor’s fees and silver, land, premises and other assets (notcredited to
Reserves or any particular Fund orAccount)Depreciation on land and repairs to
the bankingcompany’s property Income from non-banking assets and profitfrom
sale of or dealing with such assets.Stationary, printing, advertisement,
etc.Loss from sale of or dealing with non-banking assets.Other
expenditureOther expenditureBalance of profitLoss (if any)__________Total
_____________________Total ___________* Net loss on sale or revaluation of
investments, gold and silver, land, premises and other assets, if any, may be
deducted from income.{Ins., ibid.} [ This Form shall be accompanied by a note
containing the following particulars namely ; –Particulars of remuneration
relating to managing director, manager or chief executive officer showing
separately all payments made or provided during the year in respect of each of
the following items and the total of all such items, namely:-(i) salaries(ii)
allowance(iii) sitting fees(iv) bonus(v) employer’s contribution to provident
fund, pension fund or any other superannuation fund.(vi) Payment by way of
gratuities, pensions or otherwise, in excess or the employer’s contributions
and interest thereon, and(vii) the monetary value of any other benefits or
perquisites.]

## THE FOURTH SCHEDULE

[Ins. by Act 52 of 1953, s. 12.][ See section 45D (2) ]LIST OF DEBTORS1\. The
official liquidator shall from time to time submit lists of debtors to the
High Court, each list being verified by an affidavit.2\. Every such list shall
contain the following particulars:—(a) names and addresses of the debtors;(b)
amount of debt due to the banking company by each debtor;(c) rate of interest,
if any, and the date up to which such interest has been calculated in the case
of each debtor;(d) description of papers, writings and documents, if any
relating to each debt;(e) relief or reliefs claimed against each debtor.3\.
(a) In every such list, the official liquidator shall distinguish between the
debts for which the banking company holds any security other than a personal
security and the debts for which no security or only a personal security is
given;(b) In the case of secured debts, particulars of the securities claimed
by the banking company, and whenever possible their estimated value, and the
names and addresses of person or persons, if any, having an interest in the
securities or the right of redemption therein;(c) In case the debt is
guaranteed by any person or persons, the name and address of the guarantor or
guarantors with particulars as to the extent to which the debt is guaranteed
and description of documents, papers or writings in support of such
guarantee.4\. If the debtor is adjudged insolvent either before or after he
has been included in any such list, but before such list is settled, the name
and address of the assignee or the receiver of his estate, as the case may be,
should be stated in, or added to, the list.5\. If the original debtor dies
either before or after he has been included in any such list, but before such
list is settled, there shall be substituted in his place the names and
addresses of his legal representatives as far as the official liquidator is
able to ascertain.]

