## Union of India - Act

## Bar Council Of India Rules

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Bar Council Of India Rules

## Rule BAR-COUNCIL-OF-INDIA-RULES of 1965

  * Published on 15 January 1965 
  * Commenced on 15 January 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 January 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Bar Council Of India Rules

### 300.

Rules made by the Bar Council of India in exercise of its rule-making powers
under the Advocates Act, 1961.

## Part I – DEFINITIONS

Definitions.- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act"
means the Advocates Act, 1961, as amended from time to time;(b)"Advocate"
means an Advocate entered in any roll under the provisions of the
Act;(c)"casual vacancy" means a vacancy caused otherwise than by the expiry of
the term;(d)"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Bar Council of
India;(e)"clear days" means that time is to be reckoned exclusive of both the
first and the last days.Illustration.-The election of members to a State
Council is fixed for the 15th January, 1965. Under the rules of the State
Council, ballot papers have to be dispatched 10 clear days before the date of
election. Consequently the last date for the of ballot papers will be 4th
January, 1965;(f)"Council" means the Bar Council of India;(g)"prescribed"
means prescribed by the rules;(h)"Rules" means the rules made by the
Council;(i)"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Bar Council of India and
includes any person howsoever designated and entrusted for the time being with
the duties of the Secretary;(j)"State Council" means a Bar Council constituted
under section 3 of the Act;(k)"Vice-Chairman" means the Vice-Chairman of the
Bar Council of India.

## Part II – Matters Relating To The Bar Council Of India

## Chapter I  
[Rules under section 15(2)(c), (d), (f) and (g) read with sections 4 and 10-B
of the Act]

A. ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL

### 1. Notice of every meeting of the Council and committees shall ordinarily
be sent by the Secretary not less than 15 days before the date of the meeting
except when the Chairman requires a meeting to be called on short notice on
grounds of urgency. If any five or more members of the Council require in
writing, a meeting to be called on short notice of not less than 10 days for
consideration of specified matters, the Secretary shall convene the meeting on
such date as requisitioned and the agenda for such meeting shall include
matters specified by such members. No proceeding shall be invalidated merely
on the ground that the rule relating to notice is not strictly complied with.

### 2.

(1)The notice and agenda for the first meeting of the State Council held after
the election of its members on the expiry of the term of its members elected
at the previous election under section 8 of the Act may include thee lection
of a member of the State Council to the Council under section 4(1)(c)of the
Act.(2)Every such election shall be held not later than 30 days after the
first meeting of the State Council after election under section 8 of the Act.

### 3. The election of a member of the Council shall be conducted by the
Secretary of the State Council who shall act as the Returning Officer.

### 4. A person elected as a member of the Council under section 4(1)(c) of
the Act shall cease to be such member-

(a)from the date when he ceases to be a member of the State Council as
mentioned in section 4(3)(ii) of the Act;(b)on the acceptance by the council
of his resignation.

### 5.

(1)In the case of a vacancy in the office of the member of the Council arising
for any reason mentioned in rule 4(a) of this Chapter or on account of death,
intimation of the vacancy shall be given by the Secretary of the state council
to the Secretary of the Council forthwith, and(2)The election to fill the
vacancy under rule 4(a) or (b) shall be held within 30days from the date of
the vacancy.

### 6.

(a)If the State Council does not take steps in time for the holding of the
election as referred to in these rules, and(b)in the case of a vacancy of the
member of the Council arising under section 10-B of the Act,the Secretary of
the Council shall call upon the concerned State Council requiring it to elect
its member to the Council within 30 days of such notice.

### 7. Every notice by the Secretary of the State Council fixing a date for
the election of a member to the Council under these rules shall be sent not
less than 15 clear days before the date fixed for the election. A copy of the
said notice shall be sent simultaneously to the Secretary of the Council.

### 8.

(1)The name of each candidate for the election shall be proposed by one member
and seconded by another member of the State Council at the meeting. No member
shall propose or second more than one name.(2)If only one candidate has been
duly nominated, the Returning Officer shall declare him elected.(3)Any
nominated candidate can withdraw before the voting takes place.(4)If the
number of candidates duly nominated is more than one, there shall bean
election by secret ballot. The Returning Officer shall provide voting papers
with the names of the candidates typed. Each voting paper shall bear the
signature of the Returning Officer.(5)A voter in giving his vote shall place
in his voting paper the mark "X"against the name of the candidate of his
choice.The voting paper shall not be signed by the voter and in the event of
any erasures, obliteration's or alterations in the voting papers, or of the
voting paper purporting to have been signed by the voter, the voting paper
shall be deemed to have been defaced and the vote purporting to have been
given thereby shall not be taken into account for the purposes of the
election. Subject to the provisions of rule 10, the decision of the Returning
Officer whether the voting paper has or has not been defaced shall be final.A
voting paper shall be invalid on which-(a)the mark "X" is not made, or(b)the
mark "X" is set opposite the name of more than one candidate or is so placed
as to render it doubtful to which candidate it is intended to apply, or(c)the
mark "X" and any other mark or figures are set opposite the name of the same
candidate, or(d)there is any mark in writing by which the voter can be
identified.(6)The Returning Officer shall count the valid votes immediately
after the close of voting in the presence of the candidates or their nominees
who may choose to be present.(7)The candidate securing the largest number of
votes shall be declared elected by the Returning Officer.In the case of two or
more candidates securing an equal number of votes, the Returning Officer shall
decide the election by drawing lots.(8)Immediately after the declaration of
the result, the Returning Officer shall put the ballot papers used for voting
in the election in a separate cover, have the cover closed and sealed with his
signature and that of all the contesting candidates if they desire to do
so.(9)The result of the election shall be communicated forthwith to the
Secretary of the Council and sent to the State Gazette or Gazettes concerned
for publication.

### 9.

(1)In case of a dispute arising out of the election, any of the contesting
candidates, or any other member of the State Council, may challenge the
election by a petition which shall be filed with, or despatched by registered
post to the Secretary of the Council within 10 clear days of declaration by
the Returning Officer of the result of the election as mentioned in rule 8(7).
The petitioner shall also send copies of the petition to all the contesting
candidates and to the Secretary of the State Council.(2)As soon as possible
after the receipt of the copy of the petition under sub-rule (1), the
Secretary of the State Council shall send the sealed cover containing the
ballot papers referred to in rule 8(8) above, and all other papers and records
relating to the election to the Secretary of the Council.

### 10.

(1)The Council may reject any petition received under rule 9 if, in its
opinion, there is no prima facie case.(2)If the Council is of the opinion that
there is a prima facie case, either the Council or a Committee of the Council
comprising not more than 3 members of the Council constituted therefor shall,
after hearing all the parties concerned, determine the said dispute.(3)The
Council, or the Committee, as the case may be, shall have all or any of the
following powers:-(a)to dismiss the petition;(b)to set aside the
election;(c)to declare any candidate as having been duly elected;(d)to order a
fresh election;and(e)to make an order as to costs.(4)A copy of the Order of
the Council or the Committee may be sent to the State Council.(5)The State
Council concerned shall cause such fresh election to be held as may be ordered
under sub-rule (3) of this rule.(6)The parties shall be entitled to obtain
copies of the order or the decision of the Council or of the Committee, as the
case may be, on payment of the charges, if any, prescribed therefor under the
rules of the Council. The Chairman of the Council or the President of the
Committee, as the case may be,may also permit copies of any other part of the
record of the enquiry to be furnished on payment of such charges as may be
prescribed during the pendency of the election petition.B. EXPIRY OF TERM OF
OFFICE OF CHAIRMAN, VICE-CHAIRMAN AND MEMBERS OF COMMITTEES OF THE COUNCIL

### 11. [

A member of the Council elected as Chairman or Vice-Chairman or member of any
Committee of the Council, shall cease to hold office as such Chairman,Vice-
Chairman or member of Committee on the expiry of his term as a member of the
Bar Council of India.][11-A.No member shall have the right to resign from the
membership of the Bar Council of India on grounds which are not considered
genuine or for the purpose of sharing the terms fixed by the Statute.]C.
ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN AND VICE-CHAIRMAN

### 12.

(1)(a)The election of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be held at a
meeting of the Council.(b)At every such meeting for the election of the
Chairman, the Vice-Chairman, if he is not a candidate,shall preside. In the
absence of the Vice-Chairman, a member of the Council who is not a candidate,
elected by the members present, shall preside.(c)In the case of the election
of the Vice-Chairman, the Chairman, or in his absence the Vice-Chairman, if he
is not a candidate, shall preside.In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice-
Chairman, any member of the Council who is not a candidate, elected by the
members present, shall preside.(d)(i)The name of the candidate for the
election shall be proposed by one member and seconded by another member at the
meeting.(ii)No member shall propose or second more than one name.(iii)If only
one member has been duly nominated, he shall be declared elected.(iv)Any
candidate nominated may withdraw before voting takes place.(e)If the number of
candidates duly nominated is more than one, there shall be an election by
secret ballot.(f)The Secretary shall provide voting papers with the names of
the candidates. Each voting paper shall bear the signature of the
Secretary.(g)A voter in giving his vote shall place on his voting paper a mark
"X"against the name of the candidate of his choice.The voting paper shall not
be signed by the voter and in the event of any erasures, obliterations or
alterations in the voting paper, or of the voting paper purporting to have
been signed by the voter, the voting paper shall be deemed to have been
defaced, and the vote purporting to have been given thereby shall not be taken
into account for the purposes of the election. The decision of the Chairman of
the meeting whether the voting paper has or has not been defaced shall be
final.A voting paper shall be invalid on which-(i)the mark "X" is not made,
or(ii)the mark "X" is set opposite the name of more than one candidate or is
so placed as to render it doubtful to which candidate it is intended to
apply,or(iii)the mark "X" and any other mark or figures are set opposite the
name of the same candidate, or(iv)there is any mark in writing by which the
voter can be identified.(v)The Secretary shall count the valid votes
immediately after the close of the voting.The member securing the largest
number of votes shall be declared elected. In the case of two or more members
securing an equal number of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall decide
the election by drawing lots.(2)[ The Chairman or the Vice-Chairman shall hold
office for a period of two years, or until his term of office as member of the
Bar Council of India ceases, whichever is earlier.](3)The Chairman or the
Vice-Chairman may resign his office by letter addressed to the Secretary of
the Council. Such resignation shall take effect from the date of the
acceptance thereof by the Council or from such other date as the Council may
fix:Provided that in the eventuality of mid-term poll of the office of the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman, the term shall be of the residuary term.

### 13. If the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman ceases to be a member of the
Council for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled up by election as far as
possible at the next meeting of the Council.

### 14. The result of the election of the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman shall
be sent forthwith to the Gazette of India for publication.

D. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CHAIRMAN AND VICE-CHAIRMAN

### 15. Save as otherwise provided in these rules, and subject to the
resolutions of the Council, the Chairman shall exercise general control and
supervision over the affairs of the Council.

### 16. He shall preside over the deliberations of the Council and of all
Committees of which he is a member.

q Save as otherwise decided at a meeting of the Council or the Committee, as
the case may be, he shall cause the meetings of the Council or the Committee
convened at such time as he may fix. He shall also settle the items for agenda
for the meetings of the Council.

### 18. He shall have power to pass interim orders in revisional and other
matters arising out of the supervisory jurisdiction of the Council.

### 19. He shall have power to punish any employee of the Council by way of
censure or reprimand and may initiate proceedings for suspension, removal or
dismissal.

### 20. He shall be the authority to sanction the disbursement of salaries of
the staff and to order payment of any bill outstanding against the Council.

### 21. The Vice-Chairman shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the
functions of the Chairman in his absence and under his direction.

### 22. [

On a motion of "No Confidence" being passed by Bar Council of India by a
Resolution passed by majority of not less than 3/4th of the Members present
and voting and such majority passing "No Confidence Motion" is more than 2/3rd
of the total number of members constituting the Bar Council for the time
being,the Chairman or Vice-Chairman or any other office bearer against whom
the motion is passed shall cease to hold office forthwith.Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Act or the rules made thereunder, the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman shall not preside over the meeting in which motion of"No
Confidence" is discussed against him and such meeting shall be convened on a
notice of at least one month. The Chairman or the Vice-Chairman shall have the
right to vote, speak or take part in the proceeding of the meeting.]

## Chapter II  
Meetings Of Council And Its Committees Other Than Those Of The Disciplinary
committees

[Rules under section 15(2)(h) and (j) of the Act]

### 1\. Notice of every meeting of the Council and the Committees shall
ordinarily be sent by the Secretary not less than 15 days before the date of
the meeting,except when the Chairman or any two members require a meeting to
be called on short notice on grounds of urgency. No proceedings shall be
invalidated merely on the ground that the rule relating to notice is not
strictly complied with.

### 2\. Notice of the meeting shall specify the time and place of the meeting
and shall contain the agenda fixed for the meeting.

### 3\. No member shall be entitled to bring forward for the consideration of
the meeting any matter of which he has not given ten days 'notice to the
Secretary,unless the Chairman, in his discretion, permits him to do so.

### 4\. The minutes of the previous meeting shall ordinarily be read and
recorded at the subsequent meeting.

### 5\. The quorum for the meeting of the Council shall be seven and for all
other Committees except the Executive Committee and the Legal Education
Committee,the quorum shall be two. The quorum for the Executive Committee and
the Legal Education Committee shall be four.

### 6\. If urgent action by the Council or by any Committee of the Council
other than a Disciplinary Committee becomes necessary, the Chairman of the
Council or of such Committee, as the case may be, may permit the business to
be transacted by circulation of papers to the members of the Council or the
Committee, as the case may be. The action proposed to be taken shall not be
taken unless agreed to by a majority of the members of the Council or the
Committee, as the case may be. The action so taken shall be forthwith
intimated to all the members of the Council or the Committee concerned. The
papers shall be placed before the next meeting of the Council or the Committee
concerned for confirmation.

### 7\. The Council or any Committee may adjourn from day to day or any
particular day, without further notice.

### 8\. A member shall address the chair when speaking at a meeting of the
Council and he shall be entitled to speak only once on each subject, unless
otherwise required or permitted by the Chairman to do so.

### 9\. Save as otherwise provided in these rules, the decision on any matter
shall be by majority, and in the case of equality of votes, the Chairman of
the meeting shall have a second or casting vote.

### 10\. No matter once decided shall be reconsidered for a period of three
months unless the Council by a two-third majority of the members present so
permits.

### 11\. Any Committee may refer for advice any matter to the Council.

### 12\. In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman at any meeting,
a member chosen by members present shall preside at the meeting.

## Chapter III  
Constitution, Functions And Procedure Of Committees Of The Bar Council Of
India

[Rules under sections 9, 9-A, 10 and 15(2)(i) and (j) of the Act]

### 1\. The Council may appoint from amongst its members, one or more
Committees as it may deem necessary, in addition to those specified in the Act
and delegate such powers, duties and functions to such Committees as it deems
fit.

### 2\. Any casual vacancy in the above Committees shall be filled up by the
Council.

### 3\. Save where the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman is a member of the
Committee or the Sub-Committee, the Committee or the Sub-Committee shall
choose its Chairman for the meeting, unless at the time of the constitution
thereof the name of the Chairman has been specified.

### 4\. Unless otherwise determined at the time of election, the term of the
members of the Committees of the Council shall be as follows:-

### 2\. years

(a)Executive Committee  
---  
(b) Disciplinary Committee | 3 years  
(c) Legal Education Committee | 4 years.  
(d) Legal Aid Committee | 2years.  
(e) Advocates Fund Committee | 2years.  
(f) Any other Committee not falling under the above 2 years. | 2 years.  
  
The Executive Committee

### 5\.

(1)The procedure for the election of the members of the Executive Committee
shall be by secret ballot and in accordance with the rules in so far as they
are applicable, laid down in rule 12, Chapter I, Part II.(2)A casual vacancy
in the Committee shall be filled up by election by the Council.(3)[ The
Committee shall elect its own Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The Chairman shall
preside over the deliberations of the Committee and in his absence the Vice-
Chairman shall preside.] [Sub-R. (3) amended w.e.f. 18.6.1997. ](4)The
Committee shall be the executive authority of the Council and shall be
responsible for giving effect to the resolutions of the Council. It shall have
powers-(a)to manage the funds of the Council;(b)to invest the funds of the
Council in the manner directed by the Council from time to time;(c)to grant
leave to members of the staff, other than casual leave;(d)to prescribe books
of account, registers and files for the proper management of the affairs of
the Council;(e)to appoint and supervise the work of the members of the staff
and prescribe their conditions of service;(f)to appoint auditors and fix their
remuneration;(g)to consider the annual audit report and place it before the
Council with its comments for its consideration;(h)to maintain a library and
under the directions of the Council publish any journal, treatise or pamphlets
on legal subjects;(i)to prepare and place before the Council, the annual
administration report and the statement of account;(j)to provide for proper
annual inspection of the office and its registers;(k)to authorise the
Secretary to incur expenditure within prescribed limits;(l)to fix travelling
and other allowances to members of the Committees of the Council, and to
members of the staff;(m)to delegate to the Chairman and/or the Vice-Chairman
any of its aforementioned powers;(n)to do all other things necessary for
discharging the aforesaid functions.The Legal Education Committee

### 6\.

(1)The procedure for the election of the Members of the Legal Education
Committee shall be by secret ballot, and in accordance with the rules, in so
far as they are applicable, laid down in rule 12, Chapter I, Part II.(2)The
names of the remaining five members of the Committee to be co-opted shall be
proposed and seconded by the members of the Council. In case more than five
persons are proposed they shall be chosen by a show of hands. If there is
equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a casting vote.

### 7\. A casual vacancy in the Committee shall be filled in by the Council
from amongst its members or non-members as the case may be, in the manner
specified in rule 6 above.

### 8\. The Committee shall have the following powers and duties:-

(a)to make its recommendations to the Council for laying down the standards of
legal education for the Universities;(b)to visit and inspect Universities and
report the results to the Council;(c)to recommend to the Council the
conditions, if any, subject to which foreign qualifications in law obtained by
persons other than citizens of India may be recognised for admission as
Advocates under the Act;(d)(i)to recommend to the Council for recognition of
any degree in law of any University in the territory of India under section
24(1)(c)(iii) of the Act, and(ii)to recommend the discontinuance of any
recognition already made by the Council.The Disciplinary Committee

### 9\.

(1)The procedure for the election or co-option of the members of the
Disciplinary Committee shall be by secret ballot and in accordance with the
rules, in so far as they are applicable, as laid down in rule 12, Chapter I,
Part II.(2)Any casual vacancy shall be filled in by the Council by election or
co-option from amongst its members or non-members, as the case may be.(3)The
Chairman or the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee shall assign and
allocate all matters relating to the Disciplinary Committees amongst them if
more than one such Committee is constituted or is in existence.(4)[ In case of
the absence of a Bar Council of India 's member during the sitting of the
Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India, the remaining two members
of the said Committee may request any available Bar Council of India member to
fill the vacancy caused by such absence and in case of the absence of a co-
opted member of a Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India, the
other two members may make similar request to any other available co-opted
member of a Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India and the
Committee so constituted shall be deemed to be a Committee constituted under
this rule for the purpose of that meeting and shall have all the powers of a
Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India.] [Sub-R. (4) added by
Resolution No. 54/1996, dated 2.6.1996 (w.e.f. 2.6.1996). ]

### 10\. For the purpose of determining the senior-most member of a
Disciplinary Committee under section 9 of the Advocates Act, 1961, the
seniority-

(i)of a Senior Advocate, and(ii)of an Advocate of the Supreme Court enrolled
before 1st December, 1961, shall be determined in accordance with the date of
his enrolment under the Bar Councils Act, 1926.

### 11\.

Election of Representatives .-The procedure for electing its representative to
the Press Council of India under Press Council Act, 1965, or for electing any
other representative or representatives by or from amongst its members to any
other statutory body by virtue of any special power conferred under any other
enactment or for any other election by the Council provided that any member so
requires, shall be in accordance with the same procedure and shall in so far
as it may be applicable, be as laid down in rule 12, Chapter I, Part
II.[CHAPTER IV [Chapter IV in Part II amended w.e.f. 1.4.1997. ]
Qualifications And Conditions Of Service Of The Secretary, Accountant And
Other members Of The Staff[Rules under-section 15(2)(k) of the Act]BAR COUNCIL
OF INDIA EMPLOYEES SERVICE RULES, 1997

### 1\. These rules shall be called "Bar Council of India Employees Service
Rules,1997" .

### 2\. These rules shall come into force from the date to be specified by the
Executive Committee.

### 3\. Under the rules, the appointing authority shall mean Executive
Committee of the Bar Council of India except in the case of Secretary as
provided in Chapter-III, rule 5(4)(e) of the Bar Council of India Rules.

### 4\. The qualifications and conditions of service of the Secretary,
Accountant and other members of staff are those as specified in Schedule I to
these rules.

### 5\. Recruitment shall be by direct appointment/promotion of the employees
in the Bar Council of India as provided in the First Schedule to these rules.

### 6\. That for the purpose of direct recruitment, vacancies shall be
advertised in atleast one daily newspaper.

### 7\. That recruitment/promotion to the post shall only be made in the case
of vacancy.

### 8\. That for recruitment/promotion a person must possess qualifications as
provided in Schedule I to these rules.

### 9\. In case it is not possible to find eligible person for promotional
post it may be filled by direct recruitment but the person must possess
eligibility criteria as prescribed under Schedule I.

### 10\. That for the recruitment to the service of the Bar Council of India
the incumbent 's minimum age shall not less than 21 years and not more than
35years on the date of appointment except for the posts of Secretary and
Accountant.

### 11\. The Secretary, the Accountant and other members of the staff shall
retire on attaining the age of 60 years provided that in case the Executive
Committee so recommends and the Council approves, they may be given extension
for a period not exceeding two years.

[Explanation.-An employee of the Council shall retire on the forenoon of the
last day of the month in which he attains the prescribed age of
superannuation.However, an employee whose date of birth is the first of a
month, shall retire on the afternoon of the last day of the preceding month.]

### 12\. (i) That promotion shall be made on the basis of seniority-cum-merit
upto grades of Assistants.

(ii)For the post of Office Superintendent, other equivalent posts and the
other posts in Schedule, the consideration shall be made on the basis of
merit-cum-seniority.

### 13\. That it shall be necessary to maintain annual confidential records of
all employees of the Bar Council of India. The annual confidential records of
the Secretary shall be maintained by the Chairman and records of all other
employees shall be maintained by the Secretary who shall place it with his
remarks before the Chairman of the Bar Council of India annually and if a
person is aggrieved by any adverse communication of remark, he can file an
appeal before the Executive Committee of the Bar Council of India.

### 14\. That the post of Chowkidar/Peon/Gardener and Guest Room Attendant
shall be inter-changeable regardless of their appointment.

### 15\. The pay scale and allowances of the employees and other conditions of
the service shall be as determined by the Executive Committee and approved by
the Bar Council of India.

### 16\. (i) The pay scales of the Secretary and members of staff are those as
specified in Schedule II to these rules.

(ii)The Secretary and other permanent members of the staff shall be entitled
to dearness allowance, house rent allowance and city compensatory allowance at
the rate as may be determined from time to time by the Executive Committee and
approved by the Bar Council of India.

### 17. All the permanent employees of the Council shall be entitled to the
benefit of provident fund and gratuity in accordance with the rules framed by
the Executive Committee and approved by the Bar Council of India.

### 18\. That strength of posts in the Bar Council of India shall be as
specified in the Second Schedule to the rules.

### 19\. The posts re-designated shall cease to exist. The post not mentioned
in Schedule II shall also cease to exist as soon as the employees holding the
post demits the office.

### 20\.

(1)That an employee of the Bar Council of India may be placed under suspension
if any departmental enquiry is pending or is contemplated against him/her or
he/she is involved in any criminal case involving moral turpitude during the
course of enquiry for trial.(2)An employee shall be entitled for substantive
allowance of 50% of his basic pay and allowance during the period of
suspension and it shall be for the disciplinary authority to pass order on
conclusion of enquiry or trial whether an employee is entitled for payment of
full salary for the period he has remained under suspension.(3)The authority
which made the order of suspension shall be competent to increase the amount
of subsistence allowance by a suitable amount not exceeding50% of the
subsistence allowance admissible during the period if the period of suspension
has been prolonged due to the reasons to be recorded in writing not directly
attributable to the Council employees.(4)The amount of subsistence allowance
may be reduced by suitable amount not exceeding 50% of the subsistence
allowance if the period of suspension has been prolonged due to the reasons to
be recorded in writing, directly attributable to the Council employee.]

## Chapter V  
Rules Relating To Finance

[Rules under-section 15(2)(l), (m) and (n) of the Act]

### 1\. All monies received on behalf of the Council shall be acknowledged by
a receipt signed by the Secretary or any other person authorised by the
Executive Committee. Amounts received shall be credited into the account of
the Council in the Bank on the next working day of the Bank.

### 2\. The books of account and registers shall be strongly bound and paged.
On the1st or title page, the number of pages of the book or the register shall
be entered and the entry shall be signed by the Secretary. Corrections in the
entries shall be made in red ink and attested by the Accountant. Erasures
shall on no account be permitted.

### 3\. Receipt forms shall be numbered consecutively and bound into books of
50 or100 forms each. On the front page of each book shall be entered the first
and the last number of the receipts in that book be so certified by the
Secretary. Receipts shall be in triplicate. The third part shall remain in the
book and the second part shall be kept for the record. And the first part
shall be given to the payee. All receipts shall be signed by the Secretary or
by such person as the Council may direct.

### 4\. Payments of Rs. 50 and over shall ordinarily be by cheque.

### 5\. Bills presented for payment shall be examined by the Accountant and on
his being satisfied that the claim is admissible, and the payment is duly
authorised by the Secretary, the Accountant shall pay the amount against a
receipt. The entry in the account book shall show if the payment is made by
cash or by cheque. The bill and the relevant receipt shall be pasted together
and shall be numbered consecutively in the year as payment voucher and shall
be pasted in the bound book.

### 6\. Salary bills shall be in such form as the Executive Committee may
direct.

### 7\. A bill presented for payment three months after the money becomes due
shall not be paid without sanction of the Executive Committee.

### 8\. The Executive Committee may fix the amount of a permanent advance to
be made to the Secretary and the Accountant, as the case may be.

### 9\. The Accountant shall maintain an acquittance register in the following
form/or in such other form as the auditor may direct:-

DesignationPayDearness allowances,etcTotal salary (add Cols.3 and
4)Contribution towards provident fundNet salary payable (Col.5 minus
6)Instalment amount towards provident fund loan takenAmount of interest
payable on the principal loan amount outstandingTotalSignature with date.

Name  
---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
  
### 10\. All monies received and spent shall be immediately brought into
account in the cash book and ledger. The cash book shall be balanced at the
close of every month and signed by the Secretary and the Accountant.

[10-A. The Bar Council of India shall have power to borrow money from any Bank
or other Financial Institution or others for the purposes of acquiring or
construction of any property or building on a specific authorisation of the
Bar Council of India.

### 10\.

-B. That for the purpose of borrowing, the Bar Council of India may authorise any officer or office bearer to sign necessary documents.] [Rr. 10-A and 10-B came into force w.e.f. 11.2.1990. ][10-C. The Bar Council of India shall have power to mortgage property belonging to the Council for the purpose of taking loans from Banks and other Financial Institutions.] [R.10-C came into force w.e.f. 22.4.1990. ]

### 11\.

(1)(i)The Chairman, (ii) the Vice-Chairman, or (iii) any other person
authorised by the Council, shall be entitled to incur expenditure sanctioned
in the budget without any further authority.(2)The Chairman and/or the Vice-
Chairman or any other person authorised by the Council, shall have authority
to spend or incur expenditure of an emergent nature not provided for in the
budget not exceeding Rs. 2,000 a month for the purpose of the Council.

### 12\. The Chairman and/or the Vice-Chairman shall be the authority to
sanction travelling allowance and daily allowance bills of the members.

### 13\. The accounts of the Council shall be audited once a year.

### 14\. The annual statement of income and expenditure of the year so audited
shall be laid before the Executive Committee not later than the 31st July each
year.

### 15\. The funds of the Council may be invested as follows:-

(i)in the State Bank of India or such other nationalised bank as the Council
may decide;(ii)in any of the securities specified in section 20 of the Indian
Trusts Act, 1882, as the Council may decide;(iii)[ in Fixed Deposits with
Government companies as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).] [Sub-
Clause (iii) added w.e.f. 23.1.1982. ]

### 16\. Budget estimates of Income and Expenditure for the coming year shall
be made by the Executive Committee and laid before the Council for approval
before the 31st March every year.

### 17\.

(1)All cheques other than those mentioned in sub-rule (2) shall be signed or
endorsed and all bills, notes or other negotiable instruments shall be drawn,
accepted or made on behalf of the Council by two persons, viz ., (i) by the
Chairman or the Vice-Chairman of the Council and in their absence by such
other members as may be authorised by the Council in that behalf, and (ii) the
Secretary, and in his absence the Joint or Assistant Secretary, if any,
authorised by the Council.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 11,
Chapter V, Part II, the Council may by resolution open a separate Savings Bank
Account in any Bank specified by it or in a Post Office to be operated by the
Secretary of the Council.

### 18\. All monies and securities belonging to the Council shall stand in the
name of the Council.

### 19\. The Council shall open a Provident Fund account in a Bank authorised
by the Council in accordance with the Provident Fund Rules.

## Chapter VI  
Publication Of Rules And Other Information And Date Of Coming Into Force Of
The rules

A. MISCELLANEOUS[Rules under-sections 7(m) and 49(j) of the Act]

### 1\. Unless the Council otherwise directs, all rules of the Council shall
come into force on the date of their publication in the Gazette of India.

### 2\. Information, interalia, on the following matters shall, unless the
Council determines otherwise, be communicated to all the State Councils:-

(i)Election of Chairman, Vice-Chairman.(ii)Order of the Council under proviso
to section 26(1) of the Act, removal of name under section 26-A of the Act and
orders on matters dealt with under-sections 48-A and 48-B of the Act as are
approved by the Council for communication.(iii)Consent expressed under section
27 of the Act to the enrolment of a person whose application on a former
occasion had been refused by a State Council.(iv)Decisions of the Council
relating to recognition of degrees referred to in section 24(1)(c)(iii),
(iii-a) or (iv) of the Act.(v)Decisions of the Council or its Committees on
election disputes under rules 10 of the rules in Chapter I, Part II of these
rules.

### 3\. Subject to such directions, specific or general, as may be given by
the Council, the Secretary shall send to all the State Bar Councils copies of
all final orders of the Disciplinary Committees of the Bar Council of India
made under sections 36, 36-B and 37 of the Act.

### 4\. Subject to such directions, specific or general, as may be given by
the Council, the Secretary of the Council may furnish certified copies of the
orders mentioned in rule 3 on payment of the charge of Re. 1 after deleting
the name of the Advocate against whom the enquiry is made for publication in
any legal journal or to any Bar Association as may apply therefor:

Provided that copies of the orders mentioned in this rule shall not be
issued(a) where an appeal has been filed in the Supreme Court, before the
disposal of the appeal, and (b) where no such appeal has been preferred to the
Supreme Court, before the expiry of the period of limitation for filing the
appeal.

### 5\. Whenever any disciplinary action is taken or confirmed by the
Disciplinary Committee or the Council, as the case may be, against an
Advocate, information there of shall be communicated by reference to the name
and number of the roll of the Advocates and the date of the enrolment to the
following:-

All the State Bar Councils, through the State Bar Council where the Advocate
was practising, the High Court, the District Courts, and such Bar Association
as the said State Bar Council may deem fit.B. INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND COPIES

### 6\.

(1)Save as otherwise directed by the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman of the
Council or the Chairman of the Committee concerned, as the case may
be,inspection of any of the records in any proceedings of a judicial nature of
the Council or of its Committees other than those of a Disciplinary Committee
maybe permitted to the parties or their counsel, on any working day except
during the summer or other vacations of the Supreme Court on presentation to
the Secretary of an application duly signed by the applicant or his
counsel.(2)An application for inspection shall be accompanied by the fees
prescribed therefor in cash. The Secretary may permit the inspection in his
presence or in the presence of any member of the staff authorised by him. The
person inspecting shall not be entitled to make copies of the records of which
inspection is permitted. He shall, however, be permitted to make short notes
in pencil.(3)Save as otherwise directed by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of
the Council or the Chairman of the Committee concerned, as the case may be,
certified copies of the records of a proceeding of a judicial nature of the
Council or of its Committees, as the case may be, may be granted to the
parties or to their counsel on an application made in that behalf and on
payment in cash of the prescribed fees.

## Chapter VII  
Proceedings For Removal Of Name From Roll Under Proviso To Section 26(1) Of
The act

### 1\. Whenever a State Council, or any Committee duly authorised by the
State Council has credible information from any source whatever that an
Advocate on the roll of the State Council has obtained his enrolment under
circumstances which, if established, will render his name liable to be removed
by the Council under the proviso to section 26(1) of the Act, it shall be the
duty of the State Council or the said Committee to enquire into the matter and
report its findings to the Council.

In holding such enquiry the Council or the Committee shall hear the Advocate
concerned and otherwise follow the principles of natural justice.

### 2\. In disposing of any proceedings under the said proviso, whether
instituted on a report under rule 1 or otherwise, the Council may, if it
considers it just and expedient, cause an enquiry into disputed questions of
fact to be made by any State Council or Committee thereof or any other
Committee consisting of one or more persons it may deem fit. The State Council
or the Committee, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure mentioned in
rule 1.

## Chapter VIII  
Additional Qualification For Enrolment As Advocates

Any person who has held office as a Judge of any High Court in India may on
retirement, be admitted as an Advocate on the roll of any State Council where
he is eligible to practise.

## Chapter IX  
Revision Under Section 48-A Of The Act

### 1\.

(1)An application for revision shall be in the form of a petition duly signed
setting out the necessary facts, and shall be accompanied by the copy of the
order in respect of which the revision is filed, giving the address of the
petitioner and the respondent or respondents. It shall be supported by an
affidavit and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee which is payable in
cash or could be sent by M.O. The applicant shall file at least 5 more copies
of the petition and affidavit, and if there is more than one respondent as
many additional copies as are necessary to serve the other respondents.He
shall file translations in English of such of the papers as may be necessary
for reference at the time of hearing.(2)No application for revision shall
ordinarily be entertained after 90 days from the date of the order complained
of.

### 2\.

(1)If the revision petition is in order, the papers shall be called for and
the Council, or a Committee of the Council constituted or authorised in this
behalf, may direct notice to the respondent. The papers shall not, however, be
called for unless so directed by the Council for revision petition against an
order of the Disciplinary Committee.(2)If the Council or the Committee
considers that there are no merits in the revision petition, opportunity shall
be given to the petitioner to appear before the Council in support of the
petition.

### 3\. The Council may, after hearing the petitioner, direct notice to the
respondent or dismiss the petition, as it may consider fit.

### 4\. Upon notice being issued under the above rules after giving reasonable
opportunity of hearing to the parties, the Council may pass such order on the
revision petition as it deems proper.

### 5\. Unless the Council otherwise specially directs, the petitioner and the
respondent may appear by Advocates, who shall file a vakalatnama signed by the
party.

### 6\. A copy of the order on the revision shall be sent to the parties.

## Chapter X  
Application For Review Under Section 48-Aa Of The Act

### 1\.

(1)An application for review made under section 48-AA of the Act shall set out
the necessary facts and the grounds for review and be accompanied by an
affidavit and the fee prescribed under these rules.(2)A true copy of the order
shall be filed alongwith the application.(3)If the application for review
received is in order, the Council may direct the issue of notice to the
petitioner and such other person as it may consider necessary.(4)A copy of the
order on the review application shall be sent free of charge to the petitioner
and the other party, if any.(5)Save as otherwise directed, the parties to whom
notice has been issued may appear in person or by Advocate or through
authorised agent and if any of the parties fail to appear pursuant to the
notice issued on any date of hearing,the Council may dispose of the
application in such manner as it may think fit.

### 2\. The procedure prescribed in the above rules in this Chapter shall
apply to the extent to which they are applicable when the Council acts of its
own motion.

## Chapter XI  
Orders Of The Bar Council Of India

### 1\. Every decision of the Council under the proviso to section 26(1) or
under-section 48-A or under any other provisions of the Act shall be signed by
the Chairman of the meeting at which the said decision was taken or if so
authorised by any other member or the Secretary on behalf of the Council.

### 2\. The Secretary shall send to the party or parties concerned, a copy of
the order free of charges.

## Part III – CERTAIN MATTERS RELATING TO STATE COUNCIL

## Chapter I  
Electoral Roll, Disqualification Of Membership And Vacation Of Office

[Rules under-sections 3(4), 10-B, 15(2)(a) and 49(1)(a) and (ab) of the Act]

### 1\. Every Advocate whose name is on the Electoral Roll of the State
Council shall be entitled to vote at an election.

### 2\. The name of an Advocate appearing in the State Roll shall not be on
the Electoral Roll, if on information received or obtained by the State Bar
Council concerned on the basis of which it is satisfied that-

(a)his name has at any time been removed;(b)he has been suspended from
practice, provided that his disqualification shall operate only for a period
of five years from the date of the expiry of the period of suspension;(c)he is
an undischarged insolvent;(d)he has been found guilty of an election offence
in regard to an election to the State Council by an election tribunal,
provided, however, that such disqualification shall not operate beyond the
election next following after such finding has been made;(e)he is convicted by
a competent Court for an offence involving moral turpitude, provided that this
disqualification shall cease to have effect aftera period of two years has
elapsed since his release;(f)he is in full-time service or is in such part-
time business or other vocation not permitted in the case of practising
Advocates by the rules either of the State Council concerned or the
Council;(g)he has intimated voluntary suspension of practice and has not given
intimation of resumption of practice;(h)[ he has not paid the subscription
under rule 40, Chapter II, Part VI of the rules and obtained receipt from the
State Bar Council; [Sub-Cls. (h) and (i) came into force w.e.f. August, 1997
vide Resolution No. 10/97. ](i)he has incurred any disqualification mentioned
in the Act or the rules made thereunder.]Explanation.-If an Advocate who has
incurred any disqualification as referred to in rule 2 and does not furnish
details about it as required in the notice under rule 4 of these rules within
the time specified, shall be deemed to have committed an act of other
misconduct as referred to in section 35(1) of the Act.

### 3\. Subject to the provisions of rule 2, the name of every Advocate
entered in the State Roll shall be entered in the Electoral Roll of the State
Council.

### 4\.

(1)In preparing the Electoral Roll, unless the State Bar Council concerned is
already maintaining a list of Advocates who are entitled to be voters in terms
of rule 2 of these rules, at least 150 days before the date of election, shall
publish notice issued by the Secretary of the State Bar Council concerned in
prescribed form in the Official Gazette and in two or more local
newspapers,one in English and the other in a local language, as may be decided
by the State Bar Council, asking each of the Advocates on the Roll of the
concerned State Bar Council to intimate the State Bar Council within the time
to be specified in the said notice or within such extended time as may be
given/allowed by the State Bar Council for reasons to be recorded, as to
whether he has incurred any disqualification mentioned in rule 2 of these
rules and quote rule 2 of these rules in said notice.(2)A preliminary
Electoral Roll containing the names of all Advocates whose names are required
to be included under these rules shall be put up on the notice board of the
State Council within 120 clear days before the expiry of the term of the
members of the said State Council necessitating the election(and relevant
portion thereof shall be sent to such Bar Associations as the Secretary
considers fit):Provided that the Bar Councils whose term of the office already
expired or shall expire within 120 days from the date of commencement of these
rules shall, as far as possible, publish the Electoral Roll forthwith and fix
the elections for a date after not less than 120 clear days from the date of
publication of the Electoral Rolls.(3)Before final publication of the
Electoral Roll, a State Bar Council may, if satisfied, on an application made
by any particular Advocate giving sufficient reasons, allow his name to be
included in the Electoral Roll in question, and on such inclusion the Advocate
concerned shall be entitled to take part in the election.

### 5\. The final Electoral Roll shall be prepared after incorporating such
changes as may be necessary including the addition of the names of Advocates
enrolled after the preparation of the preliminary roll and put up on the
notice board of the State Council not more than 75 clear days and not less
than 60 clear days before the date of election. (Intimation of such
publication shall be given within a week after the publication to the Bar
Association aforesaid).

Revision of Electoral Roll

### 6\. If for any reason the election to the State Council is postponed
beyond the date of expiry of the term of its members, the preliminary or the
final Electoral Roll shall be revised so as to include therein the names of
Advocates enrolled up to 75clear days before the date of the election.

Particulars to be maintained in the Electoral Roll

### 7\. The Electoral Roll of the State Council shall, inter alia, contain the
following particulars:-

(i)serial number,(ii)number on the State Roll,(iii)name of Advocates as on the
roll, and(iv)address of the Advocates.Disqualification for being a candidate
in the Election

### 8\. The nomination of any person who at the date of scrutiny thereof is
subject to any of the disqualifications referred to in rule 2, shall be
rejected.

Application of these rules:

### 9\. These rules shall govern elections of all State Bar Councils to be
held after these rules are enforced, and all State Bar Councils holding the
elections of their members shall prepare their Electoral Rolls in terms of
these rules.

### 10\. An elected member of the State Council shall be deemed to have
vacated his office-

(a)if he is suspended from practice, or his name is removed from the roll by
an order of a competent authority, or for any reason whatsoever he ceases to
bean Advocate,(b)if he is adjudicated as an insolvent, or(c)if his name is
transferred to the roll of another State Council.

### 11\. [ No election shall be called in question for any non-compliance of
the provisions of the Act or of any rules made thereunder unless the results
of the election in so far as it concerns a returned candidate or candidates
have been materially affected.] [Added w.e.f. 2.5.1981. ]

## Chapter II  
Rules To Secure At Least A Minimum Number Of Advocates Of 10 Years 'standing

[Rules under-section 3(2)(b) and proviso, sections 3(5) and 49(1)(ac) of the
Act]

### 1\. (a) These rules shall apply to the election of members of all the
State Councils in India.

(b)In the case of any repugnancy between these rules and any rule or rules of
any of the State Councils, these rules shall prevail and the rules framed by
the State Councils shall be void to the extent of such repugnancy.

### 2\. The elections of members of the State Councils shall be in conformity
with the proviso to section 3(2) of the Act and these rules.

### 3\. There shall be no limit to the number of candidates on the State Rolls
for at least 10 years that could be declared elected under these rules.

### 4\. In the case of an election by a State Council for electing all the
members specified in section 3(2)(b) of the Act, the following procedure shall
be adopted in the counting of votes:-

Election of candidates with quota(A)If,at the end of any count, or at the end
of the transfer of any parcel or sub-parcel of an excluded candidate the value
of the voting papers credited to a candidate is equal to or greater than the
quota, then, he shall be declared elected:Provided that-(i)No candidate whose
name has not been on the State Roll for at least 10years shall be elected
under section 3(2)(b) and the proviso thereto of the Act-(a)if 7 candidates of
less than 10 years 'standing in the case of a State Council where 15 members
are to be elected, have been declared elected; or(b)if 10 candidates of less
than 10 years 'standing in the case of a State Council where 20 members are to
be elected, have been declared elected; or(c)if 12 candidates of less than 10
years 'standing in the case of a State Council where 25 members are to be
elected, have been declared elected.(ii)If at the end of any count, there are
two or more candidates, who have not been on the State Rolls for at least 10
years, getting more than the quota as aforesaid, but the number of candidates
that can yet be elected from such category under the proviso to section
3(2)(b) is less than that number, the candidate who has obtained the greater
value of votes shall be declared elected in preference to the candidate whose
value of votes is less.(iii)In the case of two or more persons of the category
referred to in proviso(ii) above, getting the same value of votes at the end
of any count, the Secretary or other Returning Officer conducting the election
shall decide by lot which of such persons shall be declared elected.(iv)The
other candidate or candidates not declared elected as aforesaid by reason of
the proviso to section 3(2)(b) of the Act and these rules shall be excluded
from the poll as provided in rule 4(b) of these rules.Exclusion of candidates
lowest on poll or who have been on rolls for less than 10 years(B)(1) The
Secretary or Returning Officer conducting the election shall exclude from the
poll-(i)when there are two or more candidates who have obtained more than the
quota the candidate who cannot be declared elected under proviso (i) to rule
4(a) of these rules;(ii)the candidates lowest in the poll in the following
order, after all the surpluses have been transferred as provided in the rules
of the State Council with regard to transfer of surplus and the number of
candidates elected is less than the required number and after the exclusion
from the poll, if any, under sub-clauses (i) of this sub-rule.First such
candidates whose names are on the State Roll for less than 10 years,if the
number of such candidates declared elected as provided for in these rules-(a)7
in the case of a State Council where in all 15 members have to be elected;
or(b)10 in the case of a State Council where in all20 members have to be
elected; or(c)12 in the case of a State Council where in all 25 members have
to be elected;Next the other candidatesIllustration No. 1 .- At an election to
a State Council where under the Act and these rules, the total number of
elected members is 20,300 is arrived at as the quota. At the end of account,
when there is no further surplus to be distributed, M and N are the contesting
candidates.M whose name has not been on the State Rolls for at least 10 years
gets 150, andN whose name has been on the State Rolls for more than 10 years
gets 100.Only 9 candidates whose names have been on State Rolls for at least
10 year shave already been declared elected. Hence, M has to be excluded and
the voting papers of M will be there after transferred as provided in these
rules.If in the same case, 10 candidates whose names have been on a State Roll
for not less than 10 years had already been declared elected, N will be
excluded. The voting papers of Nwill be transferred as provided in these
rules.Illustration No. 2 .-At an election to a State Council where under the
Act and these rules, the total number of elected members is 15,300 is arrived
at as the quota. At the end of account, when there is no further surplus to be
distributed, M and N are the contesting candidates.M whose name has not been
on the State Rolls for at least 10 years gets 100.N whose name has been on the
State Rolls for more than 10 years gets 100.Only 7 candidates whose names have
been on a State Roll for at least 10 years have already been declared elected.
Hence, M has to be excluded and the voting papers of M will be thereafter
transferred as provided in these rules.If in the same case, 8 candidates whose
names have been on a State Roll for not less than 10 years had already been
declared elected, N will be excluded. The voting papers of Nwill be
transferred as provided in these rules.Illustration No. 3 .-At an election to
a State Council where under the Act and these rules, the total number of
elected members is 25,300 is arrived at as the quota. At the end of account,
when there is no further surplus to be distributed, M and N are the contesting
candidates.M whose name has not been on the State Rolls for at least 10 years
gets 150, andN whose name has been on the State Rolls for more than 10 years
gets 100.Only 12 candidates whose names have been on a State Roll for at least
10 years have already been declared elected. Hence, M has to be excluded and
the voting papers of M will be thereafter transferred as provided in these
rules.If in the same case, 13 candidates whose names have been on a State Roll
for not less than 10 years had already been declared elected, N will be
excluded. The voting papers of Nwill be transferred as provided in these
rules.(2)(i)The Secretary or other Returning Officer shall distribute the
unexhausted papers of the candidates excluded under these rules among the
continuing candidates according to the next preference recorded therein and
all exhausted papers shall be set apart as finally dealt with.(ii)The papers
containing original votes of an excluded candidate shall first be transferred,
the transfer value of each paper being one hundred.(iii)The papers containing
votes of an excluded candidate shall then be transferred in the order of the
transfers in which and at the value at which he obtained them.(iv)Each of such
transfers shall be deemed to be a separate transfer, but not a separate
count.(v)If, as a result of the transfer of papers, the value of the votes
obtained by a candidate is equal to or greater than the quota, the counting
then proceeding shall be completed, but no further papers shall be transferred
to him.(vi)The process directed by this rule shall be repeated on the
successive exclusion one after another of the candidates lowest on the poll
until such seat is filled either by the election of a candidate with the quota
or as otherwise provided in these rules.(vii)If at any time it becomes
necessary to exclude a candidate and two or more candidates have the same
value of votes and are the lowest on the poll,regard shall be had to the
original votes of each candidate and the candidate for whom fewest original
votes are recorded, and if the values of their original votes are equal, the
candidate with the smallest value at the earlier count at which these
candidates had unequal votes shall be excluded.(viii)If two or more candidates
are lowest on the poll and each has the same value of votes at all counts, the
Returning Officer shall decide by lot which candidate shall be excluded.(ix)If
during a count, any candidate getting the quota or more has to be excluded by
reason of rule 4(a) above, the transfer of his votes shall be deferred and
made immediately after the other candidate having got the above quota in that
count are declared, and their votes transferred as provided for in these
rules.Filling last vacancies(C)(1)When at the end of any count the number of
the continuing candidates is reduced to the number of seats remaining
unfilled, the continuing candidate shall be declared elected subject to the
following:-If the total number of candidates so far declared elected from
amongst the Advocates whose names have been on the State Roll for at least 10
years at the relevant date is less than-(i)8 in the case of a State Council
where 15 members are to be elected, or(ii)10 in the case of a State Council
where 20 members are to be elected, or(iii)13 in the case of the State Council
where 25 members are to be elected,then, the requisite number of candidates of
such standing shall first be declared elected and only the balance from
amongst other candidates shall be declared elected.(2)When at the end of any
count only one seat remains unfilled and the value of the papers of some one
candidate exceeds the total value of the papers of all the other continuing
candidates together with any surplus not transferred,that candidate shall be
declared elected. Such candidate shall not, however, be declared elected if he
has been on the State Roll for less than 10 years and if the total number of
candidates so far declared from amongst Advocates on the State Roll for at
least 10 years as provided in these rules is less than 8 or10 or 13 as
aforesaid, as the case may be.(3)When at the end of any count only one seat
remains unfilled and there are only 2 continuing candidates, and each of them
has the same value of votes and no surplus papers can be transferred, the
Returning Officer shall decide by lot which of them shall be excluded, and,
after excluding him in the manner aforesaid, declare the other candidate to be
elected:Provided that if the total number of candidates who have been on the
State Roll for at least 10 years on the relevant date so far elected is less
than the required number, then that candidate who will be on that State Roll
for atleast 10 years shall be declared elected and the other candidate shall
be excluded.Filling up vacancies or co-option(4)In the case of any election to
fill vacancy amongst the members of the State Council, or while co-opting a
member, the State Council shall conform to the requirement of section 3(2)(b)
of the Act, and the principles laid down in these rules.Particulars regarding
seats to be filled(5)In the case of every election of members of a State
Council, the State Council shall-(a)notify the minimum number of seats that
should be filled up from amongst Advocates who, on the relevant date, will be
Advocates on a State Roll for atleast 10 years;(b)require every candidate to
specify in his nomination paper the date of his enrolment and the period for
which his name had been on the roll of one or more High Courts under the
Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926, and the roll or rolls of State Councils under
the Advocates Act, 1961 with full particulars thereof;(c)indicate on the
voting paper which of the candidates have been on a State Roll for at least 10
years as required:Provided that this rule shall not be applicable to any
election held by any State Council before these rules have come into
force.Computation of period(6)For the purpose of computing the minimum period
of 10 years provided for in the proviso to section 3(2)(b) of the Act, and
these rules:-(i)the period during which an Advocate may have been on the roll
of any other State Council or Councils or the roll of any High Court or High
Court sunder the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926, shall be taken into account,
and(ii)the period shall be computed as on the last date notified for receiving
the nominations for the election.

## Part IV – There shall be two streams of law course leading to LL.B Degree
viz. a five-year and a three-year law course for the purposes of enrolment as
Advocates as prescribed under the rules contained in section A and section B
respectively given hereunder.

Section AFive-Year Law Course After 10+2 Or 11+1

### 1\. The five-year course of law after 10+2 or 11+1 shall comprise two
parts viz. Part I which will be a two-year core programme of pre-law study and
Part II which will be a three-year programme for professional training in law.

### 2\.

(1)Save as provided in rule 5 and Section B, Part IV of the rules hereunder, a
degree in law obtained from any University in the territory of India shall not
be recognised for the purpose of enrolment as Advocate under the Advocates
Act, 1961 from June, 1, 1982 unless the following conditions are
fulfilled:-(a)That at the time of joining the course of instruction in law for
a degree in law, the person concerned has passed an examination in 10+2 or
11+1 course of schooling recognised by the educational authority of Central or
State Governments or possesses such academic qualifications which are
considered equivalent to 10+2 or 11+1 course by the Bar Council of
India.(b)That the law degree has been obtained after undergoing a regular
course of study in a duly recognised Law College under these rules for a
minimum period of five years, out of which the first two years shall be
devoted to study of pre-law courses as necessary qualifications for admission
to three-year course of study in law to be commenced thereafter. The last six
months of the three years of the law course shall include a regular course of
practical training.(c)That the course of study in law has been by regular
attendance at the requisite number of lectures, tutorials, moot courts and
practical training given by a College affiliated to a University recognised by
the Bar Council of India.

### 3\.

(1)That the law education as prescribed in section A shall be through whole-
time Law Colleges or Universities Department.(2)A College or University
Department will be deemed to be whole-time College for the purpose of sub-rule
3(1), if the working time of the College or the University Department, as the
case may be, extends to at least thirty hours of working per week including
contact and correspondence programme, tutorials,home assignments, library,
clinical work, etc., provided that the actual time for classroom lectures is
not less than 20 hours per week.

### 4\. The students shall be required to put in minimum attendance of 66% of
the lectures on each of the subjects as also at the moot courts and practical
training course:

Provided that in exceptional cases for reasons to be recorded and communicated
to the Bar Council of India, the Dean of the Faculty of Law or Principal of
Law Colleges may condone attendance short of those required by this rule, if
the student had attended 66% of the lectures in the aggregate for the semester
or annual examination, as the case may be.

### 5\. Lateral entry will be permitted to Part II of the five-year law course
to a candidate who is a graduate of a University, or possesses such academic
qualifications which are considered equivalent to a graduate 's degree of a
University by the Bar Council of India.

### 6\.

(1)The Part I examination should be so conducted as to be called a University
examination. A student who has passed Part I of the law course shall be
eligible of enrolment in the final year of the three-year degree course in
arts, social science, etc., to supplicate for the B.A. Degree. A student who
has completed three years of the five-year course in law is eligible to get a
degree from the University on passing such examination conducted by the same
University which is equivalent to B.A. (Law) but such degree shall not entitle
the student to enrol as an Advocate.(2)Papers listed in rule 9(1) of the Bar
Council of India Rules in Part IV,Section A for the two-year pre-law study
under the scheme of five-year course may be adopted by the Universities with
such modifications as to make it possible for the students to enter the B.A.
Degree programme after passing Part I with a view to supplicating for B.A.
Degree in one year. Modification of the listed papers may be made keeping in
view the requirements of legal education for those who enter Part II of course
from other faculties.

### 7\. Individual Universities may frame their own rules of admission to Part
II in such manner that post-graduates as well as graduates may be able to get
admission.

### 8\.

(1)A Law College shall ordinarily be located at a place where there is atleast
a District Court or a Circuit District Court or within such distance thereof
as the Bar Council of India permits.(2)Every Law College to obtain approval of
affiliation must have in its teaching staff in its first year a whole-time
Principal and at least two other whole-time teachers and by the time it opens
its third year, it must have two more whole-time teachers. This rule will come
into force immediately for new Colleges while in case of existing Law
Colleges,it will be effective from 1st July, 1996.(3)The library of the
College or University Department shall remain open for at least eight hours on
every working day.

### 9\.

(1)The course of instruction for Part I for law degree course shall include
the following 6 compulsory subjects:-

### 2\. papers.

General English (Graduate Standard) (Part I and Part II)  
---  
Political Science (Part I Part II and Part III) | 3 papers  
Economics | 1 Paper  
Sociology | 1 Paper  
History | 1 Paper  
History of Courts Legislature and Legal Profession in India | 1 Paper  
  
(2)The course of instruction for Part II of the study in law shall include the
following 21 compulsory subjects:-

### 1\. Jurisprudence.

### 2\. Contract-I (General Principles of Contract-Sections 1-75 and Specific
Relief).

### 3\. Contract-II (Indian Contract Act, Indian Partnership Act, Sale of
Goods Act and other Specific Contracts).

### 4\. Tort and Consumer Protection Laws.

### 5\. Family Law-I.

### 6\. Family Law-II.

### 7\. Law of Crimes.

### 8\. Criminal Procedure Code, Juvenile Justice Act and Probation of
Offenders Act.

### 9\. Constitutional Law.

### 10\. Property Law including Transfer of Property Act and Easement Act.

### 11\. Law of Evidence.

### 12\. Civil Procedure Code and Limitation Act.

### 13\. Legal Language/Legal Writing including General English.

### 14\. Administrative Law.

### 15\. Company Law.

### 16\. Human Rights and International Law.

### 17\. Arbitration, Conciliation and Alternate Dispute Resolution Systems.

### 18\. [Environmental law including laws for the protection of the wild life
and other living creatures including animal welfare.] [Substituted by
Resolution No. 48/2001. ]

### 19\. Labour Law.

### 20\. Interpretation of Statutes.

### 21\. Land Laws including ceiling and any other local Laws.

(3)Not less than three more subjects which may be chosen from the list
hereunder:

### 1\. International Economic Law.

### 2\. Bankruptcy Laws.

### 3\. Taxation Laws.

### 4\. Comparative Law/Legal History.

### 5\. Insurance Law.

### 6\. Conflict of Laws.

### 7\. Banking Law including Negotiable Instruments Act.

### 8\. Investment and Security Law.

### 9\. Trusts, Equity and Fiduciary Relationships.

### 10\. Criminology and Penology.

### 11\. Air and Space Law.

### 12\. Law and Medicine.

### 13\. Women and Law relating to Child/Law, Poverty and Development.

### 14\. Intellectual Property Law.

### 15\. Maritime Law.

(4)Six Months of Practical Training be imparted and Practical Training will
include the following, compulsory papers:-

### 1\. Moot Court, Pre-Trial Preparations and participation in Trial
Proceedings.

### 2\. Drafting, Pleading and Conveyancing.

### 3\. Professional Ethics, Accountancy for Lawyers and Bar-Bench Relations.

### 4\. Public Interest Lawyering, Legal Aid and Para-Legal Services.

The following Practical Training Scheme shall be adopted by the
Universities:-PAPER I : MOOT COURT, PRE-TRIAL PREPARATIONS AND PARTICIPATION
IN TRIALPROCEEDINGSThis paper will have three components of 30 marks each and
a viva for 10 marks.(a)Moot Court (30 Marks):Every student will do at least
three moot courts in a year with 10 marks for each. The moot court work will
be on assigned problems and it will be evaluated for 5 marks for written
submissions and 5 marks for oral advocacy.(b)Observance of Trial in two cases,
one civil and one criminal (30 marks):Students will attend two trials in the
course of the last two or three years of LL.B. studies. They will maintain a
record and enter the various steps observed during their attendance on
different days in the Court assignment. This scheme will carry 30
marks.(c)Interviewing techniques and pre-trial preparations (30 marks):Each
student will observe two interviewing sessions of clients at the
Lawyers'Office/Legal Aid Office and records the proceedings in a diary which
will carry15 marks. Each student will further observe the preparation of
documents and Court papers by the Advocate and the procedure for the filing of
the suit/petition. This will be recorded in the diary which will carry 15
marks.(d)The fourth component of this paper will be viva voce examination on
all the above three aspects. This will carry 10 marks.PAPER II : DRAFTING,
PLEADING AND CONVEYANCINGThe course will be taught class instructions and
simulation exercises,preferably with assistance of practising lawyers/retired
Judges. Apart from teaching the relevant provisions of law, the course will
include 15 exercises in Drafting carrying a total of 45 marks and 15 exercises
in Conveyancing carrying another 45 marks (3 marks for each exercise).Note
.-(a)Drafting:General principles of drafting and relevant substantive rules
shall be taught.(b)Pleading:(1)Civil: (i) Plaint, (ii) Written Statement,
(iii) Interlocutory Application, (iv) Original Petition, (v) Affidavit, (vi)
Execution Petition,(vii) Memorandum of Appeal and Revision, and (viii)
Petition under Articles 226and 32 of the Constitution of India.((2) Criminal:
(i) Complaints, (ii) Criminal Miscellaneous Petition, (iii) Bail Application,
and (iv) Memorandum of Appeal and Revision.(c)Conveyancing:(i)Sale Deed, (ii)
Mortgage Deed, (iii) Lease Deed, (iv) Gift Deed, (v)Promissory Note, (vi)
Power of Attorney, and (vii) Will.The remaining 10 marks will be given in a
viva voce examination which will test the understanding of legal practice in
relation to Drafting, Pleading and Conveyancing.PAPER III: PROFESSIONAL
ETHICS, ACCOUNTANCY FOR LAWYERS AND BAR-BENCH RELATIONSThis course will be
taught in association with practising lawyers on the basis of the following
materials:-(i)Mr. Krishnamurthy Iyer 's book on "Advocacy"(ii)The Contempt Law
and Practice(iii)The Bar Council Code of Ethics(iv)50 selected opinions of the
Disciplinary Committees of the Bar Councils and 10 major judgments of the
Supreme Court on the subject.The written examination on this paper will have
80 marks and the viva voce will carry 20 marks.In lieu of the written
examination, Colleges may be encouraged wherever appropriate to give the
students, Seminars and Projects where they are expected to research and write
persuasive memorandum on topics identified in the above subjects.PAPER IV :
PUBLIC INTEREST LAWYERING, LEGAL AID AND PARA-LEGAL SERVICESThis course
carrying 100 marks will have to be designed and evaluated according to local
conditions by the Colleges in consultation with the Universities and State Bar
Councils. It can be taught partly through classroom instructions including
stimulation exercises and partly through extension programmes like Lok Adalat,
Legal Aid Camp, Legal Literacy and Para-Legal Training. The course should also
contain lessons on negotiations and counselling, use of computer in legal
work, legal research in support of Public Interest Litigation, writing of case
comments, editing of Law Journals and Law Office Management. The marks maybe
appropriately divided to the different programmes that each University might
evolve for introduction in the Colleges under its control.

### 10\. For each paper there shall be lecture classes for at least three
hours and one hour of tutorial work per week.

### 11\. The examination shall ordinarily be held at the end of the every six
months. The University shall, however, be at liberty to hold examinations at
the end of every year. Suitable allocations of subjects for six months or one
year, as the case may be, shall be made by the University and the same shall
be intimated to the Bar Council of India.

### 12\. Full-time teachers of law including the Principal of the College
shall ordinarily be holders of a Master 's degree in law and where the holders
of Master 's degree in law are not available, persons with teaching experience
fora minimum period of 10 years in law may be considered. Part-time teachers
other than one with LL.M. degree shall have a minimum practice of five years
at the Bar.

### 13\. The teaching load of full-time and part-time teachers shall be
according to the norms prescribed by the U.G.C. from time to time.

### 14\. The salaries paid to the Principal, full-time and part-time teachers
shall be according to the scales recommended by the U.G.C. from time to time.

### 15\. Other benefits like D.A., C.L.A. (Compensatory Local Allowance),
House Rent Allowance, Provident Fund, etc., shall be according to the norms
prescribed by the Universities concerned from time to time.

### 16\. A Law College affiliated to a University shall be June, 1, 1987 be an
independent Law College and shall cease to be a department attached to a
College.

### 17\.

(1)No College after the coming into force of these rules shall impart
instruction in a course of study in law for enrolment as an Advocate unless
its affiliation has been approved by the Bar Council of India.(2)An existing
Law College shall not be competent to impart instruction in a course of study
in law for enrolment as an Advocate if the continuance of its affiliation is
disapproved by the Bar Council of India.

### 18\. The Bar Council of India shall cause a Law College affiliated to a
University to be inspected by a Committee to be appointed by it for the
purpose when-

(a)An application for approval of affiliation of a new College is received by
it or its suo motu decides in order to ensure that the standards of Legal
Education laid down by it are being complied with.(b)The application for
approval of affiliation of a new College shall be addressed to the
Secretary,Bar Council of India, and shall be sent only through the Registrar
of the university concerned with his recommendations and the application be
accompanied by an inspection fee of Rs. 50,000.(c)The College and/or the
University concerned shall furnish all the information to the Committee of
Inspection and the Bar Council of India as and when required, and shall co-
operate with them in every possible manner in the conduct of inspection.(d)(1)
The Inspection team before recommending approval of affiliation to a new Law
College should, inter alia, make a specific recommendation as to why such a
Law College is required at the same place/are a where the Law College is
proposed to be started keeping in view the total number of existing Law
Colleges in the place/area in particular and the State in general.(2)The
inspection team will also keep in view the approximate population of the area
where the College is proposed to be started, number of Law Colleges along with
the total number of students therein, number of Degree Colleges as well as
junior Colleges in the area in particular and the State in general.(e)If an
unfavourable report is received, the Secretary of the Bar Council of India
shall cause a copy of the same to be sent to the Registrar of the University
concerned for his comments and explanations, if any. Such comments and
explanations on the report shall be sent by the Registrar of the University
within a period of six weeks from the date of the receipt of the
communication.(f)The Secretary of the Bar Council of India shall cause the
report and the comments/explanation of Registrar of the University concerned
to be placed before the next meeting of the Legal Education Committee of the
Bar Council of India.(g)If the Legal Education Committee is satisfied that the
standards of legal education and/or the rules for affiliation or continuance
of affiliation provided for in these rules by the Bar Council of India are not
complied with and/or that the courses of study, teaching and/or examination
are not such as to secure to persons undergoing legal education, the knowledge
and training requisite for the competent practice of law, the Legal Education
Committee shall recommend to the Bar Council of India the approval/disapproval
of affiliation or continuance of affiliation, as the case may be.The Legal
Education Committee may also recommend that certain directions be given for
improvements to be carried out within the period to be specified.(h)This
recommendation of the Legal Education Committee along with the accompanying
papers shall be placed before the Bar Council of India for its decision. In
case the Bar Council of India disagrees with or modifies there commendation of
the Legal Education Committee, it shall communicate its views to the Legal
Education Committee for its consideration before arriving at a final decision
in the matter.(i)If the Council is of the opinion that affiliation of a
College whose affiliation has already been approved, be disapproved, the
Council shall give notice of the proposed action to the Principal of the
College and the Registrar of the University to show cause within 30 days of
the receipt of the notice and the Council shall take into consideration the
reply received before making final orders.(j)The decision of the Bar Council
of India shall be communicated to the Registrar of the University.It shall be
effective from the commencement of the next academic year following the date
on which it is received by the Registrar of the University.(k)University Law
Department/constituent and affiliated Law Colleges to which the Bar Council of
India has already accorded approval of affiliation shall submit to the Bar
Council of India an annual return in the form prescribed (asper Schedule IV)
by the Bar Council of India at the end of its annual academic session failing
which the approval of affiliation accorded shall be liable to be withdrawn or
cancelled.(1)After refusal to grant permission to start a Law College or to
extend approval of affiliation to any existing Law College, no fresh
application for the same purpose shall be entertained until the expiry of the
next academic session or one calendar year whichever is later from the date of
such refusal by the Bar Council of India.(2)Every Law College applying for
approval of affiliation shall obtain permission/no objection for establishment
of Law College from Government or Higher Education Department of the State, if
the same is a requirement under the prevailing law or any order in the State.

### 19\.

(1)The Council shall publish by notification in the Gazette of India and in
prominent newspapers in India the names of Universities whose degrees in law
are recognised under these rules with a list of Law Colleges under the
Universities which are eligible to impart professional legal education as
provided for under these rules and send a copy of the notification above
referred to all the Universities imparting legal education and State Bar
Councils:Provided that for the purpose of sub-rule (1) above, the existing
University Law Departments and Law Colleges affiliated to Universities shall
be deemed to be professional Law Colleges under these rules unless otherwise
decided by the Council.(2)Information about the non-recognition or de-
recognition of the degree in law of a University shall also be sent to all
Universities in India imparting Legal Education and to all State Bar Councils.

### 20\. If the Universities located in States where the 10+2 or 11+1 school
system is not yet in vogue, propose to start the five-year LL.B. Course under
these rules, they will be free to do so.

### 21\. The Bar Council of India may issue directives from time to time for
maintenance of the standards of Legal Education. The College/University is
expected to follow them as compulsory.

### 22\. The Questionnaire framed as per Schedule II by the Bar Council of
India as amended from time to time, to be answered by the applicant for
affilation shall be deemed to be directives issued under this rule.

### 23. Whenever approval of affiliation is granted to the Law College, it
shall be necessary for the College to deposit in cash Rs. 1,00,000 (one lakh)
in the shape of guarantee to fulfil all the norms of the Bar Council of India.
The same shall be liable to be forfeited if the norms are not complied with
and the same shall carry no interest.

Section BThree-Year Law Course After Graduation

### 1\.

(1)Save as provided in section 24(1)(c)(iii-a) of the Act, a degree in law
obtained from any University in the territory of India after the 12th day of
March, 1967 shall not be recognised for purposes of section 24(1)(c)(iii) of
the Act unless the following conditions are fulfilled:-(a)That at the time of
joining the course of instruction in law for a degree in law, he is a graduate
of a University or possesses such academic qualifications which are considered
equivalent to a graduate 's degree of a University by the Bar Council of
India;(b)That the law degree has been obtained after undergoing a course of
study in law for a minimum period of three years as provided for in these
rules;(c)That the course of study in law has been by regular attendance at the
requisite number of lectures, tutorials or moot courts in a College recognised
by a University.(2)(a)The Council shall publish by notification in the Gazette
of India and in prominent newspapers in India the names of Universities whose
degrees in law are recognised under these rules with a list of Law Colleges
under the Universities which are eligible to impart professional Legal
Education as provided for under these rules and send a copy of the
notification above referred to all the Universities imparting Legal Education
and State Bar Councils:Provided that for the purpose of sub-rule (1)(c) above
the existing University Law Departments and Law Colleges affiliated to
Universities shall be deemed to be professional Law Colleges under these rules
unless otherwise decided by the Council.(b)Information about the non-
recognition or de-recognition of the degree in law of a University shall also
be sent to all Universities in India imparting legal education and to all
State Bar Councils.

### 2\.

(1)That the Law education under section B may be through whole-time
Colleges.[All Law Colleges which are exclusively running evening sessions
shall switchover to "Day" sessions during the academic year 2000-2001 failing
which they will not be entitled to approval of affiliation by the Bar Council
of India:Provided that whether the College is running evening course, the
students who were admitted to the first year in the evening session during the
academic year1999-2000 shall be allowed to complete the course. ] [Substituted
by the Bar Council of India, New Delhi, Notification dated February, 2000,
published in the Gazette of India, Ext., pt. III, Section 4, p. 529, No. 9,
dated 26.2.2000. ](2)A College or University Department will be deemed to be
whole-time College for the purpose of sub-rule 2(1), if the working time of
the College or the University Department, as the case may be, extends to
atleast thirty hours of working per week including contact and correspondence
programme, tutorials,home assignments, library, clinical work, etc., provided
that the actual time for classroom lectures is not less than 20 hours per
week.

### 3\. The students shall be required to put in a minimum attendance of 66%
of the lectures on each of the subjects as also at tutorials, moot Courts and
practical training course:

Provided that in exceptional cases for reasons to be recorded and communicated
to the Bar Council of India, the Dean of the Faculty of Law and the Principal
of Law Colleges may condone attendance short of those required by the rule, if
the student had attended 66% of the lectures in the aggregate for the semester
or examination, as the case may be.

### 4\.

(1)A Law College shall ordinarily be located at a place where there is atleast
a District Court or Circuit District Court or within such distance thereof as
the Bar Council of India permits.(2)Every Law College to obtain approval
affiliation must have in its teaching staff in its first year a whole-time
principal and at least two other whole-time teachers and by the time to open
its third year, it must have two more whole-time teachers. This rule will come
into force immediately for new Colleges while in case of existing Law
Colleges, it will be effective from 1stJuly, 1996.(3)The library of the
College or University Department shall remain open for at least 8 hours on
every working day.

### 5\.

(1)The course of instruction for the study in law shall include the following
21 compulsory subjects:-

### 1\. Jurisprudence.

### 2\. Contract-I (General Principles of Contract-Sections 1-75 and Specific
Relief).

### 3\. Contract-II (Indian Contract Act, Indian Partnership Act, Sale of
Goods Act and other Specific Contracts).

### 4\. Tort and Consumer Protection Laws.

### 5\. Family Law-I.

### 6\. Family Law-II.

### 7\. Law of Crimes.

### 8\. Criminal Procedure Code, Juvenile Justice Act and Probation of
Offenders Act.

### 9\. Constitutional Law.

### 10\. Property Law including Transfer of Property Act and Easement Act.

### 11\. Law of Evidence.

### 12\. Civil Procedure Code and Limitation Act.

### 13\. Legal Language/Legal Writing including General English.

### 14\. Administrative Law.

### 15\. Company Law.

### 16\. Human Rights and International Law.

### 17\. Arbitration, Conciliation and Alternate Dispute Resolution Systems.

### 18\. [ Environmental law including laws for the protection of the wild
life and other living creatures including animal welfare.] [Substituted by
Resolution No. 48/2001. ]

### 19\. Labour Law.

### 20\. Interpretation of Statutes.

### 21\. Land Laws including ceiling and any other local Laws.

(2)Not less than three more subjects which may be chosen from the list
hereunder:-

### 1\. International Economic Law.

### 2\. Bankruptcy Laws.

### 3\. Taxation Laws.

### 4\. Comparative Law/Legal History.

### 5\. Insurance Law.

### 6\. Conflict of Laws.

### 7\. Banking Law including Negotiable Instruments Act.

### 8\. Investment and Security Law.

### 9\. Trusts, Equity and Fiduciary Relationships.

### 10\. Criminology and Penology.

### 11\. Air and Space Law.

### 12\. Law and Medicine.

### 13\. Women and Law relating to Child/Law, Poverty and Development.

### 14\. Intellectual Property Law.

### 15\. Maritime Law.

(3)Six Months of Practical Training be imparted and Practical Training will
include the following compulsory papers:-

### 1\. Moot Court, Pre-Trial Preparations and participation in Trial
proceedings.

### 2\. Drafting, Pleading and Conveyancing.

### 3\. Professional Ethics, Accountancy for Lawyers and Bar-Bench Relations.

### 4\. Public Interest Lawyering, Legal Aid and Para-Legal Services.

The following Practical Training Scheme shall be adopted by the
Universities:-PAPER I : MOOT COURT, PRE-TRIAL PREPARATIONS AND PARTICIPATION
IN TRIALPROCEEDINGSThis paper will have three components of 30 marks each and
a viva for 10 marks.(a)Moot Court (30 Marks):Every student will do at least
three moot courts in a year with 10 marks for each. The moot court work will
be on assigned problems and it will be evaluated for 5 marks for written
submissions and 5 marks for oral advocacy.(b)Observance of Trial in two cases,
one civil and one criminal (30 marks):Students will attend two trials in the
course of the last two or three years of LL.B. studies. They will maintain a
record and enter the various steps observed during their attendance on
different days in the Court assignment. This scheme will carry 30
marks.(c)Interviewing techniques and pre-trial preparations (30 marks):Each
student will observe two interviewing sessions of clients at the Lawyers'
Office/Legal Aid Office and record the proceedings in a diary which will
carry15 marks. Each student will further observe the preparation of documents
and Court papers by the Advocate and the procedure for the filing of the
suit/petition. This will be recorded in the diary which will carry 15
marks.(d)The fourth component of this paper will be viva voce examination on
all the above three aspects. This will carry 10 marks.PAPER II : DRAFTING,
PLEADING AND CONVEYANCINGThe course will be taught class instructions and
simulation exercises,preferably with assistance of practising lawyers/retired
Judges. Apart from teaching the relevant provisions of law, the course will
include 15 exercises in Drafting carrying a total of 45 marks and 15 exercises
in Conveyancing carrying another 45 marks (3 marks for each exercise).Note
.-(a)Drafting:General principles of drafting and relevant substantive rules
shall be taught.(b)Pleading:(1)Civil: (i) Plaint, (ii) Written Statement,
(iii) Interlocutory Application, (iv) Original Petition, (v) Affidavit, (vi)
Execution Petition,(vii) Memorandum of Appeal and Revision, and (viii)
Petition under Articles 226and 32 of the Constitution of India.(2)Criminal:
(i) Complaints, (ii) Criminal Miscellaneous Petition, (iii)Bail Application,
and (iv) Memorandum of Appeal and Revision.(c)Conveyancing:(i)Sale Deed, (ii)
Mortgage Deed, (iii) Lease Deed, (iv) Gift Deed, (v)Promissory Note, (vi)
Power of Attorney, and (vii) Will.The remaining 10 marks will be given in a
viva voce examination which will test the understanding of legal practice in
relation to Drafting, Pleading and Conveyancing.PAPER III: PROFESSIONAL
ETHICS, ACCOUNTANCY FOR LAWYERS AND BAR-BENCH RELATIONSThis course will be
taught in association with practising lawyers on the basis of the following
materials:-(i)Mr. Krishnamurthy Iyer 's book on "Advocacy" .(ii)The Contempt
Law and Practice.(iii)The Bar Council Code of Ethics.(iv)50 selected opinions
of the Disciplinary Committees of the Bar Councils and 10 major judgments of
the Supreme Court on the subject.The written examination on this paper will
have 80 marks and the viva voce will carry 20 marks.In lieu of the written
examination, Colleges may be encouraged wherever appropriate to give the
students, seminars and projects where they are expected to research and write
persuasive memorandum on topics identified in the above subjects.PAPER IV :
PUBLIC INTEREST LAWYERING, LEGAL AID AND PARA-LEGAL SERVICESThis course
carrying 100 marks will have to be designed and evaluated according to local
conditions by the Colleges in consultation with the Universities and State Bar
Councils. It can be taught partly through classroom instructions including
stimulation exercises and partly through extension programmes like Lok Adalat,
Legal Aid Camp, Legal Literacy and Para-Legal Training. The course should also
contain lessons on negotiations and counselling, use of computer in legal
work, legal research in support of Public Interest Litigation, writing of case
comments, editing of Law Journals and Law Office Management. The marks maybe
appropriately divided to the different programmes that each University might
evolve for introduction in the Colleges under its control.

### 6\. For each paper there shall be lecture classes for at least three hours
and one hour of tutorial work per week.

### 7\. The examination shall ordinarily be held at the end of every six
months. The University shall, however, be at liberty to hold examinations at
the end of every year. Suitable allocations of subjects for six months or one
year, as the case may be, shall be made by the University and the same shall
be intimated to the Bar Council of India.

### 8\. Full-time teachers of law including the Principal of the College shall
ordinarily be holders of a Master 's degree in law and where the holders of
Master's degree in law are not available, persons with teaching experience for
a minimum period of five years in law may be considered. Part-time teaching
other than one with LL.M. degree shall have a minimum practice of 10 years at
the Bar.

### 9\. The teaching load of full-time and part-time teachers shall be
according to the norms prescribed by U.G.C. from time to time.

### 10\. The salaries paid to the Principal, full-time and part-time teachers
shall be according to the scales recommended by the U.G.C. from time to time.

### 11\. A Law College affiliated to a University shall by June 1, 1987 be an
independent Law College and shall cease to be a department attached to a
College.

### 12\.

(1)No College started after the coming into force of these Rules shall impart
instruction in a course of study in law for enrolment as an Advocate unless
its affiliation has been approved by the Bar Council of India.(2)An existing
Law College shall not be competent to impart instruction in a course of study
in law for enrolment as an Advocate if the continuance of its affiliation is
disapproved by the Bar Council of India.

### 13\. The Bar Council of India shall cause a Law College affiliated to a
University to be inspected by the Committee to be appointed by it for the
purpose when-

(a)An application for approval of affiliation of a new College is received by
it or it suo motu decides in order to ensure that the standards of Legal
Education laid down by it are being complied with.(b)The application for
approval of affiliation of a new College shall be addressed to the
Secretary,Bar Council of India, and shall be sent only through the Registrar
of the University concerned with his recommendations and the application be
accompanied by an inspection fee of Rs. 50,000.(c)The College and/or the
University concerned shall furnish all the information to the Committee of
Inspection and the Bar Council of India as and when required, and shall co-
operate with them in every possible manner in the conduct of inspection.(d)(1)
The Inspection team before recommending approval of affiliation to a new Law
College should, inter alia, make a specific recommendation as to why such a
Law College is required at the same place/area where the Law College is
proposed to be started keeping in view the total number of existing Law
Colleges in the place/area in particular and the state in general.(2)The
inspection team will also keep in view the approximate population of the area
where the College is proposed to be started, number of Law Colleges along with
the total number of students therein, number of Degree Colleges as well as
junior Colleges in the area in particular and the State in general.(e)If an
unfavourable report is received, the Secretary of the Bar Council of India
shall cause a copy of the same to be sent to the Registrar of the University
concerned for his comments and explanations, if any. Such comments and
explanations on the report shall be sent by the Registrar of the University
within a period of six weeks from the date of the receipt of the
communication.(f)The Secretary of the Bar Council of India shall cause the
report and the comments/explanation of Registrar of the University concerned
to be placed before the next meeting of the Legal Education Committee of the
Bar Council of India.(g)If the Legal Education Committee is satisfied that the
standards of legal education and/or the rules for affiliation or continuance
of affiliation provided for in these rules by the Bar Council of India are not
complied with and/or that the courses of study, teaching and/or examination
are not such as to secure to persons undergoing legal education, the knowledge
and training requisite for the competent practice of law, the Legal Education
Committee shall recommend to the Bar Council of India the approval/disapproval
of affiliation or continuance of affiliation as the case may be.The Legal
Education Committee may also recommend that certain directions be given for
improvements to be carried out within the period to be specified.(h)This
recommendation of the Legal Education Committee along with the accompanying
papers shall be placed before the Bar Council of India for its decision. In
case the Bar Council of India disagrees with or modifies there commendation of
the Legal Education Committee, it shall communicate its views to the Legal
Education Committee for its consideration before arriving at a final decision
in the matter.(i)If the Council is of the opinion that affiliation of a
College whose affiliation has already been approved, be disapproved, the
Council shall give notice of the proposed action to the Principal of the
College and the Registrar of the University to show cause within 30 days of
the receipt of the notice and the Council shall take into consideration the
reply received before making final orders.(j)The decision of the Bar Council
of India shall be communicated to the Registrar of the University.It shall be
effective from the commencement of the next academic year following the date
on which it is received by the Registrar of the University.(k)University Law
Department/constituent and affiliated Law Colleges to which the Bar Council of
India has already accorded approval of affiliation shall submit to the Bar
Council of India an annual return in the form prescribed by the Bar Council of
India at the end of its annual academic session failing which the approval of
affiliation accorded shall be liable to be withdrawn or cancelled.(1)After
refusal to grant permission to start a Law College or to extend approval of
affiliation to any existing Law College, no fresh application for the same
purpose shall be entertained until the expiry of the next academic session or
one calendar year whichever is later from the date of such refusal by the Bar
Council of India.(2)Every Law College applying for approval of affiliation
shall obtain permission/no objection for establishment of Law College from
Government or Higher Education Department of the State, if the same is a
requirement under the prevailing law or any order in the State.

### 14\. The Bar Council of India may issue directives from time to time for
maintenance of the standards of legal education. The College/University is
expected to follow them as compulsory.

### 15\. The questionnaire framed as per Schedule II by the Bar Council of
India as amended from time to time, to be answered by the applicant for
affiliation shall be deemed to be directives issued under this Rule and shall
be added as Schedule II to rules in Section B.

### 16\. Whenever approval of affiliation is granted to the Law College, it
shall be necessary for the College to deposit in cash Rs. 1,00,000 (one lakh)
in the shape of guarantee to fulfil all the norms of the Bar Council of India.
The same shall be liable to be forfeited if the norms are not complied with
and the same shall carry no interest.

Section CRules Regarding Inspection of Law Colleges by the State Bar Councils

### 1\. The State Bar Council should inspect only such Colleges about which
there is a specific direction of the Bar Council of India for the State Bar
Council to inspect.

### 2\. The State Bar Council will be entitled to charge an inspection fee of
Rs.5,000 from the College to be inspected or the actual cost of
inspection,whichever is less.

### 3\. While inspecting such Colleges the inspection should be done by a team
consisting of the two members of the State Bar Council duly authorised by the
State Bar Council.

### 4\. The inspecting team of the State Bar Councils should verify whether
the standards to be observed by the College under the Rules of the Bar Council
of India and the norms framed by it are observed properly and give a report on
the factual position about the same.

### 5\. The inspecting team should send a report to the Bar Council of India,
inter alia, on the following points:-

(1)The building of the College and its adequacy,(2)Qualifications, salaries,
terms and conditions of service, mode of appointments of Lecturers of the
College concerned,(3)Qualifications, salaries, service conditions, mode of
appointments of staff of the College concerned,(4)Timings of College,(5)Number
of students,(6)Attendance register whether maintained properly or not,(7)Total
working days of the current academic(2) Every such election shall year as well
as also of last three years,(8)Funds of the College and annual
auditing,(9)Library details.

### 6\. The inspection team should also send a report on the quality of
teaching,infrastructure for teaching and whether in its opinion affiliation
already granted should be continued or not. The report should also mention
whether the permission for affiliation granted should be temporary or
permanent.

## Part V – The State Roll And Seniority

## Chapter I  
Preparation And Maintenance Of The State Roll

[Rules under sections 17, 19, 20 and 22 of the Act]

### 1\.

(1)The Council may, from time to time, give directions as to the manner in
which the State Council shall prepare and maintain the rolls under section
17of the Act.(2)The copies of the State Roll to be sent under section 19 of
the Act shall be in Form B-1 and B-2 as set out in the rules at the end of
this Chapter and shall contain such further details as the Council may
specify.

### 2\. Particulars of transfers under section 18 of the Act, cancellations
directed under the proviso to section 26(1) of the Act, removal of names under
section26-A of the Act, punishments imposed by an order under Chapter V,
particulars as to the result of appeals under the relevant decisions of the
Courts, and such other matters which the Council may specifically direct,
shall be noted in the said rolls.

### 3\. Save as otherwise directed by the Council, no other particulars shall
be entered in the said rolls.

### 4\. Every page of the roll shall bear the signature or a facsimile
thereof, of the Secretary or other person authorised by the State Council.

### 5\. Authenticated copies of any additions or alterations made in the roll
shall be sent to the Council without delay.

TABLEFORM B-1(Under rule 1(2) of Chapter I, Part V)

## Part I – /II: COPY OF

ROLL UNDER SECTION 17(1)(a) of the ADVOCATES ACT, 1961 of the BAR COUNCIL OF
.............SENT UNDER SECTION 19OF THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961.NameAddressDate
of enrolment under the Bar Councils Act/Advocates ActDate of entry as
Vakil,Pleader or Attorney,if anyDate of BirthDate of Transfer,if anyIf
enrolled in Superme Court,date of such enrolmentDate of enrolment as Senior
Advocate in case designated as such on or after 1.12.1961Remarks (Particulars
envisaged under Rule)

Sl No.  
---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
  
FORM B-2(Under rule 1(2) of Chapter I, Part V)

## Part II – COPY OF

ROLL UNDER SECTION 17(1)(a) of the ADVOCATES ACT, 1961 of the BAR COUNCIL OF
.............SENT UNDER SECTION 19OF THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961.Name and
AddressDate of enrolment under the Advocates Act,1961Date of BirthDate of
Transfer,if any,and particularsRemarks

Roll No.  
---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
  
## Chapter II  
Prevention Of Entry In More Than One Roll

[Rules under sections 17(4) and 49(1)(ad) of the Act]

### 1\. The rules of every State Council shall provide, inter alia, for a
declaration in its form of application for enrolment-

(a)that the name of the applicant is not on the roll of any other State
Council, and(b)that the applicant will not, so long as his name is on the roll
of one of the State Councils, apply for enrolment, to any other State Council.

### 2\. The Council may, on receipt of information that the name of any person
is entered on the roll of more than one State Council, after hearing the
person concerned, remove his name from any of the rolls on which his name
appears and take such other action against him as may be called for.

## Chapter III  
Transfer Of Name From One State Roll To Another State Roll

[Rules under sections 18 and 49(1)(b) of the Act]

### 1\. Any person whose name is entered on any State Roll may make an
application to the Council for transfer under section 18 of the Act in Form
"C" in this Chapter. The application shall be accompanied by (i) a certified
copy of the entry in the State Roll relating to the applicant; and (ii) a
certificate from the State Council stating that his certificate of enrolment
has not been recalled, that the applicant is entitled to practise on the date
of his application, that there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against
the applicant and that it has no objection to the transfer being ordered.

On receipt of an application for transfer, the Secretary shall enquire from
the State Council concerned whether they have any objections to the transfer
being granted, and he shall thereafter place the papers for disposal before
the Council or a Committee constituted for the purpose. If the Committee
considers that the application shall be refused, the matter should be referred
to the Council for orders.[1-A. On receipt of an application for transfer, the
"transferor" Bar Council shall transmit the entire records relating to the
enrolment of the Advocate who is seeking a transfer, to the Bar Council of
India together with original of the application for enrolment, retaining an
authenticated copy of the documents with the "transferor" Bar Council.] [Came
into force w.e.f. 6.1.2001. ]

### 2\.

(1)The order of the Council on the application for transfer shall ordinarily
be in Form D in the annexure to this Chapter.(2)The applicant for transfer
shall be informed about the order on his application.(3)On receipt of a
communication from the Bar Council of India of an order for transfer-(a)it
shall be the duty of the Advocate who has applied for transfer to produce the
certificate of enrolment issued to him under section 22 of the Act for
endorsement in Form D-1 in this Chapter to the State Council on the roll of
which his name appears. The said State Council shall as expeditiously as
possible after the endorsement and the necessary entries in its roll transmit
the certificate to the State Council to which the name of the Advocate is
directed to be transferred;(b)on receipt of the certificate endorsed as
aforesaid the Secretary of the latter State Council shall make a further
endorsement thereon in Form D-2 in this Chapter;(c)on such endorsement being
made and the other formalities, if any,required by law being complied with the
transfer shall be deemed to take effect from the date of the direction of the
Bar Council of India under section 18 of the Act;(d)[ [Came into force w.e.f.
6.1.2001. ]after the application has been allowed by the Bar Council of India,
the Bar Council of India shall transmit the original records received from the
"transferor" Bar Council to the"transferee" Bar Council and in the event of
the application for transfer is rejected for any reason, shall be transmitted
to the "transferor" Bar Council.]

### 4\. A copy of the order on the applications for transfer made by the
Council shall be put up on the Notice Board of the State Council concerned.

## Chapter IV  
Seniority In The State Rolls

[Rules under sections 17(3), 20 and 49(1)(i)(ac) of the Act]

### 1\. Seniority of Vakils, Pleaders and Attorneys not entitled to practise
in the High Court .-The seniority of a Vakil, Pleader or Attorney, who was not
entitled to practise in the High Court, and who was enrolled as an Advocate
immediately before the appointed day, or who was enrolled after that day shall
be determined according to the date of enrolment as Advocate.

### 2\. Seniority of other Advocates .-(1) The seniority of other Advocates
referred to in section 17(1)(a) shall-

(a)in the case of persons whose names were entered in the rolls under section
8(3)(a) of the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926, be the date from which their
seniority was reckoned in the said rolls;(b)in the case of persons admitted as
Advocates under section 58-A of the Act, be the dates of their first admission
when they were entitled to practise in the High Court of Allahabad or the
Chief Court of Oudh or the other High Courts or the Judicial Commissioners
'Court mentioned in sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of the said section
58-A;(c)in the case of persons admitted as Advocates under section 58-AA of
the Act, be the date when they were first entitled to practise the profession
of law under the law enforced in the Union Territory of Pondicherry;(d)in the
case of the other persons, be determined in accordance with the date of
enrolment under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926:Provided that in the case of
a person whose name had been entered on the rolls of more than one High Court,
the date as shown in the High Court in which he was first enrolled under shall
be taken as the date for entry for purpose of seniority in the rolls under
section 17(1)(a) of the Advocates Act, 1961.(2)In the case of the persons
referred to in section 58-AE of the Act, be the date when they were first
entitled to practise the profession of law as provided for in section
58-AE.(3)In the case of the persons referred to in section 58-AF of the Act,
be the date on which they are deemed to be Advocates.

### 3\. In cases not covered by any of the rules previous in this Chapter, or
in case of doubt, the seniority shall on a reference by a State Council, be
according to the dates as may be determined by the Council.

### 4\.

Seniority of Senior Advocates of the Supreme Court .-The seniority of a Senior
Advocate enrolled before the appointed day shall be determined in accordance
with the date of his enrolment as Senior Advocate.

## Chapter V  
Special Provision For Enrolment Of Certain Supreme Court Advocates

[Rules under section 20 read with section 49(1)(i) of the Act]

### 1\. Any Advocate who was entitled as of right to practise in the Supreme
Court immediately before the appointed day and whose name is not entered in
any State Roll may within 31st December, 1974 express his intention in the
form prescribed under this rule to the Bar Council of India for entry of his
name in the roll of any State Bar Council.

### 2\. The notification of the Bar Council of India prescribing the date
shall be published in the Gazette of India, and copies thereof sent to all Bar
Councils.The notification or a gist thereof shall also be published in at
least one English Newspaper in Delhi and one English Newspaper in every State.

## Part VI – RULES GOVERNING ADVOCATES

## Chapter I  
Restrictions On Senior Advocates

[Rules under sections 16(3) and 49(1)(g) of the Act]Senior Advocates shall, in
the matter of their practice of the profession of law mentioned in section 30
of the Act, be subject to the following restrictions:-(a)A Senior Advocate
shall not file a vakalatnama or act in any Court or Tribunal, or before any
person or other authority mentioned in section 30 of the Act.Explanation.- "To
act" means to file an appearance or any pleading or application in any Court
or Tribunal or before any person or other authority mentioned in section 30 of
the Act, or to do any act other than pleading required or authorised by law to
be done by a party in such Court or Tribunal or before any person or other
authority mentioned in the said section either in person or by his recognised
agent or by an Advocate or an attorney on his behalf.(b)(i)A Senior Advocate
shall not appear without an Advocate on Record in the Supreme Court or without
an Advocate in Part II of the State Roll in any Court or Tribunal or before
any person or other authorities mentioned in section 30 of the Act.(ii)Where a
Senior Advocate has been engaged prior to the coming into force of the rules
in this Chapter, he shall not continue thereafter unless an Advocate in Part
II of the State Roll is engaged along with him. Provided that a Senior
Advocate may continue to appear without an Advocate in Part II of the State
Roll in cases in which he had been briefed to appear for the prosecution or
the defence in a criminal case, if he was so briefed before he is designated
as a Senior Advocate or before coming into operation of the rules in this
Chapter, as the case may be.(c)He shall not accept instructions to draft
pleading or affidavits, advice one voidance or to do any drafting work of an
analogous kind in any Court or Tribunal or before any person or other
authority mentioned in section 30 of the Act or undertake conveyancing work of
any kind whatsoever. This restriction however shall not extend to settling any
such matter as aforesaid in consultation with an Advocate in Part II of the
State Roll.(cc)A Senior Advocate shall, however, be free to make concession or
give undertakings in the course of arguments on behalf of his clients on
instructions from the junior Advocate.(d)He shall not accept directly from a
client any brief or instructions to appear in any Court or Tribunal or before
any person or other authority in India.(e)A Senior Advocate who had acted as
an Advocate (junior) in a case, shall not after he has been designated as a
Senior Advocate advise on grounds of appeal in a Court of Appeal or in the
Supreme Court, except with an Advocate as aforesaid.(f)A Senior Advocate may
in recognition of the services rendered by an Advocate in Part II of the State
Roll appearing in any matter pay him a fee which he considers reasonable.

## Chapter II  
Standards Of Professional Conduct And Etiquette

[Rules under section 49(1)(c) of the Act read with the proviso
thereto]PreambleAn Advocate shall, at all times, comfort himself in a manner
befitting his status as an officer of the Court, a privileged member of the
community, and a gentleman, bearing in mind that what may be lawful and a
moral for a person who is not a member of the Bar, or for a member of the Bar
in his non-professional capacity may still be improper for an Advocate.
Without prejudice to the generality of the forgoing obligation, an Advocate
shall fearlessly uphold the interests of his client and in his conduct conform
to the rules hereinafter mentioned both in letter and in spirit. The rules
hereinafter mentioned contain canons of conduct and etiquette adopted as
general guides; yet the specific mention thereof shall not be construed as a
denial of the existence of other equally imperative though not specifically
mentioned.Section-I-Duty to the Court

### 1\. An Advocate shall, during the presentation of his case and while
otherwise acting before a Court, conduct himself with dignity and self-
respect. He shall not be servile and whenever there is proper ground for
serious complaint against a judicial officer, it shall be his right and duty
to submit his grievance to proper authorities.

### 2\. An Advocate shall maintain towards the Courts a respectful attitude,
bearing in mind that the dignity of the judicial office is essential for the
survival of a free community.

### 3\. An Advocate shall not influence the decision of a Court by any illegal
or improper means. Private communications with a Judge relating to a pending
case are forbidden.

### 4\. An Advocate shall use his best efforts to restrain and prevent his
client from resorting to sharp or unfair practices or from doing anything in
relation to the Court, opposing counsel or parties which the Advocate himself
ought not to do. An Advocate shall refuse to represent the client who persists
in such improper conduct. He shall not consider himself a mere mouth-piece of
the client, and shall exercise his own judgment in the use of restrained
language in correspondence, avoiding scurrilous attacks in pleadings, and
using intemperate language during arguments in Court.

### 5\. An Advocate shall appear in Court at all times only in the prescribed
dress,and his appearance shall always be presentable.

### 6\. An Advocate shall not enter appearance, act, plead or practise in any
way before a Court, Tribunal or Authority mentioned in section 30 of the Act,
if the sole or any member thereof is related to the Advocate as
father,grandfather, son, grand son, uncle, brother, nephew, first cousin,
husband,wife, mother, daughter, sister, aunt, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-
law,son-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law or sister-in-law.

[For the purposes of this rule, Court shall mean a Court, Bench a Tribunal in
which above-mentioned relation of the Advocate is a Judge, member or the
Presiding Officer.] [Added by Resolution No. 11/91, dated 16.2.1991. ]

### 7\. An Advocate shall not wear bands or gown in public places other than
in Courts except on such ceremonial occasions, and at such places as the Bar
Council of India or the Court may prescribe.

### 8\. An Advocate shall not appear in or before any Court or Tribunal or any
other authority for or against an organisation or an institution, society or
corporation, if he is a member of the Executive Committee of such organisation
or institution or society or corporation. "Executive Committee" , by whatever
name it may be called, shall include any Committee or body of persons
which,for the time being, is vested with the general management of the affairs
of the organisation or institution, society or corporation:

Provided that this rule shall not apply to such a member appearing as amicus
curiae or without a fee on behalf of a Bar Council, Incorporated Law Society
or a Bar Association.

### 9\. An Advocate should not act or plead in any manner in which he is
himself peculiarly interested.

IllustrationI. He should not act in a bankruptcy petition when he himself is
also a creditor of the bankrupt.II. He should not accept a brief from a
company of which he is Director.

### 10\. An Advocate shall not stand as a surety, or certify the soundness of
a surety for his client required for the purpose of any legal proceedings.

Section-II-Duty to the Client

### 11\. An Advocate is bound to accept any brief in the Courts or Tribunals
or before any other authority in or before which he proposes to practise at a
fee consistent with his standing at the Bar and the nature of the case.
Special circumstances may justify his refusal to accept a particular brief.

### 12\. An Advocate shall not ordinarily withdraw from engagements, once
accepted,without sufficient cause and unless reasonable and sufficient notice
is given to the client. Upon his withdrawal from a case, he shall refund such
part of the fee as has not been earned.

### 13\. An Advocate should not accept a brief or appear in a case in which he
has reason to believe that he will be a witness, and if being engaged in a
case, it becomes apparent that he is a witness on a material question of fact,
he should not continue to appear as an Advocate if he can retire without
jeopardising his client 's interests.

### 14\. An Advocate shall, at the commencement of his engagement and during
the continuance thereof, make all such full and frank disclosures to his
client relating to his connection with the parties and any interest in or
about the controversy as are likely to affect his client 's judgment in either
engaging him or continuing the engagement.

### 15\. It shall be the duty of an Advocate fearlessly to uphold the
interests of his client by all fair and honourable means without regard to any
unpleasant consequences to himself or any other. He shall defend a person
accused of a crime regardless of his personal opinion as to the guilt of the
accused,bearing in mind that his loyalty is to the law which requires that no
man should be convicted without adequate evidence.

### 16\. An Advocate appearing for the prosecution of a criminal trial shall
so conduct the prosecution that it does not lead to conviction of the
innocent.The suppression of material capable of establishing the innocence of
the accused shall be scrupulously avoided.

### 17\. An Advocate shall not, directly or indirectly, commit a breach of the
obligations imposed by section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act.

### 18\. An Advocate shall not, at any time, be a party to fomenting of
litigation.

### 19\. An Advocate shall not act on the instructions of any person other
than his client or his authorised agent.

### 20\. An Advocate shall not stipulate for a fee contingent on the results
of litigation or agree to share the proceeds thereof.

### 21\. An Advocate shall not buy or traffic in or stipulate for or agree to
receive any share or interest in any actionable claim. Nothing in this rule
shall apply to stock, shares and debentures of Government securities, or to
any instruments which are, for the time being, by law or custom, negotiable or
to any mercantile document of title to goods.

### 22\. An Advocate shall not, directly or indirectly, bid for or purchase,
either in his own name or in any other name, for his own benefit or for the
benefit of any other person, any property sold in the execution of a decree or
order in any suit, appeal or other proceeding in which he was in any way
professionally engaged. This prohibition, however, does not prevent an
Advocate from bidding for or purchasing for his client any property which his
client may himself legally bid for or purchase, provided the Advocate is
expressly authorised in writing in this behalf.

[22-A. An Advocate shall not directly or indirectly bid in Court auction or
acquire by way of sale, gift, exchange or any other mode of transfer either in
his own name or in any other name for his own benefit or for the benefit of
any other person any property which is subject-matter of any suit appeal or
other proceedings in which he is in any way professionally engaged.] [R. 22-A
came into force w.e.f. 24.9.1998. ]

### 23\. An Advocate shall not adjust fee payable to him by his client against
his own personal liability to the client, which liability does not arise in
the course of his employment as an Advocate.

### 24. An Advocate shall not do anything whereby he abuses or takes advantage
of the confidence reposed in him by his client.

### 25. An Advocate should keep accounts of the client's money entrusted to
him, and the accounts should show the amounts received from the client or on
his behalf,the expenses incurred for him and the debits made on account of
fees with respective dates and all other necessary particulars.

### 26. Where moneys are received from or on account of a client, the entries
in the accounts should contain a reference as to whether the amounts have been
received for fees or expenses, and during the course of the proceeding, no
Advocate shall, except with the consent in writing of the client concerned,
beat liberty to divert any portion of the expenses towards fees.

### 27. Where any amount is received or given to him on behalf of his client,
the fact of such receipt must be intimated to the client, as early as
possible.

### 28. After the termination of the proceeding, the Advocate shall be at
liberty to appropriate towards the settled fee due to him, any sum remaining
unexpended out of the amount paid or sent to him for expenses, or any amount
that has come into his hands in that proceeding.

### 29. Where the fee has been left unsettled, the Advocate shall be entitled
to deduct, out of any moneys of the client remaining in his hands, at the
termination of the proceeding for which he had been engaged, the fee payable
under the rules of the Court, in force for the time being, or by then settled
and the balance, if any, shall be refunded to the client.

### 30. A copy of the client 's account shall be furnished to him on demand
provided the necessary copying charge is paid.

### 31. An Advocate shall not enter into arrangements whereby funds in his
hands are concerned into loans.

### 32. An Advocate shall not lend money to his client for the purpose of any
action or legal proceedings in which he is engaged by such client.

Explanation.-An Advocate shall not be held guilty for a breach of this rule,
if in the course a pending suit or proceeding, and without any arrangement
with the client in respect of the same, the Advocate feels compelled by reason
of the rule of the Court to make a payment to the Court on account of the
client for the progress of the suit or proceeding.

### 33. An Advocate who has, at any time, advised in connection with the
institution of a suit, appeal or other matter or has drawn pleadings, or acted
for a party, shall not act, appear or plead for the opposite party.

Section-III-Duty to Opponent

### 34. An Advocate shall not in any way communicate or negotiate upon the
subject-matter of controversy with any party represented by an Advocate except
through that Advocate.

### 35. An Advocate shall do his best to carry out all legitimate promises
made to the opposite party even though not reduced to writing or enforceable
under the rules of the Court.

Section-IV-Duty to Colleagues

### 36. An Advocate shall not solicit work or advertise, either directly or
indirectly,whether by circulars, advertisements, touts, personal
communications,interviews not warranted by personal relations, furnishing or
inspiring newspaper comments or producing his photographs to be published in
connection with cases in which he has been engaged or concerned. His sign-
board or name-plate should be reasonable size. The sign-board or name-plate or
stationery should not indicate that he is or has been associated with any
person or organisation or with any particular cause or matter or that he
specialises in any particular type of work or that he has been a Judge or an
Advocate-General.

### 37. An Advocate shall not permit his professional services or his name to
be used in aid of or to make possible, the unauthorised practice of law by any
agency.

### 38. An Advocate shall not accept a fee less than the fee taxable under the
rules when the client is able to pay the same.

### 39. An Advocate shall not enter appearance in any case in which there is
already a vakalat or memo of appearance filed by an Advocate engaged for a
party except with his consent; [in case such consent is not produced he shall
apply to the Court stating reasons why the said consent should not be produced
and he shall appear only after obtaining the permission of the Court.] [Added
w.e.f. 5.6.1976. ]

[Section-IV-A [Section IV-A came into force w.e.f. 1.4.1984. ]

### 40. Every Advocate borne on the rolls of the State Bar Council shall pay
to the State Bar Council a sum of Rs. [300] every third year commencing from
[1st August, 2001] [Substituted by Resolution No. 66/2001, dated 26.6.2001,
for " 1st April 2001"]along with a statement of particulars as given in the
form set out at the end of these rules, the first payment to be made on or
before [1st August, 2001] [Substituted by Resolution No. 66/2001, dated
26.6.2001, for " 1st April 2001"] or such extended time as notified by the Bar
Council of India or the concerned State Bar Council:

Provided further, however, that an Advocate shall be at liberty to pay in lieu
of the payment of Rs. [300] [Substituted by Resolution No. 66/2001, dated
22.6.2001, for " 90" ] every three years a consolidated amount of Rs. [600]
[Substituted by Resolution No. 66/2001, dated 22.6.2001, for "300". ].This
will be a life time payment to be kept in the fixed deposit by the concerned
State Bar Council [and the Bar Council of India at the ratio of 80:20as
envisaged under rule 41] [Added by Resolution No. 93/2001, dated 5.1.2002. ]
and interest to be used for the purpose of this rule.[Out of life time
payment, 80% of the amount will be retained by the State Bar Council in a
fixed deposit and remaining 20% has to be transferred to the Bar Council of
India. The Bar Council of India and State Bar Council have to keep the same in
a fixed deposit and the interest on the said deposits shall alone be utilised
for the welfare of the Advocates.] [Added by Resolution No. 92/2001, dated
5.1.2002. ]Explanation1.-Statement of particulars as required by rule 40 in
the form set out require to be submitted only once in three
years.Explanation2.-All Advocates who are in actual practice and are not
drawing salary or not in full-time service and not drawing salary from their
respective employers are only required to pay the amount referred to in this
rule.Explanation3.-This rule will be effective from [1st August, 2001]
[Substituted by Resolution No. 66/2001, dated 26.6.2001, for "1st April 1994"]
and for period prior to this Advocates will continue to be covered by old
rule.

### 41.

(1)All the sums so collected by the State Bar Council in accordance with rule
40 shall be credited in a separate fund known as "Bar Council of India
Advocates Welfare Fund [* * *] [The words "for the State" omitted by
Resolution No. 93/2001, dated 5.1.2002. ]" and shall be deposited in the bank
as provided hereunder.(2)The Bar Council of India Advocates Welfare Fund
Committee for the State shall remit 20% of the total amount collected and
credited to its account, to the Bar Council of India by the end of every month
which shall be credited by the Bar Council of India and the Bar Council of
India shall deposit the said amount in a separate fund to be known as "BAR
COUNCIL OF INDIA ADVOCATES WELFAREFUND" . This fund shall be managed by the
Welfare Committee of the Bar Council of India in the manner prescribed from
time to time by the Bar Council of India for the Welfare of the
Advocates.(3)The rest 80% of the total sum so collected by the Bar Council of
India Advocates Welfare Fund Committee for the State under rule 41(1) shall be
utilised for the welfare of Advocates in respect of Welfare Schemes sponsored
by the respective State Bar Councils and this fund shall be administered by
the Advocates Welfare Committee for the State which shall submit its report
annually to the Bar Council of India.(4)[ In case of transfer of an Advocate
from one State Bar Council to other State Bar Council, 80% of the total sum
collected so far in respect of that Advocate by the Bar Council of India
Advocates Welfare Fund Committee for the State under rule 41(1) where the said
Advocate was originally enrolled, would get transferred to the Advocates
Welfare Fund Committee of the Bar Council of India for the State to which the
said Advocate has got himself transferred.] [Sub-R.(4) came into force w.e.f.
3.11.1995. ]

### 42. If any Advocate fails to pay the aforesaid sum within the prescribed
time as provided under rule 40, the Secretary of the State Bar Council shall
issue to him a notice to show cause within a month why his right to practice
be not suspended. In case the Advocate pays the amount together with the late
fee of Rs. 5 per month, or a part of a month subject to a maximum of Rs. 30
within the period specified in notice, the proceedings shall be dropped. If
the Advocate does not pay the amount or fails to show sufficient cause, a
Committee of three members constituted by the State Bar Council in this behalf
may pass an order suspending the right of the Advocate to practise:

Provided that the order of suspension shall cease to be in force when the
Advocate concerned pays the amount along with a late fee of Rs. 50 and obtain
a certificate in this behalf from the State Bar Council.

### 43. An Advocate who has been convicted of an offence mentioned under
section 24-A of the Advocates Act, 1961 or has been declared insolvent or has
taken full time service or part time service or engages in business or any
avocation inconsistent with his practising as an Advocate or has incurred any
disqualification mentioned in the Advocates Act, 1961 or the rules made
thereunder, shall send a declaration to that effect to the respective State
Bar Council in which the Advocate is enrolled, within ninety days from the
date of such disqualification. If the Advocate does not file the said
declaration or fails to show sufficient cause for not filing such declaration
provided therefor, the Committee constituted by the State Bar Council under
rule 42 may pass orders suspending the right of the Advocate to practise:

Provided that it shall be open to the Committee to condone the delay on an
application being made in this behalf:Provided further that an Advocate who
had after the date of his enrolment and before the coming into force of this
rule, become subject to any of the disqualifications, mentioned in this rule,
shall within a period of ninety days of the coming into force of this rule
send declaration referred to in this rule to the respective State Bar Council
in which the Advocate is enrolled and on failure to do so by such Advocate all
the provisions of this rule would apply.

### 44. An appeal shall lie to the Bar Council of India at the instance of an
aggrieved Advocate within a period of thirty days from the date of the order
passed under rules 42 and 43.

[44-A. (1) There shall be a Bar Council of India Advocates Welfare
Committee,consisting of five members elected from amongst the members of the
Council. The term of the members of the Committee shall be co-extensive with
their term in the Bar Council of India.(2)(i)Every State Council shall have an
Advocates Welfare Committee known as Bar Council of India Advocates Welfare
Committee for the State.(ii)The Committee shall consist of member Bar Council
of India from the State concerned who shall be the ex officio Chairman of the
Committee and two members elected from amongst the members.(iii)The Secretary
of the State Bar Council concerned will act as ex officio Secretary of the
Committee.(iv)The term of the member, Bar Council of India in the Committee
shall beco-extensive with his term in the Bar Council of India.(v)The term of
the members elected from the State Bar Council shall be two years.(vi)Two
members of the Committee will form a quorum of any meeting of the
Committee.(3)Every State Bar Council shall open an account in the name of the
Bar Council of India Welfare Committee for the State, in any Nationalised
Bank.(4)No amount shall be withdrawn from the bank unless that cheque is
signed by the Chairman of the Welfare Committee and its Secretary.(5)The State
Bar Council shall implement Welfare Schemes approved by the Bar Council of
India through Advocates Welfare Committee as constituted under sub-clause
(2)(i). The State Bar Councils may suggest suitable modifications in the
Welfare Schemes or suggest more schemes, but such modifications or suggested
schemes shall have effect only after approval by the Bar Council of
India.(6)The State Bar Council shall maintain separate account in respect of
the Advocate Welfare Fund which shall be audited annually along with other
accounts of the State Bar Council and send the same along with Auditor 's
Report to the Bar Council of India:[Provided that the Bar Council of India
Advocates Welfare Fund Committee for the State shall be competent to appoint
its own staff in addition to the staff of the Bar Council of the State
entrusted with duty to maintain the account of the fund if their funds are
adequate to make such appointment. The salary and other conditions of the said
staff be determined by the Bar Council of India Advocates Welfare Fund
Committee for the State:Provided further that Chairman of the Bar Council of
India Advocates Welfare Fund Committee for the State shall be competent to
make temporary appointment for a period not exceeding six months in one
transaction if the situation so requires subject to availability of fund in
the said Committee for making such appointment.] [Amended by Resolution No. 78
of 1985, dated 28.7.1985. ]

### 44\.

-B. The Bar Council of India shall utilise the funds received under rule41(2) in accordance with the schemes which may be framed from time to time.]SCHEME FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO STATE BAR COUNCILS AND INDIVIDUALS UNDER RULE 44-B OF THE BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA [RULES ] [ Came into force w.e.f. July, 1998 vide Resolution No. 64/1998.]

### 1\. This scheme shall be known as the Scheme for Financial Assistance to
the State Bar Councils under rule 44-B of the Bar Council of India Rules.

### 2\. The scheme shall come into force immediately.

### 3\. These schemes shall be applicable to only such State Bar Councils
which have remitted the sum in accordance with the rule 41(2) of the Bar
Council of India.

### 4\. That on receiving information from the Chairman of the State Bar
Council or Member, Bar Council of India from that State, the Chairman, Bar
Council of India on being satisfied by such report may immediately sanction a
reasonable amount not exceeding Rs. 10,000 in an individual case and Rs.
25,000 in case of some calamity involving more than one Advocate and shall
report to the Advocates Welfare Committee of the Bar Council of India. The
financial assistance to the State Bar Council will be available in any of the
following cases:-

(a)The Advocate or Advocates have suffered seriously on account of some
natural calamity or;(b)The Advocate or Advocates have died an unnatural death,
due to an accident or natural calamity or any other cause of like nature,
or;(c)The Advocate or Advocates have suffered or is suffering from such
serious disease or illness which is likely to cause death if no proper
treatment is given and the Advocate requires financial assistance without
which he would not be able to get proper treatment and has no personal assets
except a residential house to meet such expenditures, or;(d)The Advocate or
Advocates become physically disabled or incapacitated to continue his
profession on account of natural calamity or accident or any other cause of
like nature.

### 5\. That the amount sanctioned under rule 4 shall be placed at the
disposal of the Advocates Welfare Committee of the Bar Council of India for
the State and the said State Committee shall maintain separate account and
send the same to the Bar Council of India within three months from the date of
the receipt thereof.

### 6\. That the Advocates Welfare Committee of the Bar Council of India on
receiving such applications duly recommended by the State Bar Councils, may
sanction a sum provided in the different schemes prepared by the Bar Council
of India.

Section-V-Duty in imparting training

### 45. It is improper for an Advocate to demand or accept fees or any premium
from any person as a consideration for imparting training in law under the
rules prescribed by a State Bar Council to enable such person to qualify for
enrolment under the Advocates Act, 1961.

Section-VI-Duty to Render Legal Aid

### 46. Every Advocate shall in the practice of the profession of law bear in
mind that anyone genuinely in need of a lawyer is entitled to legal assistance
even though he cannot pay for it fully or adequately and that within the
limits of an Advocate 's economic condition, free legal assistance to the
indigent and oppressed is one of the highest obligations an Advocate owes to
society.

Section-VII-Section on other Employments

### 47. An Advocate shall not personally engage in any business; but he may be
a sleeping partner in a firm doing business provided that, in the opinion of
the appropriate State Bar Council, the nature of the business is not
inconsistent with the dignity of the profession.

### 48. An Advocate may be Director or Chairman of the Board of Directors of a
company with or without any ordinary sitting fee, provided none of his duties
are of an executive character. An Advocate shall not be a Managing Director
ora Secretary of any company.

### 49. An Advocate shall not be a full-time salaried employee of any
person,Government, firm, corporation or concern, so long as he continues to
practise,and shall, on taking up any employment, intimate the fact to the Bar
Council on whose roll his name appears, and shall thereupon cease to practise
as an Advocate so long as he continues in such employment.

[* * *] [[Para 2 and 3 deleted by Resolution dated 22.6.2001. Prior to their
deletion, Para 2 and 3 read as under:-"Nothing in his rule shall apply to a
Law Officer of the Central Government of a State or of any Public Corporation
or body constituted by statute who is entitled to be enrolled under the rules
of his State Bar Council made under section 28(2)(d) read with section
24(1)(e) of the Act despite his being a full time salaried employee.Law
Officer for the purpose of this rule means a person who is so designated by
the terms appointment and who, by the said terms, is required to act and/or
plead in Courts on behalf of his employer." ]]

### 50. An Advocate who has inherited, or succeeded by survivorship to, a
family business may continue it, but may not personally participate in the
management thereof. He may continue to hold a share with others in any
business which has descended to him by survivorship or inheritance or by will,
provided he does not personally participate in the management thereof.

### 51. An Advocate may review Parliamentary Bills for a remuneration, edit
legal text books at a salary, do press-vetting for newspapers, coach pupils
for legal examination, set and examine question papers; and, subject to the
rules against advertising and full-time employment, engage in broadcasting
journalism,lecturing and teaching subjects, both legal and non-legal.

### 52. Nothing in these rules shall prevent an Advocate from accepting, after
obtaining the consent of the State Bar Council, part-time employment provided
that in the opinion of the State Bar Council the nature of the employment does
not conflict with his professional work and is not inconsistent with the
dignity of the profession. This rule shall be subject to such directives if
any as may be issued by the Bar Council of India from time to time.

## Chapter III  
Conditions For Right To Practice

[Rules under section 49(1)(ah) of the Act]

### 1\. Every Advocate shall be under an obligation to see that his name
appears on the roll of the State Council within whose jurisdiction he
ordinarily practices:

Provided that if an Advocate does not apply for transfer of his name to the
roll of the State Bar Council within whose jurisdiction he is ordinarily
practising within six months of the start of such practice, it shall be deemed
that he is guilty of professional misconduct within the meaning of section
35of the Advocates Act.

### 2\. An Advocate shall not enter into a partnership or any other
arrangement for sharing remuneration with any person or legal practitioner who
is not an Advocate.

### 3\. Every Advocate shall keep informed the Bar Council on the roll of
which his name stands, of every change of his address.

### 4\. The Council or a State Council can call upon an Advocate to furnish
the name of the State Council on the roll of which his name is entered, and
call for other particulars.

### 5\.

(1)An Advocate who voluntarily suspends his practice for any reason
whatsoever, shall intimate by registered post to the State Bar Council on the
rolls of which his name is entered, of such suspension together with his
certificate of enrollment in original.(2)Whenever any such Advocate who has
suspended his practice desires to resume his practice, he shall apply to the
Secretary of the State Bar Council for resumption of practice, along with an
affidavit stating whether he has incurred any of the disqualifications under
section 24-A, Chapter III of the Act during the period of suspension.(3)The
Enrollment Committee of the State Bar Council may order the resumption of his
practice and return the certificate to him with necessary endorsement.If the
Enrollment Committee is of the view that the Advocate has incurred any of the
disqualifications, the Committee shall refer the matter under proviso to
section 26(1) of the Act.(4)On suspension and resumption of practice the
Secretary shall act in terms of rule 24 of Part IX.

### 6\.

(1)An Advocate whose name has been removed by order of the Supreme Court ora
High Court or the Bar Council as the case may be, shall not be entitled to
practice the profession of law either before the Court and authorities
mentioned under section 30 of the Act, or in chambers, or otherwise.(2)An
Advocate who is under suspension, shall be under same disability during the
period of such suspension as an Advocate whose name has been removed from the
roll.

### 7\. [ An officer after his retirement or otherwise ceasing to be in
service for any reasons, if enrolled as an Advocate shall not practise in any
of the Judicial, Administrative Courts/Tribunals/Authorities, which are
presided over by an officer equivalent or lower to the post which such officer
last held.

Explanation.-An officer shall include Judicial Officer, Officer from State or
Central Services and Presiding Officers or Members of the Tribunals or
Authorities or such Officers as referred under section 30(ii) of the Advocates
Act, 1961.] [Amended by Resolution No. 128/2007, dated 17.1.2008. ][[7-A]
[Added by the Bar Council of India, New Delhi, Notification dated February,
2000, published in the Gazette of India, Pt. III, Section 4, p. 529, No. 9,
dated 26.2.2000. ]. Any person applying for enrolment as an Advocate shall not
be enrolled, if he is dismissed, retrenched, compulsorily retired, removed or
otherwise relieved from Government service or from the service under the
control of the Hon'ble High Courts or the Hon'ble Supreme Court on the charges
of corruption or dishonesty unbecoming of an employee and a person having such
disqualification is permanently debarred from enrolling himself as an
Advocate.]

### 8\. No Advocate shall be entitled to practice if in the opinion of the
Council he is suffering from such contagious disease as makes the practice of
law a hazard to the health of others. This disqualification shall last for
such period as the Council directs from time to time.

[CHAPTER III-A [Added by the Bar Council of India, Resolution No. 58/2006,
published in the Gazette of India, Pt. III, Section 4, dated 6.5.2006. ] (
Rule under section 49(1)(j) of the Advocates Act, 1961 )Consistent with the
obligation of the Bar to show a respectful attitude towards the Court and
bearing in mind the dignity of Judicial office, the form of address to be
adopted whether in the Supreme Court, High Courts or Subordinate Courts should
be as follows:-"Your Honour" or Hon'ble Court" in Supreme Court and High
Courts and in the Subordinate Courts and Tribunals it is open to the Lawyers
to address the Court as "Sir" or the equivalent word in respective regional
languages.Explanation.-As the words "My Lord" and Your Lordship" are relics of
colonial past, it is proposed to incorporate the above rule showing respectful
attitude to the Court. ][CHAPTER IV [Substituted by the Bar Council of India,
Resolution No. 121/2001, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. III,
Section 4, dated 9.3.2002. ] Form Of Dresses Or Robes To Be Worn By
Advocates[Rules under section 49(1)(gg) of the Act]Advocates appearing in the
Supreme Court, High Courts, Subordinate Courts,Tribunals or Authorities shall
wear the following as part of their dress which shall be sober and
dignified.I. ADVOCATES.-(a)a black buttoned up coat, chapkan, achkan, black
sherwani and white bands with Advocates 'Gowns.(b)a black open breast coat,
white shirt, white collar, stiff or soft, and white bands with
Advocates'Gowns.In either cases wear long trousers (white, black, striped or
grey) or dhoti excluding jeans:Provided further that in Courts other than the
Supreme Court, High Courts,District Courts, Sessions Courts or City Civil
Courts, a black tie may be worn instead of bands.II. LADY ADVOCATES.-(a)black
full sleeve jacket or blouse, white collar stiff or soft, with white bands and
Advocates 'Gowns.White blouse, with or without collar, with white bands and
with a black open breasted coat.OR(b)sarees or long skirts(white or black or
any mellow or subdued colour without any print or design) or flare (white,
black or black striped or grey) or Punjabi dress Churidar Kurtaor Salwar Kurta
with or without dupatta (white or black) or traditional dress with black coat
and bands.III Wearing of Advocates 'gowns shall be optional except when
appearing in the Supreme Court or in High Courts.IV. Except in Supreme Court
and High Courts during summer, wearing of black coat is not mandatory.]

## Part VII – DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND REVIEW

## Chapter I  
Complaints Against Advocates And Procedure To Be Followed By Disciplinary
Committees Of The State

BAR COUNCIL AND THE BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA[Rules under section 49(1)(f) of the
Act]A.Complaint and enquiry under sections 35, 36 and 36-B of the Act

### 1\.

(1)A complaint against an Advocate shall be in the form of a petition duly
signed and verified as required under the Code of Civil Procedure. The
complaint could be filed in English or in Hindi or in regional language where
the language has been declared to be a State language and in case the
complaint is in Hindi or in any other regional language, the State Bar Council
shall translate the complaint in English whenever a disciplinary matter is
sent to the Bar Council of India under the Advocates Act.Every complaint shall
be accompanied by the fees as prescribed in the rules framed under section
49(h) of the Act.(2)The Secretary of the Bar Council may require the
complainant to pay the prescribed fees if not paid, to remove any defects and
call for such particulars or copies of the complaint or other documents as may
be considered necessary.(3)On a complaint being found to be in order, it shall
be registered and placed before the Bar Council for such order as it may deem
fit to pass.(4)No matter taken up by a State Bar Council suo motu or arising
on a complaint made under section 35 of the Act shall be dropped solely by
reason of its having been withdrawn, settled or otherwise compromised, or that
the complainant does not want to proceed with the enquiry.

### 2\. Before referring a complaint under section 35(1) of the Act to one of
its Disciplinary Committees to be specified by it, the Bar Council may require
a complainant to furnish within a time to be fixed by it, further and better
particulars and may also call for the comments from the Advocates complained
against.

### 3\.

(1)After a complaint has been referred to a Disciplinary Committee by the Bar
Council, the Registrar shall expeditiously send a notice to the Advocate
concerned requiring him to show cause within a specified date on the complaint
made against him and to submit the statement of defence, documents and
affidavits in support of such defence, and further informing him that in case
of his non-appearance on the date of hearing fixed, the matter shall be heard
and determined in his absence.Explanation.-Appearance includes, unless
otherwise directed, appearance by an Advocate or through duly authorised
representative.(2)If the Disciplinary Committee requires or permits, a
complainant may file a replication within such time as may be fixed by the
Committee.

### 4\. The Chairman of the Disciplinary Committee shall fix the date, hour
and place of the enquiry which shall not ordinarily be later than thirty days
from the receipt of the reference. The Registrar shall give notice of such
date,hour and place to the complainant or other person aggrieved, the Advocate
concerned and the Attorney-General or the Additional Solicitor General of
India or the Advocate General, as the case may be, and shall also serve on
them copies of the compliant and such other documents mentioned in rule 24 of
this Chapter as the Chairman of the Committee may direct at least ten days
before the date fixed for the enquiry.

### 5\.

(1)The notices referred to in this Chapter shall subject to necessary
modification, be in Form Nos. E-1 and E-2, be sent to the Advocates appearing
for the parties. Notice to a party not appearing by the Advocate shall be sent
to the address as furnished in the complaint or in the grounds of appeal. The
cost of the notices shall be borne by the complainant unless the Disciplinary
Committee otherwise directs.(2)The notices may be sent ordinarily through
messenger or by registered post acknowledgement due and served on the Advocate
or the party concerned or his agent or other person as provided for in Order V
of the Civil Procedure Code.(3)Notice may also, if so directed by the
Committee, be sent for service through any Civil Court as provided for under
section 42(3) of the Advocates Act.(4)Where the notice sent to any party
cannot be served as aforesaid, it maybe served by affixing a copy thereof in
some conspicuous place in the office of the Bar Council, and also upon some
conspicuous part of the house (if any) in which the party concerned is known
to have last resided or had his office, or in such other manner as the
Committee thinks fit, such service shall be deemed to be sufficient
service.(5)Payment of bills and/or charges for summons to witnesses, etc.,
shall be in accordance with the rules under section 49(h) of the Act.

### 6\.

(1)The parties can appear in person or by an Advocate who should file a
vakalatnama giving the name of the Bar Council in which he is enrolled, his
residential address, telephone number, if any, and his address for service of
notices. A Senior Advocate is entitled to appear with another Advocate who has
filed a vakalatnama.(2)The Bar Council or its Disciplinary Committee may at
any stage of a proceeding appoint an Advocate to appear as amicus curiae .
Such Advocate may be paid such fee as the Council or the Committee may
decide.(3)Excepting when the Committee has otherwise directed, service on the
Advocate shall be deemed to be sufficient service on the parties concerned,
even if copies of the notices are in addition sent to the parties, whether the
parties have or have not been served.(4)Unless otherwise indicated, where more
than one Advocate appears for the same party, it is sufficient to serve the
notice on any of them.

### 7\.

(1)If in an enquiry on a complaint received, either the complainant or the
respondent does not appear before the Disciplinary Committee in spite of
service of notice, the Committee may proceed ex parte or direct fresh notice
to be served.(2)Any such order for proceeding ex parte may be set aside on
sufficient cause being shown,when an application is made supported by an
affidavit, within 60 days of the passing of the exparte order.Explanation.-The
provisions of section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to this sub-
rule.

### 8\.

(1)The Disciplinary Committee shall hear the Attorney-General or the
Additional Solicitor General of India or the Advocate General, as the case
maybe or their Advocate, and parties or their Advocates, if they desire to be
heard, and determine the matter on documents and affidavits unless it is of
the opinion that it should be in the interest of justice to permit cross-
examination of the deponents or to take oral evidence, in which case the
procedure for the trial of civil suits, shall as far as possible be
followed.(2)On every document admitted in evidence, the following endorsement
shall be made which shall be signed by the Chairman or any member of the
Committee:-The Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of
.............Exhibit No......... Date of Document.............Produced
by..............Date.............Signature of.............(3)The exhibits
shall be marked as follows:-(a)Those of the complainant as C1, C2,
etc.(b)Those of Respondent as R1, R2, etc.(c)Those of Disciplinary Committee
as D1, D2, etc.(4)The Disciplinary Committee may at any stage direct the
parties or their Advocates to furnish such further and better particulars as
it considers necessary.

### 9\.

(1)Evidence given before the Disciplinary Committee shall be recorded
preferably in English by any member of the Committee or any other person
authorised by the Committee. The evidence so recorded shall be signed by the
Chairman, or if the Chairman is not there when the evidence is recorded, by
any member of the Committee.(2)Whenever the record of a case decided by the
State Bar Council or its Disciplinary Committee in which evidence has been
recorded in a language other than English is required to be sent to the Bar
Council of India or its Disciplinary Committee, a translation thereof in
English made by a person nominated by the Committee or Registrar certifying
the same to be true copy shall also be sent.

### 10\.

(1)Every Disciplinary Committee shall make a record of its day to-day
proceedings.(2)The Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee shall maintain a
case diary setting out shortly in order of date, all relevant information
concerning the date of filing, the date of hearing and dispatch and service of
the notices on the parties or the Advocates or the Attorney-General, or the
Additional Solicitor General or the Advocate General, as the case may be, of
statements or petitions filed and/or of the order thereon and of other
proceedings in the matter before the Committee.

### 11\.

(1)If in any enquiry pending before the Disciplinary Committee, the
complainant dies and there is no representative who is willing to conduct the
case on his behalf, the Disciplinary Committee may, having regard to the
allegations made in the complaint and the evidence available, make a suitable
order either to proceed with the enquiry or to drop it.(2)(a)In the case of an
enquiry against only one Advocate, on his death the Disciplinary Committee
shall record the fact of such death and drop the proceedings.(b)Where the
enquiry is against more than one Advocate, on the death of one of them, the
Disciplinary Committee may continue the enquiry against the other Advocate
unless it decides otherwise.(3)No Disciplinary enquiry shall be dropped solely
by reason of its having been withdrawn, settled or otherwise compromised, or
that the complainant does not want to proceed with the enquiry.

### 12\. Unless otherwise permitted, counsel appearing before any of the
Disciplinary Committees of the State Bar Council or Bar Council of India shall
appear in Court dress.

### 13\. The Council may from time to time issue instructions on any of the
matters provided for in these rules.

### 14\.

(1)The finding of the majority of the members of the Disciplinary Committee
shall be the finding of the Committee. The reason given in support of the
finding may be given in the form of a judgment, and in the case of a
difference of opinion, any member dissenting shall be entitled to record his
dissent giving his own reasons. It shall be competent for the Disciplinary
Committee to award such costs as it thinks fit.(2)The Registrar of the
Disciplinary Committee shall send free of charge to each of the parties in the
proceedings, a certified copy of the final order or judgment as set out in
rule 36 in this Chapter.(3)The date of an order made by the Disciplinary
Committee shall be the date on which the said order is first received in the
office of the Bar Council after it has been signed by all the members thereof.
For the purpose for limitation the date of the order shall be the date on
which the contents of the order duly signed as aforesaid are communicated to
the parties affected thereby.

### 15\. Save as otherwise directed by the Disciplinary Committee or the
Chairman thereof, certified copies of the records of a case pending before the
Disciplinary Committee may be granted to the parties or to their counsel on an
application made in that behalf and on payment of the prescribed fee.

### 16\.

(1)The Secretary of a State Bar Council shall send to the Secretary of the Bar
Council of India quarterly statements of the complaints received and the stage
of the proceedings before the State Bar Council and Disciplinary Committees in
such manner as may be specified from time to time.(2)The Secretary of the Bar
Council of India may, however, call for such further statements and
particulars as he considers necessary.

### 17\.

(1)The Secretary of every State Bar Council shall furnish such particulars and
send such statements as may be considered necessary by the Secretary of the
Bar Council of India for purposes of section 36-B of the Act and send all the
records of proceedings that stand transferred under the said section.(2)The
date of receipt of the complaint or the date of the initiation of the
proceedings at the instance of the State Bar Council shall be the date on
which the State Bar Council refers the case for disposal to its Disciplinary
Committee under section 35(1).(3)Whenever the records of proceedings are
transferred under section 36-B of the Act to the Council, the requirements in
rule 9(2) of this Chapter shall be followed by the Disciplinary Committee of
the State Bar Council.B.Withdrawal of proceedings under section 36 of the Act

### 18\.

(1)Where a State Bar Council makes a report referred to in section 36(2) of
the Act, the Secretary of the State Bar Council shall send to the Secretary of
the Bar Council of India all the records of the proceedings along with the
report.(2)An application by a person interested in the withdrawal of a
proceeding referred to in section 36(2) of the Act, shall be signed by him and
it shall set out the necessary facts supported by an affidavit and accompanied
by the fee prescribed.(3)For making an order on an application of a party or
otherwise under section 36(2) of the Act, the Disciplinary Committee of the
Bar Council of India may-(a)call for a Report of the Disciplinary Committee
seized of the proceeding;(b)issue notice to the respondent;(c)require the
parties to file such statements as it considers necessary;(d)call for the
records of the proceedings; and(e)examine any witnesses.(4)In the proceedings
before the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India under section
36, unless otherwise directed, the parties may appear in person or by Advocate
who shall file a vakalatnama as provided for under rule 6(1) in this
Chapter.(5)On a consideration of the Report of a State Bar Council or
otherwise the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India shall pass
such orders as it considers proper.C.Appeal to the Bar Council of India under
section 37 of the Act

### 19\.

(1)An appeal to the Council provided for under section 37 of the Act, shall be
in the form of a memorandum in writing as set out in rule 21 in this Chapter.
If the appeal is in a language other than English, it shall be accompanied by
a translation thereof in English.(2)In every appeal filed under section 37(1)
of the Act, all persons who were parties to the original proceedings shall
alone be impleaded as parties.(3)Save as otherwise directed by the
Disciplinary Committee of the Council,in an appeal by the Advocate against an
order under section 35, in case of death of the complainant the legal
representatives of the complainant shall be made parties.

### 20\.

(1)An appeal may be presented by the appellant or his Advocate or by his
recognised agent in the office of the Bar Council of India, or sent by
registered post with acknowledgement due so as to reach the Secretary, Bar
Council of India on or before the last day of limitation.(2)An appeal may be
admitted after the period of limitation if appellant satisfies the
Disciplinary Committee that he has sufficient cause for not preferring the
appeal within such period. Any such application for condonation of delay shall
be supported by an affidavit.

### 21\.

(1)The memorandum of appeal referred to in rule 19(1) if this Chapter shall
contain necessary particulars as in the Form G. The memorandum of appeal shall
state when the order was communicated to the appellant, and how it is in
time.(2)Along with the memorandum of appeal, the appellant shall
file-(a)either the authenticated or the certified copy of the order appealed
against, signed by the Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee, and(b)five
additional copies of the memorandum of appeal and of the order appealed
against, if there is only one respondent; if there is more than one
respondent, such number of additional copies as may be necessary. All copies
shall be certified as true copies by the appellant or by his counsel.(3)Every
memorandum of appeal shall be accompanied by the prescribed fees in cash. In
case the memo is sent by post, it shall be accompanied by the M.O.Receipt
issued by the Post Office.(4)If the papers filed in an appeal are not in
order, the Registrar shall require the appellant to remove such defects within
a specified time.

### 22\.

(1)Subject to the provisions contained in rule 29(2) in this Chapter, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee or in his absence the Vice-Chairman of the
Executive Committee or such other member authorised in this behalf by the
Council shall have the power to allocate matters relating to the Disciplinary
Committee, save when any such case has been allotted by the Council to any
particular Disciplinary Committee.(2)Any matter allotted to a particular
Disciplinary Committee which has not been heard may be reallocated to a
different Disciplinary Committee.(3)Notwithstanding the provisions of rule 30
in this Part the Chairman of any Disciplinary Committee shall have powers to
issue interim orders on urgent matters which may be placed before him by the
Registrar.

### 23\. Subject to any resolution of the Bar Council of India, in this behalf
relating to the places of hearing, the Chairman of the Disciplinary Committee
concerned shall fix the date, hour and place for the hearing of the appeal.

### 24\.

(1)The appellant shall be required to file six typed sets of the following
papers properly paged and indexed if there is only one respondent, and as many
more sets as there may be additional respondents for the use of the
Disciplinary Committee and by the other parties and for the record-(a)the
complaint, statement in the defence of the Advocate,(b)the evidence oral and
documentary and such other papers on which parties intend to rely,(c)any other
part of the record as may be directed by the Committee.Where any of the above
papers is in a language other than English, English translations thereof shall
be filed.(2)The respondent shall, if he so desires, or if so called upon, file
six sets of typed papers of any part of the record on which he intends to
rely. Hes hall also file English translations of such papers as are not in
English.

### 25\. The Registrar shall give notices to the parties or their Advocates or
their recognised agents informing them of the date, time and place of the
hearing of the appeal.

A copy of the memorandum of appeal shall be sent to the respondent along with
the notice of the appeal.

### 26\.

(1)No appeal filed under section 37 of the Act against an order of punishment
of an Advocate shall be permitted to be withdrawn on account of settlement or
compromise or adjustment of the claim against the Advocate.(2)Every appeal
filed under section 37 of the Act by or against an Advocate shall abate on the
death of the Advocate so far as he is concerned.

### 27\. In regard to appearance of a party in appeal, rule 6 of this Chapter
will apply.

### 28\.

(1)The Registrar shall issue notice to the State Council concerned for the
complete records to be sent to the Council.(2)The Registrar of the State
Council concerned shall send along with the records a list containing
particulars under the following columns, and comply with such other directions
as may be issued-Date of DocumentDescription of DocumentPage No

Serial No of Document  
---  
  
D.Application for stay, and other matters

### 29\.

(1)An application for stay made under section 40, sub-section (1) or (2) of
the Act shall be accompanied by an affidavit and the fees, if any, prescribed
by the rules of the Council made under section 49(1)(h) of the Act. Where the
affidavit is not in English, a translation thereof in English shall be
filed.The applicant shall file with his application at least five copies of
the application, and the affidavit and as many additional copies thereof as
there are respondents. Where the application is not in English five copies
with translation thereof in English shall also be filed.In every application
for stay made to the Council, the applicant shall state if any application has
been made to the State Council, and the orders thereon.(2)Before a matter is
allotted to a Disciplinary Committee under rule 22above, the Registrar may
obtain orders on applications for interim stay or other urgent applications
from the Chairman of any of the Disciplinary Committees.The orders passed
under this sub-rule shall be communicated to the parties and to the Secretary
of the Bar Council concerned.

### 30\. After allotment of a case under rule 22 in this Chapter to a
Disciplinary Committee, the Registrar may obtain its order on any matter of an
emergent nature arising therein, by circulation.

[30-A. The Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India shall exercise
all the powers exercised by the Civil Court or Court of Appeal under Civil
Procedure Code.

### 31\. The order of the Disciplinary Committee disposing of an appeal shall
be communicated to the parties. The date of an order made by the Disciplinary
Committee shall be the date on which the said order is first received in the
office of the Council after it has been signed by all the members thereof.]
[Added w.e.f. 31.12.1977. ]

E. Rules applicable to all proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee of
the State Bar Councils and the Bar Council of India

### 32\. The rules in this Chapter so far as may be, shall apply to all
proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee of the State Bar Councils or of the
Bar Council of India.

Proceedings to be in camera

### 33\. All the proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee shall be held
in camera.

Inspection of records and copies

### 34\.

(1)Save as otherwise directed by the Disciplinary Committee or the Chairman
thereof, inspection of any of the records in any proceeding before the
Disciplinary Committee may be permitted to the parties or their Advocates on
presentation of an application duly signed by the applicant or his Advocate
and on payment of the prescribed fee on any working day except during the
summer or other vacations of the Supreme Court.(2)An application for
inspection shall be made to the Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee. The
Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee may permit the inspection in his
presence or in the presence of any member of the staff authorised by him.The
person inspecting shall not be entitled to make copies of the record of which
inspection is granted. He shall, however, be permitted to make short notes in
pencil.(3)Save as otherwise directed by the Disciplinary Committee or the
Chairman,thereof, certified copies of the records of a case pending before the
Disciplinary Committee may be granted to the parties or to their counsel on an
application made in that behalf and on payment of the prescribed fee.(4)A copy
of a final judgment in a decided case may be given to any person applying for
the same on payment of the prescribed fee therefor, provided,however, that the
name of the Advocate against whom the proceedings were taken shall be
omitted.Order awarding Costs: Decretal Order

### 35\.

(1)All orders where costs are awarded in disciplinary proceedings shall
specify the amount of costs awarded and also state the party against whom the
order is made, and the time within the amount is payable.(2)As soon as
possible after the order is made by the Disciplinary Committee, in respect of
every order where costs are awarded to any of the parties, a decretal order
shall be drawn up as in Form J-1/J-2 at the end of this Chapter signed by the
Secretary of the State Bar Council, or the Council as the case may be, as
Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee and bearing the seal of the State Bar
Council, as the case may be.(3)The Decretal Order aforesaid shall be furnished
to any party to the proceeding on an application made therefor, and on payment
of the charges prescribed under the rules.Copies of Final Orders

### 36\. The Secretary of the State Bar Council or the Bar Council of India,
as the case maybe, shall send to each of the parties in proceedings, a
certified copy of the final order made under section 35, 36, 36-B or 37,
signed by him as Registrar of the Disciplinary Committee and bearing the seal
of the State Bar Council/Bar Council of India, as the case may be. No charges
shall be payable on the copies so sent. Charges as prescribed under the rules
shall, however, be payable for all additional copies of the said order applied
for.

## Chapter II  
Review Under Section 44 Of The Act

### 1\. An application for review under section 44 of the Act shall be in the
form of a petition duly signed and supported by an affidavit accompanied by
prescribed fee and filed within 60 days from the date of the order sought to
be reviewed.

### 2\. Every such application shall be accompanied by:

(a)a certified copy of the order complained of,(b)five additional copies of
the application, affidavit and the order, and(c)if there are more respondents
than one, as many additional true copies as may be necessary.

### 3\. Every such application shall set out the grounds on which the review
is sought and shall further state whether any proceeding in respect thereof
was filed and is still pending or the result thereof as the case may be.

### 4\. If a Disciplinary Committee of a Bar Council does not summarily reject
the application under section 44 of the Act, or wishes to exercise its powers
under section 44, suo motu ,the Secretary of a Bar Council shall issue as
nearly as may be in the Form K at the end of this Chapter, notice to the
parties and to the Advocate-General concerned or the Additional Solicitor-
General of India in the case of the Bar Council of Delhi.

### 5\.

(1)If after the hearing referred to in rule 4, the Disciplinary Committee of a
State Bar Council does not dismiss the application, and decides that the
application for review should be allowed, the copy of the order along with the
relevant record shall be sent to the Bar Council of India for approval.(2)If
the Bar Council of India approves the order of the State Bar Council the
Disciplinary Committee of the State Bar Council shall communicate the order to
the parties, if the Bar Council of India does not approve it, the Disciplinary
Committee of the State Bar Council shall make its order dismissing the
application and inform the parties.

### 6\. The decision of the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India
on an application for review of its order shall be communicated to the
parties.

### 7\. In the proceedings under this Chapter, unless the Disciplinary
Committee of the State Bar Council or the Bar Council of India, as the case
may be,otherwise decides, the parties may appear by the Advocates who shall
file a vakalatnama signed by the party.

## Part VIII

FEE LEVIABLE UNDER THE ACT[ Rulesunder section 49(1)(h) of the Act]

### 1\. A State Council may levy fees, not exceeding the limits prescribed
hereunder in any of the following matters:-

Rs. 500.00

(a) Petition challenging the election of one or all members of the State
Council  
---  
(b) Complaint of professional misconduct under section 35 of the Act:Provided that no fee shall be payable on a complaint made by any Court or Tribunal or other statutory body or wherein a proper case the Bar Council grants exemption therefor.(b-1) Complainant shall be liable to pay in addition to the fee in sub-clause(b) , the cost of service of process unless the Disciplinary Committee grants exemption therefor | Rs. 100.00  
(c) Certificate as to the date of enrolment and the continuance of the name of the Advocate on the roll. | Rs. 25.00  
(d)Certificate required to be produced with the transfer application under section 18 of the Act. | Rs. 50.00  
(e) Inspection by complainant or the concerned Advocates, of documents relating to the disciplinary matters. | Rs. 10.00  
(f) Inspection of the roll of the Advocates or the voters list. | Rs. 10.00  
(g) Any application made in any proceedings before a State Council or its Committee other than the Disciplinary Committee. | Rs. 10.00  
  
### 2\. A fee as specified hereunder shall be paid in the following matters:-

Rs. 100.00

(a)Complaint of professional misconduct under section 36 of the Act:Provided
that no fee shall be payable on a complaint made by any Court or Tribunal or
other statutory body or wherein a proper case the Bar Council grants exemption
therefor.(a-1) Complainant shall be liable to pay in addition to the fee in
sub-clause(a) , the cost of service of process unless the Disciplinary
Committee grants exemption therefor  
---  
(b) An appeal filed under Section 37 of the Act | Rs. 100.00  
(c) An application for stay made to the Council under the Act | Rs. 50.00  
(d)(i) An application for inspection.(ii) Inspection in cases finally decided when permitted. |  Rs. 10.00Rs.25.00  
(e)An application for withdrawal under Section 36 of the Act. | Rs. 50.00  
(f) An application for review under the Act. | Rs. 100.00  
(g) An application for the exercise of its power under section 48-A of the Act (Revision). | Rs. 100.00  
(h) An application made in any proceedings before the Council or a Committee other than the Disciplinary Committee. | Rs. 10.00  
  
### 3\. (a) Every application of an authenticated copy of any certificate,
order of other proceedings, entry on any roll, or any document or deposition
in any proceedings, before a State Council or the Council or a Committee
thereof shall be accompanied by a fee of Rs. 10 and the copying charges as
follows:-

Rs. 500.00

(a) Application for transfer from one State Bar Council to another State Bar
Council  
---  
(b)Preparation charges of file and other papers regarding transfer of name by transferor and transferee Bar Councils | Rs. 500.00  
  
A folio shall be deemed to consist of two hundred words, seven figures shall
be counted as one word, and more than half a folio shall be reckoned as a
folio.(b)In any proceedings,summons to witness shall only be issued on payment
of the requisite batta and/or charges according to the rates prescribed by the
High Court, in the case of a State Council, and the Supreme Court in the case
of the Council or a Committee thereof as the case may be.(c)Every
interlocutory application, including a petition for excusing delay or for
obtaining stay for proceedings of a Disciplinary Committee shall be
accompanied by a fee of Rs. 25 in the case of the Disciplinary Committee of a
State Council and a fee of Rs. 25 in the case of the Disciplinary Committee of
the Council.(d)An application by a party of the proceedings for unattested
copies of depositions of witnesses may be supplied at the rate of Rs. 5 for
each page of the deposition.

### 4\. [

Rs. 20.00

Every exemplification of the order or other documents in addition to the folio
and other charges  
---  
Copying charges for folio | Rs. 10.00  
  
] [Amended by Resolution No. 116/2001 (w.e.f. 1.9.2001). ][5. For resumption
of practice as an Advocate, an applicant shall have to pay a sum of Rs. 500 in
favour of the State Bar Council and Rs. 100 in favour of the Bar Council of
India by way of separate Bank Drafts drawn in favour of the respective Bar
Councils.] [Added by Resolution No. 53/1996, dated 2.6.1996 (w.e.f. 2.6.1996).
]

## Part IX

GENERAL PRINCIPLES TO BE FOLLOWED BY STATE BAR COUNCILS AND THE BAR COUNCILOF
INDIA RULES FOR SUPERVISION AND CONTROL BY THE BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA[Rulesunder
section 49(1)(a), (i) and (j) of the Act]Election

### 1\. The election of members to State Councils shall only be by secret
ballot. There shall be no voting by post except that a State Council may
permit voting by post to Advocates eligible to vote and who do not ordinarily
practise at the seat of the High Court or the seat of the District Courts in
the State.

Explanation.-An Advocate shall be deemed ordinarily to practise at the place
which is given in his address in the Electoral Roll.

### 2\. Any candidate who by himself or through his agent seems or attempts to
secure from any voter his ballot paper with intent to prevent him from
transmitting it directly or with intent to ensure that the vote has been cast
for a particular candidate shall be guilty of an election malpractice which
shall invalidate his election whether or not the result of the election has
been materially affected thereby.

### 3\. The notice of election of members of the State Councils and the
results of the election shall be published in the State Government Gazette or
Gazettes, as the case may be.

### 4\. A State Council may require a deposit from every candidate standing at
an election, which may be forfeited in case the candidate is unable to secure
atleast 1/8 of the quota fixed for the election.

### 5\. All election disputes shall be decided by tribunals constituted by the
State Councils.

Funds of State Councils

### 6\. The funds of State Councils must first be deposited in the State Bank
of India or any Nationalised Bank before any money could be expended, and
disbursement shall ordinarily be made by cheques, unless the amount involved
is small.

### 7\. The State Bar Council may decide from time to time investment of its
funds in the following securities:-

### 1\. in fixed deposits or cumulative deposits in the State Bank of India or
in such other Nationalised Banks;

### 2\. in any other securities specified in section 20 of the Indian Trust
Act,1882;

### 3\. [ in the fixed deposits or cumulative deposits with Government
companies as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).] [Sub-rule(3)
came into force (w.e.f. 27.11.1988). ]

### 8\. Every State Council shall maintain a provident fund for its employees
and also pay gratuity in accordance with rules which each Council may frame.

### 9\. The State Councils may accept donations in cash or kind for any of the
purposes of the Act.

### 10\. The accounts for every Council shall be audited by a Chartered
Accountant once a year.

Books and Registers

### 11\. The State Bar Councils and the Bar Council of India shall maintain
the following books:-

(a)Minutes books;(b)Attendance Register for the staff;(c)Leave Register for
the staff;(d)Acquittance Register;(e)Day Book and Ledger;(f)Receipt
Book;(g)Financial Assistance Register;(h)Provident Fund Account;
and(i)Property Register.THE BAR COUNCIL OF...........................Copy
Application Register

### 12\. Every State Bar Council shall maintain:-

(a)A Copy Application Register containing as far as possible the following
entries:-

### 1\. Serial No.

### 2\. D.C. Enquiry No./D.C. Appeal No.

### 3\. Name of Advocate/party (making the application)

### 4\. No. of Folio

### 5\. Charges payable

### 6\. Date of receipt of copy application

### 7\. Date of notifying charges payable

### 8\. Date of payment

### 9\. Date when copy ready

### 10\. Date of delivery

### 11\. Signature for receipt

### 12\. Remarks

To every certified copy applied for and furnished shall ordinarily affixed a
rubber stamp containing, inter alia, the following columns:-THE BAR COUNCIL
OF....C.A. No...

### 1\.

No.of D.C. proceedings

### 2\. Date of communication of order

### 3\. Date of receipt of copy application

### 4\. Date when charges are called for

### 5\. Date when charges are paid

### 6\. Date when copy dispatched or delivered

### 7\. Charges paid for the copy

Signature of SecretaryDate......... or other person authorized(b)"Bar Council
Complaint Register" contain in the following columns:-

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

### 5\.

### 6\.

### 7\.

### 8\.

### 9\.

1  
---  
SL.No. | Date of receipt of complaint | Name of Complainant or other person and address | Name of Advocate against whom the complaint is made, his Roll No. | Date on which Bar Council considered | If rejected, prima facie, or referred to its Disciplinary Committee,and date or resolution | Reference to page of Disciplinary Committee register,further particulars | if ,suo motu,necessary particulars | Any other particulars/Remarks.  
  
(c)Disciplinary Committee Register containing the following columns:-

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

### 5\.

### 6\.

### 7\.

### 8\.

### 9\.

### 10\.

### 11\.

### 12\.

### 13\.

### 14\.

### 15\.

### 16\.

### 17\.

### 18\.

1  
---  
Sl.No. | Number of Case | Complainant's Address | Name of the Advocate about whom complaint is made and his address and Roll No. | Date of reference by Bar Council | Name of Members of Disciplinary Committee | If summarily rejected,date | if not summarily rejected,dates of enquiry | Gist of final order under section 35(1) and date | Date on which order was sent to the parties | Date of receipt of order communicated to parties | if appeal filed number of the appeal and particulars | Date of receipt of notice of dispatch of records | Date of dispatch of records to Bar Council of India | Result of appeal,etc. | Date of receipt of records received back from the Bar Council of India | Date of return of documents to parties | Remarks and other particulars.  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
### 13\.

The Bar Council of India shall maintain the following registers:-

### 1\. Copy Application Register, containing entries as nearly as possible as
in the case of the copy application register of State Bar Councils with
necessary modifications.

### 2\. The Bar Council of India Complaint Register, containing entries on
matters required with reference to register of the State Bar Councils.

### 3\. The Disciplinary Committee Register containing similar entries with
necessary modifications as is necessary for State Bar Councils.

### 4\. The Disciplinary Committee appeal registers containing the following
columns:-

### 2\.

### 3\.

### 4\.

### 5\.

### 6\.

### 7\.

### 8\.

### 9\.

### 10\.

### 11\.

### 12\.

### 13\.

### 14\.

### 15\.

### 16\.

### 17\.

### 18\.

1  
---  
Sl.No. | Date of receipt of paper | Name of Appellant | Name of Respondent | Name of Advocate against whom the enquiry is made and Roll Number | Appeal from Bar Council of..... | Date on which papers were found in order | Names of Members of Disciplinary Committee | Dates of hearing | Date of receipt of records of the Disciplinary Committee appealed against | Date of Final order | Date of despatch of order to parties | Date of receipt of order communicated | Particulars as to appeal to Supreme Court, if any | Result of appeal to Supreme Court. | Review application, if any, with particulars | Date of despatch of records received from the Bar Council | Other particulars and remarks  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Scrutiny of records of State Councils

### 14\.

(i)The Chairman (ii) the Vice-Chairman, (iii) any member of the Council or the
Secretary of the Council duly authorised by a resolution, shall be entitled at
any time to look into any of the records or other papers of any State
Council.Enrolment

### 15\.

(1)In addition to the enrolment fee laid down in section 24 of the Advocates
Act1961, persons desirous of being enrolled as Advocates shall also be liable
to pay to the State Councils, stamp duty payable by them under the Indian
Stamp Act, 1899 and such Bar Councils shall be entitled to recover the same
before making the entry of their names in the rolls.(2)Every candidate seeking
enrolment as an Advocate shall be required to affirm and subscribe to the
following declarations:-(a)"I shall uphold the Constitution and the laws"
;(b)"I shall faithfully discharge every obligation cast on me by the Act and
the rules framed thereunder" .Electoral Roll and Election

### 16\.

(1)Every State Council shall hold its elections well in time before the expiry
of the term of its members and take all steps necessary in respect
thereof.(2)The Secretary of every State Council shall take steps in time or
prepare and publish the electoral rolls for the purpose of the
elections.Supervisions and Control

### 17\. The State Councils shall, when so required, make such periodical
returns or statements or furnish such information as may be prescribed or
called for by the Council.

### 18\. The Secretary of every State Council shall, inter alia, send to the
Secretary of the Council-

(a)a copy of the notice of every election of members to the State Council, a
copy of the list of members elected, intimation of the election disputes, if
any referred to any Tribunal or Committee and the result thereof;(b)the names
of the, ex officio, members of the State Council;(c)the name of members of the
State Council co-opted for any vacancy;(d)the names of member selected as
Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the State Council from time to time;(e)the name
of the Secretary of the State Council and his residential address;(f)address
of the State Council, and intimations as to its hours of work and
holidays;(g)the name and address of the member elected to the Council and the
date of election;(h)before the 31st day of December each year as statement as
to the number of Disciplinary matters taken in file, number of cases disposed
of and number of cases pending.

### 19\. The Secretary of each State Bar Council shall keep the Bar Council of
India informed of all proceedings in any Court or Tribunal instituted by or
against the Bar Council, and shall wherever necessary send copies of such
proceedings.

### 20\. Every State Council shall arrange for the audit of its accounts in
time in accordance with its rules, and send forthwith after audit, the copy of
the audited account together with a copy of the report of the auditors thereon
to the Council.

### 21\. [* * *] [R. 21 has been deleted as Section 46 of the Advocates Act,
1961 (25 of 1961) has been omitted by the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1993 (70
of 1993), S.8 (w.e.f. 26.12.1993). ]

### 22\. (a) The State Councils shall give due publicity to their rules.

(b)The State Councils shall furnish information of the names of persons (with
their roll numbers and other necessary particulars) removed from its rolls or
suspended under Chapter V of the Act, or who voluntarily suspend practice, and
of those who resume practice,to all the Bar Associations, and the High Courts
and the subordinate Courts in the State.

### 23\. (a) The names of Advocates shall be entered in the rolls without
suffixes,prefixes, titles or degrees.

In the case of a person who has taken a degree in law from any University, the
name shall be the same as entered in the degree or other certificate granted
by the University; in the case of a Barrister, as in the certificate of call
to the Bar;In the case of a Vakil, Pleader or Attorney or Mukhtar, as it is in
certificate of entry as such Vakil, Pleader or Attorney or Mukhtar; andIn the
case of any person previously enrolled as an Advocate, whether he holds a
degree in law or not, as in the certificate of such admission.In the case of
any person not falling under any of the above categories, the name shall be
such as the State Council or the Enrolment Committee may determine.(b)The name
as entered in the roll of the State Council shall not be altered in any
respect except when-(i)on an application for the purpose, the State Council
accords its permission;(ii)a notice thereof is thereafter affixed on the
notice board of the State Council and published in the local Gazette in one
issue or in a local English newspaper as the State Council may specify;
and(iii)the applicant defrays all the necessary costs thereof.(c)Every State
Council shall forthwith communicate to the Council, the change if any in the
name of any Advocate on its rolls.

### 24\. (a) When the name of an Advocate is removed from the rolls, or an
Advocate is suspended from practice or otherwise punished under an order of
any Disciplinary Committee or an order of the Supreme Court under section 38,
or when an intimation of voluntary suspension from practice is received from
the Advocate, the State Council in respect of a person in its roll and the
Council in respect of a person whose name is not in any State Roll, shall
furnish information thereof giving the name of the Advocate, his roll number
and date of enrolment, his address, nature of the punishment inflicted-

(i)to the Registrar of the High Court of the State;(ii)to the Registrar of the
Supreme Court of India;(iii)to the Bar Association in the High Court;(iv)to
the District Court of the State; and(v)to such other authorities as the State
Council or the Council may direct.(b)The State Bar Councils and the Bar
Council of India will also cause to be published in the State Gazettes or the
Gazette of the Government of India as the case may be,information relating to
the removal from the roll or the suspension of an Advocate for misconduct.

