## Union of India - Act

## Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000

## Act 30 of 2000

  * Published on 25 August 2000 
  * Commenced on 25 August 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 August 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000Act No. 30 of 2000

### 1452.

Object and Reasons. - In his Address delivered to Parliament on the 25th day
of October, 1999, the President stated that necessary action would soon be
initiated for the creation of a new State of Vananchal. The Bill seeks to give
effect to that commitment. The Bill aims at reconstituting the existing State
of Bihar into two separate States. However, the new State will be called
Jharkhand.2\. The Bill provides for the territories of the two States and
makes the necessary supplemental and incidental provisions relating to
representation in Parliament and in the State Legislatures, distribution of
revenues, apportionment of assets and liabilities, management and development
of water resources and other matters.3\. The Government has set up a Unit in
the Planning Commission under the direct charge of the Deputy Chairman,
Planning Commission to deal exclusively with matters relating to the
development of the rest of Bihar consequent upon the formation of the State of
Jharkhand.4\. The proposed reorganisation of the existing State of Bihar will
meet the democratic aspirations of the people of Jharkhand. Gazette of India,
25-7-2000. Pt. II-S. 2. Ext., p. 147 (No. 130).[25th August, 2000]An Act to
provide for the reorganisation of the existing State of Bihar and for matters
connected therewith.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-first Year of the
Republic of India as follows :-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)"appointed [day]
[15th November, 2000, vide notification No. S.O. 829(E), dated 14th September,
2000]" means the day which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint;(b)"article" means an article of the
Constitution;(c)"assembly constituency", "council constituency" and
"parliamentary constituency" have the same meanings as in the Representation
of the People Act, 1950;(d)"Election commission" means the Election Commission
appointed by the President under article 324;(e)"existing State of Bihar"
means the State of Bihar as existing immediately before the appointed
day;(f)"law" includes any enactment, ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law,
rule, scheme, notification or other instrument having, immediately before the
appointed day, the force of law in the whole or in any Part of the existing
State of Bihar;(g)"notified order" means an order published in the Official
Gazette;(h)"population ratio" in relation to the States of Bihar and
Jharkhand, means the ratio of 645.30:218.44;(i)"sitting member", in relation
to either House of Parliament or of the Legislature of the existing State of
Bihar, means a person who immediately before the appointed day, is a member of
that House;(j)"successor State", in relation to the existing State of Bihar,
means the State of Bihar or Jharkhand;(k)"transferred territory" means the
territory which on the appointed day is transferred from the existing State of
Bihar to the State of Jharkhand;(l)"treasury" includes a sub-treasury;
and(m)any reference to a district, tahsil or other territorial division of the
existing State of Bihar shall be construed as a reference to the area
comprised within that territorial division on the appointed day.

## Part II – Reorganisation Of The State Of Bihar

### 3. Formation of Jharkhand State.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be formed a new State to be
known as the State of Jharkhand comprising the following territories of the
existing State of Bihar, namely :Bokaro, Chatra, Deogarh, Dhanbad, Dumka,
Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Kodarma, Lohardaga, Pakur, Palamau,
Ranchi, Sahebganj, Singhbhum (East) and Singhbhum (West) districts;and
thereupon the said territories shall cease to form Part of the existing State
of Bihar.

### 4. State of Bihar and territorial divisions thereof.

\- On and from the appointed day, the State of Bihar shall comprise the
territories of the existing State of Bihar other than those specified in
section 3.

### 5. Amendment of the First Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the First Schedule to the Constitution,
under the heading "I. THE STATES"-(a)in the paragraph relating to the
territories of the State of Bihar, the following shall be added at the end,
namely :"and the territories specified in section 3 of the Bihar
Reorganisation Act, 2000";(b)after entry 27, the following entry shall be
inserted, namely :"28. Jharkhand : The territories specified in section 3 of
the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000."

### 6. Saving powers of State Governments.

\- Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this shall be deemed to affect the
power of the Government of Bihar or Jharkhand to alter, after the appointed
day, the name, area or boundaries of any district or other territorial
division in the State.

## Part III – Representation In The Legislatures

The Council of States

### 7. Amendment of the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution.

\- On and from the appointed day, in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution,
in the Table,(a)entries 4 to 29 shall be renumbered as entries 5 to 30
respectively;(b)in entry 3, for the figures "22" the figures "16" shall be
substituted;(c)after entry 3, the following entry shall be inserted, namely
:"4. Jharkhand .............................. 6"

### 8. Allocation of sitting members.

(1)On and from the appointed day, the twenty-two sitting members of the
Council of States representing the existing State of Bihar shall be deemed to
have been elected to fill the seats allotted to the States of Bihar and
Jharkhand, as specified in the First Schedule to this Act.(2)The term of
office of such sitting members shall remain unaltered. The House of the People

### 9. Representation In the House of the People.

\- On and from the appointed day, there shall be allocated 40 seats to the
successor State of Bihar, and 14 to the successor State of Jharkhand, in the
House of the People and in the First Schedule to the Representation of the
People Act, 1950, under heading "I. STATES"(a)for entry 4, the following entry
shall be substituted, namely :-"4. Bihar 53 7 5 40 7 ..";(b)entries 10 to 25
shall be renumbered as entries 11 to 26 respectively;(c)after entry 9, the
following entry shall be inserted, namely:-"10. Jharkhand ...... 14 1 5"

### 10. Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Delimitation of Parliamentary and
Assembly Constituencies Order, 1976, shall stand amended as directed in the
Second Schedule to this Act.

### 11. Provision as to sitting members.

(1)Every sitting member of the House of the People representing a constituency
which, on the appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10, stands
allotted, with or without alteration of boundaries, to the successor State of
Bihar or Jharkhand, shall be deemed to have been elected to the House of the
People by that constituency as so allotted.(2)The term of office of such
sitting members shall remain unaltered. The Legislative Assembly

### 12. Provisions as to Legislative Assemblies.

(1)The number of seats as on the appointed day in the Legislative Assemblies
of the States of Bihar and Jharkhand shall be two hundred and forty-three and
eighty-one respectively.(2)In the Second Schedule to the Representation of the
People Act, 1950, under heading "1. States"-(a)for entry 4, the following
entry shall be substituted, namely:-"4. Bihar 318 45 29 243 39 ..";(b)entries
11 to 27 shall be renumbered as entries 12 to 28 respectively;(c)after entry
10, the following entry shall be inserted, namely :-"11. Jharkhand .. .. .. 81
9 28".

### 13. Allocation of sitting members.

(1)Every sitting member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of
Bihar elected to fill a sent in that Assembly from a constituency which on the
appointed day by virtue of the provisions of section 10 stands allotted, with
or without alteration of boundaries, to the State of Jharkhand shall, on and
from that day, cease to be a member of the Legislative Assembly of Bihar and
shall be deemed to have been elected to fill a seat in the Legislative
Assembly of Jharkhand from that constituency as so allotted.(2)All other
sitting members of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Bihar
shall continue to be members of the Legislative Assembly of that State and any
such sitting member representing a constituency the extent, or the name and
extent of which are altered by virtue of the provisions of section 10 shall be
deemed to have been elected to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar by that
constituency as so altered.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law for the time being in force, the Legislative Assemblies of Bihar and
Jharkhand shall be deemed to be duly constituted on the appointed day.(4)The
sitting member of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Bihar
nominated to that Assembly under article 333 to represent the Anglo-Indian
community shall be deemed to have been nominated to represent the said
community in the Legislative Assembly of Jharkhand under that article.

### 14. Duration of Legislative Assemblies.

-The period of five years referred to in clause (1) of article 172 shall, in the case of Legislative Assembly of the State of Bihar or Jharkhand be deemed to have commenced on the date on which it actually commenced in the case of Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Bihar.

### 15. Speaker and Deputy Speaker.

(1)The persons who immediately before the appointed day are the Speaker and
Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the existing State of Bihar
shall continue to be the Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively of that
Assembly on and from that day.(2)As soon as may be after the appointed day,
the Legislative Assembly of Jharkhand shall choose two members of that
Assembly to be respectively Speaker and Deputy Speaker thereof and until they
are so chosen, the duties of the office of Speaker shall he performed by such
member of the Assembly as the Governor may appoint for the purpose.

### 16. Rules of procedure.

\- The rules of procedure and conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly
of Bihar as in force immediately before the appointed day shall, until rules
are made under clause (1) of article 208, be the rules of procedure and
conduct of business of the Legislative Assembly of Jharkhand, subject to such
modifications and adaptations as may he made therein by the Speaker
thereof.The Legislative Council Of Bihar

### 17. Legislative Council of Bihar.

\- On and from the day on which all the members specified in the Third
Schedule retire, there shall be seventy-five seats in the Legislative Council
of Bihar, and in the Third Schedule to the Representation of the People Act,
1950, for the existing entry 2, the following entry shall be substituted,
namely :"2. Bihar 75 24 6 6 27 12"

### 18. Council constituencies.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Delimitation of Council Constituencies
(Bihar) Order, 1951 shall stand amended as directed in the Fourth Schedule.

### 19. Provision as to sitting members.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 17, all sitting members of
the Legislative Council of the existing State of Bihar, shall continue to be
members of that Council till they retire on the expiration of their present
term of office.

### 20. Chairman and Deputy Chairman.

\- The person who immediately before the appointed day is the Chairman or
Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council of the existing State of Bihar
shall continue to be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman, as the case may he, on
and from that day of that Council.Delimitation Of Constituencies

### 21. Delimitation of constituencies.

\- (I) For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of section 12, the
Election Commission shall determine in the manner hereinafter provided(a)the
number of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes in the Legislative Assemblies of the States of Bihar and Jharkhand
respectively, having regard to the relevant provisions of the
Constitution;(b)the assembly constituencies into which each State referred to
in clause (a) shall be divided, the extent of each of such constituencies and
in which of them seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes or for the
Scheduled Tribes; and(c)the adjustments in the boundaries and description of
the extent of the parliamentary constituencies in each successor States that
may be necessary or expedient.(2)In determining the matters referred to in
clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1), the Election Commission shall have
regard to the following provisions, namely :(a)all the constituencies shall be
single-member constituencies;(b)all constituencies shall, as far as
practicable, be geographically compact areas, and in delimiting them, regard
shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries of administrative
units, facilities of communication and conveniences to the public;
and(c)constituencies in which seats are reserved for the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes shall, as far as practicable, be located in areas where
the proportion of their population to the total population is the
largest.(3)The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in
the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself
as associate members, five persons as the Central Government may by order
specify, being persons who are members of the Legislative Assembly of the
State or of the House of the People representing the State :Provided that none
of the associate members shall have a right to vote or to sign any decision of
the Election Commission.(4)If, owing to death or resignation, the office of an
associate member falls vacant, it shall be tilled as far as practicable, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).(5)The Election Commission
shall(a)publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies together
with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires
publication thereof in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the
Commission may consider fit, together with a notice inviting objections and
suggestions in relation to the proposals and specifying a date on or after
which the proposals will be further considered by it;(b)consider all
objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before date so
specified;(c)after considering all objections and suggestions which may have
been received by it before the date so specified, determine by one or more
orders the delimitation of constituencies and cause such order or orders to be
published in the Official Gazette; and upon such publication, the order or
orders shall have the full force of law and shall not be called in question in
any Court.(6)As soon as may be after such publication, every such order
relating to assembly constituencies shall be laid before the Legislative
Assembly of the concerned State.(7)The delimitation of constituencies in the
States of Bihar and Jharkhand shall be determined on the basis of the
published figures of the census taken in the year 1971.

### 22. Power of the Election Commission to maintain Delimitation Orders up-
to-day.

(1)The Election Commission may, from time to time, by notification in the
Official Gazette,-(a)correct any printing mistakes in any order made under
section 21 or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or
omission.(b)where the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned
in any such order or orders is or are altered, make such amendments as appear
to it be necessary or expedient for bringing such order up-to-date.(2)Every
notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the concerned Legislative
Assembly.

## d Castes And Scheduled Tribes

### 23. Amendment of the Scheduled Castes Order.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order.
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Fifth Schedule.

### 24. Amendment of the Scheduled Tribes Order.

\- On and from the appointed day, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order,
1950, shall stand amended as directed in the Sixth Schedule.

## Part V – High Court

### 25. High Court of Jharkhand.

(1)On and from the appointed day, there shall be a separate High Court for the
State of Jharkhand (hereinafter referred to as the High Court of Jharkhand)
and the High Court at Patna shall become the High Court for the State of Bihar
(hereinafter referred to as the High Court at Patna).(2)The principal seat of
the High Court of Jharkhand shall be at such place as the President may, by
notified order, appoint.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(2), the Judges and division courts of the High Court of Jharkhand may sit at
such other place or places in the State of Jharkhand other than its principal
seat as the Chief Justice may, with the approval of the Governor of Jharkhand,
appoint.

### 26. Judges of High Court.

(1)Such of the Judges of the High Court at Patna holding office immediately
before the appointed day as may be determined by the President shall on that
day cease to be Judges of the High Court at Patna and become Judges of the
High Court of Jharkhand.(2)The persons who by virtue of sub-section (1) become
Judges of the High Court of Jharkhand shall, except in the case where any such
person is appointed to be the Chief Justice of that High Court, rank in that
Court accounting to the priority of their respective appointment as Judges of
the High Court of Patna.

### 27. Jurisdiction of High Court.

\- The High Court of Jharkhand shall have, in respect of any of the
territories included in the State of Jharkhand, all such jurisdiction, powers
and authorities as, under the law in force immediately before the appointed
day, are exercisable in respect of that of the said territories by High Court
at Patna.

### 28. Special provision relating to Bar Council and Advocates.

(1)On and from the appointed day, in the Advocates Act, 1961, in section 3, in
sub-section (1), in clause (a), after the words "Jammu and Kashmir" the word
"Jharkhand" shall be inserted.(2)Any person who immediately before the
appointed day is an advocate on the roll of the Bar Council of the existing
State of Bihar may give his option in writing, within one year from the
appointed day to the Bar Council of such existing State, to transfer his name
on the roll of the Bar Council of Jharkhand and notwithstanding anything
contained in the Advocates Act. 1961 and the rules made thereunder, on such
option so given his name shall be deemed to have been transferred on the roll
of the Bar Council of Jharkhand with effect from the date of the option so
given for the purposes of the said Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)The
person other than the advocates who are entitled immediately before the
appointed day, to practise in the High Court at Patna or any subordinate court
thereof shall, on and after the appointed day, be recognised as such persons
entitled also to practise in the High Court of Jharkhand or any subordinate
court thereof, as the case may be.(4)The right of audience in the High Court
of Jharkhand shall be regulated in accordance with the like principles as,
immediately before the appointed day, are in force with respect to the right
of audience in the High Court at Patna.

### 29. Practice and procedure in common High Court.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Part, the law in force immediately before
the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in the High Court at
Patna shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in relation to the High
Court of Jharkhand, and accordingly, the High Court of Jharkhand shall have
all such powers to make rules and orders with respect to practice and
procedure as immediately before the appointed day exercisable by the High
Court at Patna :Provided that any rules or orders which are in force
immediately before the appointed day with respect to practice and procedure in
the High Court at Patna shall, until varied or revoked by rules or orders made
by the High Court of Jharkhand, apply with the necessary modifications in
relation to practice and procedure in the Court of Jharkhand as if made by
that Court.

### 30. Custody of seal of High Court.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
custody of the seal of the High Court at Patna shall with the necessary
modifications, apply with respect to the custody of the seal of the High Court
of Jharkhand.

### 31. Form of writs and other processes.

\- The law in force immediately before the appointed day with respect to the
form of writs and special processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court
at Patna shall, with the necessary modifications, apply with respect to the
form of writs and other processes used, issued or awarded by the High Court of
Jharkhand.

### 32. Powers of Judges.

-The law in force immediately before the appointed day relating to the powers of the Chief Justice, single Judges and division courts of the High Court at Patna with respect to all matters ancillary to the exercise of those powers shall, with the necessary modification, apply in relation to the High Court of Jharkhand.

### 33. Procedure as to appeals to Supreme Court.

-The law in force immediately before the appointed clay relating to appeals to the Supreme Court from the High Court at Patna and the Judges and division courts thereof shall, with the necessary modification, apply in relation to the High Court of Jharkhand.

### 34. Transfer of proceeding from High Court at Patna to High Court of
Jharkhand.

(1)Except as hereinafter provided, the High Court at Patna shall, as from the
appointed day, have no jurisdiction in respect of the transferred
territory.(2)Such proceedings pending in the High Court at Patna immediately
before the appointed day as are certified, whether before or after that day,
by the Chief Justice of the High Court, having regard to the places of accrual
of the cause of action and other circumstances, to be proceedings which are
ought to be heard and decided by the High Court of Jharkhand shall as soon as
may be after such certification, be transferred to the High Court of
Jharkhand.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2) of
this section or in section 27, but save as hereinafter provided, the High
Court at Patna shall have, and the High Court of Jharkhand shall not have,
jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of appeals, applications for leave
to appeal to the Supreme Court, applications for review and other proceedings
where any such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order passed by
the High Court at Patna before the appointed day :Provided that if after such
proceedings have been entertained by the High Court at Patna, it appears to
the Chief' Justice of the High Court that they ought to be transferred to the
High Court of Jharkhand, he shall order that they shall be so transferred, and
such proceedings shall thereupon be transferred accordingly.(4)Any order made
by the High Court at Patna(a)before the appointed day, in any proceeding to
the High Court of Jharkhand by virtue of sub-section (2), or(b)in any
proceeding with respect to which the High Court at Patna retains jurisdiction
by virtue of sub-section (3) shall for all purposes have effect, not only as
an order or the High Court at Patna, but also as an order made by the High
Court of Jharkhand.

### 35. Right to appear or to act In proceedings transferred to High Court of
Jharkhand.

\- Any person, who immediately before the appointed day. is an advocate
entitled to practice or an attorney entitled to act, in the High Court at
Patna and so authorised to appear or to act in any proceedings transferred
from that High Court to the High Court of Jharkhand under section 34 shall
have the right to appear or to act, as the case may be, in the High Court of
Jharkhand in relation to those proceedings.

### 36. Interpretation.

\- For the purposes of section 34(a)proceedings shall be deemed to be pending
in a Court until that Court has disposed of all issues between the parties,
including any issues between the Parties, including any issues with respect to
the taxation of the costs of the proceedings and shall include appeals,
applications for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, application for review,
petitions for revision and petitions for writs :(b)references to a High Court
shall be construed as including references to a Judge or division Court
thereof, and reference to order made by a Court or the Judge shall be
construed as including references to a sentence, judgment or decree passed or
made by that Court or Judge.

### 37. Saving.

\- Nothing in this part shall affect the application to the High Court of
Jharkhand of any provisions of the Constitution; and this part shall have
effect subject to any provision that may be made on or after the appointed day
with respect to that High Court by any Legislature or other authority having
power to make such provision.

## Part V – Authorisation Of Expenditure And Distribution Of Revenues

### 38. Authorisation of expenditure of Jharkhand State.

\- The Governor of Bihar may, at any time before the appointed day, authorise
such expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State of Jharkhand as he
deems necessary for any period not more than six months beginning with the
appointed day pending the sanction of such expenditure by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Jharkhand :Provided that the Governor of Jharkhand
may, after the appointed day, authorise such further expenditure as he deems
necessary from the Consolidated Fund of the State of Jharkhand for any period
not extending beyond the said period of six months.

### 39. Reports relating to accounts of Bihar State.

(1)The reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India referred to in
clause (2) of Article 151 relating to the accounts of the existing State of
Bihar in respect of any period prior to the appointed day shall be submitted
to the Governor of each of the successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand who
shall cause them to be laid before the Legislature of that State.(2)The
President, after considering the views of the State Legislatures of the
successor States, may by order(a)declare any expenditure incurred out of the
Consolidated Fund of Bihar on any service in respect of any period prior to
the appointed day during the financial year or in respect of any earlier
financial year in excess of the amount granted for that service and for that
year as disclosed in the reports referred to in sub-section (1) to have been
duly authorised; and(b)provide for any action to be taken on any matter
arising out of the said reports.

### 40. Distribution of revenue.

\- The President shall, by order, determine the share of States of Bihar and
Jharkhand in the total amount payable to the existing State of Bihar on the
recommendation of the Finance Commission constituted under Article 280 of the
Constitution. in such manner as he thinks fit.

## Part VI – Apportionment Of Assets And Liabilities

### 41. Application of Part.

(1)The provisions of this part shall apply in relation to the apportionment of
the assets and liabilities of the existing State of Bihar immediately before
the appointed day.(2)The successor States shall be entitled to receive
benefits arising out of the decisions taken by the predecessor State and the
successor States shall be liable to bear the financial liabilities arising out
of the decisions taken by the existing State of Bihar.(3)The apportionment of
assets and liabilities would be subject to such financial adjustment as may be
necessary to secure just, reasonable and equitable apportionment of the assets
and liabilities amongst the successor States.(4)Any dispute regarding the
amount of financial assets and liabilities shall be settled through mutual
agreement, failing which by order, by the Central Government on the advice of
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.

### 42. Land and goods.

(1)Subject to other provisions of this part, all land and all stores, articles
and other goods belonging to the existing State of Bihar shall,(a)if within
the transferred territory, pass to the State of Jharkhand; or(b)in any other
case, remain the property of the State of Bihar :Provided that where the
Central Government is of opinion that any goods or class of goods should be
distributed between the States of Bihar and Jharkhand, otherwise that
according to the situation of the goods, the Central Government may issue such
directions as it thinks fit for a just and equitable distribution of the goods
and the goods shall pass to the successor State accordingly.(2)Stores held for
specific purposes, such as use or utilisation in particular institutions.
workshops or undertakings or on particular works under construction, shall
pass to the successor States in whose territories such institutions,
workshops, undertakings or works are located.(3)Stores relating to the
Secretariat and offices of Heads of Departments having jurisdiction over the
whole of the existing State of Bihar shall be divided as may be agreed upon
between the successor States, or in default of such agreement, as the Central
Government may by order direct for a just and equitable distribution of such
stores.(4)Any other unissued stores of any class in the existing State of
Bihar shall be divided between the successor States in proportion to the total
stores of that class purchased in the period of three years prior to the
appointed day, for the territories of the existing State of Bihar included
respectively in each of the successor States :Provided that where such
proportion cannot be ascertained in respect of any class of stores or where
the value of any class of such stores does not exceed rupees ten thousand,
that class of stores shall be divided between the successor States according
to the population ratio.(5)In this section the expression "land" includes
immovable property of every kind and any rights in or over such property, and
the expression "goods" does not include coins, bank notes and currency notes.

### 43. Treasury and bank balances.

\- The total of the cash balances in all treasuries of the State of Bihar and
the credit balances of the State with Reserve Bank of India, the State Bank of
India or any other bank immediately before the appointed day shall be divided
between the States of Bihar and Jharkhand according to the population ratio
:Provided that for the purpose of such division, there shall be no transfer of
cash balances from any treasury to any other treasury and the apportionment
shall be effected by adjusting the credit balance of the two States in the
books of the Reserve Bank of India on the appointed day.Provided further that
if the State of Jharkhand has no account on the appointed day with the Reserve
Bank of India, the adjustment shall be made in such manner as the Central
Government may, by order, direct.

### 44. Arrears of taxes.

\- The right to recover arrears of any tax or duty on property, including
arrears of land revenue, shall belong to the successor State in which the
property is situated, and the right to recover arrears of any other tax or
duty shall belong to the successor State in whose territories the place of
assessment of that tax or duty is included on the appointed day.

### 45. Right to recover loans and advances.

(1)The right of the existing State of Bihar to recover any loans or advances
made before the appointed day to any local body, society, agriculturist or
other person in an area within that State shall belong to the successor State
in which that area is included on that day.(2)The right of the existing State
of Bihar to recover any loans or advances made before the appointed day to any
person or institution outside that State shall belong to the State of Bihar
:Provided that any sum recovered in respect of any such loan or advance shall
be divided between the States of Bihar and Jharkhand according to the
population ratio.

### 46. Investments and Credits in certain funds.

(1)The securities held in respect of the investments made from Cash Balances
Investment Account or from any Fund in the Public Account of the existing
State of Bihar as specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be apportioned in
the ratio of population of the successor States :Provided that the securities
held in investments made from the Calamity Relief,Fund of the existing State
of Bihar shall be divided in the ratio of the area of the territories occupied
by the successor States :Provided further that the balance in the Reserve
Funds in the Public Account of Bihar created wholly out of appropriations from
the Consolidated Fund of the existing State of Bihar, to the extent the
balances have not been invested outside Government account, shall not be
carried forward to similar Reserve Funds in the Public Account of, successor
States.(2)The investments of the existing State of Bihar immediately before
the appointed day, in any special fund, the objects of which are confined to a
local area, shall belong to the State in which that area is included on the
appointed day.(3)The investments of the existing State of Bihar immediately
before the appointed day in any private, commercial or industrial undertaking,
insofar as such investments have not been made or are deemed not to have been
made from the cash balance investment account, shall pass to the State in
which the principal seat of business of the undertaking is located.(4)Where
any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or Provincial
Act for the existing State of Bihar or any part thereof has, by virtue of the
provisions of part 11, becomes an inter-State body corporate, the investments
in, or loans or advances to any such body corporate by the existing State of
Bihar made before the appointed day shall, save as otherwise expressly
provided by or under this Act, be divided between the States of Bihar and
Jharkhand in the same proportion in which the assets of the body corporate are
divided under the provisions of this part.

### 47. Assets and liabilities of State undertakings.

(1)The assets and liabilities relating to any commercial or industrial
undertaking of the existing State of Bihar shall pass to the State in which
the undertaking is located.(2)Where a depreciation reserve fund is maintained
by the existing State of Bihar for any such commercial or industrial
undertaking, the securities held in respect of investments made from that fund
shall pass to the State in which the undertaking is located.

### 48. Public debt.

(1)All liabilities on account of Public Debt and Public Account of the
existing State of Bihar outstanding immediately before the appointed day shall
be apportioned in the ratio of population of the successor Slates unless a
different mode of apportionment is provided under the provisions of this
Act.(2)The individual items of liabilities to be allocated to the successor
States and the amount of contribution required to be made by one successor
State to another shall be such as may be ordered by the Central Government in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India : Provided that
till such orders are issued, the liabilities on account of Public Debt and
Public Account of the existing State of Bihar shall continue to be the
liabilities of the successor State of Bihar.(3)The liability on account of
loans raised from any source and re-lent by the existing State of Bihar to
such entities as may be specified by the Central Government and whose area of
operation is confined to either of the successor States shall devolve on the
respective States as specified in sub-section (4).(4)The public debt of the
existing State of Bihar attributable to loan taken from any source for the
express purpose of re-lending the same to a specific institution and
outstanding immediately before the appointed day shall(a)if re-lent to any
local body, body corporate or other institution in any local area, be the debt
of the State in which the local area is included on the appointed day; or(b)if
re-lent to the Bihar State Electricity Board, the Bihar State Road Transport
Corporation, or the Bihar Housing Board or any other institution which becomes
an inter-State institution on the appointed day, be divided between the States
of Bihar and Jharkhand in the same proportion in which the assets of such body
corporate or institution are divided under the provisions of Part VII of this
Act.(5)Where a sinking fund or a depreciation fund is maintained by the
existing State of Bihar for repayment of any loan raised by it, the securities
held in respect of investments made from that fund shall be divided between
the successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand in the same proportion in which
the total public debt is divided between the two States under this
section.(6)In this section, the expression "Government security" means a
security created and issued by a State Government for the purpose of raising a
public loan and having any of the forms specified in, or prescribed under
clause (2) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944.

### 49. Floating Debt.

-The liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of any floating loan to provide short-term finance to any commercial undertaking shall be the liability of the State in whose territories the undertaking is located.

### 50. Refund of taxes collected in excess.

\- The liability of the existing State of Bihar to refund any tax or duty on
property, including land revenue, collected in excess shall be the liability
of the successor State in whose territories the property is situated, and the
liability of the existing State of Bihar to refund any other tax or duty
collected in excess shall he the liability of the successor State in whose
territories the place of assessment of that tax or duty is included.

### 51. Deposits, etc.

(1)The liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of any civil
deposit or loan fund deposit shall, as from the appointed day, be the
liability of the State in whose area the deposit has been made.(2)The
liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of any charitable or other
endowment shall, as from the appointed day, be the liability of the State in
whose area the institution entitled to the benefit of the endowment is located
or of the State to which the objects of the endowment under the terms thereof,
are confined.

### 52. Provident fund.

\- The liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of the provident
fund account of a Government servant in service on the appointed day shall, as
from that day, be the liability of the State to which that Government servant
is permanently allotted.

### 53. Pensions.

\- The liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of pensions and
other retirement benefits shall pass to, or be apportioned between, the
successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand in accordance with the provisions
contained in the Eighth Schedule to this Act.

### 54. Contracts.

(1)Where, before the appointed day, the existing State of Bihar has made any
contract in the exercise of its executive power for any purposes of the State,
that contract shall he deemed to have been made in the exercise of the
executive power(a)if the purposes of the contract are, on and from the
appointed day, exclusive purposes of either of the successor States of Bihar
and Jharkhand; and(b)any other case, of the State of Bihar; and all rights and
liabilities which have accrued, or may accrue under any such contract shall,
to the extent to which they would have been rights or liabilities of the
existing State of Bihar, be rights or liabilities of the State of Jharkhand or
the State of Bihar, as the case may he :Provided that in any such case as is
referred to in clause (b), the initial allocation of rights and liabilities
made by this sub-section shall be subject to such financial adjustment as may
be agreed upon between the successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand or in
default of such agreement, as the Central Government may, by order,
direct.(2)For the purposes of this section, there shall be deemed to be
included in the liabilities which have accrued or may accrue under any
contract(a)any liability to satisfy an order or award made by any Court or
other Tribunal in proceedings relating to the contract; and(b)any liability in
respect of expenses incurred in or in connection with any such
proceedings.(3)This section shall have effect subject to the other provisions
of this part relating to the apportionment of liabilities in respect of loans,
guarantees and other financial obligations; and bank balances and securities
shall, notwithstanding that they partake of the nature of contractual rights,
be dealt with under those provisions.

### 55. Liability in respect of actionable wrong.

\- Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Bihar is
subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other than breach
of contract, that liability shall(a)if the cause of action arose wholly within
the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of either of the
successor States of Bihar or Jharkhand, be a liability of that successor
State; and(b)in any other case, be initially a liability of the State of
Bihar, but subject to such financial adjustment as may he agreed upon between
the States of Bihar and Jharkhand or, in default of such agreement, as the
Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 56. Liability as guarantor.

\- Where, immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Bihar is
liable as guarantor in respect of any liability of a registered co-operative
society or other person, that liability of the existing State of Bihar
shall(a)if the area of operations of such society of persons is limited to the
territories which, as from that day, are the territories of either of the
State of Bihar or Jharkhand be a liability of that successor State; and(b)in
any other case, be initially a liability of the State of Bihar, subject to
such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Bihar
and Jharkhand or, in default of such agreements, as the Central Government
may. by order. direct.

### 57. Items in suspense.

\- If any item in suspense is ultimately found to affect an asset or liability
of the nature referred to in any of the foregoing provisions of this part, it
shall be dealt with in accordance with the provision.

### 58. Residuary provision.

\- The benefit or burden of any asset or liability of the existing State of
Bihar not dealt with in the foregoing provisions of this part shall pass to
the State of Bihar in the first instance, subject to such financial adjustment
as may be agreed upon between the State of Bihar and Jharkhand or, in default
of such agreement, as the Central Government may, by order, direct.

### 59. Apportionment of assets or liability by agreement.

\- Where the successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand agree that the benefit or
burden of any particular asset or liability should be apportioned between them
in a manner other than that provided for in the foregoing provisions of this
Part, notwithstanding anything contained therein, the benefit or burden of
that asset or liability shall be apportioned in the manner agreed upon.

### 60. Power of Central Government to order allocation or adjustment in
certain cases.

\- Where, by virtue of any of the provisions of this Part, any of the
successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand becomes entitled to any property or
obtains any benefits or becomes subject to any liability, and the Central
Government is of opinion, on a reference made within a period of three years
from the appointed day by either of the States, that it is just and equitable
that property or those benefits should be transferred to, or shared with, the
other successor State, or that a contribution towards that liability should be
made by the other successor State, the said property or benefits shall be
allocated in such manner between the two States, or the other State shall make
to the State subject to the liability such contribution in respect thereof, as
the Central Government may, after consultation with the two State Governments,
by order, determine.

### 61. Certain expenditure to be charged on Consolidated Fund.

\- All sums payable either by the State of Bihar or by the State of Jharkhand
to the other States or by the Central Government to either of those States, by
virtue of the provisions of this Act, shall be-charged on the Consolidated
Fund of the State by which such sums are payable or, as the case may be, the
Consolidated Fund of India.

## Part VII – Provisions As To Certain Corporations

### 62. Provisions as to Bihar State Electricity Board, State Warehousing
Corporation and State Road Transport Corporation.

(1)The following bodies corporate constituted for the existing State of Bihar
namely :(a)the State Electricity Board constituted tinder the Electricity
Supply Act, 1948;(b)the State Warehousing Corporation established under the
Warehousing Corporations Act, 1962;(c)the State Road Transport Corporation
established under the Road Transport Act, 1950, shall, on and from the
appointed day, continue to function in those areas in respect of which they
were functioning immediately before that day, subject to the provisions of
this section and to such directions as may, from time to time, be issued by
the Central Government.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government
under sub-section (1) in respect of the Board or the Corporation shall include
a direction that the Act under which the Board or the Corporation was
constituted shall, in its application to that Board or Corporation, have
effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as the Central Government
thinks fit.(3)The Board or the Corporation referred to in sub-section (1)
shall cease to function as from, and shall be deemed to be dissolved on such
date as the Central Government may by order, appoint; and upon such
dissolution, its assets, rights and liabilities shall be apportioned between
the successor States of Bihar and Jharkhand in such manner as may be agreed
upon between them within one year of the dissolution of the Board or the
Corporation. as the case may be, or if no agreement is reached, in such manner
as the Central Government may, by order, determine:Provided that any
liabilities of the said Board relating to the unpaid dues of the coal supplied
to the Board by any public sector coal company shall be provisionally
apportioned between the State Electricity Boards constituted respectively in
the successor States of the existing State of Bihar or after the date
appointed for the dissolution of the Board under this sub-section in such
manner as may he agreed upon between the Governments of the successor States
within one month of such dissolution or if no agreement is reached, in such
manner as the Central Government may, by order, determine subject to
reconciliation and finalisation of the liabilities which shall be completed
within three months from the date of such dissolution by the mutual agreement
between the successor States or failing such agreement by the direction of the
Central Government :Provided further that an interest at the rate of two per
cent. higher than the Cash Credit interest shall be paid on outstanding unpaid
dues of the coal supplied to the Board by the public sector coal company till
the liquidation of such dues by the concerned State Electricity Board
constituted in the successor States on or after the date appointed for the
dissolution of the Board under this sub-section.(4)Nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall he construed as preventing the Government of
the State of Bihar, or, as the case may be, the Government of the State of
Jharkhand from constituting, at any time on or after the appointed day, a
State Electricity Board or a State Warehousing Corporation or a Road Transport
Corporation for the State under the provisions of the Act relating to such
Board or Corporation; and if such a Board or Corporation is so constituted in
either of the States before the dissolution of the Board or the Corporation
referred to in sub-section (1),(a)provision may be made by order of the
Central Government enabling the new Board or the new Corporation to take over
from the existing Board or Corporation all or any of its undertakings, assets,
rights and liabilities in that State, and(b)upon the dissolution of the
existing Board or Corporation,(i)any assets, rights and liabilities which
would otherwise have passed to that State by or under the provisions of sub-
section (3) shall pass to the new Board or the new Corporation instead of to
that State;(ii)any employee who would otherwise have been transferred to or
re-employed by that State under sub-section (3), read with clause (i) of sub-
section (5), shall be transferred to or re-employed by the new Board or the
new Corporation instead of to or by that State.(5)An agreement entered into
between the successor States under sub-section (3) and an order made by the
Central Government under that sub-section or under clause (a) of subsection
(4) may provide for the transfer or re-employment of any employee of the Board
or the Corporation referred to in sub-section (1),(i)to or by the successor
States, in the case of an agreement under sub-section (4) or an order made
under that sub-section;(ii)to or by the new Board or the new Corporation
constituted under sub-section (4), in the case of an order made under clause
(a) of that sub-section, and subject to the provisions of section 65, also for
the terms and conditions of service applicable to such employees after such
transfer or re-employment.

### 63. Continuance of arrangements In regard to generation and supply of
electric power and supply of water.

\- If it appears to the Central Government that the arrangement in regard to
the generation or supply of electric power or the supply of water for any area
or in regard to the execution of any project for such generation or supply has
been or is likely to be modified to the disadvantage of that area by reason of
the fact that it is, by virtue of the provisions of Part II of this Act,
outside the State in which the power stations and other installations for the
generation and supply of such power, or the catchment area, reservoirs and
other works for the supply of water, as the case may be, are located, the
Central Government may give such directions as it deems proper to the State
Government or other authority concerned for the maintenance, so far as
practicable, of the previous arrangement.

### 64. Provisions as to Bihar State Financial Corporation.

(1)The Bihar State Financial Corporation established under the State Financial
Corporation Act, 1951 shall, on and from the appointed day, continue to
function in those areas in respect of which it was functioning immediately
before that day, subject to the provisions of this section and to such
directions as may, from time to time, be issued by the Central
Government.(2)Any directions issued by the Central Government under sub-
section (1) in respect of the Corporation may include a direction that the
said Act, in its application to the Corporation, shall have effect subject to
such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the
direction.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), the Board of Directors of the Corporation may, with the previous
approval of the Central Government and shall, if so required by the Central
Government, convene at any time after the appointed day a meeting for the
consideration of a scheme for the reconstitution or reorganisation or
dissolution, as the case may be, of the Corporation, including proposals
regarding the formation of new Corporation, and the transfer thereto of the
assets, rights and liabilities of the existing Corporation, and if such a
scheme is approved at the general meeting by a resolution passed by a majority
of the shareholders present and voting, the scheme shall he submitted to the
Central Government for its sanction.(4)If the scheme is sanctioned by the
Central Government either without modifications or with modification which are
approved at a general meeting, the Central Government shall certify the
scheme, and upon such certification, the scheme shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, be
binding on the Corporations affected by the scheme as well as the shareholders
and creditors thereof.(5)If the scheme is not so approved or sanctioned, the
Central Government may refer the scheme to such Judge of the High Court at
Patna and Jharkhand as may be nominated in this behalf by the Chief Justice
thereof, and the decision of the Judge in regard to the scheme shall he final
and shall be binding on the Corporations affected by the scheme as well as the
shareholders and creditors thereof.(6)Nothing in the preceding provisions of
this section shall be construed as preventing the Government of the States of
Bihar and Jharkhand from constituting at any time on or after the appointed
day, a State Financial Corporation for that State under the State Financial
Corporations Act, 1951.

### 65. Provisions as to certain companies.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this
Part, each of the companies specified in the Ninth Schedule to this Act shall,
on and from the appointed day until otherwise provided for in any law, or in
any agreement among the successor States, or in any direction issued by the
Central Government, continue to function in the areas in which it was
functioning immediately before that day; and the Central Government may, from
time to time, issue such directions in relation to such functioning as it may
deem fit, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies
Act, 1956, or in any other law.(2)Any directions issued under sub-section (1)
in respect of a company referred to in that sub-section, may include
direction(a)regarding the division of the interests and shares of existing
State of Bihar in the company among the successor States;(b)requiring the
reconstitution of the Board of Directors of the company so as to give adequate
representation to both, the successor States.

### 66. General provision as to statutory corporations.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided by the foregoing provisions of this
Part, where any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or
Provincial Act for the existing State of Bihar or any Part thereof has, by
virtue of provisions of Part II of this Act, become an inter-State body
corporate, then, the body corporate shall, on and from the appointed day.
continue to function and operate in those areas in respect of which it was
functioning and operating immediately before that day, subject to such
directions as may from time to time be issued by the Central Government, until
other provision is made by law in respect of the said body corporate.(2)Any
directions issued by the Central Government under sub-section (1) in respect
of any such body corporate shall include a direction that any law by which the
said body corporate is governed shall, in its application to that body
corporate, have effect subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be
specified in the direction.

### 67. Temporary provisions as to continuance of certain existing road
transport permits.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section Sg of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988, a permit granted by the State Transport Authority of the existing State
of Bihar or any Regional Transport Authority in that State shall, if such
permit was, immediately before the appointed day, valid and effective in any
area in the transferred territory, be deemed to continue to be valid and
effective in that area after that day subject to the provisions of that Act as
for the time being in force in that area; and it shall not be necessary for
any such permit to be countersigned by the State Transport Authority of
Jharkhand or any Regional Transport Authority therein for the purpose of
validating it for use in such area Provided that the Central Government may,
after consultation with the successor State Government or Government concerned
add to, amend or vary the conditions attached to the permit by the Authority
by which the permit was granted.(2)No tolls, entrance fees or other charges of
a like nature shall be levied after the appointed day in respect of any
transport vehicle for its operations in any of the successor States under any
such permit, if such vehicle was, immediately before that day, exempt from the
payment of any such toll, entrance fees or other charges for its operations in
the transferred territory :Provided that the Central Government may, after
consultation with the State Government or Government concerned, authorise the
levy of any such toll, entrance Fees or other charges as the case may be.

### 68. Special provisions relating to retrenchment compensation In certain
cases.

\- Where on account of the re-organisation of the existing State of Bihar
under this Act, any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act
or Provincial Act, any co-operative society registered under any law relating
to co-operative societies or any commercial or industrial undertaking of that
State is re-constituted or re-organised in any manner whatsoever or is
amalgamated with any other body corporate, co-operative society or undertaking
or is dissolved, and in consequence of such re-constitution, re-organisation,
amalgamation or dissolution, any workman employed by such body corporate or in
any such co-operative society or undertaking, is transferred to, or re-
employed by any other body corporate, or in any other cooperative society or
undertaking, then notwithstanding anything contained in section 25F, 25FF or
25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, such transfer or re-employment
shall not entitle him to any compensation under that sectionProvided
that(a)the terms and conditions of service applicable to the workman after
such transfer or re-employment are not less favourable to the workman than
those applicable to him immediately before the transfer or re-
employment;(b)the employer in relation to the body corporate, the co-operative
society or the undertaking where the workman transferred or re-employed is, by
agreement or other wise, legally liable to pay to the workman, in the event of
his retrenchment, compensations under section 25F, 25FF or 25FFF of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 on the basis that his service has been
continuous and has not been interrupted by the transfer or re-employment.

### 69. Special provision as to income-tax.

\- Where the assets, rights and liabilities of any body corporate carrying on
business are, under the provisions of this Part, transferred to any other
bodies corporate which after the transfer carry on the same business, the
losses or profits or gains sustained by the body corporate first mentioned
which, but for such transfer, would have been allowed to be carried forward
and set off in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Income-tax
Act, 1961 shall be apportioned amongst the transferee bodies corporate in
accordance with the rules to he made by the Central Government in this behalf
and, upon such apportionment, the share of loss allotted to each transferee
body corporate shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter VI of the said Act, as if the transferee body corporate had itself
sustained such loss in a business carried on by it in the years in which these
losses were sustained.

### 70. Continuance of facilities in certain State institutions.

(1)The Government of State of Bihar or Jharkhand as the case may he, shall, in
respect of the institutions specified in the Tenth Schedule to this Act,
located in that State, continue to provide facilities to the people of the
other State which shall not, in any respect, be less favourable to such people
than what were being provided to them before the appointed day, for such
period and upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the
two State Governments before the 1st day of December, 2001 or if no agreement
is reached by the said date as may be fixed by order of the Central
Government.(2)The Central Government may, at any time before the 1st day of
December, 2001 by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in the Tenth
Schedule any other institution existing on the appointed day in the States of
Bihar and Jharkhand and on the issue of such notification, the Schedule shall
be deemed to be amended by the inclusion of the said institution therein.

## Part VIII – Provision As To Services

### 71. Provisions relating to All-India Services.

(1)In this section, the expression "State cadre"-(a)in relation to the Indian
Administrative Service has the meaning assigned to it in the Indian
Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954;(b)in relation to the Indian Police
Service, as the meaning assigned to it in the Indian Police Service (Cadre)
Rules, 1954; and(c)in relation to the Indian Forest Service, has the meaning
assigned to it in the Indian Forest Service (Cadre) Rules, 1966.(2)In place of
the cadres of the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and
Indian Forest Service for the existing State of Bihar, there shall, on and
from the appointed day, be two separate cadres, one for the State of Bihar and
the other for the State of Jharkhand in respect of each of these
services.(3)The initial strength and composition of the State cadres referred
to in sub-section (2) shall be such as the Central Government may, by order,
determine before the appointed day.(4)The members of each of the said service
borne on the Bihar cadre thereof immediately before the appointed day shall be
allocated to the State cadres of the same service constituted under sub-
section (2) in such manner and with effect from such date or dates as the
Central Government may, by order, specify.(5)Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to affect the operation, on or after the appointed day, of the All
India Service Act, 1951, or the rules made (hereunder).

### 72. Provisions relating to services in Bihar and Jharkhand.

(1)Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving in
connection with the affairs of the existing State of Bihar shall, on and from
that day provisionally continue to serve in connection with the affairs of the
State of Bihar unless he is required, by general or special order of the
Central Government to serve provisionally in connection with the affairs of
the State of Jharkhand:Provided that no direction shall be issued under this
section after the expiry of a period of one year from the appointed day.(2)As
soon as may be after the appointed day, the Central Government shall, by,
general or special order, determine the successor State to which every person
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be finally allotted for service and the
date with effect from which such allotment shall take effect or be deemed to
have taken effect.(3)Every person who is finally allotted under the provisions
of sub-section (2) to a successor State shall, if he is not already serving
therein be made available for serving in the successor State from such date as
may be agreed upon between the Governments concerned or in default of such
agreement, as may be determined by the Central Government.

### 73. Other provisions relating to services.

(1)Nothing in section 2 shall be deemed to affect on or after the appointed
day the operation of the provisions of Chapter I of Part XVI of the
Constitution in relation to determination of the conditions of service of
persons serving in connection with the affairs of the Union or any State
:Provided that the conditions of service applicable immediately before the
appointed day in the case of any person deemed to have been allocated to the
State of Bihar or to the State of Jharkhand under section 72 shall not be
varied to his disadvantage except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.(2)All services prior to the appointed day rendered by a
person(a)if he is deemed to have been allocated to any State under section 72,
shall be deemed to have been rendered in connection with the affairs of that
State;(b)if he is deemed to have been allocated to the Union in connection
with the administration of the Jharkhand shall be deemed to have rendered in
connection with the affairs of the Union, for the purposes of the rules
regulating his conditions of service.(3)The provisions of section 72, shall
not apply in relation to members of any All India Service.

### 74. Provisions as to continuance of officers In same post.

\- Every person who, immediately before the appointed day is holding or
discharging the duties of any post or office in connection with the affairs of
the existing State of Bihar in any area which on that day falls within any of
the successor States shall continue to hold the same post or office in that
successor State, and shall be deemed, on and from that day, to have been duly
appointed to the post or office by the Government of, or any other appropriate
authority in, that successor State :Provided that nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prevent a competent authority, on and from the appointed
day, from passing in relation to such person any order affecting the
continuance in such post or office.

### 75. Advisory Committees.

\- The Central Government may by order establish one or more Advisory
Committees for the purpose of assisting it in regard to(a)the discharge of any
of its functions under this Part; and(b)the ensuring of fair and equitable
treatment to all persons affected by the provisions of this Part and the
proper consideration of any representations made by such persons.

### 76. Power of Central Government to give directions.

\- The Central Government may give such directions to the State Government of
Bihar and the State Government of Jharkhand as may appear to it to he
necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing provisions of this
Part and the State Government shall comply with such directions.

### 77. Provisions as to State Public Service Commission.

\- (I) The Public Service Commission for the existing State of Bihar shall, on
and from the appointed day, be the Public Service Commission for the State of
Bihar.(2)The persons holding office immediately before the appointed day as
Chairman or other member of the Public Service Commission for the existing
State of Bihar shall, as from the appointed day, be the Chairman or, as the
case may be, the other member of the Public Service Commission for the State
of Bihar.(3)Every person who becomes Chairman or other member of the Public
Service Commission for the State of Bihar on the appointed day under sub-
section (2), shall(a)be entitled to receive from the Government of the State
of Bihar conditions of service not less favourable than those to which he was
entitled under the provisions applicable to him;(b)subject to the proviso to
clause (2) of article 316, hold office or continue to hold office until the
expiration of his term of office as determined under the provisions applicable
to him immediately before the appointed day.(4)The report of the Bihar Public
Service Commission as to the work done by the Commission in respect of any
period prior to the appointed (lay shall he presented under clause (2) of
article 323 to the Governors of the States of Bihar and Jharkhand, and the
Governor of the State of Bihar shall, on receipt of such report, cause a copy
thereof together with a memorandum explaining as far as possible, as respects
the cases, if any, where the advice of the Commission was not accepted, the
reasons for such non-acceptance to be laid before the Legislature of the State
of Bihar and it shall not be necessary to cause such report or any such
memorandum to he laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Jharkhand.

## Part IX – Management And Development Of Water Resources

### 78. Water Resources Development and Its Management.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but subject to the
provisions of section 79, all rights and liabilities of the existing State of
Bihar in relation to water resource projects in relation to(i)Ganga and its
tributaries; and(ii)Sone and its tributaries, shall, on the appointed day be
the rights and liabilities of the successor States in such proportion as may
be fixed and subject to such adjustments as may be made, by agreement entered
into by the said States after consultation with the Central Government, or if
no such agreement is entered into within two years of the appointed day, then
the Central Government 'may. by order, determine within one year having regard
to the purposes of the project :Provided that the order so made by the Central
Government may be varied by any subsequent agreement entered into by the
successor States after consultation with the Central Government.(2)An
agreement or order referred to in sub-section (1) shall, where an extension or
further development of any of the projects referred to in that sub-section
after the appointed day is undertaken, be the rights and liabilities of the
successor States in relation to such extension or further development.(3)The
rights and liabilities referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) shall
include,(a)the right to receive and utilise the water available for
distribution as a result of the projects; and(b)the right to receive and
utilise the power generated as a result of the projects, but shall not include
the rights and liabilities under any contract entered into before the
appointed day by the Government of the existing State of Bihar with any person
or authority other than Government.

### 79. Constitution and functions of Management Board.

(1)The Central Government shall constitute a Board to be called the Ganga and
Sone Management Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) for
administration, construction, maintenance and operation of projects referred
to in sub-section (1) of section 78 for any or for a combination of following
purposes, namely :(i)Irrigation;(ii)Rural and Urban Water Supply:(iii)Hydro
Power Generation;(iv)Navigation;(v)Industries; and(vi)for any other purpose
which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify.(2)The Board shall consist of(a)a whole-time Chairman and two whole-
time members to be appointed by the Central Government;(b)a representative
each of the Government of the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and
Madhya Pradesh to be nominated by the respective Governments;(c)two
representatives of the Central Government to be nominated by that
Government.(3)The functions of the Board shall include-(a)the regulation of
supply of water from the projects referred to in sub-section (1) of section 78
to States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh having regard
to(i)any agreement entered into or arrangement made covering the Governments
of existing State of Bihar and the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand
and Madhya Pradesh, and(ii)the agreement or the order referred to in sub-
section (2) of section 78;(b)the regulation of supply of power generated at
the projects referred to in sub-section (1) of section 78, to any Electricity
Board or other authority incharge of the distribution of power having regard
to(i)any agreement entered into or arrangement made covering the Governments
of existing State of Bihar and the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand
and Madhya Pradesh, and(ii)the agreement or the order referred to in sub-
section (2) of section 78:(c)the examination of the requirement of funds for
various projects in terms of the programme laid down for such projects and to
advise the apportionment of the expenditure to the Participating States
keeping in view the agreement on the sharing of costs;(d)to decide the
withdrawal of water from the reservoirs during the construction period for
irrigation and power purposes with a view to securing better use of available
water;(e)the responsibility of devising programme of resettlement for persons
displaced as a result of Irrigation Projects;(f)construction of such of the
remaining or new works connected with the development of the water resource
project relating to the rivers or their tributaries as the Central Government
may specify by notification in the Official Gazette; and(g)such other
functions as the Central Government may after consultation with the
Governments of the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya
Pradesh entrust to it.

### 80. Staff of the Management Board.

(1)The Board may employ such staff, as it may consider necessary for the
efficient discharge of its functions under this Act:Provided that every person
who immediately before the constitution of the said Board was engaged in the
construction, maintenance or operation of the works relating to the projects
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 78 shall continue to be so employed
under the Board in connection with the said works on the same terms and
conditions of the service as were applicable to him before such constitution
until the Central Government by order, directs otherwise:Provided further that
the said Board may at any time in consultation with the State Government or
the Electricity Board concerned and with prior approval of the Central
Government retain any such person for service under that State Government or
Board.(2)The Government of the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and
Madhya Pradesh shall at all times provide the necessary funds to the Board to
meet all expenses (including the salaries and allowances of the staff)
required for the discharge of its functions and such amounts shall be
apportioned among the States concerned in such proportion as the Central
Government may having regard to the benefits to each of the said States
specify,(3)The Board shall be under the control of the Central Government and
shall comply with such directions, as may from time to time, be given to it by
that Government.(4)The Board may, with the approval of the Central Government
delegate such of its powers, functions and duties as it may deem fit to the
Chairman of the said Board or to any officer subordinate to the Board.(5)The
Central Government may, for the purpose of enabling the Board to function
efficiently, issue such directions to the State Governments concerned, or any
other authority, and the State Governments or the other authority shall comply
with such directions.

### 81. Jurisdiction of the Board.

\- The Board shall, ordinarily exercise jurisdiction in regard to any of the
projects referred to in sub-section (1) of section 78 over headwork (barrages,
dams, reservoir, regulating construction), Part of canal network and
transmission lines necessary to deliver water or power to the States
concerned.(2)If any question arises as to whether the Board has jurisdiction
under sub-section (1) over any project referred thereto, the same shall be
referred to the Central Government for decision thereon.

### 82. Power to make regulations.

\- The Board may, with the prior approval of the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations consistent with this
Act and orders made thereunder, to provide for(a)regulating the time and place
of meetings of the Board and the procedure to be followed for the transaction
of business at such meetings;(b)delegation of powers and duties to the
Chairman or any officer of the Board;(c)the appointment and regulation of the
conditions of service of the officers and other staff of the Board; and(d)any
other matter for which regulations are considered necessary by the Board.

## Part X – Legal And Miscellaneous Provisions

### 83. Amendment of Act 37 of 1956.

\- On and from the appointed day, in section 15 of the States Reorganisation
Act, 1956, in clause (c), for the word "Bihar" the words "Bihar and Jharkhand"
shall be substituted.

### 84. Territorial extent of laws.

\- The provisions of Part II of this Act shall not be deemed to have effected
any change in the territories to which any law in force immediately before the
appointed day extends or applies, and territorial references in any such law
to the State of Bihar shall, until otherwise provided by a competent
Legislature or other competent authority be construed as meaning the
territories within the existing State of Bihar before the appointed day.

### 85. Power to adapt laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the application in relation to the State of
Bihar or Jharkhand of any law made before the appointed day, the appropriate
Government may, before the expiration of two years from that day, by order,
make such adaptations and modifications of the law, whether by way of repeal
or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and thereupon every such law
shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made until
altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent
authority.Explanation. - In this section the expression "appropriate
Government" means as respects any law relating to a matter enunciated in the
Union List, the Central Government, and as respects any other law in its
application to a State, the State Government.

### 86. Power to construe laws.

\- Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made
under section 85 for the adaptation of a law made before the appointed day,
any Court, tribunal or authority, required or empowered to enforce such law
may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in relation to the State
of Bihar or Jharkhand, construe the law in such manner, without affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper in regard to the matter before the
Court, Tribunal or Authority.

### 87. Power to name authorities etc. for exercising statutory functions.

\- The Government of the State of Jharkhand, as respects the transferred
territory may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the authority,
officer or person who, on or after the appointed day, shall be competent to
exercise such functions exercisable under any law in force on that day as may
be mentioned in that notification and such law shall have effect accordingly.

### 88. Legal proceedings.

\- Where immediately before the appointed day, the existing State of Bihar is
a Party to any legal proceeding with respect to any property, rights or
liabilities subject to apportionment between the States of Bihar and Jharkhand
under this Act, the State of Bihar or Jharkhand which succeeds to, or acquires
a share in, that property or those rights or liabilities by virtue of any
provision of this Act shall be deemed to be substituted for the existing State
of Bihar or added as a Party to those proceedings, and the proceedings may
continue accordingly.

### 89. Transfer of pending proceedings.

(1)Every proceeding pending immediately before the appointed day before a
Court (other than the High Court), tribunal, authority or officer in any area
which on that day falls within the State of Bihar shall, if it is a proceeding
relating exclusively to the territory, which as from that day is the territory
of Jharkhand State, stand transferred to the corresponding Court, Tribunal,
authority or officer of that State.(2)If any question arises as to whether any
proceeding should stand transferred under sub-section (1), it shall be
referred to the High Court at Patna and the decision of that High Court shall
be final.(3)In this section(a)"proceeding" includes any suit, case or appeal;
and(b)"corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer" in the State of
Jharkhand means-(i)the court, tribunal, authority or officer in which, or
before whom, the proceeding would have laid if it had been instituted after
the appointed day; or(ii)in case of doubt, such court, tribunal, authority, or
officer in that State, as may he determined after the appointed day by the
Government of that State or the Central Government, as the case may be, or
before the appointed day by the Government of the existing State of Bihar to
be the corresponding Court, Tribunal, authority or officer.

### 90. Right of Pleaders to practise in certain cases.

\- Any person who, immediately before the appointed day, is enrolled as a
pleader entitled to practise in any subordinate Court in the existing State of
Bihar shall, for a period of one year from that day, continue to be entitled
to practise in those courts, notwithstanding that the whole or any Part of the
territories within the jurisdiction of those courts has been transferred to
the State of Jharkhand.

### 91. Effect of provisions of the Act inconsistent with other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law.

### 92. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the President may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions
which appears to him to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing
the difficulty :Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of
a period of three years from the appointed day.(2)Every order made under this
section shall be laid before each House of Parliament.The First Schedule(See
section 8)(i)Of the seven sitting members whose term of office will expire on
9th April, 2002, namely, [Obaidullah Khan] [Substituted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).], [Ven Dhamma Viriyo] [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).], Shri Nagendra Nath
Ojha, Shri Prem Chand Gupta, Shri Ranjan Prasad Yadav, Shri [Shatrughan Prasad
Sinha] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).]
and Shri Ram Deo Bhandari, [Obaidullah Khan] [Substituted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).] and [Ven Dhamma Viriyo] [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).], shall be deemed to have
been elected to fill two of the seats allotted to the State of Jharkhand and
the other five sitting members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill
five of the seats allotted to the State of Bihar.(ii)Of the seven sitting
members whose term of office will expire on 7th July, 2004, namely, Shri Shibu
Soren, Shri Gaya Singh, Shri Parmeshwar Kumar Agrawala, Shri Anil Kumar, Dr
R.K. Yadav Ravi, Shri Kapil Sibal, Smt. Saroj Dubey, Shri Shibu Soren and Shri
Parmeshwar Kumar Agrawala shall be deemed to have been elected to fill two of
the seats allotted to the State of Jharkhand and the other five sitting
members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill five of the seats
allotted to the State of Bihar.(iii)Of the eight sitting members whose term of
office will expire on 2nd April, 2006, namely, Shri S.S. Ahluwalia, Smt. Kum
Kum Rai, Shri Faguni Ram, Shri Mahendra Prasad, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shri
Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Shri Ram Kumar Anand and Shri Vijay Singh Yadav, Shri S.S.
Ahluwalia and Shri Ram Kumar Anand, shall be deemed to have been elected to
fill two of the seats allotted to the State of Jharkhand and the other six
sitting members shall be deemed to have been elected to fill six of the seats
allotted to the State of Bihar.The Second Schedule(See section 10)In the
Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 1976,-(i)in
Schedule I-(a)for serial number 3 and the entries relating thereto, the
following shall be substituted, namely:-

1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
3 Bihar | 53 | 7 | 5 | 40 | 7 | ..  
  
(b)after serial number 21, the following serial number and entries shall be
inserted, namely:-

1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
21A | Jharkhand | .. | .. | 14 | 1 | 5..  
  
(ii)in Schedule II,-(a)for serial number 3 and the entries relating thereto,
the following shall be substituted, namely:-

1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
3 Bihar | 318 | 45 | 29 | 243 | 39 | ..  
  
(b)after serial number 21, the following serial number and entries shall be
inserted, namely:-

1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
21A | Jharkhand | .. | .. | 81 | 9 | 28  
  
(iii)in Schedule V,-(a)in Part A-Parliamentary Constituencies,-(A)serial
numbers 26 to 28, 44 to 54 and the entries relating thereto shall be
omitted;(B)against serial number 29,-(1)the entry "158 Deoghar (SC)" shall be
omitted;(2)after entry "176-Kataria", the entry "177-Chakai" shall be
inserted;(C)against serial number 30, the entry "164-Mahagama" shall be
omitted;(D)against serial number 30, for the figures and words
["171-Sultanganj" and "173-Dhuraiya" the figures, words and letters
"171-Sultanganj (SC)" and "173-Dhuraiya (SC)" shall be substituted]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).];(E)against
serial number 40, after entry "241-Goh", the entry "251-Imamganj (SC)" shall
be inserted;(F)against serial number 42, for entry "256-Atri", the entry
"255-Fatehpur (SC), 256- Atri" shall be substituted;(G)against serial number
43, after entry "253-Bodhgaya (SC)", the entry "254-Barachatti (SC)" shall be
inserted;(b)in Part B-Assembly Constituency, serial numbers 147 to 164, 262 to
324 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted.(iv)after Schedule XXII,
the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely:-"Schedule XXIIAJharkhand

## Part A – Parliamentary Constituencies

Table

Serial No. | Name and extent of constituencies  
---|---  
1. |  Rajmahal(ST). - 1-Rajmahal,[2-Borio (ST)] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).],3.-Barhait (ST), 4-Litipara (ST), 5-Pakaur, 6-Maheshpur (ST).  
2. |  Dumka(ST). - 7-Sikaripara (ST), 8-Nala, 9-Jamtara,14.-Sarath, 10-Dumka (ST), 11- Jama (ST).  
3. |  Godda.- 13-Madhupur, 15-Deoghar (SC), 12-Jarmundi,16.-Poreyahat, 17-Godda,18-Mahagama.  
4. |  Chatra.- 27-Chatra (SC), 26-Simaria (SC), 74-Latehar(SC) , 75-Panki, 73-Manika (ST).  
5. |  Kodarma.- 19-Kodarma, 20-Barkatha, 28-Dhanwar,29.-Bagodar, 30-Jamua (SC), 31-Gandey.  
6. |  Giridih.- 32-Giridih, 33-Dumri, 34-Gomia, 35-Bermo,42.\- Tundi, 43-Baghmara.  
7. |  Dhanbad.- 36-Bokaro, 38-Sindri, 39-Nirsa, 40-Dhanbad,41.-Jharia, 37-Chandankiyari (SC).  
8. |  Ranchi.- 50-Ichagarh, 61-Silli, 62-Khijri (ST),63.-Ranchi; 64-Hatia, 65-Kanke (SC).  
9. |  Jamshedpur.-[44-Bahragora] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).], 45-Ghatsila (ST),46.-Potka (ST), 47-Jugsalai (SC), 48-Jamshedpur-East,49.-Jamshedpur-West.  
10. |  Singhbhum(ST). - 51-Seraikela (ST), 52-Chaibasa (ST),53.-Majhgaon (ST), 54-Jaganathpur (ST), 55-Manoharpur (ST),[56-Chakradharpur (ST)] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).].  
11. |  Khunti(ST). - 57-Kharsawar (ST), 58-Tamar (ST),59.-Torpa (ST), 60-Khunti (ST), 71-Kolebira (ST), 70- Simdega(ST) .  
12. |  Lohardaga(ST). - 66-Mandar (ST), 67-Sisai (ST),68.-Gumla (ST), 69-Bishunpur (ST),[72-Lohardaga (ST)] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).].  
13. |  Palamau(SC). - 76-Daltonganj, 80-Garhwa,81.-Bhawanathpur, 77-Bishrampur, 78-Chhatarpur (SC),79.-Hussainabad.  
14. |  Hazaribagh.- 21-Barhi, 22-Barkagaon, 23-Ramgarh,24.-Mandu, 25-Hazaribagh.  
  
## Part B – . - Assembly Constituencies

Table

Serial No. | Name and extent of constituencies  
---|---  
| Sahebganj Distict  
1. |  Rajmahal.- Rajmahal and Sahebganj Police Stations inRajmahal Sub-division.  
2. |  Borio (ST).- Borio and Taljhari Police Stations inRajmahal sub-division; and Boarijor Police Station (excludingG.Ps. Rajabhita, Kero, Kairasol, Bara Telo and Barapipra) inGodda sub-division.  
3. |  Barhait (ST).- Barhait and Ranga Police Stations inRajmahal sub-division; and Sundarpahari Police Station and G.Ps.Rajabhita, Kera, Kairasol, Bara Telo and Barapipra in BoarijarPolice Station in Godda sub-division.  
| Pakaur District  
4. |  Litipara (ST).- Litipara, Amrapara and HiranpurPolice Stations in Pakaur sub-division; and Gopikandar PoliceStation in Dumka Sadar sub-division.  
5. |  Pakaur.- Pakaur Police Station in Pakaursub-division; and Barharwa Police Station in Rajmahalsub-division.  
6. |  Mahaeshpur (ST).- Maheshpur and Pakuria Policestation in Pakaur sub-division.  
| Dumka District  
7. |  Sikaripara (ST).- Sikaripara, Raneshwar and kathikundPolice Stations in Dumka Sadar sub-division.  
8. |  Nala.- Nala and Kundahit Police Stations in Jamtarasub-division.  
9. |  Jamtara.- Jamtara Police Stations (excluding G.Ps.Karmatanr, Sahajpur, Pindari, Lakhanpur, Rataniya, Rampurbhitraand Kajra) and Narayanpur Police Station in Jamtarasub-division.  
10. |  Dumka (ST).- Dumka Town, Dumka Mufassil and MasaliaPolice Stations in Dumka Sadar sub-division.  
11. |  Jama (ST).- Jama and Ramgarh Police Stations in DumkaSadar sub-division.  
12. |  Jarmundi.- Jarmundi Police Station in Dumka Sadarsub-division; and Sarawan Police Station in Deogharsub-division.  
| Deoghar District  
13. |  Madhupur.- Madhupur and Karon Police Stations andG.Ps. Kusmil, Chanddih, Pathra and Basbariya in Jasidih PoliceStation in Deoghar sub-division.  
14. |  Sarath.- Sarath and Palojori Police Stations inDeoghar sub-division; and G.Ps. Karmatanr, Sahajpur, Pindari,Lakhanpur, Rataniya, Rampurbhitra and Kajra in Jamtara PoliceStation in Jamtara sub-division.  
15. |  Deoghar (SC).- Deoghar Town and Mohanpur PoliceStations and Jasidih Police Station (excluding G.Ps. Kusmil,Chanddih, Pathra and Basbariya) in Deoghar sub-division.  
| Godda District  
16. |  Poreyahat.- Poreyahat Police Station and G.Ps.Burhikura, Dammajhilua, Sandmara, Nonbatta, Makhni, Pathra nadPunsiya in Godda Police Station in Godda sub-division; andSaraiyahat Police Station in Dumka Sadar sub-division.  
17. |  Godda.- Godda Police Station (excluding G.Ps.Burhikura, dammajhilua, Sandmara, Nonbatta, Makhni, Pathra andPunsiya) and Pathargama Police Station in Godda sub-division.  
18. |  Mahagama.- Mahagama and Meherma Police Stations inGodda sub-division.  
| Kodarma District  
19. |  Kodarma.- Kodarma and[Satgawan] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).]Police Stationsin Kodarma sub-division.  
| Hazaribagh District  
20. |  Barkatha.- Barkatha and Jainagar Police Stations inKodarma sub-division;[* * *] [The words 'and Ichak Police Stations in Kodarma sub-division' omitted, by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).]; and Ichak Police Station inHazaribagh Sadar sub-division.  
21. |  Barhi.- Barhi Police Station in Hazaribagh Sadarsub-division; and Chauparan Police Station in Kodarmasub-division.  
22. |  Barkagaon.- Barakgaon Police Station and G.Ps. Terpa,Patratu, Koto, Palani,[Haphua] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).],[Hariharpur] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).], Gegda, Deoria,Bargama, Pali, Salgo, Sanki, Jabo, Chaingara, Chikor, Lapanga,Ghutua, Barkakana and Sidhwar-Kalan in Ramgarh Police Station inHazaribagh Sadar sub-division.  
23. |  Ramgarh.- Ramgarh Police Station (excluding G.Ps.Terpa, Patratu, Koto, Palani,[Haphua] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).],[Hariharpur] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).], Gegda,Deoria, Bargama, Pali, Salgo, Sanki, Jabo,[Chaingara] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).],Chikor, Lapanga, Ghutua, Barkakana and Sidhwar-Kalan) and GolaPolice Station in Hazaribagh Sadar sub-division.  
24. |  Mandu.- Mandu and Bishungarh Police Stations inHazaribagh Sadar sub-division.  
25. |  Hazaribagh.- Hazaribagh Police Station in HazaribaghSadar sub-division.  
| Chatra District  
26. |  Simaria (SC).- Simaria, Itkhori and Tandwa PoliceStations in Chatra sub-division.  
27. |  Chatra (SC).- Chatra, Pratappur and Hunterganj PoliceStations in Chatra sub-divison.  
| Giridih District  
28. |  Dhanwar.- Dhanwar and Gawan Police Stations inGiridih Sadar sub-division.  
29. |  Bagodar.- Bagodar and Birni Police Stations inGiridih Sadar sub-division.  
30. |  Jamua (SC).- Jamua and Deori Police Stations inGiridih Sadar sub-division.  
31. |  Gandey.- Gandey and Bengabad Police Stations andG.Ps. Leda, Semaria, Badgunda, Palmo, Sathibad, Senadoni,Dhanaidih, Guro, Jitpur, Telodih, Ranidih and Karharbari inGiridih Mufassil Police Station in Giridih Sadar sub-division.  
32. |  Giridih.- Giridih Town Police Station and GiridihMufassil Police Station (excluding G.Ps. Leda, Semaria,Badgunda, Palmo, Sathibad Senadoni, Dhanaidih, Guro, Jitpur,Telodih, Ranidih and Karharbari) and Pirtanr Police Station inGiridih Sadar sub-division.  
33. |  Dumri.- Dumri Police Station in Giridih Sadarsub-division; and Nawadih Police Station in Bermo sub-division.  
| Bokaro District  
34. |  Gomia.- Gomia Police Station and Petarbar PoliceStation (excluding G.Ps. Champi, Rohar, Chando, Pichhri, Angwaliand Chalkari) in Bermo sub-division.  
35. |  Bermo.- Jaridih and Bermo Police Stations and G.Ps.Champi, Rohar, Chando, Pichhri, Angwali and Chalkari in PetarbarPolice Station in Bermo sub-division.  
36. |  Bokaro.- Chas Police Station (excluding G.Ps,Bijulia, Alkusa, Buribinor, Khamarbendi, Dudhigajar, KuraDabartupara, Jaitara, Pundru and Sardaha) in Baghmarasub-division.  
37. |  Chandankiyari (SC).- Chandankiyari Police Station andG.Ps. Bijulia, Alkusa, Buribinor, Khamrbendi, Dhundhigajar,Kura, Dabartupara, Jaitara, Pundu and Sardaha in Chas PoliceStation in Baghmara sub-divison.  
| Dhanbad District  
38. |  Sindri.- Sindri, Baliapur and Gobindpur PoliceStation in Dhanbad Sadar sub-division.  
39. |  Nirsa.- Nirsa and Chirkunda Police Stations inDhanbad Sadar sub-division.  
40. |  Dhanbad.- Dhandad, Putki and Kenduadih PoliceStations in Dhanbad Sadar sub-division.  
41. |  Jharia.- Jharia and Jorapokhar Police Stations inDhanbad Sadar sub-division.  
42. |  Tundi.- Tundi Police Station in Dhanbad Sadarsub-division; Topchanchi Police Station and G.Ps. Dharkiro,Daluldih, Rajganj, Bagdaha, Dhawachita, Nagar kalan andRamkanalichandur in Katras Police Station in Baghmarasub-division.  
43. |  Baghmara.- Baghmara Police Station and Katras KalanPolice (excluding G.Ps. Dharkiro, Daludih, Rajganj, Bagdaha,Dhawachita, Nagri Kalan and Ramkanalichandur) in Baghmarasub-division; and Jogta Police Station in Dhanbad Sadarsub-division.  
| (East) Singhbhum District  
44. |  Baharagora.- Baharagora and Chakulia Police Stationsin Dhalbhum sub-division.  
45. |  Ghatsila (ST).- Ghatsila Police Station,[Musabani] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).]Police Station (excluding G.Ps. Palasbani, Asta Koyali, Nunia,Kumarasoi, Barakanjiya, Bomaro Bangoriya and Damudih) inDhalbhum sub-divison.  
46. |  Potka (ST).- Potka Police Station, G.Ps. Palasbani,Asta Koyali, Nunia, Kumarasol, Barakanjiya, Bomaro Bangoriya andDamudih in 1 [Musabani] Police Station, Bagbera town and G.Ps.Karadih–Purihasa, Haragarghutu, Bagbera and village1167.-Kitadih in Jugsalai Police Station in Dhalbhumsub-division.  
47. |  Jugsalai (SC).- Jugsalai Police Station (excludingBagbera town and G.Ps. Karandih-Purihasa, Hargarghutu, Bagberaand village 1167-Kitadih) Golmuri and Patamda Police Station inDhalbhum sub-division.  
48. |  Jamshedpur East.- Census wards 20 and 23 to 40 inJamshedpur Notified Area Committee in Dhalbhum sub-division.  
49. |  Jamshedpur West.- Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee(excluding census wards 20 and 23 to 40) in Dhalbhumsub-division.  
| (West) Singhbhum District  
50. |  Ichagarh.- Ichagarh, Chandil and Nimdih PoliceStations in Seraikella sub-division.  
51. |  Seraikella (ST).- Seraikella municipality and G.Ps.Govindpur, Pandra, Manik Bazar, Tangani, Pathanmara, Jordiha,Gurgudia and Badakakda in Seraikella Police Station, RajnagarPolice Station (excluding village 98-Dighi) and Adityapur PoliceStation in Seraikella sub-division.  
52. |  Chaibasa (ST).- Chaibasa Sadar and Jhinkpani PoliceStations and Chaibasa Mufassil Police Station (excluding G.Ps.Bhoya, Keadchalam, Domra-Parnia, Lota, Thakuragutu,Dopai-Gamhariya, Sarda, Matkamhatu, Khuntpani, Chiru andRajabasa) in Chaibasa Sadar sub-division.  
53. |  Majhgaon (ST).- Majhgaon and Manjhari Police Stationsin Chaibasa Sadar sub-division.  
54. |  Jaganathpur (ST).- Naomundi and Gua Police Stationsand G.Ps. Kurtabera, Urkiya, Makaramda, Thalkobad, (Part I) andChhotanagra (Part I) in Manoharpur Police Station in ChaibasaSadar sub-division.  
55. |  Manoharpur (ST).- Manoharpur Police Station[excluding G. Ps. Kurtabera, Urkiya, Makaramda, Thalkobad (PartI) and Chhotanagra (Part I)] and G.Ps. Beralumin, Jojoda,Serengda, Orenga, Jhilrua, Goilkera, Kuira, Kadamdiha,Dalaikela, Sonua-Jorapokhar, Porahat, Sogoisai, Gudri Jarakel,Asantaliya, Dalki-Gobindpur, Bhalurangi, Harimara, TunianGajpur, Bandu, Poronger, Koloeda, Kulda, Bari, Lonjo, BeraKayam, Mamail, Piring, Komrora,[Komrora-Dariyo] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).], Dura-Janteand Banskata and Chakradharpur Police Station in Chaibasa Sadarsub-division.  
56. |  Chakradharpur (ST).- Chakradharpur Police Station(excluding G.Ps. Beralumin, Jojoda, Serengda, Orenga, Jhilrua,Goilkera, Kuira, Kadamdiha, Dalaikela, Sonua-Jorapokhar,Porahat, Sogoisai, Gudri Jarakel, Asantaliya, Dalki-Gobindpur,Bhalurangi, Harimara, Tunian Gajpur, Bandu, Poronger, Koloeda,Kulda, Bari, Lonjo, Bera Kayam, mamail, Piring, Komrora,Komrora-Dariyo, Dura-Jante and Banskata) in Chaibasa Sadarsub-division.  
57. |  Kharsawan (ST).- Kharsawan and Kuchai Police Stationsand Seraikella Police Station (excluding Seraikella municipalityand G.Ps. Govindpur, Para, Manik Bazar, Tangrani, Pathanmara,Jordiha Gurugudia and Badakakda) and village 98-Dighi inRajnagar Police Station in Seraikella sub-division; and G.Ps.Bhoya Keadchalam, Domra-Pamia, Lota, Thakurgutu,Dopai-Gamhariya, Sarda, Matkamhatu-Khuntpani, Chiru and Rajabasain Chaibasa Mufassil Police Station in Chaibasa Sadarsub-division.  
| Ranchi District  
58. |  Tamar (ST).- Tamar, Erki and Bundu Police Stations inKhunti sub-divisions.  
59. |  Torpa (ST).- Torpa and Rania Police Stations andG.Ps. Gumru, Cobindpur, Tilmi, Lapa, Jariagarh, Urikel and Hutuband Karra Police Station in Khunti sub-division; and Bano PoliceStation in Simdega sub-divison.  
60. |  Khunti (ST).- Khunti and Murhu Police Stations andKarra Police Station (excluding G.Ps. Gumru, Gobindpur, Tilmi,Lapa, Jariagarh, Urikel and Hutub) in Khunti sub-divison.  
61. |  Silli.- Silli Police Station, G.Ps. Barwadag, Tati,Jonha, Kashidih, Merha, Ambajharia and Kontatoli and AngaraPolice Station in Ranchi Sadar sub-division; and Sonahatu PoliceStation in Khunti sub-division.  
62. |  Khijri (ST).- Ormanjhi,[Namkum] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w. e. f. 19-8-2003).]and Hatia PoliceStations and Angara Police Station (excluding G.Ps. Barwadag,Tati, Jonha, Kashidih  
63. |  Ranchi.- Ranchi municipality in Ranchi Kotwali PoliceStation in Ranchi Sadar sub-division.  
64. |  Hatia.- Jaganathpur, Ratu and Doranda Police Stationsand Ranchi Kotwali Police Station (excluding Ranchimunicipality) in Ranchi Sadar sub-division.  
65. |  Kanke (SC).- Kanke, Ranchi Sadar, Burmu and KhelariPolice Stations in Ranchi Sadar sub-division.  
66. |  Mandar (ST).- Bero, Mandar and Lapung PoliceStations, in Ranchi Sadar sub-division.  
| Gumla District  
67. |  Sisai (ST).- Sisai, Kamdara and Basia Police Stationsin Gumla sub-division.  
68. |  Gumla (ST).- Gumla Municipality, G.Ps. Hurhuria,Ghatagaon, Asani, Chandali, Telgaon, Pugu, Bangaru, Karaundi,Dumardih and Murkunda in Gumla Police Station and Raidih,Chainpur and Dumri Police Stations in Gumla sub-division.  
69. |  Bishunpur (ST).- Bishunpur and Ghaghra PoliceStations and Gumla Police Station (excluding Gumla municipalityand G.Ps. Hurhuria, Ghatagaon, Asani, Chandali, Telgaon, Pugu,Bangaru, Karaundi, Dumardih and Murkunda) in Gumla sub-division;and Senha Police Station in Lohardaga sub-division.  
70. |  Simdega (ST).- Simdega and Kurdeg Police Stations inSimdega sub-division; and Palkot Police Station in Gumlasub-division.  
71. |  Kolebira (ST).- Kolebira, Thethaitangar and BolbaPolice Stations in Simdega sub-division.  
| Lohardaga District  
72. |  Lohardaga( ST).- Lohardaga Kuru and Kisko PoliceStations in Lohardaga sub-division.  
| Palamau District  
73. |  Manika (ST).- Latehar Police Station (excludingLatehar (N.A.C.) and G.Ps. Pochra, Luti, Kaima, Kura, Bishunpur,Mungar, Nindir, Laharpur and Zalim), Barwadih, Garoo andMahuadanr Police Stations in Latehar sub-division.  
74. |  Latehar (SC)- Latehar (N.A.C.), G.Ps. Pochra, Luti,Kaima, Kura, Bishunpur, Mungar, Nindir, Laharpur and Zalim inLatehar Police Station, Chandwa and Balumath Police Station inLatehar sub-division.  
75. |  Panki.- Panki, Lesliganaj and Manatu Police Stationin Palamu Sadar sub-division.  
76. |  Daltonganj.- Daltonganj and Chainpur Police Stationin Palamau Sadar sub-division; and Bhandaria Police Station inGarhwa sub-division.  
77. |  Bishrampur.- Bishrampur Police Station in PalamauSadar sub-division; and Majhiaon Police Station in Garhwasub-division.  
78. |  Chhatarpur (SC).- Chhatarpur and Patan Police Stationin Palamau Sadar sub-division.  
79. |  Hussainabad.- Hussainabad and Hariharganj PoliceStation in Palamau Sadar sub-division.  
| Garhwa District  
80. |  Garhwa.- Garhwa Police Station (excluding G.Ps. JarhiBalekhar Raro, Sonehara and Dandai) and Ranka Police Station inGarhwa sub-division.  
81. |  Bhawanathpur.- Bhawanathpur and Nagar Untari PoliceStation and G.Ps. Jarhi, Balekhar, Raro, Sonehara and Dandai inGarhwa Police Station in Garhwa sub-division.  
  
The Third Schedule(See section 17)Sitting Members who shall continue to be
members of the Bihar Legislative Council till their respective present terms
of office(i)Members representing any of the eleven Constituencies specified in
item (1) of the [Fourth Schedule] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R.
675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).].(ii)The following members elected by the members
of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, namely:-"1. Shri Sarfaraj Ahmed.

### 2\. Shri Saryu Rai.

### 3\. Shri Mahavir Lal Vishwakarma.

### 4\. Shri Bhutnath Soren.

### 5\. Shri Rajendranath Shahdev.

### 6\. Smt. Vibha Ranjan.

### 7\. Shri Badri Narayan Lal.

### 8\. Shri Praveen Singh."

The Fourth Schedule(See section 18)Amendments to the Delimitation of Council
Constituencies (Bihar) Order, 1951(1)In the Table, omit the entries relating
to-(i)Bhagalpur-cum-North Chhotanagpur (Graduates) Constituency;(ii)South
Chhotanagpur (Graduates) Constituency;(iii)Bhagalpur-cum-North Chhotanagpur
(Teachers) Constituency;(iv)South Chhotanagpur (Teachers)
Constituency;(v)Santhal Parganas (Local Authorities)
Constituency;(vi)Hazaribagh (Local Authorities) Constituency;(vii)Giridih
(Local Authorities) Constituency;(viii)Ranchi (Local Authorities)
Constituency;(ix)Palamau (Local Authorities) Constituency;(x)Dhanbad ( Local
Authorities) Constituency;(xi)East Singhbhum-cum-West Singhbhum (Local
Authorities) Constituency.(2)In the Table, in column 2,-(i)against "Kosi
(Graduates) Constituency" in column 1, after the word "khagaria", insert the
words "Bhagalpur Monghyr";(ii)against "Kosi (Teachers) Constituency" in column
I, after the word "Khagaria", insert the words "Bhagalpur Monghyr".The Fifth
Schedule(See Section 23)Amendment of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes)
Order, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, in the
Schedule,-(i)in Part III relating to State of Bihar, in item No. 5, the
brackets and words" (excluding North Chhotanagpur and South Chhotanagpur
divisions and Santal Parganas district)", shall be omitted;(ii)after Part VI,
Himachal Pradesh, the following shall be inserted, namely:-"Part VIA
-Jharkhand

### 1\. Bantar

### 2\. [ Bauri] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 3\. Bhogta

### 4\. Bhuiya

### 5\. Chamar, Mochi

### 6\. [ Chaupal] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 7\. [ Dabgar] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 8\. Dhobi

### 9\. Dom, Dhangad

### 10\. Dusadh, Dhari, Dharhi

### 11\. Ghasi

### 12\. Halalkhor

### 13\. [ Hari, Mehtar, Bhangi] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R.
675(E) (w.e.f. 19-8-2003).]

### 14\. Kanjar

### 15\. [ Kurariar] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 16\. Lalbegi

### 17\. Musahar

### 18\. Nat

### 19\. Pan, Sawasi

### 20\. Pasi

### 21\. Rajwar

### 22\. Turi."

The Sixth Schedule(See section 24)Amendment to the Constitution (Scheduled
Tribes) Order, 1950In the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950,-(1)in
paragraph 2, for the figures "XXI", the figures "XXII" shall be
substituted;(2)in the Schedule,-(i)in Part III relating to State of Bihar, the
item No. 6 and the entries relating thereto, shall be omitted, and the item
Nos. 7 to 30 shall be renumbered as item Nos. 6 to 29;(ii)after Part XXI, the
following Part shall be inserted, namely:-"Part XXII -Jharkhand

### 1\. Asur

### 2\. Baiga

### 3\. Banjara

### 4\. Bhathudi

### 5\. Bedia

### 6\. Binjhia

### 7\. Birhor

### 8\. Birjia

### 9\. Chero

### 10\. [ Chik Baraik] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 11\. Gond

### 12\. Gorait

### 13\. Ho

### 14\. Karmali

### 15\. Khanria

### 16\. Kharwar

### 17\. Khond

### 18\. Kisan

### 19\. Kora

### 20\. Korwa

### 21\. Lohra

### 22\. Mahli

### 23\. [ Mal Paharia] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 24\. Munda

### 25\. Oraon

### 26\. Parhaiya

### 27\. [ Santal] [Substituted by notification No. G.S.R. 675(E) (w.e.f.
19-8-2003).]

### 28\. Sauria Paharia

### 29\. Savar

### 30\. Bhumij."

The Seventh Schedule[See section 46 (1)](Investments and Credits in certain
funds)

### 1\. State Provident Funds.

### 2\. Trusts and Endowments.

### 3\. Insurance and Pensions Funds.

### 4\. Depreciation Reserve Funds-relating to Government Commercial
Departments and Undertakings.

### 5\. Famine Relief Funds.

### 6\. Investment Account.

### 7\. Development Fund for Educational Purposes.

### 8\. General Reserve Funds of Government Commercial Departments
Undertakings.

### 9\. Zamindari Abolition Funds.

### 10\. Calamity Relief Fund Investment Account

### 11\. Revenue Deposits.

### 12\. Security Deposits.

### 13\. Civil Courts' Deposits.

### 14\. Criminal Courts' Deposits.

### 15\. Personal Deposits.

### 16\. Trust Interest Funds.

### 17\. Public Works Deposits.

### 18\. Forest Deposits.

### 19\. Deposits of Public Funds.

### 20\. Other Departmental Deposits.

### 21\. Deposits under various Central and State Acts.

### 22\. Deposits for work done for Public bodies or private individuals.

### 23\. Deposits of fees received by Government servants for works done for
private bodies.

### 24\. Deposits in connection with Elections.

### 25\. Mines Labour Welfare Deposits.

### 26\. Deposits of Educational Institutions.

### 27\. Unclaimed Deposits in the General Provident Fund.

### 28\. Unclaimed Deposits in other Provident Funds.

### 29\. Deposits on account of cost price of Liquor, Ganja and Bhang.

### 30\. District Funds.

### 31\. Municipal Funds.

### 32\. Cantonment Funds.

### 33\. Funds of Insurance Association.

### 34\. State Transport Corporation Fund.

### 35\. State Electricity Boards Working.

### 36\. State Housing Funds.

### 37\. Panchayats Bodies Funds.

### 38\. Education Funds.

### 39\. Medical and Charitable Funds.

### 40\. Other Funds.

### 41\. Subventions from Central Road Fund.

### 42\. Miscellaneous Deposits.

The Eighth Schedule(See section 53)Apportionment of Liability in Respect of
Pensions and other Retirement Benefits

### 1\. Subject to the adjustments mentioned in paragraph 3, each of the
successor State shall in respect of pension and other retirement benefits
sanctioned before the appointed date, pay from their respective treasuries.

### 2\. Subject to the said adjustment, the liability in respect of pensions
and other retirement benefits of officers serving in connection with the
affairs of the existing State of Bihar who retire or proceed on leave
preparatory to retirement before the appointed day, but whose claims for
pensions and other retirement benefits are outstanding immediately before that
day, shall be the liability of the State of Bihar.

### 3\. Subject to the said adjustments, sanctions of such pension and other
retirement benefits by the competent authority may be given in those cases, in
which their office falls in the territory of Jharkhand State.

### 4\. There shall be computed, in respect of the period commencing on the
appointed day and ending on the 31st day of March of the financial year and in
respect of each subsequent financial year, the total payments made in all the
successor States in respect of pensions and other retirement benefits referred
to in paragraphs 1 and 2. The total representing the liability of the existing
State of Bihar in respect of pensions and other retirement benefits shall be
apportioned between the successor States in the ratio of number of employees
of each successor State and any successor State paying more than its due share
shall be reimbursed the excess amount by the successor State or State paying
less.

### 5\. The liability of the existing State of Bihar in respect of pensions
and other retirement benefits granted before the appointed day and drawn in
any area outside the territories of the existing State shall be the liability
of the State of Bihar paying subject to adjustments to be made in accordance
with paragraph 3 as if such pensions and other retirement benefits had been
drawn in any treasury in the State of Bihar under paragraph 1.

### 6\. The liability in respect of the pensions and other retirement benefits
of any officer serving immediately before the appointed day in connection with
the affairs of the existing State of Bihar and retiring on or after that day,
shall be that of the successor State granting him the pension and other
retirement benefits, but the portion of the pension and other retirement
benefits attributable to the service of any such officer before the appointed
day in connection with the affairs of the existing State of Bihar shall be
allocated between the successor States in the population ratio and the
Government granting the pension and other retirement benefits shall be
entitled to receive from each of the other successor States its share of this
liability.

### 7\. Any reference in this Schedule to a pension and other retirement
benefits shall be construed as including a reference to the commuted value of
the pension and other retirement benefits.

The Ninth Schedule[See section 65(1)]List of State Owned Corporations/
Companies

### 1\. Bihar State Industries Development Corporation.

### 2\. Bihar State Leather Development Corporation.

### 3\. Bihar State Electronics Development Corporation.

### 4\. Bihar State Sugar Corporation Limited.

### 5\. Bihar State Medicine and Chemical Development Corporation.

### 6\. Bihar State Fruit and Vegetables Development Corporation.

### 7\. Bihar State Dairy Corporation Limited.

### 8\. Bihar State Agro Industries Corporation.

### 9\. Bihar State Textiles Corporation Limited.

### 10\. Bihar State Small Industries Corporation Limited.

### 11\. Bihar State Handloom and Handicrafts Corporation

### 12\. Bihar State Khadi Gramudyog Board

### 13\. Bihar State Agriculture Marketing Board.

### 14\. Bihar State Forest Development Corporation Limited.

### 15\. Bihar State Export Development Corporation Limited.

### 16\. Bihar State Seeds Corporation Limited.

### 17\. Bihar State Fish Seeds Development Corporation Limited.

### 18\. Bihar State Warehousing Corporation.

### 19\. Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation Limited.

### 20\. Bihar State Road Transport Corporation.

### 21\. Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation.

### 22\. Bihar State Text Book Publishing Corporation Limited.

### 23\. Bihar State Construction Corporation Limited.

### 24\. Bihar State Mineral Development Corporation Limited.

### 25\. Bihar State Housing Board.

### 26\. Bihar State Bridge Construction Corporation Limited.

### 27\. Bihar State Police Building Construction Corporation Limited.

### 28\. Bihar State Electricity Board.

### 29\. Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation Limited.

### 30\. Bihar State Hill Area and Irrigation Development Limited.

### 31\. Patna Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 32\. Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 33\. Ranchi Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 34\. Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 35\. North Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 36\. Darbhanga Industrial Area Development Authority.

### 37\. Patna Area Development Authority.

### 38\. Ranchi Area Development Authority.

### 39\. Muzaffarpur Area Development Authority.

### 40\. Darbhanga Area Development Authority.

### 41\. Gaya Area Development Authority.

### 42\. Bihar State Pollution Control Board.

### 43\. Bihar State Water and Sewage Disposal Board.

### 44\. Bihar State Financial Corporation.

### 45\. Bihar State Credit and Investment Corporation Limited.

### 46\. Bihar State Panchayati Raj Finance Development Corporation Limited.

### 47\. Bihar State Minorities Finance Corporation Limited.

### 48\. Bihar State Film Development and Finance Corporation Limited.

### 49\. Electricity Corporation Limited.

### 50\. Mines Area Development Authority, Dhanbad.

### 51\. Hazaribagh Mines Board.

### 52\. Bhagalpur Regional Development Authority, Bhagalpur.

### 53\. Women's Development Corporation.

### 54\. Backward Classes Development Corporation.

### 55\. Scheduled Castes Development Corporation.

### 56\. Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation.

The Tenth Schedule(See section 70)Continuance of Facilities in certain State
InstitutionsList of Training Institution/ Centres

### 1\. Sri Krishna Institute of Public Administration.

### 2\. Police Training College.

### 3\. Bihar Institute of Rural Development.

### 4\. Village Handicrafts Training Centre.

### 5\. Tribal Village Handicraft Training Centres.

### 6\. Training-cum-Production Centres for Toys, Ceramic Goods, Embroidery
and Applique, Hornmade goods and Cutting and Tailoring.

### 7\. Ideal Woodwork Workshops/Iron Workshops.

### 8\. Indo Danish Tool Room and Training Centre, Jamshedpur.

### 9\. All Government Industrial Institutes.

-Affiliated with N.C.V.T.-Un-affiliated.

### 10\. All Private Industrial Institutes.

-Affiliated with N.C.V.T. ;-Un-affiliated.

### 11\. B.I.T., Sindri.

### 12\. R.I. T., Jamshedpur.

### 13\. Government Polytechnic, Dhanbad.

### 14\. Government Polytechnic, Ranchi.

### 15\. Government Polytechnic, Adityapur.

### 16\. Government Polytechnic, Khutri.

### 17\. Government Polytechnic, Lathehar.

### 18\. Government Women's Polytechnic, Jamshedpur.

### 19\. Government Women's Polytechnic, Ranchi.

### 20\. Government Women's Polytechnic, Bokaro.

### 21\. Mines Institution, Dhanbad.

### 22\. Mines institution, Bagha.

### 23\. Mines Institution, Koderma.

### 24\. Government Polytechnic, Dumka.

### 25\. Government Women's Industrial School, Ranchi.

### 26\. Government Women's Industrial School, Hazaribagh.

### 27\. Government Women's Industrial School, Daltonganj.

### 28\. Sainik School, Tilaiya.

### 29\. Netarhat School.

### 30\. Indira Gandhi Girls School, Hazaribagh

