## Union of India - Act

## Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988

## Rule CAPITAL-GAINS-ACCOUNTS-SCHEME-1988 of 1988

  * Published on 22 June 1988 
  * Commenced on 22 June 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 June 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988

### 1984.

G.S.R 724(E), Dated 22.6.1988 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (2) of section 54, subsection (2) of section 54B, sub-section (2) of
section 54D, sub-section (4) of section 54-F and sub-section (2) of section
54G of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby
frames the following Scheme, namely:-

### 1. Short title, commencement and application.

(1)This Scheme may be called the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988.(2)It
shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official
Gazette.(3)It applies to all assesses who are eligible for exemption under
section 54, 54B, 54D, 54F or 54G of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"account" means a
deposit account under this Scheme;(b)"account-A" means deposit account-A
mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Scheme;(c)"account-B" means deposit account-B
mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Scheme;(d)"Act" means the Income-tax Act,
1961 (43 of 1961);(e)"Deposit Office" means any branch or branch office of the
State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of
1955) or of a subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India
(Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959), or of a corresponding new bank
constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) or under section 3 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980),
authorised by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette,
to receive deposit and maintain account of the depositor, under this
Scheme;(f)"depositor" means an assesses who is eligible to make a deposit
under section 54, 54B, 54D, 54F or 54G of this Act;(g)all other words and
expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Act shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act;(h)"Form" means a form
appended to this Scheme.

### 3. Deposits how to be made.

\- A deposit or deposits may be made under the provisions of section 54 or
section 54B or section 54D or section 54F or section 54G of the Act by any
depositor intending to avail of the benefit under the said section or sections
of the Act, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of this
Scheme.

### 4. Types of deposits.

(1)There shall be two types of deposit accounts, namely :-(i)"Deposit
account-A"; and(ii)"Deposit account-B".(2)The deposit made under account-A
shall be in the form of `savings deposit' and subject to the other provisions
of this Scheme, withdrawals under this account can be made from time to time
by the depositor.(3)The deposit made under account-B shall be in the form of
`term deposit' with an option to the depositor to keep the deposit as
cumulative or noncumulative deposit. Except as provided under paragraph 7 and
paragraph 9, withdrawals under this account can be made only after the expiry
of the period for which the deposit under this account has been made and
accepted.(4)Such deposits may be made in one lump sum or in installments at
any time on or before the due date of furnishing the return of income under
subsection (1) of section 139 of the Act as is applicable in the case of the
depositor.

### 5. Application for opening account.

(1)Every depositor who is desirous of opening an account or accounts, as the
case may be, under this Scheme for the first time, shall apply to the deposit
office in Form A or as near thereto as possible, in duplicate and tender the
amount of deposit payable in the manner specified in sub-paragraph (4) and a
depositor intending to avail of the benefit under more than one section of the
Act, as referred to in paragraph 3, shall make separate applications in the
same manner, for opening account or accounts under each of such
sections.(2)While applying under sub-paragraph (1) the depositor shall
exercise his option as to whether the amount is to be deposited in account-A
or in account-B or in both the accounts, and in case of the depositor
exercising his option to open account-B, the depositor shall also exercise his
option as to whether the deposit is to be made as cumulative or non-cumulative
deposit as referred in sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 4.(3)On receipt of an
application under sub-paragraph (1), the deposit office shall open an account
or accounts in the name of the depositor as opted by him under sub-paragraph
(2).(4)The payment of amount of deposit shall be made by the depositor either
in cash or by crossed cheque or by draft along with the application.(5)Every
subsequent deposit shall be made into the deposit office at which the account
stands, in the same manner as stipulated in sub-paragraph (4).(6)If the
deposit is made by a cheque or a draft then, subject to such cheque or draft
being realized, the effective date of deposit for the purpose of claiming
exemption under the Act will be the date on which the cheque or draft is
received by the deposit office along with the application under subparagraph
(1) or sub-paragraph (5), as the case may be.(7)The interest on the amount of
deposit shall accrue and will be calculated subject to the provisions of
paragraph 8, with effect from the date of deposit in cash or the date of
realization of the proceeds of the cheque or the draft tendered by the
depositor.(8)In the case of deposit under account-A, the deposit office shall
issue a pass book to the depositor wherein all amounts of deposits,
withdrawals, together with interest due, shall be entered over the signature
of the authorised officer of the deposit office.(9)In the case of deposit
under account-B, deposit office shall issue a deposit receipt wherein the
principal amount of deposit, date of deposit, date of maturity of deposit,
shall be entered over the signature of the authorised officer of the deposit
office.

### 6. Issue of duplicate pass book or receipt.

\- In the event of loss or destruction of the pass book receipt referred to in
sub-paragraph (8) or subparagraph(9)of paragraph 5, the deposit office may, on
an application made to it in this behalf, issue a duplicate thereof.

### 7. Transfer and conversion of the account.

(1)A depositor may, if he so desires, apply for transfer of his account or
accounts, from one deposit office to another deposit office of the same
bank.(2)A depositor having a deposit in account-B may, at any time, if he so
desires, apply in Form-B or as near thereto as possible, together with his
deposit receipt, for transfer of the amount standing to his credit in
account-B to his deposit in account-A opened under the same section of the Act
under which the said account-B was opened and the request of the depositor may
be accepted subject to the other provisions of this Scheme.(3)(a)A depositor
while applying under sub-paragraph (2) shall furnish in Form B the requisite
particulars of his account-A to which the amount from account-B is required to
be transferred;(b)Where the depositor is not having a deposit in account-A, he
shall state such fact and also make a request for opening an account-A in his
name, as specified in Form B.(4)If the request under sub-paragraph (2) has
been made for transfer of amount standing to the credit in account-B, before
the expiry of the specified period for which the deposit in account-B was
made, such request shall be treated as premature withdrawal of amount from
deposit in the said account-B and the amount of interest accrued, if any, in
the said account-B shall be calculated by the deposit office in accordance
with the provisions of sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph 8.(5)If the request
under sub-paragraph (2) has been made for transfer of amount standing to the
credit in account-B on or after the expiry of the specified period for which
the deposit in account-B was made, the amount of interest accrued in account-B
shall be calculated at normal rate as specified by the Reserve Bank of India
in pursuance of paragraph 8 in respect of a deposit in account-B.(6)On receipt
of an application under sub-paragraph (2), the deposit office shall calculate
the amount of interest, if any, accrued in account-B till the date on which
actual transfer of amount to account-A is made, subject to the provisions of
paragraph 8 and close account-B after transferring the total amount standing
to the credit in account-B to account-A:Provided that where in such case of
transfer the depositor does not have a deposit in account-A, an account-A
shall be opened in the name of the depositor and the amount standing to his
credit in account-B shall then be transferred to account-A as so opened.(7)A
depositor, if he so desires, may apply in Form B together with his pass book,
for opening an account-B in his name, by way of transfer of the whole or any
part of the amount standing to his credit in account-A, under the same section
of the Act under which his account-A has been opened.(8)After the conversion
of account-B to account-A or vice versa in the manner specified above, the
interest in newly opened account or accounts, as the case may be, shall accrue
with effect from the date of opening of such account or accounts.

### 8. Interest.

(1)Interest at such rate as may be specified by the Reserve Bank of India,
from time to time, shall be allowed for each calendar month on the lowest
balance at the credit of a depositor under account-A, between the close of the
10th day and the end of the month and shall be credited to the account at the
end of each half-year.(2)Interest at such rate, as may be specified by the
Reserve Bank of India, from time to time, shall be allowed in respect of
deposit in account-B. In case of cumulative deposit in account-B, the amount
of interest accrued will be deemed to have been reinvested and in case of non-
cumulative deposit in account-B, the amount of interest will become due and
payable at quarterly intervals.(3)Interest due at the end of each half year in
respect of account-A will be credited only when the amount is Re. 1 or more
and the total amount of interest payable in respect of account-A or account-B
will be rounded off to the nearest five paise.(4)If a depositor applies under
paragraph 7 or paragraph 9 or paragraph 13 for conversion of the account or
withdrawal from the account or closure of the account, as the case may be,
before completion of the period for which the deposit in account-B has been
accepted by the deposit office, the rate of interest payable in respect of
such deposit shall be the one applicable to the period for which the deposit
remained with the deposit office less one per cent penalty for a premature
withdrawal on account of such conversion or withdrawal or closure, as the case
may be, and any adjustment required to be made on account of such premature
conversion, withdrawal or closure with respect to amount of interest already
credited to the account of the depositor, shall be made by the deposit office
against the amount lying to the credit of the depositor in account-B.

### 9. Withdrawal from the account.

(1)A depositor having account-A may, at any time after making the initial
subscription, if he so desires, apply in Form C or as near thereto as
possible, together with the pass book to the deposit office for the withdrawal
of amount from the balance to his credit in account-A, subject to the other
provisions of this Scheme.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-paragraph
(1) the deposit office shall, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (3),
permit the withdrawal and enter the amount withdrawn in the pass book.(3)At
the time of any withdrawal from account-A, other than the initial withdrawal,
the depositor shall furnish in Form D in duplicate the details regarding the
manner and extent of utilization of the amount of immediately preceding
withdrawal. The deposit office will retain one copy of Form D and return the
other copy to the depositor after duly authenticating it.(4)Where the amount
of withdrawal referred to in sub-paragraph (2) exceeds rupees twenty-five
thousand, the deposit office shall make payment to the depositor, subject to
the fulfillment of the conditions prescribed in sub-paragraph (3), by way of
crossed demand draft drawn in favour of the person to whom the depositor
intends to make the payment.(5)A depositor intending to make withdrawal from
his deposit in account-B, shall first apply in the manner prescribed in sub-
paragraph (2) of paragraph 7 for transfer of the amount standing to his credit
in account-B to account-A and may withdraw the requisite amount in the same
manner and subject to the same conditions as stipulated in sub-paragraphs (1)
and (3) after the amount standing to the credit in his account-B has been
credited to his account-A by the deposit office.(6)In case the application
under sub-paragraph (5) is made before the expiry of the specific period for
which the deposit in account-B was made, such withdrawal will be treated as
premature withdrawal, and the amount of interest accrued, if any, shall be
calculated subject to the provisions of subparagraph (4) of paragraph 8.(7)On
receipt of the application under sub-paragraph (5), the deposit office shall
transfer the amount due and payable, together with the amount of interest
accrued, in account-B, to account-A in the same manner and subject to the same
conditions as stipulated in paragraph 7 and thereafter allow the request for
withdrawal made by the depositor in the same manner and subject to the same
conditions as stipulated in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4).Explanation -
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the deposit office
shall refuse the depositor to withdraw any amount lying in his account, in
case of failure on his part to furnish all the details as required by sub-
paragraph (3).

### 10. Utilization of the amount of withdrawal.

(1)A depositor, withdrawing any amount out of the deposit made in pursuance of
subsection(2)of section 54 or sub-section (2) of section 54B or sub-section
(2) of section 54D or sub-section (4) of section 54F or sub-section (2) of
section 54G, shall utilize the whole or any part of the amount so withdrawn
for the purposes specified in sub-section (1) of the section in relation to
which the deposit has been made.(2)The amount withdrawn shall be utilized by
the depositor within sixty days from the date of such withdrawal for the
purposes specified in subparagraph (1) and the amount or any part thereof
which has not been so utilized shall be re-deposited in account-A immediately
thereafter.

### 11. Nomination by the depositor.

(1)A depositor may nominate in Form E or as near thereto as possible, one or
more persons but not exceeding three to receive the amount standing to his
credit in account-A or account-B, as the case may be, in the event of his
death before the amount has become payable or having become payable, has not
been paid.(2)No nominations shall be made in respect of an account opened on
behalf of a minor or a Hindu undivided family or a firm or a company or an
association of persons or a body of individuals.(3)A nomination made by a
depositor may be varied by a fresh nomination in Form F or as near thereto as
possible, by giving notice in writing to the deposit office in which the
account stands.(4)Every nomination and every cancellation or variation thereof
shall be registered in the deposit office and shall be effective from the date
of such registration, the particulars of which in the case of a deposit in
account-A shall be entered in the pass book and in the case of a deposit in
account-B shall be entered in the deposit receipt issued by the deposit
office.(5)If the nominee is a minor, the depositor may appoint any person to
receive the amount due under the account in the event of the death of the
depositor during the minority of the nominee.(6)Where the nomination is in
favour of more than one person, the nominee first named shall alone have the
right to receive the amount standing to the credit in the account of the
deceased depositor.(7)Where the nominee first named has pre-deceased the
depositor and the depositor has not cancelled the nomination or substituted
the nomination, the nominee second named shall be entitled to receive the
amount standing to the credit in the account of the deceased depositor and so
on in respect of other successive nominees:Provided that if any nominee is
dead, the surviving nominee or nominees shall, in addition to the proof of
death of the depositor, also furnish proof of death of the deceased nominee or
nominees, as the case may be.

### 12. Charge or alienation.

\- The amount standing to the credit of any depositor in any account shall not
be placed or offered by him as security for any loan or guarantee and shall
not be charged or alienated in any manner whatsoever.

### 13. Closure of the account.

(1)If a depositor desires to close his account, an application shall be made
with the approval of the Assessing Officer who has jurisdiction over the
depositor to the deposit office in Form G or as near thereto as possible, and
the deposit office shall pay the amount of balance including interest accrued,
to the credit in the account of the depositor by means of crediting such
amount to any bank account of the depositor.(2)If a depositor in respect of
whose deposit account a nomination is in force, dies, the nominee, if he
desires to close the account or accounts and obtain the payment of the balance
standing to the credit in the account of the deceased depositor, shall make an
application to the deposit office in Form H or as near thereto as possible
with the approval of the Assessing Officer who has jurisdiction over the
deceased depositor, and the deposit office shall pay the amount of balance
standing to the credit in the account of the deceased depositor including
amount of interest accrued, by means of crediting such amount to any bank
account of the nominee.(3)If a depositor, in respect of whose deposit no
nomination is in force, the legal heir of the deceased depositor shall make an
application to the deposit office in Form H or as near thereto as possible,
with the approval of the Assessing Officer who has jurisdiction over the
deceased depositor, and the deposit office shall pay the balance standing to
the credit in the account of the deceased depositor including the amount of
interest accrued, by means of crediting such amount to any bank account of the
legal heir :Provided that where there are more than one legal heir of the
deceased depositor, the legal heir making the claim individually may do so by
producing the letter of disclaimer or letter of authorization from other legal
heirs in his favour:Provided further that before granting the approval for
closure of the account under this sub-paragraph, the Assessing Officer shall
obtain from the legal heir a succession certificate issued under Part V of the
Indian Succession Act, 1925, or a probate of the will of the deceased
depositor, if any, or letter of administration to the estate of the deceased
in case there is no will in order to verify the claim of such legal heir to
the account of the deceased depositor.(4)The depositor or the nominee or the
legal heir, in order to obtain payment of the amount standing to the credit in
the account shall while applying in Form G or Form H, also submit the pass
book of account-A or deposit receipt of account-B, as the case may be, to the
deposit office.(5)The payment made by the deposit office to the depositor or
the nominee or the legal heir in accordance with the provisions of this
paragraph shall constitute a full discharge to the deposit office of its
liability in respect of the deposit.(6)Nothing contained in this paragraph or
in paragraph 11 shall affect the right or claim which any person may have
against the person to whom any payment is made under this paragraph.FORM NO.
A[See sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 5](To be submitted in duplicate)[Name of
the Deposit Office]Serial No......................Application for opening an
account under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988ToThe
Manager................................[Name and address of the Deposit
Office]I................................................(Name and address of
the Applicant/ depositor) aged years hereby apply for opening Account A and/or
Account B ,under the Capital Gains Account scheme, 1988(in terms of section
54/ 54B/ 54D/54 F/ 54G of the Act)in my Name/ In the name of (Name of the
depositor)of............................................of whom I am the
guardian / karta / authorised officer, and tender herewith the amount of
Rs.................. in cash/by way of crossed cheque/Demand Draft, towards
deposit as per details below:

### 1\. (a)Amount deposited Rs.................(in figure)
Rs.........................(in words) in cash /by Crossed Cheque / Demand
Draft No........................Dated................Drawn
on........................

(b)Address of the depositor:

### 2\. I wish to make a nomination in respect of the amount to my credit in
the said account / I do not wish to make a nomination in respect of the amount
to my credit in the said account, at present.

### 3\. (a) Applicant's relationship with the depositor:

(b)Whether applicant is natural guardian /guardian appointed by court, for the
minor depositor:(c)Date of birth of minor:

### 4\. Depositor's permanent I. T. Account No./ District/Ward /Circle/ Range
where assessed :

### 5\. Previous year [as applicable in case of the depositor ]
from...............to month...........

### 6\. Assessment year in respect of which deposit is to be made
19................

### 7\. (a) Whether deposit is to be made under account A or account B or
under Account A and Account B

(b)In the case of deposit is to be made under Account A and Account
B.(i)Amount to be deposited under Account A Rs..............[in
figures]Rs..........[in words](ii)Amount to be deposited under Account B
Rs.............[in figures]Rs...........[in words](c)In case of Account
B................(i)Period for which deposit is to be made:(ii)Whether the
deposit is made as Cumulative/non-cumulative:Signature /Thumb impression of
the depositor of the Guardian / Karta / Authorized officer of the
depositorAdditional
specimenDate......................Place.................For The Use Of Deposit
Office

### 1\. (a) Account-A No............. has been opened on..................with
Rs............. in the name of..............(name of the depositor)

(b)Pass book No................has been issued to the applicant/depositor

### 2\. (a) Account-B No................has been opened
on...................with Rs...............in the name
of..................(name of the depositor) as cumulative/non cumulative
deposit

(b)Deposit Receipt no......................for
Rs...............Dated.................has been delivered on................to
the applicant/depositor.

### 3\. Cheque no.....................Dated....................for
Rs.....................drawn on......................... tendered by the
applicant/depositor, has not been realised, hence account has not been opened.

................Officer-in-charge.Date..........................FORM No. B[See
sub - paragraphs (2), (3) and (7) of paragraph 7][Name of the deposit
office]Serial No.....................Application for conversion of accounts
under the Capital Gains Account Scheme, 1988ToThe Manager(Name and address of
the Deposit Office)I......................hereby apply for (Name of the
applicant / depositor)transfer of the principal amount of
Rs................... (in figures)Rs................... (in words) together
with the amount of interest accrued in account-B
No....................(Deposit Receipt No................) maintained with
your office in my name /the name of..............(Name and address of the
Depositors)(a)To Account A No x Pass-book No x maintained with your office in
my name / the name of of aforesaid the Depositors;(b)To a new Account-A which
may please be opened in my name / In the name of aforesaid depositor.I submit
herewith the aforesaid Deposit Receipt No.x (for the purpose of transfer of
said amount to aforesaid Account-A which is maintained with your office /
which is to be opened)

### 3\. (i) Opening a new Account-B in my name / in the name
of...................(Name and address of the Depositors) for a period
of.............. days / month /year with effect from.............. (date) and
to transfer the sum of Rs. (in figures) Rs.................... (in word) to
the credit in such new Account B out of the balance standing to the credit in
account -A No................... (Pass book No.) maintained with your office
in my name / in the name of the said depositor...............(Name of the
depositor)

(ii)I submit herewith the aforesaid pass book No......................for the
purpose of transfer of said Amount to a new account-B Form Title Application
for conversion of accounts under the Capital Gains Account Scheme, 1988.

### 3\. The application is made by me as guardian on behalf of
aforesaid................(name of the depositor) who is a minor.

### 4\. The application is made by me as karta of the
aforesaid...............Hindu undivided family.

### 5\. The application is made by me as authorised officer of the aforesaid
firm................. Company / association of persons/body of individuals.

Date..................Place................Signature / Thumb impression of the
Depositor/the guardian / Karta / Authorised officer of the depositorAdditional
specimenFor the use of Deposit Office

### 1\. The deposit in aforesaid account-B No....................

Deposit receipt No.....................has been allowed to be withdrawn before
Maturity/ on maturity/after maturity and total sum of principal amount
Rs..................(in figures) Rs....................(in word) and sum of
Rs..............(in figures)Rs.................. (in word) of interest accrued
in said account-B.............. has been transferred
on..................(date) to account A No................Pass book
No.............. which is already maintained / which has been opened on
(date)in the name of the aforesaid depositor.................... and the
passbook No...........of the newly opened account-A no................. has
been delivered on (date)to the above mentioned applicant / depositor

### 2\. A new account - B No..................... deposit receipt
No....................for sum of Rs. (in figures)
Rupees........................(in words) has been opened on (date)for a period
of..................days /month / year/ in the name of aforesaid Depositor
(name of the depositor) and the sum of Rs.................. (in figures)
Rupees...................(in words) has been transferred to said new account
-B No.........................on (date) out of the balance standing to the
credit in the aforesaid account - A No................ of the said depositor.

Date........................................Officer-in-chargeFORM No. C[See
sub - paragraphs (1) of paragraph 9][Name of the deposit office]Serial
No.....................Application for withdrawal of amount from accounts-A
under the Capital Gains Account Scheme, 1988ToThe
Manager.........................(Name and address of the Deposit Office)

### 1\. ........................Son of.........................(Name of the
applicant / depositor)residing at(address of the
applicant/depositor)..................wish to withdraw a sum of
Rs................. (in figures)
....................Rs.....................(in words), from the account A
No........................(Pass-book No).....................maintained with
your office in my name / the name of.....................(Name and address of
the Depositors).

### 2\. I hereby declare and confirm that the amount sought to be withdrawn is
proposed to be utilised in terms of the provisions of section 54/ section 54B/
section 54 D/section 54F/ section 54G of the Act for the following purposes:

(i)...........................(ii)...........................(iii)...........................(iv)...........................(v)...........................(vi)...........................(vii)...........................

### 3\. I request you to please pay the aforesaid amount of withdrawal in the
following manner:

(i)Amount of Rs..................(in figures) Rupees.....................(in
word) may be paid in cash for the purposes mentioned at Serial
No.....................of column 2 hereinabove;(ii)Amount of
Rs..........................(in figures)Rupees(in
word).....................may be paid to (Name and address of the Party to
whom payment is to be made) by way of pay order / Demand Draft for the
purposes mentioned at Serial No...........................of column 2
hereinabove;

### 4\. The application is made by me as guardian on behalf of aforesaid (name
of the depositor).........who is a minor.

### 5\. The application is made by me as authorised officer of the aforesaid
depositor firm............/...............Company / association of
persons/body of individuals.

### 6\. The application is made by me as karta of the aforesaid
depositor......................Hindu undivided Family.

Date...................Place................Signature / Thumb impression
Depositor/the guardian / Karta /Authorised officer of the
depositor............................Additional specimenFor The Use Of Deposit
Office(i)Withdrawal for total amount of Rs............. allowed/ not allowed
because the depositor has not furnished the requisite details in respect of
his preceding withdrawal/not allowed in terms of the provision of sub -
paragraph(4) of paragraph 9 as the withdrawal has been sought in
cash.(ii)Amount of withdrawal has been made as per below(a)Cash
Rs........................(b)Cheque/Demand draft
issued)..................(detail may be noted)Date..................Officer-
in-chargeFORM No. D[See sub paragraph (3) of paragraph 9](To be submitted in
duplicate).................................[Name of the Deposit Office]Serial
No..................Details regarding the manner and extent of utilisation of
the amount withdrawn from account under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme,
1988To,The manager....................................[Name and address of the
deposit office

### 1\. ........................... Son of........................(Name of the
applicant/depositor) residing at (address).................am furnishing in
terms of sub paragraph (3) of paragraph 9, the requisite details regarding the
manner and extent of utilisation of the amount of Rs...............(in
figures)....................Rupees..............(in words)withdrawn by me
on............(date) out of the balance to the credit in account-A
no....................(Pass book No..............) maintained with your office
in my name/in the name of aforesaid........(mention the name and address of
the depositor)

### 2\. Manner /purpose for which amount withdrawn , mentioned hereinabove has
been utilised:

Purpose |  AmountRs. P |  Partyto whom payment has been made |  Voucherno. receipt No.(with due)  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
### 3\. I hereby declare and confirm that the amount withdrawn , which is
mentioned hereinabove has been utilised partly and the balance of
Rs..................... was redeposited on.............to the credit of
aforesaid account / wholly for the purpose mentioned hereinafter under column
2.

### 4\. This declaration is made by me on behalf of the aforesaid minor
depositor.................of whom I am guardian.

### 5\. This declaration is made by me on behalf of the aforesaid firm/
company /association of person / body of individual....................of whom
I am the authorised officer to make this declaration

### 6\. This declaration is made by me as karta of the
aforesaid...................Hindu undivided family.

Signature/thumb impression of the depositor / Guardian / karta /Authorised
officer of the depositorAdditional
specimenDate.............Place.................PAN and Distt. / Ward /Circle
/Range where assessedFor The Use Of Deposit OfficeWithdrawal of
Rs................. permitted / not permitted as the details in respect of
total amount of Rs.....................withdrawn on....................have
not been furnished.Applicant/Depositor has been advised to furnish the
details.Date...................Officer-in-chargeFORM No. E[See sub paragraph
(1) of paragraph 11](To be submitted only in case of individual
depositor)......................................[Name of the Deposit
Office]Serial No..........................From of nomination under the Capital
Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988To,The
manager......................................................................[Name
and address of the deposit office]I...................(Name of the Depositor)
Son of...........residing at (Address)...........Hereby nominate the
person(s)mentioned below to whom, to the exclusion of all other persons In the
event of my death, the amount standing to my credit in account-A
No.................Pass book No............. Account-B
No................Deposit Receipt No.................under the Capital Gains
Account Scheme, 1988 would be payable.

Sl.No. |  Name(s)of the nominee(s) | Relationship |  Fulladdress(es) |  Dateof birth of nominee in case of minor  
---|---|---|---|---  
1.....................................................  
2.....................................................  
3.....................................................  
  
As the nominee(s) at Serial No.(s).....................specified above is /
are minor(s), I appoint Shri / Smt. / Kumari (Name and full address)
........................as the person to receive the sum due under the said
account(s) in the event of my death during the minority of the
nominee(s).Signature / thumb impression of the depositorPAN and Distt. / Ward
/Circle /Range where
assessedDate....................Place...................Signature of
witness..........................Name and
Address......................Date......................For The Use Of Deposit
OfficeThe above nomination has been registered on x and entry has been made in
the pass book No............................ For account A
No.........................Deposit Receipt No.....................For account
B No......................Date.....................Officer-in-chargeFORM F[See
sub paragraph (3) of paragraph 11](To be submitted only in case of Individual
Depositor)Application For Cancellation / Change Of Nomination Previously Made
Under The Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988To,The Branch ManagerState Bank
of
India..............................................................................................................................(Name
of the Applicant / Depositor)

### 1\. ......................Son of....................residing
at.......................(address of the applicant/ depositor) hereby cancel
the Nomination made by me in respect of my Account(s) mentioned under column 2
hereunder:

### 2\. Details of Account / Accounts:

I. Account - A No : ..................Nomination Made on : ..................
/.................. /20.................II. Account - B No :
................Nomination Made on : ................./..................
/20..................

### 3\. In the place of cancelled Nomination referred to column 2 above, I
hereby nominate the Person(s) mentioned below to whom, to the exclusion of all
other Persons In the event of My Death, the Amount standing to my credit in
Account - A No...................Pass book No...................and / OR
Account - B No.........................Deposit Receipt
No....................under the Capital Gains Account Scheme,1988 would be
payable.

Sl.No |  Nameof the Nominee(s) | Relationship |  FullAddress(es) |  Dateof Birth of nominee in case of Minor  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
1 |  |  |  |   
2 |  |  |  |   
3 |  |  |  |   
  
As the Nominee(s) at Serial No(s)..................specified above is / are
Minor(s), I appoint Shri / Smt. / Kumari...............................(Name
and full address) as the person to receive the sum due under the said
account(s) in the event of my death during the minority of the
nominee(s).Date............./.............../20............Place.......................Signature
/ Thumb Impression of DepositorPAN & Distt/Ward/Circle/Range where assessedFor
the use of deposit officeThe nomination mentioned in column 2 has been
cancelled and Fresh Nomination as per Column 3 above has been registered
on............/............./20.............. and entry has been made in the
Pass Book No..............For Account - A No.............. and / Or Deposit
Receipt No..............For Account - B No.....................referred to
under column 2 hereinabove.Date :
............/............../20................FORM No. G[See sub paragraph (1)
of paragraph 13](To be submitted by the depositor)[Name of the Deposit
Office]Serial No.................Application for closing the account under the
Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988 by the depositorTo,The
manager................................................[Name and address of
the deposit officeI.................(Name of the Depositor / Applicant) Son
of.................residing at (Address of the applicant
/depositor)...................hereby apply in terms of sub-paragraph (1) of
paragraph 13 of the scheme, to close the account / accounts mentioned below,
which is / are maintained , with your office in my name/in the name of (name
and address of the depositor)...................

### 2\. Details of Account/Accounts:

(i)Account-A No................... Pass book
No...................(ii)Account-B No...................Deposit Receipt
No...............

### 3\. I tender herewith the Passbook / Deposit Receipt mentioned herein
above.

### 4\. The application is made by me as guardian on behalf of aforesaid
depositor who is a minor and whose date of birth is.........................

### 5\. The application is made by me as authorised officer of the aforesaid
depositor, the firm..................company, association of
persons...................body of individuals..................

### 6\. The application is made by me as Karta of the aforesaid
depositor,....................a Hindu undivided family.

Signature / thumb impression of the depositor / Guardian / Karta / Authorised
officer of the depositorAdditional
specimenDate...............Place................APPROVED[Signature (with date)
and stamp of Assessing Officer having jurisdiction]For the use of deposit
office(Details of Account / Accounts closed and total amount paid may be
recorded)

### 1\.

.....................................

### 2\.

.....................................

### 3\.

.....................................

### 4\.

.....................................Date.................Officer-in-
chargeFORM No. H[See sub paragraph (2) and (3) of paragraph 13][Name of the
Deposit Office]Serial No..................Application for closing the account
under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988 by the nominee/legal heir of the
deceased depositorTo,The
manager......................................................[Name and address
of the deposit officeI / We..............................(Name and address of
the nominee/ legal heir of the deceased depositor)hereby apply in terms of
sub-paragraph (2)/ (3) of paragraph 13 of the Scheme, to close the Accounts /
accounts mentioned below, which is / are maintained, with your office in the
name of the deceased depositor................(Name and address of the
depositor and PAN and Distt/ward / circle/Range where assessed).(2)In terms of
sub-paragraph (6)of paragraph 11, I, (name of the
nominee).........aged...........Years, son of (full address)
....................am entitled to obtain the payment due to the credit in the
account / accounts Mentioned under column 4 hereunder (in case applications
made by the nominee)(3)I (Name of the legal heirs)...................Aged
Years, son of ................Resident of (full address)....................am
making this application to obtain the payment due to the credit in the account
/ accounts mentioned under column 4 hereunder and submit herewith the
letter(s)of disclaimer given by all other legal heirs.

### 4\. Details of Account/ Accounts .

(i)Account-A No....................Pass book No..............(ii)Account-B
No.................. Deposit receipt No................

### 5\. I / we tender herewith the pass book / Deposit receipt mentioned
hereinabove.

Signature / thumb impression of the nominee/legal heir of the deceased
depositorAdditional
specimenDate.................Place....................APPROVED[Signature (with
date) and stamp of Assessing Officer having jurisdiction]For the use of
deposit office(Details of Account / Accounts closed and total amount paid to
the nominee/ legal heir, may be recorded)

### 1\.

.............................

### 2\.

.............................

### 3\.

.............................

### 4\.

................................

### 5\.

................................Date...................Officer-in-charge

