## Union of India - Act

## Census Rules, 1990

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Census Rules, 1990

## Rule CENSUS-RULES-1990 of 1990

  * Published on 31 December 1990 
  * Commenced on 31 December 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 December 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Census Rules, 1990Published vide Notification No. S.O. 967(E), dated
31.12.1990S.O. 967(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section
(1) of section 18 of the Census Act, 1948 (37 of 1948), the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Census Rules, 1990.(2)They shall come into
force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires : -(a)"Act" means the
Census Act, 1948 (37 of 1948);(b)"Census Commissioner" means the Census
Commissioner appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the
Act;(c)"Census Schedule" means the schedule containing questions referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Act;(d)"Charge Officer" "Additional
Charge Officer" and "Sub Charge Officer" mean the census officers appointed as
such under sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act and includes Tehsildar,
Mamlatdar, Block Development Officer, Chief Administrative Officer of a town,
executive officer and other officers;(e)"Director of Census Operations" means
the Director of Census Operations appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4
of the Act to supervise the taking of census within a State or Union
Territory;(f)"District Census Officer", "Sub-divisional Census Officer" and
"Additional District Census Officer" mean the census officers appointed under
sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Act;(g)"Enumerator" means an officer
appointed under sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Act;(h)"Joint Director of
Census Operations", "Deputy Director of Census Operations" and "Assistant
Director of Census Operations" mean officers assisting Director of Census
Operations;(i)"Principal Census Officer" means a census officer designated as
such under sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act;(j)"Supervisor" means an
officer appointed under sub- section (4) of section 4 of the Act;(k)[ All
other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the
Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Act.] [Inserted
by Notification dated 19.7.94.]

### 3. Appointment of Census Officers.

\- The State Governments and the Union territory Administrations in order to
aid the taking of the census within their States or Union territories, may
appoint officers from against the category mentioned in column 2 as census
officers within their jurisdictions with such designation mentioned in column
1 of the Table below.

Designation | Officers to be appointed  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1\. Principal Census Officer |  District Collectors/ Magistrates/ Commissionersof administrative heads of Corporations or any nominated Officer.  
2\. District/Additional district/ Deputydistrict/Sub-divisional district/City/Additional City Census,Officer. |  District Collectors/ Magistrates/ Officerassisting District Collectors/ Magistrates/ Commissioner/District Sub-divisional Officers or Revenue Divisional Officers.  
3\. Charge Officer/ Assistant Charge Officer/Additional Charge Officer and Sub- Charge Officer. |  Tehsildars/ Additional Tehsildars/ Mamlatdars/Block Development Officer/ Chief Administrative Officer of towns/Executive Officers and other Officers.  
4\. Supervisor |  Officers generally of a rank higher thanenumerators or any person.  
5\. Enumerator | Teachers, Clerks or any official or any person.  
  
### 4. Designating of Officers.

\- The [State Governments and Union ] [The Replaced the earlier words 'State
Government & the Union Territory Administration'. by notification dated
19.7.94.] may designate the Director of Census Operations, the Joint Director
of Census Operations, the Deputy Director of Census Operations and Assistant
Director of Census Operations as the Chief Principal Census Officer, Joint
Chief Principal Census Officer, Deputy Chief Principal Census Officer and
Assistant Chief Principal Census Officer [of the States and the Union
Territory concerned] [Replaced the earlier words 'within the jurisdiction of
the State & Union Territory concerned'. by notification dated 19.7.94.].

### 5. Functions of the Census Officers.

(1)The Census Commissioner shall, -(a)take, aid in and supervise the taking of
the census within the country;(b)cause the Directors of Census Operations to
be appointed for each State or Union territory, as the case may be;(c)devise
the census schedules or questionnaires and provide to the State Governments or
Union territory Administrations for publication in their respective Gazette in
order to canvass in the census;(d)compile and provide guidance to the
Directors of Census Operations of States and Union territories in taking the
census and computation of results; and(e)publish the census statistics through
publications or magnetic media.(2)The Director of Census Operations shall,
-(a)take, aid in and supervise the taking of the census within the limit of
his State or Union territory.(b)prepare village or hamlet lists, classify
places as towns according to demographic criteria, group places to form urban
agglomeration, standard urban areas, etc. according to instructions from the
Census Commissioner and coordinate the field work of house numbering and
houselisting as per instructions from the Census Commissioner.(c)provide
provisional population figures to the Census Commissioner, India through the
District Census Officers within such time as is specified;(d)compile and
provide assistance to Census Commissioner in compilation of the statistical
data as per procedures laid down by the Census Commissioner.(e)publish
statistics collected and computed during the census relating to the State or
Union territory, as the case may be with the approval of the Census
Commissioner;(f)provide the census material required in taking the census to
census-officers in accordance with the guidelines provided by the Census
Commissioner in this regard.(g)arrange to provide necessary publicity to
census at the appropriate time; and(h)coordinate the work of appointment of
census - officers and arrangements for their training.(3)The Principal Census
Officer shall, -(a)cause the required number of District or Sub-Divisional
Census Officers or Charge officers to be appointed for taking census in the
district or municipal corporation or panchayat area, etc.;(b)take, aid in and
supervise the houselisting and taking of the census within the limit of the
district or municipal corporation or panchayat areas, town area
committee/notified areas and the like and forward the result alongwith the
filled in schedules and blank forms to the Director of Census Operations
within the period specified by him;(c)arrange for the training to Enumerators,
Supervisors and Charge Officers so as to enable them to perform their duties
efficiently and within the time specified by the Director of census
Operations; and(d)take action and prosecute any defaulting person with the
previous sanction of the State Government or of an authority authorised in
this behalf by the State Government.(4)The District/Additional District or
Sub-Divisional Census Officer shall, -(a)(i)cause the required number of
Charge Officers and other census officers in a district or sub-division to be
appointed;(ii)cause the entire area of a district to be divided into well
demarcated census divisions, namely, charges, supervisor's circles and
enumerator's blocks as per instruction issued in this behalf by the Director
of Census Operations;(iii)cause the upto date list of villages and towns to be
compiled and their jurisdictional maps prepared;(iv)assist the Director of
Census Operations in compiling the related statistical data as per his
requirement.(v)give proper publicity to census programmes from time to time so
as to get proper responses from the public;(b)impart training to Charge
Officers and cause proper training to be imparted to Supervisors and
Enumerators through Charge Officers so as to enable them to perform their
duties efficiently and to assist the Principal Census Officers to take, aid in
and supervise the houselisting and taking of census within the limits of the
districts, municipal corporations, panchayats etc.;(c)collect the filled in
and blank forms of the various schedules alongwith abstracts or any other
statement that may be required to be Panchayat area etc.;(d)consolidate the
summary of enumerator's abstract or statement for the entire
district;(e)forward the filled in or blank forms of each schedule alongwith
the consolidated summary of enumerator's abstract or statement for district
and similar collected abstracts for each Charge Officer or census-officer,
through the Principal Census Officer to the Director of Census Operations for
the State or Union territory Administration; and(f)carry out such other jobs
necessary for the successful taking of the census;(5)The Charge Officer shall,
-(a)cause the required number of Supervisors and Enumerators to be appointed
within the jurisdiction of his charge;(b)prepare basic documents like general
village registers and charge registers as per instructions from the Director
of Census Operations within the time schedule;(c)familiarise himself with the
enumeration instructions and cause the Supervisors and Enumerators to be
trained so as to enable them to perform their duties efficiently;(d)ensure
that the work goes on according to the time schedule;(e)ensure full coverage,
accuracy and timeliness in taking census;(f)collect the filled in and blank
forms of the various schedules from all the Supervisors in the
charge;(g)provide provisional population figures to the Census Commissioner,
through the Director of Census Operations within a week on completion of
census operations.(h)consolidate the summary of enumerator's abstract of
various enumeration blocks and statements and forward these to the District
Census Officers or Sub-divisional Officers alongwith the filled in and blank
schedules; and(i)carry out such other tasks as may be necessary for the
successful taking of the census;(6)The Supervisor shall, -(a)help the
Enumerators under his jurisdiction and ensure that work is done as per
schedule and the coverage is complete; and(b)collect the filled in and blank
forms and statements from each Enumerator and forward the documents alongwith
such statements he may be required to prepare, duly signed to the Charge
Officer within two days of completion of census operations.(7)The Enumerator
shall, -(a)prepare Notional Map and layout sketch of the allotted enumeration
block;(b)update the house numbering;(c)fill up the various schedules according
to instructions issued to him;(d)undertake revisional round and updating of
records;(e)prepare enumerator's abstract which shall consist of the location
particulars of the enumeration block alongwith the total population by various
characteristics asked for in the schedules and such other statements he may be
required to compile; and(f)hand over all documents, filled in and blank to the
Supervisors.

### 6. Census schedules and questionnaires.

\- The census schedules or questionnaires shall be notified by the [State]
[Replaced the earlier 'State' by Notification 19.7.94.] Government through
Official Gazette under sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Act.

### 6A. [ Declaration of the date and duration of Census. [Inserted by
Notification dated. 19.7.94.]

\- The Central Government may by a notification published in the Official
Gazette declare the date for the commencement of the census and the period
during which the houselisting operations and population census shall take
place.

### 6B. Manner of serving the order of requisition of premises and vehicles.

\- An order of requisition under section 7A, shall be served -(a)where the
person to whom such order is addressed is a corporation or firm - in the
manner provided for the service of summons in rule 2 of order XXIX or rule 3
of order XXX, as the case may be, in the first Schedule to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908); and(b)where the person to whom such order is
addressed is an individual -(i)personally by delivering or tendering the
order, or(ii)by registered post, or(iii)if the person cannot be found, by
leaving an authentic copy of the order with any adult member of his family or
by affixing such copy to some conspicuous part of the premises in which he is
known to have last resided or carried on business or personally worked for
gain.

### 6C. Time for application for reference to arbitration under section 7B.

\- The time within which any interested person, who is aggrieved by the amount
of compensation determined under section 7B may make an application for
referring the matter to arbitration shall be fourteen days from the date of
determination of the amount of such compensation or where the amount of such
compensation has been determined in the absence of the person interested or,
as the case may be, the owner, fourteen days from the date on which the
intimation of such determination is sent to that person or owner.]

### 7. Census data.

\- The Census Commissioner shall decide the items on which data may be
released.

### 8. Notifications, Orders and Instructions to be issued by State
Government.

\- The State Governments and the Union territory Administrations shall,
-(i)republish the intention of taking a census notified by the Central
Government in their State or Union territory Gazettes;(ia)[ republish the
census schedules and questionnaires notified by the Central Government in
their States or Union Territory Gazettes.] [Inserted by Notification dated.
19.7.94.](ii)publish a notification directing the public to cooperate in
furnishing accurate and unambigous information in respect of the questions
that may be put to them through census alongwith an extract of penalties
prescribed under section 11 of the Act;(iii)[publish] [Replaced the earlier
word 'Publish' by Notification dated.19.7.94.] in the gazette the reference
date for the census and the period during which houselisting operations and
population census will take place under section 3 of the Act;(iv)freeze the
administrative boundaries of districts, tehsils, towns, etc. from the date to
be intimated by the Census Commissioner which shall not be earlier than one
year from the census reference date and till the completion of the
census;(v)nominate a senior officer of the State Government at State Head
Quarters as Nodal officer to liaise between Director of Census Operations and
other Officers in Census work;(vi)impose restrictions on the Head of
Department/ Officer on the transfer of officers/ officials once appointed as
Supervisor/ Enumerator, without the proper consent of Principal/District
Census Officer; and(vii)give wide publicity of the census through radio,
audiovisuals, posters etc.

### 9. Custody of census schedules and connected papers.

\- After the completion of the taking of the census the canvassed census
schedules shall be kept in the office of the Director of Census Operations or
at such other place the Director of Census Operations may direct for
processing the data collected.

### 10. Canvassed schedules.

\- The canvassed schedules shall after processing is over be preserved at the
office of the Director of Census Operations or at such other place the
Director of Census Operations may direct.[11. Disposal of census schedule and
other connected papers. - The schedules and other connected papers shall be
disposed of totally or in part by the Director of Census Operations, after
creating electronic record of such documents, in accordance with the general
or special directions as may be given by the Census Commissioner in this
behalf.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, 'electronic record' shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause(t) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000).] [Substituted
by Notification No. G.S.R. 576(E), dated 19.6.2018 (w.e.f. 31.12.1990).]

### 12. General or special instructions.

\- The Census Commissioner and the Director of Census Operations may issue
from time to time general or special instructions or such directions, to the
Principal Census Officers and other census officers appointed under the Act,
as may be necessary for the efficient conduct and timely completion of the
census operations.

