## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Payment of Fees) Regulations,
2012

TAMILNADU  
India

# Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Payment of Fees) Regulations,
2012

## Rule CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-PAYMENT-OF-FEES-
REGULATIONS-2012 of 2012

  * Published on 30 March 2012 
  * Commenced on 30 March 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 March 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Payment of Fees) Regulations,
2012Published vide Notification No. L-1/106/2012-CERC, dated the 30.03.2012In
exercise of the powers conferred under Section 178 of the Electricity Act,
2003 and all other powers enabling it in this behalf and after previous
publication, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission hereby makes the
following regulations, namely: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Payment of Fees) Regulations, 2012.(2)These regulations shall come
into force with effect from 1st April, 2012.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)"Act" means
the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003);(b)"Application for determination of
tariff" means and includes the tariff petitions filed by generating companies
or transmission licensees under Section 64 of the Act for determination of
tariff in accordance with Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. (Terms
and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2009 or any subsequent enactment
thereof;(c)"Application for adoption of tariff" means and includes the
application filed by any person for adoption of tariff which has been
discovered through the process of competitive bidding in accordance with
Section 63 of the Act;(d)"Annual Registration Charges" means the annual
charges payable by the Power Exchanges for registration (including continuance
of registration) in accordance with the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Power Market) Regulations, 2010;(e)"Commission" means the Central
Electricity Regulatory Commission referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 76
of the Act;(f)"Inter-State trading" for the purpose of these regulations means
purchase of electricity by an inter-State trading licensee including a deemed
trading licensee within the territory of one State for the purpose of re-sale
within the territory of another State and includes electricity imported from
any other country for re-sale thereof in any State in India;(g)"Inspection
fee" means the fee charged for inspection of judicial records of the
Commission in accordance with the provisions of Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1999, as amended from time to
time or any reenactment thereof;(h)"Interlocutory Application" or IA means an
application filed in any petition or proceeding already instituted before the
Commission but does not include an application for review;(i)"Miscellaneous
Application" means an application or petition filed before the Commission
under any of the provisions of the Act or Regulations framed by the Commission
but does not include the petitions for determination or adoption of tariff or
for grant of licence or for review of an order;(j)"Regulatory Compliance
Application" means the petitions filed by the Power Exchanges or the inter-
State trading licensees or inter-State transmission licensees including deemed
licensees or generating companies for compliance of any requirement under any
of the regulations issued by the Commission or any order of the Commission but
does not include the periodic reports and returns as required under the
relevant regulations;(k)"Regulatory Functions" means and includes the
functions performed by National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) and the Regional
Load Despatch Centre (RLDC) in discharge of their statutory functions under
the provisions of the Act, National Load Despatch Centre Rules and the
Regulations framed by the Commission or by any order of the Commission;
and(l)"Review Petition" means the petitions filed by any person under Section
94 (f) of the Act or Regulation 103 of the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1999 or any subsequent enactment
thereof for review of the order or decision or directions of the
Commission.(2)The words and expressions, used in these regulations and not
defined herein but defined in the Act and/or other regulations issued by the
Commission from time to time, shall have the meaning as assigned to them under
the Act or other regulations.

### 3. Fee for Application for Determination of Tariff.

(1)An application for determination of tariff of a generating station or a
unit thereof, shall be accompanied by a fee payable at the rate of Rs.
4000/MW/annum and Rs. 4400/MW/annum for the years 2012-13 and 2013-14,
respectively corresponding to the installed capacity of such generating
station or unit thereof:Provided that the fee specified in this regulation
shall be paid for the first year, corresponding to the installed capacity of
the generating station or a unit thereof, while making the application for
determination of tariff and thereafter annually at the specified rates by 30th
April of each year:Provided further that where the fee for the tariff period
2009-14 in respect of the generating station or unit thereof has already been
paid in accordance with the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Payment
of Fees) Regulations, 2008, the generating company shall pay the balance fee
as per the rate specified in this regulation.(2)An application for
determination of tariff for inter-State transmission system or an element
thereof shall be accompanied by a fee payable at the rate of 0.10% and 0.11%
of the total annual transmission charges per annum claimed by the transmission
licensee for the years 2012-13 and 2013-14, respectively, rounded off to the
nearest one hundred rupees subject to a minimum of Rs. 100000/- (Rs. One lakh
only):Provided that the transmission licensee shall pay the balance fee based
on the difference between the fee already paid and the fee payable as per
annual transmission charges determined by the Commission within a period of 30
days from the date of issue of orders of Commission:Provided further that the
transmission licensee may, while making the application for determination of
tariff, pay the fee at the rate specified in this regulation for the first
year and thereafter, on annual basis at the rates specified in this regulation
by 30th April of each year:Provided also that a transmission licensee who has
already paid the fee for the period 2009-14 based on the Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Payment of Fees) Regulations, 2008 shall pay the
balance fee as determined under this regulation.

### 4. Fee for Application for Adoption of Tariff.

\- An application for adoption of tariff filed under Section 63 of the Act
shall be accompanied by a fee of lakh.

### 5. Fee for Application for grant of Licence.

\- An application for grant of licence for inter-State transmission of
electricity or inter-State trading in electricity, shall be accompanied by
such fee as may be prescribed by the Central Government from time to time.

### 6. Fees for other Applications.

(1)The fees for other applications shall be charged as under:

(a) Miscellaneous Application | 3 lakh per application  
---|---  
(b) Review Application | 3 lakh per application  
(c) Interlocutory Application | 1 lakh per application  
(d) Regulatory Compliance Application | 50,000/- per application  
  
(2)No application fee shall be payable by the National Load Despatch Centre
(NLDC) and the Regional Load Despatch Centres (RLDC) for an application made
in discharge of their regulatory functions.

### 7. Licence Fee.

(1)A transmission licensee for inter-State transmission, including a person
deemed to be an inter-State transmission licensee under any of the provisos to
Section 14 of the Act, shall pay licence fee at the rate of 0.10% and 0.11%
per annum of the annual transmission charges for the years 2012-13 and
2013-14, respectively, rounded off to the nearest one hundred rupees subject
to minimum of Rs. 5 lakh. (Rs. five lakh only):Provided that the transmission
licensee including the deemed transmission licensee shall furnish by 30th June
of each year the audited statement of annual transmission charges for the
preceding financial year and a certificate from the auditor with regard to
licence fee payable during the corresponding financial year and shall deposit
the differential amount of licence fee, if any, by 30th June of each
year.(2)The transmission licensee on being issued with a licensee for the
inter-State transmission of electricity shall pay the licence fee at the rate
of Rs. 5-00 lakh per annum from the date of grant of licence upto the date of
commercial operation of the inter-State transmission system or an element
thereof.(3)Any person who has been granted licence by the Commission for
inter-State trading in electricity in accordance with Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (procedure, terms and conditions grant of trading
licence and related matters) Regulations, 2009 as amended from time to time
shall pay annual licence fee at the rates specified hereunder:

Sr. No. | Category of licence | Fee per annum (Rs. in lakh)  
---|---|---  
1. | Category-I (No Limit) | 40  
2. | Category-II (Upto 1500 MU annually) | 15  
3. | Category-Ill (Upto 500 MU annually) | 6  
4. | Category-IV (Upto 100 MU annually) | 3  
  
(4)Fees specified in this regulation shall be paid within thirty days of the
date of grant of licence and thereafter, annually by 30th April of each year
subject to proviso to clause (1) of this regulation.

### 8. Annual Registration Charge for Power Exchange.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other regulation in force, the
Power exchanges shall pay annual registration charge by 30th April of each
year at the rates specified hereunder:

Annual turnover of Power Exchange (in MillionUnits) | Annual Registration Charge (Rs. in lakh)  
---|---  
Above 10,000 | 52  
Above 5,000 and Up to 10,000 | 20  
Up to 5,000 | 6  
  
(2)" Annual Turnover" shall be calculated considering the total number of
units cleared in all types of transactions on a Power Exchange in a financial
year and shall be expressed in million units (MUs).Explanation - If a
transaction of 10 MUs is cleared, the turnover considered will be 10 MUs only
and not a cumulative addition of 10 MUs as buy quantity and 10 MUs as sell
quantity of that transaction;

### 9. Fee for inspection of records and issue of certified copy.

(1)A fee of Rs. 750/- per day for duration not exceeding three hours shall be
payable for inspection of judicial records as permissible under the Central
Electricity Regulatory Commission (Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1999 or
any subsequent enactment thereof.(2)A fee of Rs. 20/- per page shall be
payable for issue of certified copies of the documents forming part of the
judicial records.

### 10. Miscellaneous provisions.

(1)The fees specified in Regulations 3 and 7 of these regulations (application
fee for determination of generation and transmission tariff and licence fee
for inter-state transmission) for the year 2013-14 shall continue to be
applicable for the year 2014-15 and thereafter unless otherwise specified by
the Commission.(2)Fee for part of the year shall be payable on pro rata basis
to the number of days during the year and shall be rounded off to the nearest
hundred rupees.

### 11. Late payment surcharge.

(1)Late payment surcharge at the rate of one per centum (1%) shall be paid on
the outstanding amount for each month or part thereof after the due dates of
payment as specified in these regulations.(2)Without prejudice to the
liability for late payment surcharge, the Commission may take any other action
as may be considered appropriate for non-compliance of these regulations if
payment of fees is delayed beyond two months from the due dates of payment as
specified in these regulations.

### 12. Mode of payment of fees.

(1)All fees, including late payment surcharge, shall be payable through Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) for amount above Rupees two lakh and through
National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) for amount equivalent to or below
Rupees two lakh.(2)Persons making payment of fees in accordance with these
regulations shall submit the details of remittance through RTGS/ NEFT as per
the Form-I to these regulations, within three days of making such payment.

### 13. Power to relax.

\- The Commission may, in appropriate cases and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, relax any of the provisions of these regulations.

### 14. Repeal and saving.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Payment of Fee) Regulations, 2008 shall stand repealed
from the date of commencement of these regulations.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or purported to have been done under the repealed
regulations shall be deemed to have been done or purported to have been done
under these regulations.Form IParticulars

### 1\. Name of the Petitioner/Applicant.

### 2\. Address of the Petitioner/Applicant.

### 3\. Subject Matter.

### 4\. Petition No., if any.

### 5\. Details of generation assets.

(a)generatingstation/units(b)Capacity in MW(c)Date of commercial operation
(id) Period for which fee paid(e)Amount of fee paid if) Surcharge, if any

### 6\. Details of transmission assets.

(a)Transmission line and sub-stations(b)Date of commercial operation(c)Period
for which fee paid (id) Amount of fee paid(g)Surcharge, if any

### 7\. Fee paid for Adoption of tariff for.

(a)Generation asset(b)Transmission asset

### 8\. Application fee for licence.

(a)Trading licence(b)Transmission licence(c)Period for which paid(d)Amount of
fee paid

### 9\. Fees paid for Miscellaneous Application.

### 10\. Fees paid for Interlocutory Application.

### 11\. Fee paid for Regulatory Compliance petition.

### 12\. Fee paid for Review Application.

### 13\. Licence fee for inter-State Trading.

(a)Category(b)Period(c)Amount of fee paid (d) Surcharge, if any

### 14\. Licence fee for inter-State Transmission.

(a)Expected / Actual transmission charge(b)Period(c)Amount of fee calculated
as a percentage of transmission charge,(d)Surcharge, if any

### 15. Annual Registration Charge for Power Exchange.

(a)Period(b)Amount of turnover(c)Fee paid(d)Surcharge, if any

### 16. Details of fee remitted.

(a)UTR No.(b)Date of remittance(c)Amount remittedNote: While SI. Nos. 1 to 3
and 16 are compulsory, the rest may be filled up as applicableSignature of the
authorizedsignatory with date

