## Union of India - Act

## Central Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1965

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Central Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1965

## Rule CENTRAL-CIVIL-SERVICES-CLASSIFICATION-CONTROL-APPEAL-RULES-1965 of
1965

  * Published on 1 December 1965 
  * Commenced on 1 December 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 December 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Central Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1965

### 1407.

In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 and Clause (5)
of Article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the Comptroller
and Auditor-General in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and
Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rules, namely :-

## Part I – General

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These Rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965.(2)They shall come into force on the 1st
December, 1965.

### 2. Interpretation.

In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"appointing
authority", in relation to a Government servant, means -(i)the authority
empowered to make appointments to the Service of which the Government servant
is for the time being a member or to the grade of the Service in which the
Government servant is for the time being included, or(ii)the authority
empowered to make appointments to the post which the Government servant for
the time being holds, or(iii)the authority which appointed the Government
servant to such Service, grade or post, as the case may be, or(iv)where the
Government servant having been a permanent member of any other Service or
having substantively held any other permanent post, has been in continuous
employment of the Government, the authority which appointed him to that
Service or to any grade in that Service or to that post, whichever authority
is the highest authority;(b)"cadre authority", in relation to a Service, has
the same meaning as in the rules regulating that Service;(c)"Central Civil
Service and Central Civil post" includes a civilian Service or civilian post,
as the case may be, of the corresponding Group in the Defence
Services;(d)"Commission" means the Union Public Service Commission;(e)"Defence
Services" means services under the Government of India in the Ministry of
Defence, paid out of the Defence Services Estimates, and not subject to the
Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) and the Air Force
Act, 1950 (45 of 1950);(f)"Department of the Government of India" means any
establishment or organization declared by the President by a notification in
the Official Gazette to be a department of the Government of
India;(g)"disciplinary authority" means the authority competent under these
rules to impose on a Government servant any of the penalties specified in Rule
11;(h)"Government servant" means a person who -(i)is a member of a Service or
holds a civil post under the Union, and includes any such person on foreign
service or whose services are temporarily placed at the disposal of a State
Government, or a local or other authority;(ii)is a member of a Service or
holds a civil post under a State Government and whose services are temporarily
placed at the disposal of the Central Government;(iii)is in the service of a
local or other authority and whose services are temporarily placed at the
disposal of the Central Government;(i)"head of the department" for the purpose
of exercising the powers as appointing, disciplinary, appellate or reviewing
authority, means the authority declared to be the head of the department under
the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules or the Civil Service Regulations, as
the case may be;(j)"head of the office" for the purpose of exercising the
powers as appointing, disciplinary, appellate or reviewing authority, means
the authority declared to be the head of the office under the General
Financial Rules;(k)"Schedule" means the Schedule to these rules;(l)"Secretary"
means the Secretary to the Government of India in any Ministry or Department,
and includes-(i)a Special Secretary or an Additional Secretary,(ii)a Joint
Secretary placed in independent charge of a Ministry or Department,(iii)in
relation to the Cabinet Secretariat, the Secretary to the Cabinet,(iv)in
relation to the President's Secretariat, the Secretary to the President, or as
the case may be, the Military Secretary to the President,(v)in relation to
Prime Minister's Secretariat, the Secretary to the Prime Minister, and(vi)in
relation to the Planning Commission, the Secretary or the Additional Secretary
to the Planning Commission;(m)"Service" means a civil service of the Union.

### 3. Application.

(1)These rules shall apply to every Government servant including every
civilian Government servant in the Defence Services, but shall not apply to
-(a)any railway servant, as defined in Rule 102 of Volume I of the Indian
Railways Establishment Code,(b)any member of the All India Services,(c)any
person in casual employment,(d)any person subject to discharge from service on
less than one month's notice,(e)any person for whom special provision is made,
in respect of matters covered by these rules, by or under any law for the time
being in force or by or under any agreement entered into by or with the
previous approval of the President before or after the commencement of these
rules, in regard to matters covered by such special
provisions.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the
President may by order exclude any Group of Government servants from the
operation of all or any of these rules.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-rule (1), or the Indian Railways Establishment Code, these rules shall
apply to every Government servant temporarily transferred to a Service or post
coming within Exception (a) or (e) in sub-rule (1), to whom, but for such
transfer, these rules would apply.(4)If any doubt arises, -(a)whether these
rules or any of them apply to any person, or(b)whether any person to whom
these rules apply belongs a particular Service, the matter shall be referred
to the President who shall decide the same.

Government of India's decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's decisions :(1) Persons to whom not applicable -In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 3 of the Central
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957 (now 1965),
the President hereby directs that the following classes of Government servants
shall be wholly excluded from the operation of the said rules, namely
:-MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRSLocally recruited staff in Missions
abroad.MINSITRY OF COMMUNICATIONS(Posts and Telegraphs Department)(i) Extra-
Departmental Agents(ii) Monthly-rated staff paid from contingencies other than
those brought on to regular establishment.(iii) Monthly-rated work-charged and
other employees not on regular establishment.(iv) Daily-rated staff paid from
contingencies.(v) Daily-rated workmen paid by the day, week, month, etc.(vi)
All hot weather and monsoon establishment.(vii) Non-departmental telegraphic
and telephone operators.[M.H.A. Notification No. S.R.O. 609, dated the 28th
February, 1957].MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRSPolice Officers up to the rank of
Inspector of Police in Delhi Special Police Establishment.[M.H.A.,
Notification No. F.7/24/61-Ests. (A), dated the 15th December, 1961].MINISTRY
OF URBAN DEVELOPMENTThe President's Garden Establishment and Estate
Office.[M.H.A., Notification No. 7/5/1959-Ests. (A) dated the 25th May, 1959
as amended by Notification No. 11012/19/84-Estt. (A), dated 28th July,
1986].MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION AND MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND
TRANSPORT(i) Locally recruited staff in Tourist Offices abroad.(ii) Work-
charged personnel of the Mangalore Projects and the Tuticorin Harbour
Projects.[M.H.A., Notification No. 7/1/66-Ests. (A), dated the 11th April,
1966].  
---  
  
## Part II – Classification

### 4. Classification of Services.

(1)the Civil Services of the Union shall be Classified as follows :-(i)Central
Civil Services, Group 'A';(ii)Central Civil Services, Group 'B';(iii)Central
Civil Services, Group 'C';(iv)Central Civil Services, Group 'D';(2)If a
Service consists of more than one grade, different grades of such Service may
be included in different groups.

### 5. Constitution of Central Civil Services.

The Central Civil Services, Group 'A', Group 'B', Group 'C' and Group 'D',
shall consist of the Services and grades of Services specified in the
Schedule.

### 6. Classification of Posts.

Civil Posts under the Union other than those ordinarily held by persons to
whom these rules do not apply, shall, by a general or special order of the
President, be Classified as follows :-(i)Central Civil Posts, Group
'A';(ii)Central Civil Posts, Group 'B';(iii)Central Civil Posts, Group
'C';(iv)Central Civil Posts, Group 'D';

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's orders/decisions :-(1) NotificationIn exercise of the
powers conferred by Rule 6 of the Central Civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, as amended by the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Amendment Rules, 1975 and after
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to
the persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President
hereby direct that with effect from the date of issue of this order, all civil
posts under the Union, shall, (subject to such exceptions as Government may,
by any general or special order, make from time to time), be reclassified as
Group A, Group B, Group C and Group D, as the case may be, as indicated below
:-Existing Classification Revised ClassificationClass I Group AClass II Group
BClass III Group CClass IV Group DProvided that(i) the classification of any
posts created or deemed to have been created on or after 01.01.1973 in the
revised scale but before the date of issue of this order, as specific
additions to cadres existing prior to 01.01.1973 shall be the same as that of
the posts in the cadres to which they have been added and(ii) any other posts
not covered by (i) above created or deemed to have been created in their
revised scale of pay on or after 01.01.1973 but before the date of issue of
this order having a classification higher than the one envisaged by para 2 of
this order shall be reclassified in terms of that paragraph but without
prejudice to the status of the existing incumbents of such posts.[Deptt. Of
Personnel & A.R. Notification No. 21/2/74-Estt. (D) dated 11.11.1975](2)
OrderIn exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to article 309 and clause
5 of article 148 of the Constitution read with Rule 6 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, and in supersession
of paragraph 2 of the notification of the Government of India in the
Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms number S.O. 5041 dated the
11th November, 1975 as amended by the notification of Ministry of Personnel,
Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) number
S.O. 1752 dated the 30th June, 1987, and after consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to the persons serving in
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby directs that
with effect from the date of publication of this order in the Official
Gazette, all civil posts under the Union, shall be classified as follows :-{|  
---  
S. No | Description of Post | Classification of Post  
1. | A Central Civil post carrying a pay or a scale of pay with a maximum of not less than Rs. 13,500. | Group A  
2. | A Central Civil post carrying a pay or a scale of pay with a maximum of not less than Rs. 9,000 but less than Rs. 13,500. | Group B  
3. | A Central Civil post carrying a pay or a scale of pay with a maximum of over Rs. 4,000 but less than Rs. 9,000. | Group C  
4. | A Central Civil post carrying a pay or a scale of pay the maximum of which is Rs. 4,000 or less. | Group D  
  
Explanation :- For the purpose of this order -(i)'Pay' has the same meaning as
assigned to it in F.R. 9 (21) (a) (I);(ii)'Pay or scale of pay', in relation
to a post, means the pay or the scale of pay of the post prescribed under the
Central Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 1997.[Deptt. Of Personnel &
Training Order No. 13012/1/98-Estt. (D) dated 20.04.1998](3)Order.S.O. 641 (E)
- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 and clause
(5) of article 148 of the Constitution read with rule 6 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 and in partial
modification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Personnel, Public
Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) Order number
S.O. 332 dated the 20th April, 1998 and after consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persons serving in the
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby directs that, with
effect from the date of publication of this Order in the Official Gazette, all
posts of Senior Audit Officers and Senior Account Officers in the Office of
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and in all organized Accounts
Cadres in the scale of pay or Rs. 8000-275-13500 shall be classified as Group
'B'[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training Order No. 13012/1/98-Estt. (D) dated 29th
July, 1998](4)Classification of Posts.Under the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, all Central Government posts
are classified into four categories, viz., Group "A", "B", "C" and "D". This
classification is based on the norms prescribed in Department of Personnel and
Training Notification No. 13012/2/87-Estt. (D) dated the 30th June, 1987. The
classification serves an important administrative purpose including in matters
of recruitment/disciplinary cases, etc. Some allowances are also granted with
reference to the classification of the posts. The Fifth Central Pay Commission
had, however, recommended a new classification dividing all Central Civil
posts into six categories namely, Top Executives, Senior Executives,
Executives, Supervisory Staff, Supporting Staff and Auxiliary Staff. These
recommendations of the Pay Commission had been examined and after
consideration of all pros and cons of the matter, it has been decided not to
accept classification of posts as recommended by the Pay Commission and to
retain the existing classification into Groups "A", "B", "C" and "D".

### 2\. Consequent upon the revision of pay scales on the basis of the
recommendations of the Fifth Central Pay Commission, it has, however, become
necessary to prescribe revised norms for categorization of posts into the
above four categories based on the revised pay scales as approved by the
Government.

### 3\. Accordingly, A Notification classifying various Civil posts into
Groups "A", "B", "C" and "D" based on revised norms of pay scales/pay ranges
has been notified in the Official Gazette vide SO 332 (E) dated 20th April,
1998. A copy of the Notification is enclosed. (decision No. (2)].

### 4\. In some Ministries/Departments posts may exist which are not
classified as per the norms laid by this Department. It would be seen that all
posts would now stand classified strictly in accordance with the norms of pay
scales/pay as prescribed under the Notification. If for any specific reason
the concerned Ministry/Department proposes to classify the posts differently,
it would be necessary for that Department to send a specific proposal to
Department of Personnel & Training giving full justification in support of the
proposal within three months of this OM so that the exceptions to the norms of
classification as laid down in S.O. 332(E) dated 20th April, 1998 can be
notified.

[Deptt. Of Personnel and Training OM No. 13012/1/98-Estt. (D), dated 12th
June, 1998(5)Classification of Posts - Clarification.References are being
received seeking clarifications whether the revised norms of pay scales/pay
would be applicable for classification of posts under the flexible
complementing scheme or other lateral advancement schemes.

### 2\. There are many promotion schemes such as merit promotion scheme,
career advancement scheme, in-situ promotion scheme etc. where promotions are
not linked to availability of vacancy in the higher grade and promotions are
allowed in the higher grade in a time bound manner after assessment of the
official by temporarily upgrading the post to the higher grade, which gets
reverted to the lowest level at which it was originally sanctioned upon
vacation of the post by the incumbent due to retirement, further promotion to
vacancy based post etc. In many cases, higher scales are allowed on expiry of
the specified length of service, even while the person continues to hold the
same post such as the Assured Career Progression Scheme. It is clarified that
in all such schemes, the classification of the post shall be determined with
reference to the grade in which the post is originally sanctioned irrespective
of the grade/pay scale in which the officer may be placed at any point of
time.

[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/5/2000-Estt. (A) dated 10th May,
2000.]|}

### 6A.

All reference to Central Civil Services/Central Civil Posts, Class I, Class
II, Class III and Class IV in all Rules, Orders, Schedules, Notifications,
Regulations, Instructions in force, immediately before the commencement of
these rules shall be construed as references to Central Civil Services/Central
Civil Posts, Group 'A', Group 'B', Group 'C' and Group 'D' respectively, and
any reference to "Class or Classes" therein in this context shall be construed
as reference to "Group or Groups", as the case may be.

### 7. General Central Service.

Central Civil posts of any Group not included in any other Central Civil
Service shall be deemed to be included in the General Central Service of the
corresponding Group and a Government servant appointed to any such post shall
be deemed to be a member of that Service unless he is already a member of any
other Central Civil Service of the same Group.

## Part III – Appointing Authority

### 8. Appointments to Group 'A' Services and Posts.

All appointments to Central Civil Services, Group 'A' and Central Civil Posts,
Group 'A', shall be made by the President :Provided that the President may, by
a general or a special order and subject to such conditions as he may specify
in such order, delegate to any other authority the power to make such
appointments.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's orders/decisions :(1) Delegation of powers to
Administrator of Goa, Daman and Diu -.In pursuance of the proviso to rule 8 of
the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965,
the President hereby orders that all appointments to Central Civil Services
and Posts, Class I, under the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu, shall be made
by the Administrator of Goa, Daman and Diu :Provided that no appointment to
the post of Chief Secretary, Finance Secretary, Inspector General of Police,
or Development Commissioner or any other post which carries an ultimate salary
of Rupees two thousand per mensem or more shall be made except with the
previous approval of the Central Government.[M.H.A. Order No. 7/1/65-Ests. (A)
dated the 10th February, 1965](2) Delegation of powers to Administrator of
Dadra and Nagar Haveli -.The President hereby orders that all appointments to
Central Civil Services and Posts, Class I under the Government of Dadra and
Nagar Haveli shall be made by the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar
Haveli.Provided that no appointment to the post of Chief Secretary, Finance
Secretary, Inspector General of Police or Development Commissioner or any
other post which carries an ultimate salary of Rupees two thousand per mensem
or more shall be made except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.[M.H.A. Order No. 7/6/69-Ests. (A) dated the 12th June, 1969](3)
Delegation of powers to Administrators of Arunanchal Pradesh and Mizoram -.In
pursuance of the proviso to rule 8 of the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, the President hereby orders
that all appointments to Central Civil Services, Class I and Central Civil
Posts, Class I, under the Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram Administrations shall
respectively be made by the Administrators of the Union territories of
Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram appointed under article 239 of the Constitution
:Provided that no appointment to the post of Chief Secretary, Finance
Secretary, Inspector General of Police or Development Commissioner or any
other post which carries an ultimate salary of Rupees two thousand per mensem
or more shall be made except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.[Dept. of Personnel Order No. 7/2/72-Est.(A), dt. 21st January,
1972].  
---  
  
### 9. Appointments to other Services and Posts.

(1)All appointments to the Central Civil Services (other than the General
Central Service) Group 'B', Group 'C' and Group 'D', shall be made by the
authorities specified in this behalf in the Schedule :Provided that in respect
of Group 'C' and Group 'D', Civilian Services, or civilian posts in the
Defence Services appointments may be made by officers empowered in this behalf
by the aforesaid authorities.(2)All appointments to Central Civil Posts, Group
'B', Group 'C' and Group 'D', included in the General Central Service shall be
made by the authorities specified in that behalf by a general or special order
of the President, or where no such order has been made, by the authorities -
specified in this behalf in the Schedule.

## Part IV – Suspension

### 10. Suspension.

(1)The appointing authority or any authority to which it is subordinate or the
disciplinary authority or any other authority empowered in that behalf by the
President, by general or special order, may place a Government servant under
suspension-(a)where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or
is pending; or(aa)where, in the opinion of the authority aforesaid, he has
engaged himself in activities prejudicial to the interest of the security of
the State; or(b)where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is
under investigation, inquiry or trial:Provided that, except in case of an
order of suspension made by the Comptroller and Auditor - General in regard to
a member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service and in regard to an
Assistant Accountant General or equivalent (other than a regular member of the
Indian Audit and Accounts Service), where the order of suspension is made by
an authority lower than the appointing authority, such authority shall
forthwith report to the appointing authority the circumstances in which the
order was made.(2)A Government servant shall be deemed to have been placed
under suspension by an order of appointing authority -(a)with effect from the
date of his detention, if he is detained in custody, whether on a criminal
charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding forty-eight hours;(b)with effect
from the date of his conviction, if, in the event of a conviction for an
offence, he is sentenced to a term of imprisonment exceeding forty-eight hours
and is not forthwith dismissed or removed or compulsorily retired consequent
to such conviction.EXPLANATION - The period of forty-eight hours referred to
in clause (b) of this sub-rule shall be computed from the commencement of the
imprisonment after the conviction and for this purpose, intermittent periods
of imprisonment, if any, shall be taken into account.(3)Where a penalty of
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service imposed upon a
Government servant under suspension is set aside in appeal or on review under
these rules and the case is remitted for further inquiry or action or with any
other directions, the order of his suspension shall be deemed to have
continued in force on and from the date of the original order of dismissal,
removal or compulsory retirement and shall remain in force until further
orders.(4)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from
service imposed upon a Government servant is set aside or declared or rendered
void in consequence of or by a decision of a Court of Law and the disciplinary
authority, on a consideration of the circumstances of the case, decides to
hold a further inquiry against him on the allegations on which the penalty of
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement was originally imposed, the
Government servant shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension by the
Appointing Authority from the date of the original order of dismissal, removal
or compulsory retirement and shall continue to remain under suspension until
further orders :Provided that no such further inquiry shall be ordered unless
it is intended to meet a situation where the Court has passed an order purely
on technical grounds without going into the merits of the case."(5)(a) Subject
to the provisions contained in sub-rule (7), an order of suspension made or
deemed to have been made under this rule shall continue to remain in force
until it is modified or revoked by the authority competent to do so."(b)Where
a Government servant is suspended or is deemed to have been suspended (whether
in connection with any disciplinary proceeding or otherwise), and any other
disciplinary proceeding is commenced against him during the continuance of
that suspension, the authority competent to place him under suspension may,
for reasons to be recorded by him in writing, direct that the Government
servant shall continue to be under suspension until the termination of all or
any of such proceedings.(c)An order of suspension made or deemed to have been
made under this rule may at any time be modified or revoked by the authority
which made or is deemed to have made the order or by any authority to which
that authority is subordinate.(6)An order of suspension made or deemed to have
been made under this rule shall be reviewed by the authority competent to
modify or revoke the suspension, before expiry of ninety days from the
effective date of suspension, on the recommendation of the Review Committee
constituted for the purpose and pass orders either extending or revoking the
suspension. Subsequent reviews shall be made before expiry of the extended
period of suspension. Extension of suspension shall not be for a period
exceeding one hundred and eighty days at a time.(7)An order of suspension made
or deemed to have been made under sub-rules (1) or (2) of this rule shall not
be valid after a period of ninety days unless it is extended after review, for
a further period before the expiry of ninety days :Provided that no such
review of suspension shall be necessary in the case of deemed suspension under
sub-rule (2), if the Government servant continues to be under suspension at
the time of completion of ninety days of suspension and the ninety days period
in such case will count from the date the Government servant detained in
custody is released from detention or the date on which the fact of his
release from detention is intimated to his appointing authority, whichever is
later."

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's decisions :(1) Report of arrest to superiors by
Government servants :-It shall be the duty of the Government servant who may
be arrested for any reason to intimate the fact of his arrest and the
circumstances connected therewith to his official superior promptly even
though he might have subsequently been released on bail. On receipt of the
information from the person concerned or from any other source the
departmental authorities should decide whether the fact and circumstances
leading to the arrest of the person call for his suspension. Failure on the
part of any Government servant to so inform his official superiors will be
regarded as suppression of material information and will render him liable to
disciplinary action on this ground alone, apart from the action that may be
called for on the outcome of the police case against him.[MHA letter No.
39/59/54-Est.(A) dated the 25th February, 1955]State Governments have also
been requested to issue necessary instructions to Police authorities under
their control to send prompt intimation of arrest and/or release on bail etc.
of Central Government servant to the latter's official superiors.(2)
Headquarters of Government servant under suspension.A question recently arose
whether an authority competent to order the suspension of an official has the
power to prescribe his headquarters during the period of suspension. The
matter has been examined at length in this Ministry and the conclusions
reached are stated in the following paragraphs.2\. An officer under suspension
is regarded as subject to all other conditions of service applicable generally
to Government servants and cannot leave the station without prior permission.
As such, the headquarters of a Government servant should normally be assumed
to be his last place of duty. However, where an individual under suspension
requests for a change of headquarters, there is no objection to a competent
authority changing the headquarters if it is satisfied that such a course will
not put Government to any extra expenditure like grant of T.A. etc. or other
complications.3\. The Ministry of Finance/etc. may bring the above to the
notice of all concerned.[M.H.A. O.M. No. 39/5/56-Ests. (A) dated the 8th
September, 1956](3) How suspension is to be regulated during pendency of
criminal proceedings, arrests, detention etc.The case of suspension during
pendency of criminal proceedings or proceeding for arrest, for debt or during
detention under a law providing for preventive detention, shall be dealt with
in the following manner hereafter :-(a) A Government servant who is detained
in custody under any law providing for preventive detention or a result of a
proceeding either on a criminal charge or for his arrest for debt shall if the
period of detention exceeds 48 hours and unless he is already under
suspension, be deemed to be under suspension from the date of detention until
further orders as contemplated in rule 10 (2) of the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965. Government servants who is
undergoing a sentence of imprisonment shall be also dealt with in the same
manner pending decision on the disciplinary action to be taken against him.(b)
A Government servant against whom a proceeding has been taken on a criminal
charge but who is not actually detained in custody (e.g., a person released on
bail) may be placed under suspension by an order of the competent authority
under clause (b) of Rule 10 (1) of the Central Civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965. If the charge is connected with the official
position of the Government servant or involving any moral turpitude on his
part, suspension shall be ordered under this rule unless there are exceptional
reasons for not adopting this course.(c) A Government servant against whom a
proceeding has been taken for arrest for debt but who is not actually detained
in custody may be placed under suspension by an order under clause (a) of Rule
10 (1) of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules, 1965 i.e., only if a disciplinary proceeding against him is
contemplated.(d) When a Government servant who is deemed to be under
suspension in the circumstances mentioned in clause (a) or who is suspended in
circumstances mentioned in clause (b) is re-instated without taking
disciplinary proceedings against him, his pay and allowances for the period of
suspension will be regulated under FR 54 i.e., in event of his being acquitted
of blame or if the proceedings taken against him was for his arrest for debt
or it being proved that his liability arose from circumstances beyond his
control or the detention being held by any competent authority to be wholly
unjustified, the case may be dealt with under FR 54 (2), otherwise it may be
dealt with under FR 54 (3).[M.O.F. No. F.15(8)-E IV/57, dated 28th March,
1959].(4) Circumstances under which a Government servant may be placed under
suspension -Recommendation No. 61, contained in paragraph 8.5 of the report of
the Committee on Prevention of Corruption, has been carefully considered in
the light of the comments received from the Ministries. It has been decided
that public interest should be guiding factor in deciding to place a
Government servant under suspension, and the disciplinary authority, should
have discretion to decide this taking all factors into account. However, the
following circumstances are indicated in which a Disciplinary Authority may
consider it appropriate to place a Government servant under suspension. These
are only intended for guidance and should not be taken as mandatory :-(i)
Cases where continuance in office of the Government servant will prejudice the
investigation, trial or any inquiry (e.g. apprehended tampering with witnesses
or documents);(ii) Where the continuance in office of the Government servant
is likely to seriously subvert discipline in the office in which the public
servant is working;(iii) Where the continuance in office of the Government
servant will be against the wider public interest [other than those covered by
(1) and (2)] such as there is public scandal and it is necessary to place the
Government servant under suspension to demonstrate the policy of the
Government to deal strictly with officers involved in such scandals,
particularly corruption;(iv) Where allegations have been made against the
Government servant and preliminary inquiry has revealed that a prima facie
case is made out which would justify his prosecution or is being proceeded
against in departmental proceedings, and where the proceedings are likely to
end in his conviction and/or dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from
service.NOTE :(a) In the first three circumstances the disciplinary authority
may exercise his discretion to place a Government servant under suspension
even when the case is under investigation and before a prima facie case has
been established.(b) Certain types of misdemeanor where suspension may be
desirable in the four circumstances mentioned are indicated below :-(i) any
offence or conduct involving moral turpitude;(ii) corruption, embezzlement or
misappropriation of Government money, possession of disproportionate assets,
misuse of official powers for personal gain;(iii) serious negligence and
dereliction of duty resulting in considerable loss to Government;(iv)
desertion of duty;(v) refusal or deliberate failure to carry out written
orders of superior officers.In respect of the types of misdemeanor specified
in sub clauses (iii) and (v) discretion has to be exercised with care.[MHA OM
No. 43/56/64-AVD dated the 22nd October, 1964].(5) Forwarding of Application
of Government servants involved in disciplinary proceedings :A case has come
to the notice of this Ministry in which the application of a Government
servant against whom departmental proceedings were pending was forwarded for
an assignment under an international organisation. The propriety of such an
action has been considered carefully and the following decisions have been
taken :-(a) Cases of Government servants who are under suspension or against
whom departmental proceedings are pending :-Applications of such Government
servants should not be forwarded, nor should they be released, for any
assignment, scholarship, fellowship, training, etc. under an international
agency / organisation or a foreign Government. Such Government servants should
also not be sent or allowed to go on deputation or foreign service to posts
under an authority in India.(b) Cases of Government servants on whom the
penalty of withholding of increments or reduction to a lower stage in a time-
scale or to a lower time scale or to a lower service, grade or post has been
imposed :-Applications of such Government servant should not be forwarded, nor
should they be released during the currency of the penalty, for any assignment
under international agency/organisation or a foreign Government. Such
Government servants should also not be sent or allowed to go, during the
currency of the penalty, on deputation or foreign service to posts under an
authority in India. Even after the expiry of the penalty, it will have to be
examined, having regard to the nature of the offence and the proximity of its
occurrence, whether the Government servant concerned should be permitted to go
on foreign assignment/deputation to another Department/foreign service to an
authority in India.[MHA OM No. 39/17/63-Ests. (A) dated the 6th September,
1968](5A) Forwarding of applications for other posts - Principles regarding
-The question regulating the forwarding of applications to the
Ministries/Departments/other Government offices or to the UPSC from candidates
serving under the Government has been reviewed.2\. It has been decided to
consolidate the instructions on the subject. Therefore, the following
instructions in supersession of the instructions contained in this
Department's OMs No. 11012/10/75-Estt. (A) dated 18.10.1975 and No.
42015/4/78-Estt. (C) dated 01.01.1979 are issued for guidance of all the
Administrative Authorities.3\. Application of a Government servant for
appointment, whether by Direct Recruitment, transfer on deputation or
transfer, to any other post should not be considered/forwarded if :-(i) He is
under suspension; or(ii) Disciplinary proceedings are pending against him and
a charge sheet has been issued; or(iii) Sanction for prosecution, where
necessary has been accorded by the competent authority; or(iv) where a
prosecution sanction is not necessary, a charge sheet has been filed in a
court of law against him for criminal prosecution.4\. When the conduct of a
Government Servant is under investigation (by the CBI or by the controlling
Department) but the investigation has not reached the stage of issue of charge
sheet or prosecution sanction or filing of charge-sheet for criminal
prosecution in a court, the application of such a Government servant may be
forwarded together with brief comments on the nature of allegations and it
should also be made clear that in the event of actual selection of the
Government servant, he would not be released for taking up the appointment, if
by that time charge sheet for imposition of penalty under CCS (CCA) Rules,
1965 or sanction for prosecution is issued or a charge sheet is filed in a
court to prosecute the Government Servant, or he is placed under
suspension.5\. Where Government servants apply directly to UPSC as in the case
of direct recruitment, they must immediately inform the Head of their
office/Department giving details of the examination/post for which they have
applied, requesting him to communicate his permission to the Commission
directly. If, however, the Head of the Office/Department considers it
necessary to withhold the requisite permission, he should inform the
Commission accordingly within 45 days of the date of closing for receipt of
applications. In case any situation mentioned in para 3 is obtaining, the
requisite permission should not be granted and UPSC should be immediately
informed accordingly. In case a situation mentioned in para 4 is obtaining,
action may be taken to inform UPSC of this fact as also the nature of
allegations against the Government servant. It should also be made clear that
in the event of actual selection of Government servant, he would not be
relieved for taking up the appointment, if the charge sheet/prosecution
sanction is issued or a charge sheet is filed in a court for criminal
prosecution, or if the Government servant is placed under suspension.6\. The
administrative Ministries/Departments of the Government of India may also note
that, in case of Direct Recruitment by selection viz., "Selection by
Interview" it is the responsibility of the requisitioning Ministry /
Department to bring to the notice of the Commission any point regarding
unsuitability of the candidate (Government servant) from the vigilance angle
and that the appropriate stage for doing so would be the consultation at the
time of preliminary scrutiny i.e. when the case is referred by the Commission
to the Ministry/Departments for the comments of the Ministry's Representatives
on the provisional selection of the candidates for interview by the
Commission.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training OM No. AB14017/101/91-Estt. (RR)
dated 14th May, 1993](6) Suspension - Reduction of time limit fixed for
serving charge-sheet :-In the Ministry of Home Affairs OM No. 221/18/65-AVD,
dated the 7th September, 1965, the attention of all disciplinary authorities
was drawn to the need for quick disposal of cases of Government servants under
suspension and it was desired, in particular, that the investigation in such
cases should be completed and a charge-sheet filed in court, in cases of
prosecution, or served on the Government servant, in cases of departmental
proceedings, within six months. The matter was considered further at a meeting
of the National Council held on the 27th January, 1971 and in partial
modification of the earlier orders it has been decided that every effort
should be made to file the charge-sheet in court or serve the charge-sheet on
the Government servant, as the case may be within three months of the date of
suspension, and in cases in which it may not be possible to do so, the
disciplinary authority should report the matter to the next higher authority
explaining the reasons for the delay.[Cabinet Sectt. (Department of Personnel)
Memo. No. 39/39/70-Ests.(A) dated the 4th February, 1971].Government have
already reduced the period of suspension during investigation, barring
exceptional cases which are to be reported to the higher authority, from six
months to three months. It has been decided that while the orders contained in
the Office Memorandum of 4th February, 1971 would continue to be operative in
regard to cases pending in courts in respect of the period of suspension
pending investigation before the filing of a charge-sheet in the Court as also
in respect of serving of the charge sheet on the Government servant in cases
of departmental proceedings, in cases other than those pending in courts, the
total period of suspension viz., both in respect of investigation and
disciplinary proceedings should not ordinarily exceed six months. In
exceptional cases where it is not possible to adhere to this time limit, the
disciplinary authority should report the matter to the next higher authority,
explaining the reasons for the delay.[Cabinet Sectt. (Department of Personnel)
OM No. 39/33/72-Estt. (A) dated the 16th December, 1972].In spite of the
instructions referred to above, instances have come to notice in which
Government servants continued to be under suspension for unduly long periods.
Such unduly long suspension while putting the employee concerned to undue
hardship, involves payment of subsistence allowance without the employee
performing any useful service to the Government. It is, therefore impressed on
all the authorities concerned that they should scrupulously observe the time
limits laid down in the Office Memoranda referred to in the preceding
paragraph and review the cases of suspension to see whether continued
suspension in all cases is really necessary. The authorities superior to the
disciplinary authorities should also exercise a strict check on cases in which
delay has occurred and give appropriate directions to the disciplinary
authorities keeping in view the provisions contained in the aforesaid Office
Memoranda.[Department of Personnel & AR OM No. 11012/7/78-Ests.(A) dated the
14th September, 1978].The attention of the Ministry of Finance etc. is invited
to this Department's OM No. 11012/7/78-Estt. (A) dated 14th September, 1978,
in which the existing instructions relating to suspension of Government
employees have been consolidated. In spite of these instructions it has been
brought to the notice of this Department that Government servants are some
times kept under suspension for unduly long periods. It is, therefore, once
again reiterated that the provisions of the aforesaid instructions in the
matter of suspension of Government employees and the action to be taken
thereafter should be followed strictly. Ministry of Finance etc. may,
therefore, take appropriate action to bring the contents of the OM of
14.09.1978, to the notice of all the authorities concerned under their
control, directing them to follow those instructions strictly.2\. So far as
payment of subsistence allowance is concerned, Ministry of Finance etc. are
also requested to bring the contents of FR 53 to the specific notice of all
authorities under their control, with particular reference to the provisions
in the aforesaid rule regarding the need for review of the rate of subsistence
allowance after a continued suspension of more than 90 days, for strict
compliance.[Deptt. of Personnel & A.R. O.M. No. 42014/7/83-Ests.(A) dated the
18th February, 1984].(6A) Reasons for suspension to be communicated on expiry
of three months period if no charge-sheet is issued.Under Rule 10 (1) of the
CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the competent authority may place a Government servant
under suspension -(a) where a disciplinary proceeding against him is
contemplated or is pending; or(b) Where, in the opinion of the authority
aforesaid, he has engaged himself in activities prejudicial to the interests
of security of the State; or(c) Where a case against him in respect of any
criminal offence is under investigation, inquiry or trial.The Government
servant is also deemed to have been placed under suspension by an order of the
competent authority in the circumstances mentioned in rule 10 (2) of the
aforesaid rules.2\. Where a Government servant is placed under suspension, he
has a right of appeal against the order of suspension vide Rule 23 (i) of the
CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. This would imply that a Government servant who is
placed under suspension should generally know the reasons leading to his
suspension so that he may be able to make an appeal against it. Where a
Government servant is placed under suspension on the ground that a
disciplinary proceeding against him is pending or a case against him in
respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, inquiry or trial, the
order placing him under suspension would itself contain a mention in this
regard and he would, therefore, be aware of the reasons leading to his
suspension.3\. Where a Government servant is placed under suspension on the
ground of "contemplated" disciplinary proceeding, the existing instructions
provide that every effort would be made to finalise the charges, against the
Government servant within three months of the date of suspension. If these
instructions are strictly adhered to, a Government servant who is placed under
suspension on the ground of contemplated disciplinary proceedings will become
aware of the reasons for his suspension without much loss of time. However,
there may be some cases in which it may not be possible for some reason or the
other to issue a chargesheet within three months from the date of suspension.
In such cases, the reasons for suspension should be communicated to the
Government servant concerned immediately on the expiry of the aforesaid time-
limit prescribed for the issue of a chargesheet, so that he may be in a
position to effectively exercise the right of appeal available to him under
Rule 23 (i) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, if he so desires. Where the reasons
for suspension are communicated on the expiry of a time-limit prescribed for
the issue of chargesheet, the time-limit of forty five days for submission of
appeal should be counted from the date on which the reasons for suspension are
communicated.4\. The decision contained in the preceding paragraph will not,
however, apply to cases where a Government servant is placed under suspension
on the ground that he has engaged himself in activities prejudicial to the
interests of the security of the State.[Deptt. of Personnel & A.R. O.M. No.
35014/1/81-Ests.(A) dated the 9th November, 1982]."(7) Timely payment of
subsistence allowance :-In the case of Ghanshyam Das Srivastava Vs. State of
Madhya Pradesh (AIR 1973 SC 1183), the Supreme Court had observed that where a
Government servant under suspension pleaded his inability to attend the
inquiry on account of financial stringency caused by the non-payment of
subsistence allowance to him the proceedings conducted against him exparte
would be in violation of the provisions of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution
as the person concerned did not receive a reasonable opportunity of defending
himself in the disciplinary proceedings.2\. In the light of the judgment
mentioned above, it may be impressed on all authorities concerned that they
should make timely payment of subsistence allowance to Government servants who
are placed under suspension so that they may not be put to financial
difficulties. It may be noted that, by its very nature, subsistence allowance
is meant for the subsistence of a suspended Government servant and his family
during the period he is not allowed to perform any duty and thereby earn a
salary. Keeping this in view, all concerned authorities should take prompt
steps to ensure that after a Government servant is placed under suspension, he
received subsistence allowance without delay.3\. The judgment of the Supreme
Court referred to in para 1 above indicates that in that case, the
disciplinary authority proceeded with the enquiry ex-parte notwithstanding the
fact that the Government servant concerned had specifically pleaded his
inability to attend the enqiury on account of financial difficulties caused by
non-payment of subsistence allowance. The Court had held that holding the
enquiry ex-parte under such circumstances, would be violative of Article 311
(2) of the Constitution on account of denial of reasonable opportunity of
defence. This point may also be kept in view by all authorities concerned,
before invoking the provisions of rule 14 (20) of the CCS (CCA) Rules,
1965.[Cabinet sect.(Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms) OM No.
11012/10/76-Estt.(A) dated 6th October, 1976].As mentioned in the OM dated 6th
October, 1976 referred to above, the Supreme Court have held that if a
Government servant under suspension pleads his inability to attend the
disciplinary proceedings on account of non-payment of subsistence allowance,
the enquiry conducted against him, ex-parte, could be construed as denial of
reasonable opportunity of defending himself. It may, therefore, once again be
impressed upon all authorities concerned that after a Government servant is
placed under suspension, prompt steps should be taken to ensure that immediate
action is taken under FR 53, for payment of subsistence allowance and the
Government servant concerned receives payment of subsistence allowance without
delay and regularly subject to the fulfilment of the condition laid down in FR
53. In cases where recourse to ex-parte proceedings becomes necessary, if
should be checked up and confirmed that the Government servant's inability to
attend the enquiry is not because of non-payment of subsistence
allowance.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training, OM No. 11012/17/85-Estt.(A) dated
the 28th October, 1985.(8) Erroneous detention or detention without basis -One
of the items considered by the National Council (JCM) in its meeting held in
January, 1977 was a proposal of the Staff Side that a Government servant who
was deemed to have been placed under suspension on account of his detention or
on account of criminal proceedings against him should be paid full pay and
allowances for the period of suspension if he has been discharged from
detention or has been acquitted by a Court.2\. During the discussion, it was
clarified to the Staff Side that the mere fact that a Government servant who
was deemed to have been under suspension, due to detention or on account of
criminal proceedings against him, has been discharged from detention without
prosecution or has been acquitted by a Court would not make him eligible for
full pay and allowances because often the acquittal may be on technical
grounds but the suspension might be fully justified. The Staff Side were,
however, informed that if a Government servant was detained in police custody
erroneously or without any basis and thereafter he is released without any
prosecution, in such cases the official would be eligible for full pay and
allowances.3\. It has accordingly been decided that in the case of a
Government servant who was deemed to have been placed under suspension due to
his detention in police custody erroneously or without basis and thereafter
released without any prosecution having been launched, the competent authority
should apply its mind at the time of revocation of the suspension and re-
instatement of the official and if he comes to the conclusion that the
suspension was wholly unjustified, full pay and allowances may be
allowed.[Department of Personnel & A.R. OM No. 35014/9/76-Estt. (A) dated
08.08.1977].(9) Deemed suspension on grounds of detention to be treated as
revoked if conviction does not follow -In the Committee of National Council
(JCM) set up to review the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the Staff Side had expressed
the view that the period of deemed suspension on grounds of detention should
be treated as duty in all cases where conviction did not follow. The matter
was discussed and it was agreed to that in cases of deemed suspension, if the
cause of suspension ceases to exist the revocation of the suspension should be
automatic.2\. Attention is invited to the instruction contained in this
Department's OM No. 35014/9/76-Ests.(A) dated 08.08.1977 [decision (2) (a)
above] which provides that in the case of a Government servant, who was deemed
to have been placed under suspension due to detention in police custody
erroneously or without basis and thereafter released without any prosecution
having been launched, the competent authority should apply its mind at the
time of revocation of the suspension and reinstatement of the official and if
he comes to the conclusion that the suspension was wholly unjustified, full
pay and allowances may be allowed. There instructions may be kept in view and
scrupulously complied with in all cases where deemed suspension is found to be
erroneous and the employee concerned is not prosecuted. In all such cases, the
deemed suspension under Rule 10 (2) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 may be
treated as revoked from the date the cause of the suspension itself ceases to
exist i.e. the Government servant is released from police custody without any
prosecution having been launched. However, it will be desirable for the
purpose of administrative record to make a formal order for revocation of such
suspension under Rule 10 (5) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965.[Deptt. of Personnel
& Trg. OM No. 11012/16/85-Estt. (A) dated 10.01.1986](10) Disciplinary
proceedings against an employee appointed to a higher post on ad-hoc basis
-The question whether a Government servant appointed to a higher post on ad-
hoc basis should be allowed to continue in the ad-hoc appointment when a
disciplinary proceedings is initiated against him has been considered by this
Department and it has been decided that the procedure outlined below shall be
followed in such cases :-(i) Where an appointment has been made purely on ad-
hoc basis against a short-term vacancy or a leave vacancy or if the Government
servant appointed to officiate until further orders in any other circumstances
has held the appointment for a period less than one year, the Government
servant shall be reverted to the post held by him substantively or on a
regular basis, when a disciplinary proceeding is initiated against him.(ii)
Where the appointment was required to be made on ad-hoc basis purely for
administrative reasons (other than against a short term vacancy or a leave
vacancy) and the Government servant has held the appointment for more than one
year, if any disciplinary proceeding is initiated against the Government
servant, he need not be reverted to the post held by him only on the ground
that disciplinary proceeding has been initiated against him.Appropriate action
in such cases will be taken depending on the outcome of the disciplinary
case.[Deptt. of Pers. & Trg. OM No. 11012/9/86-Estt. (A) dated the 24th
December, 1986](11) Suspension in cases of dowry death :-Sub-rule (1) of rule
10 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules,
1965 provides, inter alia, that a Government servant may be placed under
suspension where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is
pending or where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is
under investigation, inquiry or trial. Sub-rule (2) of the same rule lays done
that a Government servant shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension
by an order of the appointing authority w.e.f. the date of detention if he is
detained in custody, whether on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period
exceeding forty-either hours.2\. As Government takes a very serious view of
offences against women, Government has reviewed the provisions in the rules in
regard to placing a Government servant under suspension if he is accused of
involvement in a case of "dowry death" as defined in Section 304-B of the
Indian Penal Code. The Section reads as follows :-"304-B(1) Where the death of
a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under
normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that
soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her
husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand
for dowry, such death shall be called "dowry death", and such husband or
relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.Explanation - For the
purpose of this sub-section "dowry" shall have the same meaning as in Section
2 of the "dowry Prohibition Act, 1961."3\. If a case has been registered by
the Police against a Government servant under Section 304-B of the I.P.C., he
shall be placed under suspension in the following circumstances by the
competent authority by invoking the provisions of sub-rule (1) of Rule 10 of
the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 :(i) If the Government servant is arrested in
connection with the registration of the police case, he shall be placed under
suspension immediately irrespective of the period of his detention.(ii) If he
is not arrested, he shall be placed under suspension immediately on submission
of a police report under sub-section (2) of section 173 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, to the Magistrate, if the report prima-facie
indicates that the offence has been committed by the Government
servant.[Deptt. of Personnel & Trg. OM No. 11012/8/87-Ests. (A) dated the 22nd
June, 1987].(12) Resignation from Service procedure in respect of
:-Instructions have been issued from time to time on the subject of
resignation. These instructions have now been consolidated for facility of
reference and guidance of all the Ministry/Departments of the Government of
India.1\. Resignation is an intimation in writing sent to the competent
authority by the incumbent of a post, of his intention or proposal to resign
the office/post either immediately or from a future specified date. A
resignation has to be clear and unconditional.2\. it is not in the interest of
Government to retain an unwilling Government servant in service. The general
rule, therefore, is that a resignation of a Government servant from service
should be accepted, except in the circumstances indicated below :-(i) Where
the Government servant concerned is engaged on work of importance and it would
take time to make alternative arrangements for filling the post, the
resignation should not be accepted straightway but only when alternative
arrangements for filling the post have been made.(ii) Where a Government
servant who is under suspension submits a resignation the competent authority
should examine, with reference to the merit of the disciplinary case pending
against the Government servant, whether it would be in the public interest to
accept the resignation. Normally, as Government servants are placed under
suspension only in cases of grave delinquency, it would not be correct to
accept a resignation from a Government servant under suspension. Exceptions to
this rule would be where the alleged offences do not involve moral turpitude
or where the quantum of evidence against the accused Government servant is not
strong enough to justify the assumption that if the departmental proceedings
were continued, he would be removed or dismissed from service, or where the
departmental proceedings are likely to be so protracted that it would be
cheaper to the public exchequer to accept the resignation.In those cases where
acceptance of resignation is considered necessary in the public interest, the
resignation may be accepted with the prior approval of the Head of the
Department in respect of Group 'C' & 'D' posts and that of the Minister in
charge in respect of holders of Group 'A' and 'B' posts. In so far as Group
'B' officers serving in Indian Audit and Accounts Department are concerned,
the resignation of such officers shall not be accepted except with the prior
approval of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Concurrence of the
Central Vigilance Commission should be obtained before submission of the case
to the Minister-in-charge/Comptroller and Auditor General, if the Central
Vigilance Commission had advised initiation of departmental action against the
Government servant concerned or such action has been initiated on the advice
of the Central Vigilance Commission.3\. A resignation becomes effective when
it is accepted and the Government servant is relieved of his duties. If a
Government servant who had submitted a resignation, sends an intimation in
writing to the appointing authority withdrawing his earlier letter of
resignation before its acceptance by the appointing authority, the resignation
will be deemed to have been automatically withdrawn and there is no question
of accepting the resignation. In case, however, the resignation had been
accepted by the appointing authority and the Government servant is to be
relieved from a future date, if any request for withdrawing the resignation is
made by the Government servant before he is actually relieved of his duties,
the normal principle should be to allow the request of the Government servant
to withdraw the resignation. If, however, the request for withdrawal is to be
refused, the grounds for the rejection of the request should be duly recorded
by the appointing authority and suitably intimated to the Government servant
concerned.4\. Since a temporary Government servant can sever his connection
from a Government service by giving a notice of termination of service under
Rule 5 (1) of the Central Civil Services (TS) Rules, 1965, the instructions
contained in this Office Memorandum relating to acceptance of resignation will
not be applicable in cases where a notice of termination of service has been
given by a temporary Government servant. If, however, a temporary Government
servant submits a letter of resignation in which he does not refer to Rule 5
(1) of the CCS (TS) Rules, 1965, or does not even mention that it may be
treated as a notice of termination of service, he can relinquish the charge of
the post held by him only after the resignation is duly accepted by the
appointing authority and he is relieved of his duties and not after the expiry
of te notice period laid down in the Temporary Service Rules.5\. The procedure
for withdrawal of resignation after it has become effective and the Government
servant had relinquished the charge of his earlier post, are governed by the
following statutory provision in sub-rules (4) to (6) of Rule 26 of the CCS
(Pension) Rules, 1972 which corresponds to Art. 418 (b) of the Civil Service
Regulations:-"(4) The appointing authority may permit a person to withdraw his
resignation in the public interest on the following conditions, namely :-(i)
that the resignation was tendered by the Government servant for some
compelling reasons which did not involve any reflection on his integrity,
efficiency or conduct and the request for withdrawal of the resignation has
been made as a result of a material change in the circumstances which
originally compelled him to tender the resignation;(ii) that during the period
intervening between the date on which the resignation became effective and the
date from which the request for withdrawal was made, the conduct of the person
concerned was in no way improper;(iii) that the period of absence from duty
between the date on which the resignation became effective and the date on
which the person is allowed to resume duty as a result of permission to
withdraw the resignation is not more than ninety days;(iv) that the post,
which was vacated by the Government servant on the acceptance of his
resignation or any other comparable post, is available;(v) request for
withdrawal of resignation shall not be accepted by the appointing authority
where a Government servant resigns his service or post with a view to taking
up an appointment in or under a corporation or company wholly or substantially
owned or controlled by the Government or in or under a body controlled or
financed by the Government;(vi) When an order is passed by the appointing
authority allowing a person to withdraw his resignation and to resume duty the
order shall be deemed to include the condonation of interruption in service
but the period of interruption shall not count as qualifying service."6\.
Since the CCS (Pension) Rules are applicable only to holders of permanent
posts, the above provisions would apply only in the case of a permanent
Government servant who had resigned his post. The cases of withdrawal of
resignation of permanent Government servants which involve relaxation of any
of the provisions of the above rules will need the concurrence of the Ministry
of Personnel, P.G. & Pensions, as per Rule 88 of the CCS (Pension) Rules,
1972.7\. Cases of quasi-permanent Government servants requesting withdrawal of
resignation submitted by them would be considered by the Department of
Personnel and Training on merits.8\. A Government servant who has been
selected for a post in a Central Public Enterprises/Central Autonomous body
may be released only after obtaining and accepting his resignation from the
Government service. Resignation from Government service with a view to secure
employment in a Central Public enterprise with proper permission will not
entail forfeiture of the service for the purpose of retirement/terminal
benefits. In such cases, the Government servant concerned shall be deemed to
have retired from service from the date of such resignation and shall be
eligible to receive all retirement/terminal benefits as admissible under the
relevant rules applicable to him in his parent organisation.9\. In cases where
Government servants apply for posts in the same or other Departments through
proper channel and on selection, they are asked to resign the previous posts
for administrative reasons, the benefit of past service may, if otherwise
admissible under rules, be given for purposes of fixation of pay in the new
post treating the resignation as a 'technical formality'.[Deptt. Of Personnel
& Training OM No. 28034/25/87-Ests. (A) dated 11th February, 1988](13)
Promotion of Government servants against whom disciplinary/court proceedings
are pending or whose Conduct is under investigation-Procedure and guidelines
to be followed.The procedure and guidelines to be followed in the matter of
promotion of Government servants against whom disciplinary/court proceedings
are pending or whose conduct is under investigation have been reviewed
carefully. Government have also noticed the judgement dated 27.08.1991 of the
Supreme Court in Union of India etc. vs. K.V. Jankiraman etc. (AIR 1991 SC
2010). As a result of the review and in supersession of all the earlier
instructions on the subject (OM No. 39/3/59-Estt.A dated 31.08.1960,
7/28/63-Estt.A dated 22.12.1964, 22011/3/77-Estt.A dated 14.07.1977,
22011/1/79-Estt.A dated 31.01.1982, 22011/2/1986-Estt.A dated 12.01.1988,
22011/1/91-Estt.A dated 31.07.1991), the procedure to be followed in this
regard by the authorities concerned is laid down in the subsequent paras of
this OM for their guidance.2\. At the time of consideration of the cases of
Government servants for promotion, details of Government servants in the
consideration zone for promotion falling under the following categories should
be specifically brought to the notice of the Departmental Promotion Committee
:-(i) Government servants under suspension;(ii) Government servants in respect
of whom a charge sheet has been issued and the disciplinary proceedings are
pending; and(iii) Government servants in respect of whom prosecution for a
criminal charge is pending.2.1 The Departmental Promotion Committee shall
assess the suitability of the Government servants coming within the purview of
the circumstances mentioned above alongwith other eligible candidates without
taking into consideration the disciplinary case/criminal prosecution pending.
The assessment of the DPC, including 'Unfit for Promotion', and the grading
awarded by it will be kept in a sealed cover. The cover will be superscribed
'Findings regarding suitability for promotion to the grade/post of
............... in respect of Shri .......................... (name of the
Government servant). Not to be opened till the termination of the disciplinary
case/criminal prosecution against Shri ............................' The
proceedings of the DPC need only contain the note 'The findings are contained
in the attached sealed cover'. The authority competent to fill the vacancy
should be separately advised to fill the vacancy in the higher grade only in
an officiating capacity when the findings of the DPC in respect of the
suitability of a Government servant for his promotion are kept in a sealed
cover.2.2 The same procedure outlined in para 2.1 above will be followed by
the subsequent Departmental Promotion Committees convened till the
disciplinary case/criminal prosecution against the Government servant
concerned is concluded.3\. On the conclusion of the disciplinary case/criminal
prosecution which result in dropping of allegations against the Govt. servant,
the sealed cover or covers shall be opened. In case the Government servant is
completely exonerated, the due date of his promotion will be determined with
reference to the position assigned to him in the findings kept in the sealed
cover/covers and with reference to the date of promotion of his next junior on
the basis of such position. The Government servant may be promoted, if
necessary, by reverting the juniormost officiating person. He may be promoted
notionally with reference to the date of promotion of his junior. However,
whether the officer concerned will be entitled to any arrears of pay for the
period of notional promotion preceding the date of actual promotion and if so
to what extent, will be decided by the appointing authority by taking into
consideration all the facts and circumstances of the disciplinary
proceedings/criminal prosecution. Where the authority denies arrears of salary
or part of it, it will record its reasons for doing so. It is not possible to
anticipate and enumerate exhaustively all the circumstances under which such
denials of arrears of salary or part of it may become necessary. However,
there may be cases where the proceedings, whether disciplinary or criminal,
are, for example delayed at the instance of the employee or the clearance in
the disciplinary proceedings or acquittal in the criminal proceedings is with
benefit of doubt or on account of non-availability of evidence due to the acts
attributable to the employee etc. These are only some of the circumstance
where such denial can be justified.3.1 If any penalty is imposed on the
Government servant as a result of the disciplinary proceedings or if he is
found guilty in the criminal prosecution against him, the findings of the
sealed cover/covers shall not be acted upon. His case for promotion may be
considered by the next DPC in the normal course and having regard to the
penalty imposed on him.3.2 It is also clarified that in a case where
disciplinary proceedings have been held under the relevant disciplinary rules
'warning' should not be issued as a result of such proceedings. If it is
found, as a result of the proceedings, that some blame attaches to the
Government servant, at least the penalty of 'censure' should be imposed.4\. It
is necessary to ensure that the disciplinary case/criminal prosecution
instituted against any Government servant is not unduly prolonged and all
efforts to finalise expeditiously the proceedings should be taken so that the
need for keeping the case of a Government servant in a sealed cover is limited
to the barest minimum. It has, therefore, been decided that the appointing
authorities concerned should review comprehensively the case of Government
servants, whose suitability for promotion to a higher grade has been kept in a
sealed cover on the expiry of 6 months from the date of convening the first
Departmental Promotion Committee which had adjudged his suitability and kept
its findings in the sealed cover. Such a review should be done subsequently
also every six months. The review should, inter alia, cover the progress made
in the disciplinary proceedings/criminal prosecution and the further measures
to be taken to expedite their completion.5\. In spite of the six monthly
review referred to in para 4 above, there may be some cases, where the
disciplinary case/criminal prosecution against the Government servant is not
concluded even after the expiry of two years from the date of the meeting of
the first DPC, which kept its findings in respect of the Government servant in
a sealed cover. In such a situation the appointing authority may review the
case of the Government servant, provided he is not under suspension, to
consider the desirability of giving him ad-hoc promotion keeping in view the
following aspects :-(a) Whether the promotion of the officer will be against
public interest;(b) Whether the charges are grave enough to warrant continued
denial of promotion;(c) Whether there is any likelihood of the case coming to
a conclusion in the near future;(d) Whether the delay in the finalisation of
proceeding, departmental or in a court of law, is not directly or indirectly
attributable to the Government servant concerned; and(e) Whether there is any
likelihood of misuse of official position which the Government servant may
occupy after ad-hoc promotion, which may adversely affect the conduct of the
departmental case/criminal prosecution.The appointing authority should also
consult the Central Bureau of Investigation and take their views into account
where the departmental proceedings or criminal prosecution arose out of the
investigations conducted by the Bureau.5.1 In case the appointing authority
comes to a conclusion that it would not be against the public interest to
allow ad-hoc promotion to the Government servant, his case should be placed
before the next DPC held in the normal course after the expiry of the two year
period to decide whether the officer is suitable for promotion on ad-hoc
basis. Where the Government servant is considered for ad-hoc promotion, the
Departmental Promotion Committee should make its assessment on the basis of
the totality of the individual's record of service without taking into account
the pending disciplinary case/criminal prosecution against him.5.2 After a
decision is taken to promote a Government servant on an ad-hoc basis, an order
of promotion may be issued making it clear in the order itself that :-(i) the
promotion is being made on purely ad-hoc basis and the ad-hoc promotion will
not confer any right for regular promotion; and(ii) the promotion shall be
"until further orders". It should also be indicated in the orders that the
Government reserve the right to cancel the ad-hoc promotion and revert at any
time the Government servant to the post from which he was promoted.5.3 If the
Government servant concerned is acquitted in the criminal prosecution on the
merits of the case or is fully exonerated in the departmental proceedings, the
ad-hoc promotion already made may be confirmed and the promotion treated as a
regular one from the date of the ad-hoc promotion with all attendant benefits.
In case the Government servant could have normally got his regular promotion
from a date prior to the date of his ad-hoc promotion with reference to his
placement in the DPC proceedings kept in the sealed cover(s) and the actual
date of promotion of the person ranked immediately junior to him by the same
DPC, he would also be allowed his due seniority and benefit of notional
promotion as envisaged in para 3 above.5.4 If the Government servant is not
acquitted on merits in the criminal prosecution but purely on technical ground
and Government either proposes to take up the matter to a higher court or to
proceed against him departmentally or if the Government servant is not
exonerated in the departmental proceedings, the ad-hoc promotion granted to
him should be brought to an end.6\. The procedure outlined in the preceding
paras should also be followed in considering the claim for confirmation of an
officer under suspension, etc. A permanent regular vacancy should be reserved
for such an officer when his case is placed in sealed cover by the DPC.7\. A
Government servant, who is recommended for promotion by the Departmental
Promotion Committee but in whose case any of the circumstances mentioned in
para 2 above arise after the recommendations of the DPC are received but
before he is actually promoted, will be considered as if his case had been
placed in a sealed cover by the DPC. He shall not be promoted until he is
completely exonerated of the charges against him and the provisions contained
in this OM will be applicable in his case also.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training
OM No. 22011/4/91-Estt.(A) dated 14.09.1992](13A) Instructions on sealed cover
procedure - Applicability to review DPC - clarification regarding.A question
whether the sealed cover procedure is to be followed by a Review DPC has been
under consideration of this Department in the light of the decision of the
Central Administrative Tribunal in certain cases. The matter has been
considered in consultation with the Ministry of Law and it has been decided
that the sealed cover procedure as contained in the OM dated 14.09.1992 cannot
be resorted to by the Review DPC if no departmental proceedings or criminal
prosecution was pending against the Government servant concerned or he/she was
not under suspension at the time of meeting of the original DPC or before
promotion of his junior on the basis of the recommendations of the original
DPC.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No. 22011/2/99-Estt.(A) dated
21.11.2002](13B) Sealed Cover Procedure - Judgment of the Supreme Court in the
case of Delhi Jal Board Vs. Mohinder Singh [JT 2002 (10) SC 158].Para 7 of
this Department's OM No. 22011/4/91-Estt. (A) dated 14th September, 1992
envisages as follows :-"A Government servant, who is recommended for promotion
by the Departmental Promotion Committee but in whose case any of the
circumstances mentioned in para 2 above arise after the recommendations of the
DPC are received but before he is actually promoted, will be considered as if
his case had been placed in a sealed cover by the DPC. He shall not be
promoted until he is completely exonerated of the charges against him and the
provisions contained in this OM will be applicable in his case also."2\. In
the case of Delhi Jal Board Vs. Mohindber Singh the Supreme Court [JT 2000
(10) SC 158] has held as follows :-"The right to be considered by the
Departmental Promotion Committee is a fundamental right guaranteed under
Article 16 of the Constitution of India, provided a person is eligible and is
in the zone of consideration. The sealed cover procedure permits the question
of promotion to be kept in abeyance till the result of any pending
disciplinary inquiry. But the findings of the disciplinary inquiry exonerating
the officers would have to be given effect to as they obviously relate back to
the date on which the charges are framed. ............. The mere fact that by
the time the disciplinary proceedings in the first inquiry ended in his favour
and by the time the seal was opened to give effect to it, another departmental
inquiry was started by the department, would not come in the way of giving him
the benefit of the assessment by the first Departmental Promotion Committee in
his favour in the anterior selection."3\. It is, therefore, clarified that
para 7 of the O.M. dated 14th September, 1992 will not be applicable if by the
time the seal was opened to give effect to the exoneration in the first
enquiry, another departmental inquiry was started by the department against
the Government servant concerned. This means that where the second or
subsequent departmental proceedings were instituted after promotion of the
junior to the Government servant concerned on the basis of the recommendation
made by the DPC which kept the recommendation in respect of the Government
servant in sealed cover, the benefit of the assessment by the first DPC will
be admissible to the Government servant on exoneration in the first inquiry,
with effect from the date his immediate junior was promoted.4\. It is further
clarified that in case the subsequent proceedings (commenced after the
promotion of the junior) results in the imposition of any penalty before the
exoneration in the first proceedings based on which the recommendations of the
DPC were kept in sealed cover and the Government servant concerned is promoted
retrospectively on the basis of exoneration in the first proceedings, the
penalty imposed may be modified and effected with reference to the promoted
post. An indication to this effect may be made in the promotion order itself
so that there is no ambiguity in the matter.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM
No. 22011/2/2002-Estt.(A) dated 24.02.2003]14\. Deemed Suspension under Rule
10 (2) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 - Supreme Court decision in the case of
Union of India Vs. Rajiv Kumar.Reference is invited to Rule 10 (2) of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, 1965 which provides that a Government servant shall be deemed to
have been placed under suspension by an order of the appointing authority with
effect from the date of his detention, if he is detained in custody, whether
on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding 48 hours.2\. A
question whether the order of suspension in a case covered under Rule 10 (2)
of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has limited operation for the period of detention
and not beyond it, was considered by the Supreme Court in the case of Union of
India Vs. Rajiv Kumar (2003 (5) SCALE 297). Allowing the appeals of the Union
of India in this case the Supreme Court has held that the order in terms of
Rule 10 (2) is not restricted in its point of duration or efficacy to the
actual period of detention only. It continues to be operative unless modified
or revoked under Sub-Rule (5) (c) as provided in Sub-Rule 5 (a) of Rule 10 of
the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965.3\. Ministries/Departments are requested to bring
the above ruling of the Supreme Court to the notice of all concerned so that
the same is appropriately referred to in all cases where the question of
validity of continued suspension after release from detention of a Government
servant comes up consideration before the CAT, High Court or Supreme
Court.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/8/2003-Estt.(A) dated
23.10.2003](15-A) Suspension of Government servants - Review of - Instructions
reg.The undersigned is directed to say that Rule 10 (Suspension) of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, 1965 is being amended to provide that an order of suspension made
or deemed to have been made under this Rule shall be reviewed by the competent
authority on recommendation of the Review Committee constituted for the
purpose. It is also being provided in the Rules that an order of suspension
made or deemed to have been under sub-Rules (1) or (2) of rule 10 shall not be
valid after 90 days unless it is extended after review for a further period
before the expiry of 90 days. It is further being provided that extension of
suspension shall not be for a period exceeding 180 days at a time. (copy of
the Notification is enclosed).2\. It is, therefore, necessary to constitute
Review Committee(s) to review the suspension cases. The composition of Review
Committee(s) may be as follows :-(i) The disciplinary authority, the appellate
authority and another officer of the level of disciplinary/appellate authority
from the same office or from another Central Government office, (in case
another officer of same level is not available in the same office), in a case
where the President is not the disciplinary authority or the appellate
authority.(ii) The disciplinary authority and two officers of the level of
Secretary/Addl. Secretary/Joint Secretary who are equivalent or higher in rank
than the disciplinary authority from the same office or from another Central
Government office, (in case another officer of same level is not available in
the same office), in a case where the appellate authority is the
President.(iii) Three officers of the level of Secretary/Addl. Secretary/Joint
Secretary who are higher in rank than the suspended official from the same
Department/Office or from another Central Government Departemnt/Office, (in
case another officer of same level is not available in the same office), in a
case where the disciplinary authority is the President.The administrative
ministry/department/office concerned may constitute the review committees as
indicated above on a permanent basis or ad-hoc basis.3\. The Review
Committee(s) may take a view regarding revocation/continuation of the
suspension keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case and also
taking into account that unduly long suspension, while putting the employee
concerned to undue hardship, involve payment of subsistence allowance without
the employee performing any useful service to the Government. Without
prejudice to the foregoing, if the officer has been under suspension for one
year without any charges being filed in a court of law or no charge-memo has
been issued in a departmental enquiry, he shall ordinarily be reinstated in
service without prejudice to the case against him. However, in case the
officer is in police/judicial custody or is accused of a serious crime or a
matter involving national security, the Review Committee may recommend the
continuation of the suspension of the official concerned.4\. In so far as
persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department are concerned,
these instructions are issued in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India.5\. All Ministries/Departments are requested to bring the
above instructions to the notice of all disciplinary authorities under their
control and ensure that necessary Review Committees are constituted
accordingly. It may also be impressed upon all concerned that lapsing of any
suspension order on account of failure to review the same will be viewed
seriously.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/4/2003-Estt.(A) dated
7.01.2004](15-B) Suspension of government servants - Review of - Instructions
reg.The undersigned is directed to refer to this Department's O.M. of even
number dated the 7th January, 2004 which contains guidelines for constitution
of Review Committees to review suspension cases. The Notification of even
number dated the 23rd December, 2003 inserting sub-rules (6) & (7) in Rule 10+
of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has been published as GSR No. 2 in the Gazette
dated January 3, 2004. It would, therefore, be necessary to review of pending
cases in which suspension has exceeded 90 days, by 2nd April, 2004. Other
suspension cases will also have to be reviewed before expiry of 90 days from
the date of order of suspension.2\. Ministries/Departments are requested to
ensure that necessary Review Committees are constituted as per the guidelines
laid down in the O.M. dated the 7th January, 2004 and suspension cases are
reviewed accordingly.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No.
11012/4/2003-Estt.(A) dated 19.03.2004](15C) Review of suspension - Amendment
to the provisions of rule 10 -The provisions of rule 10 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 regarding deemed
suspension have since been reviewed by this Department.2\. The provisions in
Rule 10 of CCS (CCA) Rules have been modified and amendment to the same have
been notified in Notification No. GSR 105 dated 6.06.2007 published in the
Gazette of India dated 16.06.2007.3\. As per the original provisions of rule
10 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the provision for review within ninety days
was applicable to all types of suspensions. However, in cases of continued
detention, the review becomes a mere formality with no consequences as a
Government servant in such a situation has to continue to be under deemed
suspension. It has, therefore, been decided that a review of suspension shall
not be necessary in such cases. Accordingly, a proviso has now been added to
sub-rule(7) of the said rule 10 as follows:"provided that no such review of
suspension shall be necessary in the case of deemed suspension under sub-
rule(2), if the Government servant continues to be under detention at the time
of completion of ninety days of suspension and the ninety days period for
review in such cases will count from the date the Government servant detained
in custody is released from detention or the date on which the fact of his
release from detention is intimated to his appointing authority, whichever is
later."4\. In deemed suspensions under sub-rule (2), the date of order of
suspension may be much later than the deemed date of suspension. With a view
to making these provisions explicit, sub-rule (6) of the aforesaid rule 10 has
now been amended to substitute the words "ninety days from the date of order
of suspension" occurring therein with "ninety days from the effective date of
suspension". Consequent upon this amendment, it would henceforth be necessary
to specifically indicate in the orders of suspension the effective date of
suspension.5\. Sub-rule (7) of the aforesaid rule 10 stipulates says that
"Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (5)(a), an order of suspension
made or deemed to have been made under sub-rule (1) or (2) of this rule shall
not be valid after a period of ninety days unless it is extended after review,
for a further period before the expiry of ninety days." Sub-rule (5)(a) of the
aforesaid rule 10 has, therefore, now been amended to read as follows
:-"subject to the provisions contained in sub-rule (7), an order of suspension
made or deemed to have been made under this rule shall continue to remain in
force until it is modified or revoked by the authority competent to do
so."Consequently, the words "Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule
(5)(a)" stated in sub-rule(7) of Rule 10 have become redundant and have,
therefore, been deleted.6\. In so far as persons serving in the Indian Audit
and Accounts Department are concerned, these amendments have been made in
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.[DOPT OM No.
11012/4/2007-Estt. (A), dated 12th July, 2007]  
---  
  
## Part V – Penalties And Disciplinary Authorities

### 11. Penalties.

The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reasons and as
hereinafter provided, be imposed on a Government servant, namely :-Minor
Penalties -(i)censure;(ii)withholding of his promotion;(iii)recovery from his
pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused by him to the Government
by negligence or breach of orders;(iii a) reduction to a lower stage in the
time-scale of pay by one stage for a period not exceeding three years, without
cumulative effect and not adversely affecting his pension.(iv)withholding of
increments of pay;Major Penalties -(v)save as provided for in clause (iii)
(a), reduction to a lower stage in the time-scale of pay for a specified
period, with further directions as to whether or not the Government servant
will earn increments of pay during the period of such reduction and whether on
the expiry of such period, the reduction will or will not have the effect of
postponing the future increments of his pay(vi)reduction to lower time-scale
of pay, grade, post or Service for a period to be specified in the order of
penalty, which shall be a bar to the promotion of the Government servant
during such specified period to the time-scale of pay, grade, post or Service
from which he was reduced, with direction as to whether or not, on promotion
on the expiry of the said specified period -(a)the period of reduction to
time-scale of pay, grade, post or service shall operate to postpone future
increments of his pay, and if so, to what extent; and(b)the Government servant
shall regain his original seniority in the higher time scale of pay , grade,
post or service;(vii)compulsory retirement;(viii)removal from service which
shall not be a disqualification for future employment under the
Government;(ix)dismissal from service which shall ordinarily be a
disqualification for future employment under the Government.Provided that, in
every case in which the charge of possession of assets disproportionate to
known-source of income or the charge of acceptance from any person of any
gratification, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing
or forbearing to do any official act is established, the penalty mentioned in
clause (viii) or clause (ix) shall be imposed :Provided further that in any
exceptional case and for special reasons recorded in writing, any other
penalty may be imposed.EXPLANATION - The following shall not amount to a
penalty within the meaning of this rule, namely:-(i)withholding of increments
of a Government servant for his failure to pass any departmental examination
in accordance with the rules or orders governing the Service to which he
belongs or post which he holds or the terms of his appointment;(ii)stoppage of
a Government servant at the efficiency bar in the time-scale of pay on the
ground of his unfitness to cross the bar;(iii)non-promotion of a Government
servant, whether in a substantive or officiating capacity, after consideration
of his case, to a Service, grade or post for promotion to which he is
eligible;(iv)reversion of a Government servant officiating in a higher
Service, grade or post to a lower Service, grade or post, on the ground that
he is considered to be unsuitable for such higher Service, grade or post or on
any administrative ground unconnected with his conduct;(v)reversion of a
Government servant, appointed on probation to any other Service, grade or
post, to his permanent Service, grade or post during or at the end of the
period of probation in accordance with the terms of his appointment or the
rules and orders governing such probation;(vi)replacement of the services of a
Government servant, whose services had been borrowed from a State Government
or any authority under the control of a State Government, at the disposal of
the State Government or the authority from which the services of such
Government servant had been borrowed;(vii)compulsory retirement of a
Government servant in accordance with the provisions relating to his
superannuation or retirement;(viii)termination of the services -(a)of a
Government servant appointed on probation, during or at the end of the period
of his probation, in accordance with the terms of his appointment or the rules
and orders governing such probation, or(b)of a temporary Government servant in
accordance with the provisions of sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 of the Central Civil
Services (Temporary Service) Rules, 1965, or(c)of a Government servant,
employed under an agreement, in accordance with the terms of such
agreement.(ix)[ any compensation awarded on the recommendation of the
Complaints Committee referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and
established in the Department of the Government of India for inquiring into
any complaint of sexual harassment within the meaning of rule 3 C of the
Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964.] [Inserted by Notification No.
G.S.R. 822(E), dated 19.11.2014.]

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's decisions :(1) Distinction between Censure and Warning
:-An order of "Censure" is a formal and public act intended to convey that the
person concerned has been guilty of some blameworthy act or omission for which
it has been found necessary to award him a formal punishment, and nothing can
amount to a "censure" unless it is intended to be such a formal punishment and
imposed for "good and sufficient reason" after following the prescribed
procedure. A record of the punishment so imposed is kept on the officer's
confidential roll and the fact that he has been 'censured' will have its
bearing on the assessment of his merit or suitability for promotion to higher
posts.There may be occasions, on the other hand, when a superior officer may
find it necessary to criticise adversely the work of an officer working under
(e.g. point out negligence, carelessness, lack of thoroughness, delay etc.) or
he may call for an explanation for some act or omission and taking all
circumstance into consideration, it may be felt that, while the matter is not
serious enough to justify the imposition of the formal punishment of 'censure'
it calls for some informal action such as the communication of a written
warning, admonition or reprimand, if the circumstances justify it, a mention
may also be made of such a warning etc., in the officer's confidential roll;
however, the mere fact that it is so mentioned in the character roll does not
convert the warning etc. into "censure". Although such comments, remarks,
warning etc., also would have the effect of making it apparent or known to the
person concerned that he has done something blame-worthy and, to some extent,
may also effect the assessment of his merit and suitability for promotion,
they do not amount to the imposition of the penalty of 'Censure' because it
was not intended that any formal punishment should be inflicted.The fact that
a mere informal 'warning' cannot be equated to a formal 'censure', should not,
however, be taken as tantamount to suggestion that a written warning may be
freely given without caring whether or not it is really justified. It is a
matter of simple natural justice that written warnings, reprimands, etc.
should not be administered or placed on an officer's confidential record
unless the authority doing so is satisfied that there is good and sufficient
reason to do so. Paragraph 6 of the Home Ministry's Office Memorandum No.
51/5/54-Ests.(A) dated the 27th January, 1955 provides detailed guidance in
the matter of recording adverse remarks in confidential reports. It may be
reiterated here that in the discharge of the responsible task of recording the
confidential reports, every reporting officer should be conscious of the fact
that it is his duty not only to make an objective assessment of his
subordinates' work and qualities, but also to see that he gives to his
subordinates at all times the advice, guidance and assistance to correct their
faults and deficiencies. If this part of the reporting officers' duty has been
properly performed there should be no difficulty about recording adverse
entries because they would only refer to the defects which have persisted in
spite of reporting officer's efforts to have them corrected. If after having
taken such care the reporting officer finds that for the purpose of truly
objective assessment mention should be made of any warning, admonition etc.
issued, especially those which have not produced the desired improvement, it
is his right and duty to so mention them. In process of brining the defects to
the notice of person concerned, where an explanation is possible an
opportunity to do so should be given. This cannot, however, be equated to
formal proceedings required to be taken under Rule 55-A (now rule 16) of
Rules, nor the warning given amounts to the imposition of a formal
penalty.[MHA OM No. 39/21/56-Ests.(A) dated the 13th December, 1956].(1A)
Writing of Confidential Reports - Mention of warnings therein -There may be
occasions when a superior officer may find it necessary to criticize adversely
the work of an officer working under him or he may call for an explanation for
some act of omission or commission and taking all circumstances into
consideration, it may be felt that while the matter is not serious enough to
justify the imposition of the formal punishment of censure, it calls for some
formal action such as the communication of written warning, admonition or
reprimand. Where such a warning/displeasure/reprimand is issued, it should be
placed in the personal file of the officer concerned. At the end of the year
(or period of report), the reporting authority, while writing the confidential
report of the officer, may decide not to make a reference in the confidential
report to the warning/displeasure/reprimand, if in the opinion of that
authority, the performance of the officer reported on after the issue of the
warning or displeasure or reprimand, as the case may be, has improved and has
been found satisfactory. If, however, the reporting authority comes to the
conclusion that despite the warning/displeasure/reprimand, the officer has not
improved, it may make appropriate mention of such
warning/displeasure/reprimand, as the case may be, in the relevant column in
Part-III of the form of Confidential Report relating to assessment by the
Reporting Officer, and , in that case, a copy of the
warning/displeasure/reprimand referred to in the confidential report should be
placed in the CR dossier as an annexure to the confidential report for the
relevant period. The adverse remarks should also be conveyed to the officer
and his representation, if any, against the same disposed of in accordance
with the procedure laid down in the instructions issued in this regard.[Deptt.
of Personnel & AR OM No. 21011/1/81-Ests.(A) dated the 5th June, 1981].(1B)
Promotion to a higher Grade or post - Clarifications regarding effect of
warnings etc. on promotion.At present, administrative devices like warning,
letter of caution, reprimand etc. are being used by the various administrative
Ministries/Departments for cautioning the Government servants against such
minor lapses as negligence, carelessness, lack of thoroughness and delay in
disposal of official work with a view to toning up efficiency or maintaining
discipline. These administrative actions do not, however, constitute any of
the penalties specified in rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. Doubts have
often been raised about the actual effect of such informal administrative
actions as warning, letter of caution and reprimand on the promotion of a
Government servant.2\. In this connection, the existing provisions regarding
the effect of warning etc. as distinguished from Censure on promotion are
reiterated and clarified as follows :-(i) There is no objection to the
continuance of the practice of issuing oral or written warnings. However,
where a copy of the warning is also kept on the Confidential Report dossier,
it will be taken to constitute an adverse entry and the officer so warned will
have the right to represent against the same in accordance with the existing
instructions relating to communication of adverse remarks and consideration of
representations against them.(ii) Warnings, letters of caution, reprimands or
advisories administered to Government servants do not amount to a penalty and,
therefore, will not constitute a bar for consideration of such Government
servants for promotion.(iii) Where a departmental proceeding has been
instituted, and it is considered that a Government servant deserves to be
penalized for the offence/misconduct, one of the prescribed penalties may only
be awarded and no warning recordable or otherwise, should be issued to the
Government servant.(iv) The term 'empanelment' occurring in para 1 of DOPT's
O.M. No. 11012/11/2007-Estt. (A) dated 14.12.2007 relating to guidelines on
grant of vigilance clearance does not cover cases of promotion. Cases of
promotion of Government servants during the pendency of disciplinary
proceedings would be regulated by DOPT's O.M. No. 22011/4/91-Estt. (A) dated
14.09.1992, O.M. No. 22012/1/99-Estt. (D) dated 25.10.2004 and after
imposition of any of the prescribed penalties as per O.M. No.
22034/5/2004-Estt. (D) dated 15.12.2004.3\. All Ministries/Departments are,
therefore, requested to keep in view the above guidelines while dealing with
cases of promotion of the Government servants.[DOPT O.M. No.
11012/6/2008-Estt. (A) dated 7th July, 2008](2) Departmental action for
neglect of family by Government servant -Instances of failure of Government
servants to look after the proper maintenance of their families have come to
Government's notice. It has been suggested that a provision may be made in the
Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, to enable Government to take action
against those Government servants who do not look after their families
properly.The question has been examined and it has been decided that it will
not be possible to make such a provision in the Conduct Rules as it would
entail administrative difficulties in implementing and enforcing it. However,
a Government servant is expected to maintain a reasonable and decent standard
of conduct in his private life and not bring discredit to his service by his
misdemeanor. In cases where a Government servant is reported to have acted in
a manner unbecoming of a Government servant as, for instance, by neglect of
his wife and family, departmental action can be taken against him on that
score without invoking any of the Conduct Rules. In this connection, a
reference is invited to Rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, which specified the
nature of penalties that may for good and sufficient reasons, be imposed on a
Government servant. It has been held that neglect by a Government servant of
his wife and family in a manner unbecoming of a Government servant may be
regarded as a good and sufficient reason to justify action being taken against
him under this rule.It should, however, be noted that in such cases the party
affected has legal right to claim maintenance. If any legal proceedings in
this behalf should be pending in a court of law, it would not be correct for
Government to take action against the Government servant on this ground as
such action may be construed by the court to amount to contempt.[MHA OM No.
F.25/16/59-Ests. (A) dated the 1st September, 1959].(3) Entry of punishments
in confidential rolls :-It has been decided that if as a result of
disciplinary proceedings any of the prescribed punishments (e.g., censure,
reduction to a lower post, etc.) is imposed on a Government servant, a record
of the same should invariably be kept in his confidential roll.[MHA OM No.
38/12/59-Ests.(A) dated the 23rd April, 1960].(4) Repromotion of officers
reduced in rank as a measure of penalty :-If the order of reduction is
intended for an indefinite period the order should be framed as follows :-"A
is reduced to the lower post/grade/service of X until he is found fit by the
competent authority to be restored to the higher post/grade/service of Y".In
cases where it is intended that the fitness of the Government servant for re-
promotion or restoration to his original position will be considered only
after a specified period, the order should be made in the following form :-"A
is reduced to the lower post/grade/Service of X until he is found fit, after a
period _________ years from the date of this order, to be restored to the
higher post of Y."[MHA OM No. 9/30/63-Estt.(D) dated the 7th February,
1964].(5) Registering name with Employment Exchange for higher posts not
permissible when penalty is in force :-The Government had under consideration
the question whether a Government servant on whom a penalty has been imposed
can be permitted to register his name with the Employment Exchange for a
higher post, when the duration of the penalty is not yet over. It has since
been decided that a Government servant on whom the penalty specified in
clauses (ii) and (iv) of rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has been imposed
should not be allowed to register his name with the Employment Exchange for
higher posts during the period the penalty in is force.[MHA OM No.
14/6/65-Ests.(D) dated the 22nd February, 1965].(6) Provision in the rules of
public undertaking enabling disciplinary action against direct recruits for
acts committed prior to their recruitment :-It has been recommended by the
Joint Conference of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the State Anti-
Corruption officers held in November, 1965, that a provision should be made in
the rules of public sector undertakings which would enable them to take
disciplinary action against their employees appointed through direct
recruitment, for acts done by them in their previous or earlier employment.
After a careful consideration of this recommendation, Government have come to
the conclusion that an employer is not precluded from taking action against an
employee in respect of misconduct committed before his employment if the
misconduct was of such a nature as has rational connection with his present
employment and renders him unfit and unsuitable for continuing in service. A
provision in the Discipline Rules that penalties can be imposed for 'good and
sufficient reasons' as in rule 11 of the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, would be adequate authority
for taking action in respect of misconduct of the nature referred to above.
When such action is taken, the charge should specifically state that the
misconduct alleged is such that it renders him unfit and unsuitable for
continuance in service.Ministry of Industry etc. are requested to bring the
above position to the notice of all public sector undertakings under their
control and request them to make a provision in their Discipline Rules, so as
to enable them to impose penalties on their employees for 'good and sufficient
reasons' as in rule 11 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control
and Appeal) Rules, 1965, if such a provision does not already exist.[MHA OM
No. 39/1/67-Ests.(A) dated the 21st February, 1967].(7) Promotion of employees
on whom any penalty has been imposed -The Staff Side of the National Council,
at its meeting held on 27th and the 28th Januaray,1971 raised the following
points :-(i) 'Censure' should not be a bar to eligibility to sit for a
departmental/promotional examination or for promotion;(ii) Where the
responsibility of an employee for any loss is indirect, he should not be
debarred from being considered for promotion during the period of recovery of
the loss; and(iii) A distinction should be made between stoppage of increments
and reduction to a lower stage of the pay scale and in the former type of
cases, the employees should not be debarred from being considered for
promotion.2\. As regards the first point, under existing instructions, every
person eligible for promotion and in the field of choice has to be considered
for promotion. The fact of the imposition of the minor penalty of censure on a
Government servant does not by itself stand against the consideration of such
person for promotion, as his fitness for the promotion has to be judged, in
the case of promotion by seniority, on the basis of an overall assessment of
his service record, and in the case of promotion by selection on merit, on the
basis of his merit categorisation which is again based upon an overall
assessment of his service record. So far as the eligibility of a Government
servant who has been awarded the penalty of censure, to appear at a
departmental/promotional examination is concerned, the same principles would
apply, viz. that he cannot, merely because of the penalty of censure, be
debarred from appearing at such an examination. In case, however, the rules of
such an examination lay down that only those eligible persons can be allowed
to appear at the examination who are considered to be fit for the purpose, the
fitness of an eligible candidate, who has been awarded the penalty of censure,
to appear at the examination has to be considered on the basis of an overall
assessment of his service record and not merely on the basis of the penalty of
censure.3\. As regards the other two points mentioned in paragraph 1 above,
while it is not possible to lay down any hard and fast rules in this regard,
and it is for the competent authority to take a decision in each case having
regard to its facts and circumstances, it is considered necessary to reiterate
the existing instructions on the subject. Recovery from the pay of a
Government servant of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused by him to
Government by negligence or breach of orders, or withholding of increments of
pay, are also minor penalties laid down in rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules. As
in the case of promotion of a Government servant, who has been awarded the
penalty of censure, the penalty of recovery from his pay of the loss caused by
him to Government or of withholding his increment(s) does not stand in the way
of his consideration for promotion though in the latter case promotion is not
given effect to during the currency of the penalty. While, therefore, the fact
of the imposition of such a penalty does not by itself debar the Government
servant concerned from being considered for promotion, it is also taken into
account by the Departmental Promotion Committee, or the competent authority,
as the case may be, in the overall assessment of his service record for
judging his suitability or otherwise for promotion or his fitness for
admission to a departmental/promotional examination (where fitness of the
candidates is a condition precedent to such admission).[Cabinet
Sectt.(Department of Personnel) OM No. 21/5/70-Ests.(A) dated the 15th May,
1971].(7A)The attention of the Ministry of Finance etc. is invited to MHA OM
No. 39/3/59-Estt.(A) dated 31.08.1960, OM No. 7/28/63-Estt.(A) dated
22.12.1964 and OM No. 22011/3/77-Estt.(A) dated 14.07.1977 [since revised and
consolidated vide OM No. 22011/4/91-Estt.(A) dated 14.09.1992] which lay down
the guide-lines for following the 'sealed cover' procedure and for granting
benefits with retrospective effect on the "complete exoneration" of the
official concerned. The scope of the term "complete exoneration" was very
wide, resulting in denial of benefits even to those who had not been awarded
any of the prescribed penalties as a result of disciplinary proceedings but
were only issued a warning. There is also in vogue the practice of issuing
"recordable warning" to Government employees which affect their career
prospects. The matter has, therefore, been examined carefully and the
following decisions have been taken :-(i) As clarified in the Ministry of Home
Affairs OM No. 39/21/56-Estt.(A) dated 13.12.1956, warning is administered by
any authority superior to a Government employee in the event of minor lapses
like negligence, carelessness, lack of thoroughness, delay etc. It is an
administrative device in the hands of superior authorities for cautioning the
Government employees with a view to toning up efficiency and maintaining
discipline. There is, therefore, no objection to the continuance of this
system. However, where a copy of the warning is also kept in the Confidential
Report dossier, it will be taken to constitutes an adverse entry and the
officer so warned will have the right to represent against the same in
accordance with the existing instruction relating to communication of adverse
remarks and consideration of representations against them.(ii) Where a
departmental proceeding has been completed and it is considered that the
officer concerned deserves to be penalised, he should be awarded one of the
recognised statutory penalties as given in Rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules,
1965. In such a situation, a recordable warning should not be issued as it
would for all practical purposes, amount to a "censure" which is a formal
punishment and which can only be awarded by a competent disciplinary authority
after following the procedure prescribed in the relevant disciplinary rules.
The Delhi High Court has, in the case of Nadhan Singh Vs. Union of India also
expressed the view that warning kept in the CR dossier has all the attributes
of "censure". In the circumstances, as already stated, where it is considered
after the conclusion of disciplinary proceedings that some blame attached to
the officer concerned which necessitates cognizance of such fact the
disciplinary authority should award the penalty of "censure" at least. If the
intention of the disciplinary authority is not to award a penalty of
"censure", then no recordable warning should be awarded. There is no
restriction on the right of the disciplinary authority to administer oral
warnings or even warnings in writing which do not form part of the character
roll.(iii) Where the departmental proceedings have ended with the imposition
of a minor penalty, viz, censure, recovery of pecuniary loss to the
Government, withholding of increments of pay and withholding of promotion, the
recommendation of the DPC in favour of the employee, kept in the sealed cover,
will not be given effect to. But the case of the employee concerned for
promotion/confirmation may be considered by the next DPC when it meets after
the conclusion of the departmental proceedings. If the findings of the DPC are
in favour of the employee, he may be promoted in his turn if the penalty is
that of "censure" or "recovery of pecuniary loss caused to the Government by
negligence or breach of orders", In the case of employees who have been
awarded the minor penalty of "withholding of increments" or "withholding of
promotion" promotion can be made only after the expiry of the penalty.(iv) If
a recordable warning has been issued to an officer as a result of disciplinary
proceedings before the issue of this Office Memorandum and the case of the
officer concerned for promotion is still under consideration, he should be
treated as having been "censured". The officer will also have the right of
representation against such warning and such representation shall be dealt
with by the competent authority as if it were an appeal under the relevant
disciplinary rules.[Deptt. of Peronnel & A.R. O.M. No. 22011/2/78-Estt.(A)
dated the 16th February, 1979](8) Scope of penalty of reduction in rank-
Supreme Court judgment in cases of Shri Nayadar Singh & Shri M.J. Ninama Vs.
Union of India (Civil Appeal No. 3003 of 1988 and 889 of 1988) :-Clause (vi)
of Rule 11, which enumerates the penalties that may be imposed on a Government
servant after following the prescribed procedure, provides as under :-"(vi)
reduction to a lower time-scale of pay, grade, post or Service which shall
ordinarily be a bar to the promotion of the Government servant, to the time
scale of pay, grade, post or Service from which he was reduced with or without
further directions regarding conditions of the restoration to the grade or
post or Service from which the Government servant was reduced and his
seniority and pay on such restoration to that grade, post or service."2\. The
judgment cited above related to two cases in one of which a Government servant
who was initially recruited as a Postal Assistant and was later promoted as
UDC, while working as UDC, was reduced in rank, as a measure of penalty, to a
post of LDC, which was lower in rank than the post of Postal Assistant to
which he had been recruited initially. In the second case, disciplinary
authority had imposed a penalty of reduction in rank reducing an officer from
the post of Assistant Locust Warning Officer to which he was recruited
directly to that of Junior Technical Assistant. The Supreme Court, while
setting aside the penalty imposed in both cases have held that a person
appointed directly to a higher post, service, grade or time-scale of pay
cannot be reduced by way of punishment to a post in a lower time scale, grade,
service or to post which he never held before.3\. The rulings given by the
Supreme Court in the above cases may be kept in view by all disciplinary
authorities while deciding cases in future. However, past cases need not be
reopened in the light of the aforesaid judgment.[Deptt. of Pers. & Trg. OM No.
11012/2/88-Estts. Dated 02.02.89](9) Penalty of reduction to a lower stage in
the time scale of pay for a period not exceeding three years without
cumulative effect and not adversely affecting his pension.A new clause (iii a)
was inserted in Rule 11 of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 vide this Department's
notification No. 11012/4/86-Estt.(A) dated 13.07.1990. As a result, reduction
to a lower stage in the time scale of pay for a period not exceeding three
years, without cumulative effect and not adversely affecting the pension of
the Government servant who has been punished, was introduced as another minor
penalty.2\. A doubt has been raised that the minor penalty introduced vide
clause (iii a) is also covered under clause (v) of Rule 11 and, therefore, can
in some circumstances be treated as a major penalty. It is clarified that
since the penalty to the extent mentioned in clause (iiia) of Rule 11 has been
carved out of clause (v) of Rule 11 specifically, it does not constitute a
major penalty under clause (v) of Rule 11. To ensure that this is clear,
clause (v) of Rule 11 is being amended and a notification is being issued
separately.[Deptt. of Pers. & Trg. OM No. 11012/4/86-Estt.(A) dated
28.05.92](10) Action against Government servants to be taken if they are later
found ineligible or unqualified for their initial recruitment -Attention of
the Ministries/Departments is invited to Ministry of Home Affairs OM No.
39/1/67-Ests.(A) dated 21.02.1967 wherein it was clarified that departmental
action can be taken against Government servant in respect of misconduct
committed before his employment. Attention is also invited to the Ministry of
Home Affairs OM No. 5/1/63-Estt. (D) dated 30.04.1965 wherein
Ministries/Departments were requested to make use of the provision of
'warning' inserted in the Attestation Form for taking action against
Government servant furnishing false information at the time of appointment.2\.
A question has now arisen as to whether a Government Servant can be discharged
from service where it is discovered later that the Government servant was not
qualified or eligible for his initial recruitment in service. The Supreme
Court in its judgment in the District Collector, Vizianagram vs. M. Tripura
Sundari Devi (1990(4) SLR 237 went into this issue and observed as under :-"It
must further be realized by all concerned that when an advertisement mentions
a particular qualification and an appointment is made in disregard of the
same, it is not a matter only between the appointing authority and the
appointee concerned. The aggrieved are all those who had similar or better
qualifications than the appointee or appointees but who had not applied for
the post because they did not possess the qualifications mentioned in the
advertisement. It amounts to a fraud on public to appoint a person with
inferior qualifications in such circumstances unless it is clearly stated that
the qualifications are relaxable. No Court should be a party to the
perpetuation of the fraudulent practice."The matter has been examined in
consultation with the Ministry of Law and Justice and it has now been decided
that wherever it is found that a Government servant, who was not qualified or
eligible in terms of the recruitment rules etc, for initial recruitment in
service or had furnished false information or produced a false certificate in
order to secure appointment, he should not be retained in service. If he is a
probationer or a temporary Government servant, he should be discharged or his
services should be terminated. If he has become a permanent Government
servant, an inquiry as prescribed in Rule 14 of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 may be
held and if the charges are proved, the Government servant should be removed
or dismissed from service. In no circumstances should any other penalty be
imposed.3\. Such discharge, termination, removal or dismissal from service
would, however, be without prejudice to the right of the Government to
prosecute such Government servants.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training OM No.
11012/7/91-Estt. (A) dated 19.05.1993](11) Rule 11 (iii) of the CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965 - Recovery of pecuniary loss caused by a Government servant -
Clarifications -References are being received in this Department seeking
clarification whether the instructions contained in DGP&T Letter No.
3/312/70-Disc-I dated 17.08.1971 are applicable to Government servants serving
in other Ministries/Departments also.2\. The DGP&T's instructions mentioned
above provide that recovery from the pay of a Government servant as a
punishment for any pecuniary loss caused by him to the Government by
negligence or breach of orders, should not exceed 1/3 of his basic pay (i.e.
excluding dearness pay or any other allowances) and should not be spread over
a period of more than three years. However, no such limits have been
prescribed in the statutory rules i.e. in Rule 11 (iii) of the CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965.3\. The matter has been examined in consultation with the Ministry
of Law. It was observed that the DGP&T instructions prescribed the procedure
to effect the recovery of the amount levied as penalty in terms of Rule 11
(iii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 and these procedural instructions cannot
amend, supercede, or modify the substantive provisions of Rule 11 (iii) of the
CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. While it is expected that in imposing the penalty of
recovery of pecuniary loss the disciplinary authority should not display such
severity that a Government servant suffers hardship disproportionate to his
negligence/misconduct that led to the loss, it is not necessary to fix a rigid
limit for the purpose of such recovery. The DGP&T instructions would,
therefore, be treated as unwarranted. Therefore, the implication of this OM is
to recover the entire loss from the delinquent official but the recovery may
be spread over till entire loss is discovered.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training
OM No. 11012/1/2000-Estt. (A), dated 6th September, 2000](12) Imposition of
penalty of reduction to a lower time scale of pay, grade, post or service
-Clause (vi) of rule 11 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control
and Appeal) Rules, 1965 provides for the imposition on a Government servant of
a penalty of reduction to lower time scale of pay, grade, post or Service
which shall ordinarily be a bar to the promotion of the Government servant to
the time-scale of pay, grade, post or Service from which he was reduced, with
or without further directions regarding conditions of restoration to the grade
or post or service from which the Government servant was reduced, and his
seniority and pay on such restoration to that grade, post or Service.2\. The
Staff side of the National Council (JCM) has made a request that the penalty
of reduction to lower time scale of pay in the said clause (vi) should not be
imposed on the Charged Officer on a permanent basis on the ground that it is
harsh and does not allow the employee to be promoted to the next grade even if
he improves his working and the Competent Authority later finds him fit for
promotion. The Staff Side has suggested that the penalty in question should be
for a specified time-period with clear directions regarding restoration to the
higher grade.3\. The existing rule position is that the imposition of the
penalty of reduction to a lower grade, post or service is normally a bar to
the promotion to a higher grade, post or service (from which he was reduced)
unless the conditions of restoration are specified. It is open to the
Disciplinary Authority to prescribe the conditions of restoration to the
higher grade in deserving cases.4\. The minor penalties and major penalties in
rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 have been graded in order of the severity
to be awarded to a charged Government servant in proportion to the gravity of
misconduct/negligence which has given rise to the charge-sheet. While the
major penalties of compulsory retirement, removal from service and dismissal
from service have been included as clauses (vii), (viii) and (ix) of the said
rule 11, the penalty reduction to a lower time scale of pay, grade, post or
Service has been incorporated therein as clause (vi). This clause also
provides that while imposing this penalty, the Disciplinary Authority or the
Appellate/Revision Authority is also required to indicate in the penalty order
whether or not the individual charged Government servant would be eligible for
restoration to the grade/post or Service from which he was reduced and his
seniority and pay on such restoration and the conditions for such restoration.
It will, therefore, be seen that the penalty has been provided to be awarded
to an individual who may not be sent out of Government service (through
dismissal/removal etc.) but who needs to be given a very severe penalty in
view of the gravity of his misconduct.5\. Attention in this connection is also
invited to the Government of India, MHA O.M. No. 9/13/92-Estt.(D) dated
10.10.1962 and No. 9/30/63-Estt. (D) dated 07.02.1964 which stipulates that an
order imposing the penalty of reduction to a lower service, grade or post or
to a lower time-scale should invariably specify the period of reduction unless
the clear intention is that the reduction should be permanent or for an
indefinite period. These instructions also indicate the manner in which the
order should be framed when the reduction is for specified period of
indefinite period. In case the intention of the Competent Authority is to
award the penalty of reduction on permanent basis, the same may be
specifically stated in the order so that the intention is conveyed to the
Government servant in unambiguous terms and he is afforded full opportunity
for submission of his appeal as provided in the rules.[DOPT OM No.
11012/2/2005-Estt. (A), dated 14th May, 2007]  
---  
  
### 12. Disciplinary Authorities

(1)The President may impose any of the penalties specified in Rule 11 on any
Government servant.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-rule (1), but
subject to the provisions of sub-rule (4), any of the penalties specified in
Rule 11 may be imposed on -(a)a member of a Central Civil Service other than
the General Central Service, by the appointing authority or the authority
specified in the schedule in this behalf or by any other authority empowered
in this behalf by a general or special order of the President;(b)a person
appointed to a Central Civil Post included in the General Central Service, by
the authority specified in this behalf by a general or special order of the
President or, where no such order has been made, by the appointing authority
or the authority specified in the Schedule in this behalf.(3)Subject to the
provisions of sub-rule (4), the power to impose any of the penalties specified
in Rule 11 may also be exercised, in the case of a member of a Central Civil
Services, Group 'C' (other than the Central Secretariat Clerical Service), or
a Central Civil Service, Group 'D' ,-(a)if he is serving in a Ministry or
Department of the Government of India, by the Secretary to the Government of
India in that Ministry or Department, or(b)if he is serving in any office, by
the head of that office, except where the head of that office is lower in rank
than the authority competent to impose the penalty under sub-rule
(2).(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule -(a)except where the
penalty specified in clause (v) or clause (vi) of Rule 11 is imposed by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General on a member of the Indian Audit and Accounts
Service, no penalty specified in clause (v) to (ix) of that rule shall be
imposed by any authority subordinate to the appointing authority;(b)where a
Government servant who is a member of a Service other than the General Central
Service or who has been substantively appointed to any civil post in the
General Central Service, is temporarily appointed to any other Service or
post, the authority competent to impose on such Government servant any of the
penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of Rule 11 shall not impose any
such penalties unless it has consulted such authority, not being an authority
subordinate to it, as would have been competent under sub-rule (2) to impose
on the Government servant any of the said penalties had he not been appointed
to such other Service or post;(c)in respect of a probationer undergoing
training at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, the
Director of the said Academy shall be the authority competent to impose on
such probationer any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iii) of
rule 11 after observing the procedure laid down in rule 16.EXPLANATION I. For
the purposes of clause (c), 'probationer' means a person appointed to a
Central Civil Service on probation.EXPLANATION II. Where a Government servant
belonging to a Service or holding a Central Civil post of any Group, is
promoted, whether on probation or temporarily to the Service or Central Civil
post of the next higher Group, he shall be deemed for the purposes of this
rule to belong to the Service of, or hold the Central Civil post of, such
higher Group.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's decision :(1) Officers performing current duties of a
post cannot exercise Statutory powers under the Rules :-An officer appointed
to perform the current duties of an appointment can exercise administrative or
financial power vested in the full-fledged incumbent of the post but he cannot
exercise statutory powers, whether those powers are derived direct from an Act
of Parliament (e.g. Income Tax Act) or Rules, Regulations and Bye-Laws made
under various Articles of the Constitution (e.g., Fundamental Rules,
Classification, Control and Appeal Rules, Civil Service Regulations,
Delegation of Financial Powers Rules etc.)[MHA OM No. 7/14/61-Ests. (A) dated
24th January, 1963].(2) Powers delegated to Chief Commissioner, Andaman &
Nicobar Islands :-In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 12 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 the President
empowers under clause (a) of, and specifies under clause (b) of, that sub-rule
the Chief Commissioner, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, for the purpose of
imposition of the penalties specified in clause (i), clause (ii) and clause
(iii) of rule 11 of the said rules on :-(a) any member of Central Civil
Service Class I, other than the General Central Service.(b) any person
appointed to a Central Civil Post Class I included in the General Central
Service serving under the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Administration.[MHA Memo
No. F.7/16/64-Ests.(A) dated the 30th may, 1964].(3) Clarification about rules
12, 14 etc.Several points relating to rules 12, 14, 15 and 29 of CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965, are being frequently referred to Home Ministry for clarification.
These points are indicated below and the clarification given against each.{|  
---  
| Point raised | Classification  
1. | (a) In cases where the disciplinary authority is the President, whether the case should be shown to the Minister before disciplinary proceedings are initiated. |  (a)Having regard to the Transaction of Business Rules, it is necessary that in cases where the disciplinary authority is the President, the initiation of the disciplinary proceedings should be approved by the Minister.  
| (b) Whether it is necessary to show the file to the Minister every time before formal orders are issued in the name of the President, under Rules 14 (2), 14(4), 14(5) etc. of the CCS (CCA) Rules? |  (b)It would be sufficient if Minister's orders are obtained for taking action ancilliary to the issue of the charge sheet at the stage when the papers are put up to him for initiation of disciplinary proceedings. However formal orders of the Minister should be obtained at the stage of show cause notice under Rule 15 (4) (i) (b) and at the stage of issuing final orders imposing penalty under Rule 15 (4) (iii).  
2. |  What happens to the disciplinary proceedings started by a disciplinary authority(A) in respect of a Government servant when the latter is transferred to the jurisdiction of another disciplinary authority (B) even though the said Government servant continues to be in the same service? | In such cases it is not necessary for disciplinary authority (B) to start de novo proceedings by framing and delivering fresh articles of charge to the concerned official. He can carry on with the enquiry proceedings at the point where the transfer of the accused Officer was effected. If, however, the accused official is transferred to another service then the procedure laid down in Rule 12 (4) (b) of the CCS (CCA) Rules will have to be followed.  
  
[MHA Memo No. F.39/1/69-Ests.(A) dated the 16th April, 1969]|}

### 13. Authority to institute proceedings.

(1)The President or any other authority empowered by him by general or special
order may -(a)institute disciplinary proceedings against any Government
servant;(b)direct a disciplinary authority to institute disciplinary
proceedings against any Government servant on whom that disciplinary authority
is competent to impose under these rules any of the penalties specified in
rule 11.(2)A disciplinary authority competent under these rules to impose any
of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of rule 11 may institute
disciplinary proceedings against any Government servant for the imposition of
any of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11
notwithstanding that such disciplinary authority is not competent under these
rules to impose any of the latter penalties.

## Part VI – Procedure For Imposing Penalties

### 14. Procedure for imposing major penalties.

(1)No order imposing any of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of
Rule 11 shall be made except after an inquiry held, as far as may be, in the
manner provided in this rule and rule 15, or in the manner provided by the
Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (37 of 1850), where such inquiry is held
under that Act.(2)Whenever the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that
there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any imputation of misconduct
or misbehaviour against a Government servant, it may itself inquire into, or
appoint under this rule or under the provisions of the Public Servants
(Inquiries) Act, 1850, as the case may be, an authority to inquire into the
truth thereof.Provided that where there is a complaint of sexual harassment
within the meaning of rule 3 C of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules,
1964, the complaints Committee established in each ministry or Department or
Office for inquiring into such complaints, shall be deemed to be the inquiring
authority appointed by the disciplinary authority for the purpose of these
rules and the Complaints Committee shall hold, if separate procedure has not
been prescribed for the complaints committee for holding the inquiry into the
complaints of sexual harassments, the inquiry as far as practicable in
accordance with the procedure laid down in these rules.EXPLANATION - Where the
disciplinary authority itself holds the inquiry, any reference in sub-rule (7)
to sub-rule (20) and in sub-rule (22) to the inquiring authority shall be
construed as a reference to the disciplinary authority.(3)Where it is proposed
to hold an inquiry against a Government servant under this rule and rule 15,
the disciplinary authority shall draw up or cause to be drawn up-(i)the
substance of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour into definite and
distinct articles of charge;(ii)a statement of the imputations of misconduct
or misbehaviour in support of each article of charge, which shall contain-(a)a
statement of all relevant facts including any admission or confession made by
the Government servant;(b)a list of documents by which, and a list of
witnesses by whom, the articles of charge are proposed to be sustained.(4)[
(a) The Disciplinary Authority shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the
Government servant a copy of the articles of charge, the statement of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour and a list of documents and
witnesses by which each article or charges is proposed to be sustained.(b)On
receipt of the articles of charge, the Government servant shall be required to
submit his written statement of defence, if he so desires, and also state
whether he desires to be heard in person, within a period of fifteen days,
which may be further extended for a period not exceeding fifteen days at a
time for reasons to be recorded in writing by the Disciplinary Authority or
any other Authority authorised by the Disciplinary Authority on his
behalf:Provided that under no circumstances, the extension of time for filing
written statement of defence shall exceed forty-five days from the date of
receipt of articles of charge.";] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 548
(E), dated 2.6.2017]

(4) The disciplinary authority shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the
Government servant a copy of the articles of charge, the statement of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour and a list of documents and
witnesses by which each article of charges is proposed to be sustained and
shall require the Government servant to submit, within such time as may be
specified, a written statement of his defence and to state whether he desires
to be heard in person.  
---  
  
(5)(a)On receipt of the written statement of defence, the disciplinary
authority may itself inquire into such of the articles of charge as are not
admitted, or, if it considers it necessary so to do, appoint, under sub-rule
(2), an inquiring authority for the purpose, and where all the articles of
charge have been admitted by the Government servant in his written statement
of defence, the disciplinary authority shall record its findings on each
charge after taking such evidence as it may think fit and shall act in the
manner laid down in rule 15.(b)If no written statement of defence is submitted
by the Government servant, the disciplinary authority may itself inquire into
the articles of charge, or may, if it considers it necessary to do so,
appoint, under sub-rule (2), an inquiring authority for the purpose.(c)Where
the disciplinary authority itself inquires into any article of charge or
appoints an inquiring authority for holding an inquiry into such charge, it
may, by an order, appoint a Government servant or a legal practitioner, to be
known as the "Presenting Officer" to present on its behalf the case in support
of the articles of charge.(6)The disciplinary authority shall, where it is not
the inquiring authority, forward to the inquiring authority-(i)a copy of the
articles of charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct or
misbehaviour;(ii)a copy of the written statement of the defence, if any,
submitted by the Government servant;(iii)a copy of the statements of
witnesses, if any, referred to in sub-rule (3);(iv)evidence proving the
delivery of the documents referred to in sub-rule (3) to the Government
servant; and(v)a copy of the order appointing the "Presenting Officer".(7)The
Government servant shall appear in person before the inquiring authority on
such day and at such time within ten working days from the date of receipt by
the inquiring authority of the articles of charge and the statement of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour, as the inquiring authority may, by
notice in writing, specify, in this behalf, or within such further time, not
exceeding ten days, as the inquiring authority may allow.(8)(a)The Government
servant may take the assistance of any other Government servant posted in any
office either at his headquarters or at the place where the inquiry is held,
to present the case on his behalf, but may not engage a legal practitioner for
the purpose, unless the Presenting Officer appointed by the disciplinary
authority is a legal practitioner, or, the disciplinary authority, having
regard to the circumstances of the case, so permits ;Provided that the
Government servant may take the assistance of any other Government servant
posted at any other station, if the inquiring authority having regard to the
circumstances of the case, and for reasons to be recorded in writing, so
permits.Note : The Government servant shall not take the assistance of any
other Government servant who has three pending disciplinary cases on hand in
which he has to give assistance.(b)The Government servant may also take the
assistance of a retired Government servant to present the case on his behalf,
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the President from time to
time by general or special order in this behalf.(9)If the Government servant
who has not admitted any of the articles of charge in his written statement of
defence or has not submitted any written statement of defence, appears before
the inquiring authority, such authority shall ask him whether he is guilty or
has any defence to make and it he pleads guilty to any of the articles of
charge, the inquiring authority shall record the plea, sign the record and
obtain the signature of the Government servant thereon.(10)The inquiring
authority shall return a finding of guilt in respect of those articles of
charge to which the government servant pleads guilty.(11)The inquiring
authority shall, if the Government servant fails to appear within the
specified time or refuses or omits to plead, require the Presenting Officer to
produce the evidence by which he proposes to prove the articles of charge, and
shall adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty days, after
recording an order that the Government servant may, for the purpose of
preparing his defence :(i)inspect within five days of the order or within such
further time not exceeding five days as the inquiring authority may allow, the
documents specified in the list referred to in sub-rule (3);(ii)submit a list
of witnesses to be examined on his behalf;NOTE- If the Government servant
applies orally or in writing for the supply of copies of the statements of
witnesses mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule (3), the inquiring
authority shall furnish him with such copies as early as possible and in any
case not later than three days before the commencement of the examination of
the witnesses on behalf of the disciplinary authority.(iii)give a notice
within ten days of the order or within such further time not exceeding ten
days as the inquiring authority may allow, for the discovery or production of
any documents which are in the possession of Government but not mentioned in
the list referred to in sub-rule (3).NOTE- The Government servant shall
indicate the relevance of the documents required by him to be discovered or
produced by the Government.(12)The inquiring authority shall, on receipt of
the notice for the discovery or production of documents, forward the same or
copies thereof to the authority in whose custody or possession the documents
are kept, with a requisition for the production of the documents by such date
as may be specified in such requisition :Provided that the inquiring authority
may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, refuse to requisition such
of the documents as are, in its opinion, not relevant to the case.(13)[ On
receipt of the requisition referred to in sub-rule (12), every authority
having the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents shall produce
the same or issue a non-availability certificate before the Inquiring
Authority within one month of the receipt of such requisition:Provided that if
the authority having the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents
is satisfied for reasons to be recorded by it in writing that the production
of all or any of such documents would be against the public interest or
security of the State, it shall inform the Inquiring Authority accordingly and
the Inquiring Authority shall, on being so informed, communicate the
information to the Government servant and withdraw the requisition made by it
for the production or discovery of such documents.] [Substituted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 548 (E), dated 2.6.2017]

(13) On receipt of the requisition referred to in sub-rule (12), every
authority having the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents
shall produce the same before the inquiring authority:Provided that if the
authority having the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents is
satisfied for reasons to be recorded by it in writing that the production of
all or any of such documents would be against the public interest or security
of the State, it shall inform the inquiring authority accordingly and the
inquiring authority shall, on being so informed, communicate the information
to the Government servant and withdraw the requisition made by it for the
production or discovery of such documents.  
---  
  
(14)On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and documentary evidence by
which the articles of charge are proposed to be proved shall be produced by or
on behalf of the disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or
on behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or on behalf
of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer shall be entitled to re-
examine the witnesses on any points on which they have been cross-examined,
but not on any new matter, without the leave of the inquiring authority. The
inquiring authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it thinks
fit.(15)If it shall appear necessary before the close of the case on behalf of
the disciplinary authority, the inquiring authority may, in its discretion,
allow the Presenting Officer to produce evidence not included in the list
given to the Government servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall
and re-examine any witness and in such case the Government servant shall be
entitled to have, if he demands it, a copy of the list of further evidence
proposed to be produced and an adjournment of the inquiry for three clear days
before the production of such new evidence, exclusive of the day of
adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is adjourned. The inquiring
authority shall give the Government servant an opportunity of inspecting such
documents before they are taken on the record. The inquiring authority may
also allow the Government servant to produce new evidence, if it is of the
opinion that the production of such evidence is necessary, in the interests of
justice.NOTE.- New evidence shall not be permitted or called for or any
witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap in the evidence. Such
evidence may be called for only when there is an inherent lacuna or defect in
the evidence which has been produced originally.(16)When the case for the
disciplinary authority is closed, the Government servant shall be required to
state his defence, orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is
made orally, it shall be recorded and the Government servant shall be required
to sign the record. In either case, a copy of the statement of defence shall
be given to the Presenting Officer, if any, appointed.(17)The evidence on
behalf of the Government servant shall then be produced. The Government
servant may examine himself in his own behalf if he so prefers. The witnesses
produced by the Government servant shall then be examined and shall be liable
to cross-examination, re-examination and examination by the inquiring
authority according to the provisions applicable to the witnesses for the
disciplinary authority.(18)The inquiring authority may, after the Government
servant closes his case, and shall, if the Government servant has not examined
himself, generally question him on the circumstances appearing against him in
the evidence for the purpose of enabling the Government servant to explain any
circumstances appearing in the evidence against him.(19)The inquiring
authority may, after the completion of the production of evidence, hear the
Presenting Officer, if any, appointed, and the Government servant, or permit
them to file written briefs of their respective case, if they so desire.(20)If
the Government servant to whom a copy of the articles of charge has been
delivered, does not submit the written statement of defence on or before the
date specified for the purpose or does not appear in person before the
inquiring authority or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with the
provisions of this rule, the inquiring authority may hold the inquiry ex
parte.(21)(a)Where a disciplinary authority competent to impose any of the
penalties specified in clause (i) to (iv) of rule 11 (but not competent to
impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11), has
itself inquired into or caused to be inquired into the articles of any charge
and that authority, having regard to its own findings or having regard to its
decision on any of the findings of any inquiring authority appointed by it, is
of the opinion that the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11
should be imposed on the Government servant, that authority shall forward the
records of the inquiry to such disciplinary authority as is competent to
impose the last mentioned penalties.(b)The disciplinary authority to which the
records are so forwarded may act on the evidence on the record or may, if it
is of the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses is
necessary in the interests of justice, recall the witness and examine, cross-
examine and re-examine the witness and may impose on the Government servant
such penalty as it may deem fit in accordance with these rules.(22)Whenever
any inquiring authority, after having heard and recorded the whole or any part
of the evidence in an inquiry ceases to exercise jurisdiction therein, and is
succeeded by another inquiring authority which has, and which exercises, such
jurisdiction, the inquiring authority so succeeding may act on the evidence so
recorded by its predecessor, or partly recorded by its predecessor and partly
recorded by itself:Provided that if the succeeding inquiring authority is of
the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses whose evidence
has already been recorded is necessary in the interests of justice, it may
recall, examine, cross-examine and re-examine any such witnesses as
hereinbefore provided.(23)(i)After the conclusion of the inquiry, a report
shall be prepared and it shall contain-(a)the articles of charge and the
statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour;(b)the defence of
the Government servant in respect of each article of charge;(c)an assessment
of the evidence in respect of each article of charge;(d)the findings on each
article of charge and the reasons therefor.(24)[ (a) The Inquiring Authority
should conclude the inquiry and submit his report within a period of six
months from the date of receipt of order of his appointment as Inquiring
Authority.(b)Where it is not possible to adhere to the time limit specified in
clause (a), the Inquiring Authority may record the reasons and seek extension
of time from the disciplinary authority in writing, who may allow an
additional time not exceeding six months for completion of the Inquiry, at a
time.(c)The extension for a period not exceeding six months at a time may be
allowed for any good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing by the
Disciplinary Authority or any other Authority authorised by the Disciplinary
Authority on his behalf.]EXPLANATION - If in the opinion of the inquiring
authority the proceedings of the inquiry establish any article of charge
different from the original articles of the charge, it may record its findings
on such article of charge:Provided that the findings on such article of charge
shall not be recorded unless the Government servant has either admitted the
facts on which such article of charge is based or has had a reasonable
opportunity of defending himself against such article of charge.(ii)The
inquiring authority, where it is not itself the disciplinary authority, shall
forward to the disciplinary authority the records of inquiry which shall
include :-(a)the report prepared by it under clause (i).(b)the written
statement of defence, if any, submitted by the Government servant;(c)the oral
and documentary evidence produced in the course of the inquiry;(d)written
briefs, if any, filed by the Presenting Officer or the Government servant or
both during the course of the inquiry; and(e)the orders, if any, made by the
disciplinary authority and the inquiring authority in regard to the inquiry.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 548 (E), dated 2.6.2017]

Government of India's decisions :(1) Instructions to avoid procedural delays
in the disposal discipline cases :-There have been repeated references in
Parliament and in Parliamentary Committees to the delays in the disposal of
departmental proceedings against delinquent Government servants, and to cases
in which on technical and procedural grounds, the accused persons ultimately
escape the punishment they deserve. The general impression is that the
prescribed procedure is too elaborate and requires to be replaced by something
more simple and summary.2\. After careful consideration the Ministry of Home
Affairs have come to the conclusion that this impression is not wholly
justified. The procedure prescribed in Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules is
applicable only to cases in which the charges are so serious as to call for
one of the major punishments, i.e., Dismissal, Removal or Reduction in the
rank etc. (A mere summary procedure is already available for less serious
cases). The provisions of Rule 14 ibid are merely designed to ensure
compliance, with a salutary principle of justice and public policy which has
also been incorporated in Article 311 of the Constitution of India viz., that
no man should be condemned or punished without a reasonable opportunity to
defend himself. The prescribed procedure therefore requires that the accused
officer should be told in the form of written charges exactly what he is
alleged to have done and on what evidence, oral or documentary, the
allegations are based that he should have an opportunity to inspect the
documentary evidence, to test the oral evidence by cross-examination and to
furnish such evidence as he may wish to adduce in his own defence. If, as a
result of the inquiry, it is decided that the officer should be dismissed,
removed or reduced in rank, he has to be given a further opportunity to show
cause, if any, against the actual punishment propose. Anything less than this
would amount to denial of the reasonable opportunity which is guaranteed by
Article 311.3\. There is, however, nothing in these minimum requirements which
must necessarily lead to unduly protected proceedings or to a failure, to
secure just punishment to the guilty. The officer conducting a departmental
inquiry has to hold the balance even between the interest of the State and the
avoidance of injustice to the accused. He is free to take a responsible,
reasonable and prudent view of the facts and the circumstances of the case and
is not bound by the rigid limitations regarding the admissibility of evidence
and the degree of proof applicable to prosecution before Criminal Courts.
Provided the inquiry officer gives the necessary time and effort, confines his
attention to the main points at the issue and firmly resists any attempt by
the accused officer to introduce irrelevancies or to adopt deliberate dilatory
tactics-there is no reason why satisfactory expedition in disposal should not
be achieved in all cases without departing from the prescribed procedure.4\.
The various factors which may contribute to undue delays and faulty disposal
are :-(i) Officer conducting the departmental inquiries may be so preoccupied
with other duties that they can only spare a few hours at a time at long
intervals for the inquiry itself.(ii) Unfamiliarity with the procedure or
inadequate appreciation of the difference between a departmental inquiry and a
trial in a Criminal Court, may lead to over-elaboration, or lack of firmness
in dealing with dilatory tactics.(iii) Avoidable delay may sometimes occur at
the stage when the inquiry officer has submitted his report and the
appropriate authorities have to make up their minds whether the findings are
to be accepted and if so what the punishment should be.(iv) Where, under the
rules, consultation with the Union Public Service Commission is necessary some
undue delay may occur in making the reference to the Commission, and in the
consideration of the case by that body.5\. As regards the factors mentioned in
(i) and (ii) above Ministry of Home Affairs have considered the feasibility of
setting up separate Administrative Tribunals for inquiring into the more
important departmental proceedings. Although such bodies have worked
satisfactorily in the State of Uttar Pradesh and Madras, it is felt that
Central Government Machinery is so vast and widely scattered that a similar
experiment will hardly justify the expenditure incurred. In case of extreme
complexity or importance it will always be open to Government to set special
committees of enquiry or to have recourse to the Public Servants Enquiry Act,
1850. For all other departmental inquiries the delay caused by excessive pre-
occupation or unfamiliarities with the procedure could be easily avoided by
adopting the following measures :-(i) In each Ministry or Department a
specified officer or officers of appropriate rank shall be nominated and ear-
marked for the purpose of conducting all the departmental inquiries arising
within that Ministry/Department.(ii) As soon as occasion arises for taking up
such an inquiry the nominated officer will be relieved of his normal duties to
such extent as may be necessary to enable him to devote full and careful
attention to the completion of the inquiries and the submission of his report.
During this time the work of which the officer is relieved may be distributed
amongst other officers.(iii) The nominated officers should familiarize
themselves with the rules and essential procedural requirements and appreciate
the difference between Departmental inquiries and trials in the Criminal
Courts. The maintenance of close personal contact with the Ministry of Home
Affairs will enable them quickly to resolve any doubts or difficulties which
may arise.6\. As regards the causes of delay mentioned in (iii) and (iv) of
para 4 much improvement will be effected if, (a) it is impressed upon all
concerned that both public interest as well as humanitarian considerations
demand that no avoidable delay should occur in the disposal of disciplinary
case; and (b) and failure to give such cases due priority is itself regarded
as a dereliction of duty and suitably dealt with.[MHA OM No. 39/40/52-Est.,
dated the 4th October, 1952.](2) Pay Commission's recommendations regarding
disciplinary proceedings and Government's order thereon :-In chapter LI of
their report the Pay Commission have made the following recommendations
regarding disciplinary proceedings :-(i) All memorials etc. as well as appeals
which come to the Central Government against imposition of major penalties,
should be disposed of only in consultation with the Public Service
Commission.(ii) The power to withhold appeals, memorials or petitions under
prescribed circumstances should be exercised by an authority higher than the
one which has passed the orders against which the appeal etc., is made.(iii) A
disciplinary enquiry should not be conducted by the immediate superior of the
Government servant being proceeded against or by an officer at whose instance
the inquiry was initiated.These recommendations have been carefully examined
by Government and the conclusion reached are contained in the following
paragraphs.2\. The Government of India note that the Pay Commission have
observed that the information available with them does not at all suggest that
disciplinary action is taken in far too many cases or that major penalties
imposed too freely or that appeals and memorials are dealt with perfunctorily.
It is considered that the acceptance of recommendation at (i) above would
considerably increase the work of the Union Public Service Commission. It may
also lead to delays in completing disciplinary cases, which would neither be
in the interest of public service nor in that of the individual Government
servant. It has, therefore, been decided not to make any change in the
existing procedure.3\. As regards recommendation under (ii), the instructions
contained in MHA OM No. 40/5/50-Ests.(B), dated 8th September, 1954 lay down
the procedure for submission of petitions, memorials etc., to the President.
In these instructions the power to withhold petitions etc. has been granted
only to high authorities like the Secretaries to the Government and the Head
of Departments. An appeal can be withheld only under prescribed circumstances;
the appellant is required to be informed of the fact and the reasons for
withholding the appeal are required to be communicated to the appellate
authority and quarterly return giving the list of withheld appeals has to be
submitted to the appellate authority. These are sufficient safeguards against
unjustified withholding of appeals.It is considered that these instructions
and rules do not require any modification. The authorities dealing with
petitions, memorials and appeals are, however, expected to apply the
instructions and rules in a liberal spirit and they should ordinarily refrain
from withholding any appeal, representation, petition or memorial except in
rare cases where the justification for contrary action may be obvious.4\. As
regards recommendation (iii), it is obviously desirable that only
disinterested officers should be appointed as Inquiry Officers in departmental
proceedings. There is no bar to the immediate superior officer holding an
inquiry but, as a rule, the person who undertakes this task should not be
suspected of any bias in such cases. The authorities concerned should bear
this in mind before an Inquiry Officer is appointed in a disciplinary
case.[MHA OM No. F.6(26)/60-Ests.(A) dated the 16th February, 1961.](3) Supply
of copies of documents to the delinquent official :-A question often arises
whether a particular document or set of documents asked for by a Government
servant involved in a departmental inquiry should be made available to him or
not; and pending the decision of the question the submission of the written
statement by the Government servant concerned is delayed, in some cases for
months. In view of this and also of the judgement pronounced by the Supreme
Court in Raizada Trilok Nath Vs. the Union of India in which it has been
decided that failure to furnish copies of documents such as the First
Information Report and statements recorded during investigation amounts to a
violation of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution, the whole question of the
extent of access to official records to which a Government servant is entitled
under sub-rule 4 of Rule 5 of the All India Services (Discipline & Appeal)
Rules or sub-rule 3 of Rule 15 of the Central civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules has been examined in consultation with the Ministry
of Law.2\. The right of access to official records is not unlimited and it is
open to the Government to deny such access if in its opinion such records are
not relevant to the case, or it is not desirable in the public interest to
allow such access. The power to refuse access to official records should,
however, be very sparingly exercised. The question of relevancy should be
looked at from the point of view of the defence and if there is any possible
line of defence to which the document may, in some way be relevant though the
relevance is not clear to the disciplinary authority at the time that the
request is made, the request for access should not be rejected. The power to
deny access on the ground of public interest should be exercised only when
there are reasonable and sufficient grounds to believe that public interest
will clearly suffer. Cases of the latter type are likely to be very few and
normally occasion for refusal of access on the ground that it is not in public
interest should not arise if the document is intended to be used in proof of
the charge and if it is proposed to produce such a document before the Inquiry
Officer, if an enquiry comes to be held. It has to be remembered that serious
difficulties arise when the Courts do not accept as correct the refusal by the
disciplinary authority, of access to documents. In any case, where it is
decided to refuse access, reasons for refusal should be cogent and substantial
and should invariable be recorded in writing.3\. Government servants involved
in departmental enquiries often ask for access to and or supply of copies of
:(1) documents to which reference has been made in the statement of
allegations;(2) documents and records not so referred to in the statement of
allegations but which the Government servant concerned considers are relevant
for the purposes of his defence;(3) statement of witnesses recorded in the
course of -(a) a preliminary enquiry conducted by the department; or(b)
investigation made by the Police;(4) reports submitted to Government or other
competent authority including the disciplinary authority, by an officer
appointed to hold a preliminary inquiry to ascertain facts;(5) reports
submitted to Government or other competent authority including the
disciplinary authority, by the Police after investigation.4\. A list of the
documents which are proposed to be relied upon to prove the charge and the
facts stated in the statement of allegations should be drawn up at the time of
framing the charge. This will incidentally reduce the delay that usually
occurs between the service of the charge-sheet and the submission of the
written statement. The list should normally include documents like the First
Information Report if there is one on record. Anonymous and pseudonymous
complaints on the basis of which inquiries were started need not be included
in the list. The list so prepared should be supplied to the officers either
alongwith the charge-sheet or as soon thereafter as possible. The officer
should be permitted access to the documents mentioned in the list if he so
desires.5\. If the officer requests for any official records other than those
included in the list, the request should ordinarily be acceded to in the light
of what has been stated in para 2 above.6\. While there is no doubt that the
Government servant should be given access to various official records like
documents to which reference has been made in the statement of allegations and
documents and records which the Government servant concerned considers are
relevant for the purposes of his defence though the relevancy is not clear to
the disciplinary authority, doubts very often arise whether official records
include the documents mentioned at item 4 and 5 in para 3 above. Reports made
after a preliminary enquiry, or the report made by the Police after
investigation, other than those referred to in clause (a) of Sub-Section 1 of
Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, are usually Confidential
and intended only to satisfy the competent authority whether further action in
the nature of a regular departmental inquiry or any other action is called
for. These reports are not usually made use of or considered in the inquiry.
Ordinarily even a reference to what is contained in these reports is not made
in the statement of allegation. It is not necessary to give access to the
Government servant to these reports. (It is necessary to strictly avoid any
reference to such reports in the statement of allegations as, if any reference
is made, it would not be possible to deny access to these reports; and giving
of such access to these reports will not be in public interest for the reasons
stated above).7\. The only remaining point is whether access should be given
to the statements of witnesses recorded in the course of a preliminary enquiry
conducted by the department or investigation made by the Police and if so,
whether the access should be given to the statements of all witnesses or to
the statements of only those witnesses who are proposed to be examined in
proof of the charges or of the facts stated in the statement of allegations.
These statements can be used only for the purposes of cross-examination and
the Government servant is called upon to discredit only those witnesses whose
statements are proposed to be relied upon in proof of the charges or of the
facts stated in the statement of allegations.As such the Government servant
concerned need not be given access to the statements of all witnesses examined
in the preliminary enquiry or investigation made by the Police and access
should be given to the statements of only those witnesses who are proposed to
be examined in proof of the charges or the facts stated in the statement of
allegations. In some cases, the Government servant may require copies of the
statements of some witnesses on which no reliance is proposed to be placed by
the disciplinary authority on the ground that he proposes to examine such
witnesses on his side and that he requires the previous statement to
corroborate the testimony of such witnesses before the inquiring authority.
Previous statements made by a person examined as a witness is not admissible
for the purposes of corroboration and access to such statements can safely be
denied. However, the law recognizes that if the former statement was made at
or about the time when the fact took place and the person is called to give
evidence about such fact in any proceedings, the previous statement can be
used for purposes of corroboration. In such cases, it will be necessary to
give access to the previous statement.8\. The further point is the stage at
which the Government servant should be permitted to have access to the
statements of witnesses proposed to be relied upon in proof of the charges or
of the facts stated in the statements of allegation. As stated earlier, the
copies of the statements of the witnesses can be used only for the purpose of
cross-examination and, therefore, the demand for copies must be made when
witnesses are called for examination at the oral enquiry. If such a request is
not made, the inference would be that the copies were not needed for that
purpose. The copies cannot be used at any subsequent stage as those statements
are not to be taken into consideration by the disciplinary authority also.
Copies should be made available within a reasonable time before the witnesses
are examined. It would be strictly legal to refuse access to the copies of the
statements prior to the evidence stage in the departmental enquiry. However,
if the Government servant makes a request for supply of copies of statements
referred to at (3) of para 3 above before he files a written statement, the
request shall be acceded to.9\. Neither sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 of All India
Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules nor sub-rule (3) of Rule 15 of the
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules provide for
supply of copies of documents. Therefore, it is not ordinarily necessary to
supply copies of the various documents and it would be sufficient if the
Government servant is given such access as is permitted under the rules
referred to above. Government servants involved in departmental proceedings
when permitted to have access to official records sometimes seek permission to
take photostat copies thereof. Such permission should not normally be given,
especially if the officer proposes to make the photostat copies through a
private photographer as thereby third parties would be allowed to have access
to official records which is not desirable. If, however, the documents of
which photostat copies are sought for are so vitally relevant to the case
(e.g., where the proof of the charge depends upon the proof of the handwriting
or a document the authenticity of which is disputed), the Government should
itself make photostat copies and supply the same to the Government servant. In
cases which are not of this or similar type (the example given above is only
illustrative and not exhaustive), it would be sufficient if the Government
servant is permitted to inspect the official records and take extract
therefrom as is provided for in sub-rule (3) of Rule 15 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules. Sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 of
the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules does not specifically
provide for the Government servant taking extract from official records. The
practice, however, is that officers governed by the All India Services
(Discipline and Appeal) Rules do take such extracts from records. This
practice should be continued and no restriction should be placed on such
officials from taking extracts from official records.[MHA OM No. 30/5/61-AVD
dated the 25th August, 1961](4) Examination of witnesses on behalf of the
accused official :-The Government servant who has been permitted to assist the
accused official should be permitted to examine, corss-examine and re-examine
witnesses and make submissions before the Inquiry Officer on behalf of the
accused official, if the accused official makes a request in writing in this
behalf.[MHA OM No. 6/26/60-Ests. Dated the 8th June, 1962](5) Prosecution or
departmental action according to seriousness of the offence :-Prosecution
should be general rule in all those cases which are found fit to be sent to
Court after investigation and in which the offences are of bribery, corruption
or other criminal misconduct involving loss of substantial public funds. In
such cases, departmental action should not precede prosecution. In other cases
involving less serious offences or involving malpractices of a departmental
nature, departmental action only should be taken and the question of
prosecution should generally not arise. Whenever, however, there is unresolved
difference of opinion between the Central Bureau of Investigation and the
administrative authority concerned as to whether prosecution in court or
departmental action should be resorted to in the first instance the matter
should be referred to the Central Vigilance Commission for advice.[MHA OM No.
39/8/64-Ests.(A) dated the 4th September, 1964].(6) Measures to prevent
tampering with records/documents during inspection by delinquent officials :-A
delinquent official against whom disciplinary proceedings are pending under
CCS (CCA) Rules, is entitled to the inspection of records/documents etc.
having a bearing on the case. On requisition by the disciplinary authority,
the CBI has to hand over the documents to him for purposes of perusal and
inspection by the delinquent official. Recently instances have come to notice
where the accused officers while inspecting the records/documents, tampered
with materially vital documents. In other case, the accused officer tempered
with the documents when the Inquiry Officer temporarily left the inquiry room
during the course of the inquiry.In order to obviate recurrence of such
incidents Ministries/Departments are requested to consider the desirability of
issuing instructions to the following effect :-(i) that the accused officer
should be allowed inspection of records/documents, etc. only in the presence
of a responsible officer; and(ii) that the inquiry officer should take
sufficient precautions to ensure that the records/documents and other papers
are not tampered with while the documents are under their custody or during
the course of actual inquiry.[MHA OM No. 242/96/65-AVD dated the 27th
September, 1965, addressed to the Vigilance Officers of all
Ministries/Departments].(7) Assisting Government servants :-Rule 14 (8) of the
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965
provides that the Government servant against whom disciplinary proceedings
have been initiated may take the assistance of any other Government servant to
present the case on his behalf. While no permission is needed by the official
who is chargesheeted to secure the assistance of any other Government servant,
it is necessary for the latter to obtain the permission of his controlling
authority to absent himself from office in order to assist the accused
Government servant during the enquiry. It would avoid delay in granting such
permission, if the Inquiry Officers take the initiative in the matter of
informing the controlling authority in this regard. It is, therefore,
suggested that as soon as an accused Government servant informs the Inquiry
Officer of the name and other particulars of the Government servant who has
been chosen by him to assist in the presentation of his case, the Inquiry
Officer should intimate this fact to the controlling authority of the
Government servant concerned. Further, the date and time of the hearing should
be intimated to the said controlling authority sufficiently in advance adding
that if, for any compelling reason it is not practicable to relieve the
Government servant concerned on the due date or dates to attend the enquiry,
the Inquiry Officer, the accused official and the Government servant chosen
for assisting the accused official may be advised well in time.2\. It is
requested that necessary action may please be taken to ensure that all Inquiry
Officers follow the procedure outlined above. A copy of the circular is also
being endorsed to the Commissioners for Departmental Enquiries.[CVC Letter No.
61/3/67-C dated the 8th January, 1968].(8) Cross-examination by or on behalf
of the Government servant after the presenting officer has re-examined the
witness -Clarification regarding :- Under sub-rule (14) of Rule 14 of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, 1965, the witness produced by or on behalf of the disciplinary
authority in a disciplinary proceeding shall be examined by or on behalf of
the presenting officer and may be cross-examined by or on behalf of the
Government servant, and the presenting officer would also be entitled to re-
examine the witnesses on any point on which they have been cross-examined but
not on any new matter without the leave of the inquiring authority. Doubts
have been expressed in some quarters if cross-examination by or on behalf of
the Government servant could be allowed after the presenting officer has re-
examined the witness. It is hereby clarified that if re-examination by the
presenting officer is followed on any new matter not already covered by the
earlier examination/cross-examination, a cross-examination on such new
matters, covered by the re-examination may also be allowed to meet the ends of
nature justice.[Cabinet Sectt. (Department of Personnel) Memo. No.
7/11/70-Estt. (A) dated the 24th September, 1970].(9) Conduct of enquiries
against delinquent officers by gazetted officers/senior officers :-The
Committee on Sub-ordinate Legislation (Fourth Lok Sabha) have recently
examined the question of inquiry officers to conduct oral inquiry into the
charges levelled against delinquent officers under CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965. The
Committee has observed that though they agree that it may not be possible to
entrust always inquiries against delinquent officers to gazetted officers the
inquiries should be conducted by an officer who is sufficiently senior to the
officer whose conduct is being inquired into as inquiry by a junior officer
cannot command confidence which it deserves.[Cabinet Sectt. (Department of
Personnel) Memo No. 7/1/70-Estts. (A) dated the 6th January, 1971].(10)
Appointment of Inquiring Authority :-One of the items considered by the
National Council set up under the scheme of Joint Consultation and Compulsory
Arbitration in its meeting held in September, 1970 was a proposal of the Staff
Side that the disciplinary inquiry should, as a rule, be conducted by a person
who should be free from all influences, official or otherwise, of the
disciplinary authority. It was further suggested that the rules should be
amended suitably so that departmental inquiries are invariably conducted by a
person belonging to another Department. As a result of subsequent discussions
in the National Council, a Committee of the Council was set up to consider the
matter in all its aspects. In the Committee the Staff Side urged that it was
necessary in a departmental inquiry to ensure that the proceedings were
conducted in an objective manner and that the requirement of natural justice
would be watered down if the inquiry is held by the disciplinary authority
itself or is entrusted to an Inquiry Officer who is subordinate to, or is
under the direct influence of the disciplinary authority. According to them
departmental inquiries should invariably be entrusted to an independent and
impartial body or tribunal and that considerations of the expenditure involved
in providing such an independent forum should not be the prime factor in the
dispensation of justice. Alternatively, the Inquiry Officer should invariably
belong to a Wing/Office/Department different from the one to which the alleged
delinquent employee belongs.2\. As regards the point raised by the Staff Side
that the Departmental Inquiry should be entrusted to an independent impartial
body or tribunal, it was clarified that inquiries in disciplinary proceedings
against gazetted officers of all grades involving lack of integrity or an
element of vigilance are alone entrusted to Commissioner for Departmental
Inquiries under the Central Vigilance Commission and other cases of
disciplinary proceedings involving purely administrative or technical lapses,
are not referred to the said Commissioner. It was also not possible to entrust
the departmental inquiries against non-gazetted employees to the Commissioner
for Departmental Inquiries in view of the very large number of disciplinary
cases of such employees coming up every year. It was further pointed out that
the existing instructions contained in Ministry of Home Affairs (now
Department of Personnel) OM No. 6/26/60-Ests. (A) dated 16th February, 1961
already emphasise the desirability of only disinterested officers being
appointed as Inquiry Officers in departmental proceedings. It is also provided
therein that while there is no bar to the immediate superior officer holding
an inquiry, as a rule, persons who undertake this task should not be suspected
of any bias in such cases and that the authorities concerned should bear this
in mind before an Inquiry Officer is appointed in a disciplinary case.3\. A
suggestion was made by the Staff Side that where a representation by the
delinquent official against the appointment of a particular Inquiry Officer on
grounds of bias, is rejected by the Disciplinary Authority, it should be open
to the delinquent official, to prefer an appeal to the appellate authority. It
was pointed out that though there was no provision in the CCS (CCA) Rules for
filing an appeal against an order appointing a person as Inquiry Officer in a
disciplinary proceeding, such an order could, nevertheless, be reviewed under
the said Rules. The Staff Side desired that in view of this position, the
Inquiry Officer should stay the proceedings if an application for review is
filed by the delinquent official. It was agreed that obviously this should be
done and the attention of the competent authorities could be drawn to the need
for staying the proceedings once a review petition was submitted in such
cases.4\. It has accordingly been decided that whenever an application is
moved by a Government servant against whom disciplinary proceedings are
initiated under the CCS (CCA) Rules against the inquiry officer on grounds of
bias, the proceedings should be stayed and the application referred, alongwith
the relevant material, to the appropriate reviewing authority for considering
the application and passing appropriate orders thereon. It has also been
decided to re-emphasize to all Ministries/Departments the following
instructions contained in paragraph, 5 of MHA OM No. 39/40/52-Ests. dated the
4th October, 1955 on the subject for expeditious and better disposal of
departmental proceedings against Government servants :-(i) In each Ministry or
Department specified officer or officers of appropriate rank shall be
nominated and earmarked for the purpose of conducting all the departmental
inquiries arising within that Ministry/Department.(ii) As soon as occasion
arises for taking up such an inquiry, the nominated officer will be relieved
of his normal duties to such extent as may be necessary to enable him to
devote full and careful attention to the completion of the enquiries and the
submission of his report. During this time the work of which the officer is
relieved may be distributed amongst other officers.5\. The Ministry of Finance
etc. are accordingly requested to bring to the notice of the various
disciplinary authorities the need for staying the proceedings till such time
as the review petition if any, submitted by a Government servant against the
appointment of the Inqiury Officer is disposed of, as agreed to in the
Committee of the National Council vide paragraph 3 above. They are also
requested to keep in view the instructions contained in the Ministry of Home
Affairs (Department of Personnel) OM No. 6/26/60-Estt. (A) dated 16th
February, 1961 and No. 39/40/52-Ests.(A) dated 4th October, 1952 referred to
above, regarding the appointment of Inquiry Officers in disciplinary
proceedings.[Cabinet Sectt. Department of Personnel, OM No. 39/40/70-Ests.(A)
dated 9th November, 1972].(11) Inquiry by the disciplinary authority :-The
Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms OM No. 39/40/70-Estt.(A)
dated the 9th November, 1972, inter-alia, provides that only those Inquiry
Officers who are free from bias should be appointed by the disciplinary
authority to conduct departmental inquiries. It is, further been provided that
wherever an application is moved by a Government servant, against whom
disciplinary proceedings are initiated, against the Inquiry Officer on grounds
of bias, the proceedings should be stayed and the application referred to the
appropriate reviewing authority for considering the matter and passing
appropriate orders thereon. In this connection, the Staff Side raised the
following points, at the National Council (JCM) meeting held in November, 1975
:(a) The orders contained in the Department of Personnel & AR OM dated 9th
November, 1972 are not being implemented in some Departments; and(b) The OM
dated 9.11.1972 did not contain instructions regarding disciplinary authority
inquiring into the cases itself.2\. Regarding (a) above, Ministry of Finance
etc. are requested to observe and implement scrupulously the aforesaid
instructions contained in this Department's OM of 9th November, 1972.3\. The
second point raised by the Staff Side has been further examined in this
Department. According to Rule 14 (5) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the
disciplinary authority may itself inquire into the charges against the accused
Government servant or appoint an Inquiry Officer for the purpose. However, it
should be possible in a majority of cases, and the more serious ones at any
rate, to ensure that the disciplinary authority himself does not conduct the
inquiry. It may still be not practicable to ensure in all cases that the
disciplinary authority himself would not be the Inquiry Officer. Such a course
may be necessary under certain circumstances particularly in small field
formations where the disciplinary authority as well as the Inquiry Officer may
have to be one and the same person. It has accordingly been decided that
unless it is unavoidable in certain cases as mentioned above, the disciplinary
authority should refrain from being the Inquiry Officer and appoint another
officer for the purpose.[Deptt. of Personnel & AR OM No. 35014/1/76-Ests. (A)
dated the 29th July, 1976].(12) Whether charges can be dropped at the stage of
initial written statement of defence :-A question has been under consideration
whether Rule 14 (5) (a) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 permits the dropping of
charges by the disciplinary authority after considering the written statement
of defence submitted by the accused Government servant under Rule 14 (4) ibid.
The question has been considered in consultation with the Ministry of Law and
the position is clarified as under :-(a) The disciplinary authority has the
inherent power to review and modify the articles of charge or drop some of the
charges or all the charges after the receipt and examination of the written
statement of defence submitted by the accused Government servant under Rule 14
(4) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965.(b) The disciplinary authority is not bound
to appoint an Inquiry Officer for conducting an inquiry into the charges which
are not admitted by the accused official but about which the disciplinary
authority is satisfied on the basis of the written statement of defence that
there is no further cause to proceed with.2\. It may, however, be noted that
the exercise of powers to drop the charges after the consideration of the
written statement of defence by the accused Government servant will be subject
to the following conditions :-(a) In cases arising out of investigations by
the Central Bureau of Investigation, the CBI should be consulted before a
decision is taken to drop any of, or all the charges on the basis of the
written statement of defence submitted by the accused Government servant. The
reasons recorded by the disciplinary authority for dropping the charges should
also be intimated to the Central Bureau of Investigation.(b) The Central
Vigilance Commission should be consulted where the disciplinary proceedings
were initiated on the advice of the Commission and the intention is to drop or
modify any of, or all the charges on the basis of the written statement of
defence submitted by the accused Government servant.[G.I., MHA OM No.
11012/2/79-Estt.(A) dated the 12th March, 1981 and OM No. 11012/8/82-Estt.(A)
dated the 8th December, 1982](13) Permission to engage a Legal Practitioner
:-Rules 14 (8) (a) of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1965 provides, inter-alia that a delinquent Government servant
against whom disciplinary proceedings have been instituted as for imposition
of a major penalty may not engage a legal practitioner to present the case on
his behalf before the Inquiring Authority, unless the Presenting Officer
appointed by the disciplinary authority is a legal practitioner, or the
disciplinary authority, having regard to the circumstances of the case, so
permits. It is clarified, that, when on behalf of the disciplinary authority,
the case is being presented by a Prosecuting Officer of the Central Bureau of
Investigation or a Government Law Officer (such as Legal Adviser, Junior Legal
Adviser), there are evidently good and sufficient circumstances for the
disciplinary authority to exercise his discretion in favour of the delinquent
officer and allow him to be represented by a legal practitioner. Any exercise
of discretion to the contrary in such cases is likely to be held by the court
as arbitrary and prejudicial to the defence of the delinquent Government
servant.[Deptt. of Personnel & AR OM No. 11012/7/83-Estt.(A) dated the 23rd
July, 1984].(14) Restriction on engaging Defence Assistant :-Sub-rule (8) of
Rule 14 of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 provides that a Government servant may take
the assistance of any of the Government servants posted in any office either
at his headquarters or at the place where the inquiry is held, to present his
case on his behalf. A Government servant may, however, take the assistance of
any other Government servant posted at any other station on being permitted by
the Inquiring Authority to do so.2\. The Staff Side of the National Council
(JCM) represented that the aforesaid provision in the rules was restrictive,
amounting the denial of justice, and should therefore, be removed. The matter
was also discussed in 28th Ordinary Meeting of the National Council held on
14th/15th January, 1986.3\. Rule 14 (8) of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 does not
totally prohibit having a Defence Assistant from any station other than the
headquarters of the charged Government servant or the place of inquiry. It is
open to the inquiring authority to permit the appointment of a Defence
Assistant from any other station, having regard to the circumstances of each
case. However, at present, there is no provision for appeal against the
decision of the inquiring authority in the matter, should it decide to refuse
permission.4\. It has, therefore, been decided after discussion with the Staff
Side, that a Government servant should be allowed to make a representation to
the Disciplinary Authority if the Inquiring Authority rejects a request for
permission to take a Defence Assistant from a place other than the
headquarters of the charged Government servant or the place of inquiry.
Accordingly, in all cases where the inquiring authority rejects the request of
the charged Government servant for engaging a defence assistant, from any
station other than the headquarters of such Government servant or the place
where the inquiry is conducted, it should record its reasons in writing and
communicate the same to the charged Government servant to enable him to make a
representation against the order, if he so desires, to the disciplinary
authority. On receipt of the representation from the charged Government
servant, the Disciplinary Authority, after applying its mind to all the
relevant facts and circumstances of the case, shall pass a well-reasoned order
either upholding the orders passed by the inquiring authority or acceding to
the request made by the charged employee. Since such an order of the
disciplinary authority will be in the nature of a step-in-aid of the inquiry,
no appeal shall lie against that order.[Department of Personnel & Training OM
No. 11012/3/86-Estt.(A) dated the 29th April, 1986].(15) Appearance of a
Government servant before the inquiry authority - Clarification of the import
of the provisions in Rule 14 (7) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 -The procedure
for imposing major penalties is laid down in Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules,
1965 and sub-rule (7) thereof envisages that the Government servant shall
appear in person before the inquiring authority on such day and at such time
within 10 working days from the date of receipt by him of the articles of
charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct and misbehaviour, as
the inquiring authority may, by notice in writing, specify, in this behalf, or
within such further time, not exceeding 10 days, as the inquiring authority
may allow. A point has been raised by the Staff Side in the National Council
(JCM) that the provisions of the above cited sub-rule are followed more in
breach than in observance since inquiry officers are not generally appointed
within a short period of serving of articles of charge on the Government
servant, hence it is not possible for the Government servant appear before the
Inquiry Officer within 10 days of receipt of the articles of charge.2\. It is
hereby clarified that the provisions in sub-rule (7) should be read in
conjunction with the provisions in the preceding sub-rule (6), according to
which the disciplinary authority shall, where it is not the inquiring
authority, forward to the inquiring authority various documents including
articles of charge and statement of imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour.
The requirement of the Government servant appearing in person before the
inquiring authority, on such day and at such time within 10 working days, as
laid down in sub-rule (7) is actually with reference to the date of receipt by
the inquiring authority (and not the Government servant) of the articles of
charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour. The
need for expeditiously appointing an inquiring authority, wherever necessary,
cannot, however, be over-emphasised.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training's OM No.
35034/7/92-Estt. (A), dated 28th December, 1993.](16) Retired Government
servants appearing as defence assistants - conditions regarding.The staff side
in the National Council (JCM) had made a demand for enhancing the ceiling on
the number of cases a retired Government servant can take up as Defence
Assistant. In the light of the discussion in the meeting of the National
Council in this regard, it has been decided to raise the limit of cases from
five to seven. Hence in supersession of the earlier order on the subject, it
has been decided in terms of rule 14 (8) (b) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 that
the Government servant concerned may take the assistance of a retired
Government servant subject to the following conditions :-(i) The retired
Government servant concerned should have, retired from service under the
Central Government.(ii) If the retired Government servant is also a legal
practitioner, the restrictions on engaging a legal practitioner by a
delinquent Government servant to present the case on his behalf, contained in
Rule 14 (8) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 would apply.(iii) The retired
Government servant concerned should not have, in any manner, been associated
with the case at investigation stage or otherwise in his official
capacity.(iv) The retired Government servant concerned should not act as a
defence assistant in more than seven cases at a time. The retired Government
servant should satisfy the inquiring officer that he does not have more than
five cases at hand including the case in question.[Deptt. of Personnel &
Training OM No. 11012/11/2002-Ests. (A) dated 05.02.2003].(17) Simultaneous
action of prosecution in a court and initiation of departmental proceedings
-The M.H.A. O.M. No. 39/30/54-Ests. dated the 7th June, 1955 and No.
39/8/64-Ests. dated the 4th September, 1964, state that prosecution should be
the general rule in all cases which are found fit to be sent to Court and in
which the offences are of bribery, corruption or other criminal misconduct
involving loss of substantial public funds and that in such cases,
departmental action should not precede prosecution. References are being
received in this Department seeking clarification as to whether departmental
action can also be taken, where the same matter has been taken up in a court
of competent jurisdiction for prosecution of the Government servant
concerned.2\. What may be deduced from the above instructions is that in
serious cases involving offences such as bribery/corruption etc., action
should be launched for prosecution as a matter of course. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court had held in their various judgements, the important ones being, State of
Rajasthan Vs. B.K. Meena & Others(1996 6 SCC 417), Capt. M. Paul Anthony Vs.
Bharat Gold Mines Limited (1999 3 SCC 679), Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan &
Others Vs. T. Srinivas (2004 (6) SCALE 467) and Noida Entrepreneurs
Association Vs. Noida (JT 2007 (2) SC 620), that merely because a criminal
trial is pending, a departmental inquiry involving the very same charges as is
involved in the criminal proceedings is not barred. The approach and objective
in the criminal proceedings and disciplinary proceedings are altogether
distinct and different. In the disciplinary proceedings, the question is
whether the respondent is guilty of such conduct as would merit his removal
from service or a lesser punishment, as the case may be, whereas in the
criminal proceedings, the question is whether the offences registered against
the Government servant are established and if established, what sentence can
be imposed on him. In serious nature of cases like acceptance of illegal
gratification, the desirability of continuing the concerned Government servant
in service in spite of the serious charges leveled against him may have to be
considered by the Competent Authority to proceed with departmental action.3\.
However, if the charge in the criminal case is of a grave nature which
involves complicated questions of law and fact, it would be desirable to stay
the departmental proceedings till the conclusion of the criminal case. This
will depend upon the nature of offence and the evidence and material collected
against the Government servant during investigation or as reflected in the
charge-sheet. If the criminal case does not proceed or its disposal is being
unduly delayed, the departmental proceedings, even if they were kept pending
on account of the pendency of the criminal case, can be resumed and proceeded
with so as to conclude them at an early date, so that if the employee is found
not guilty, his honour may be vindicated and in case he is found guilty, the
administration may get rid of him at the earliest, if the case so warrants.4\.
In the case of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Vs. Sarvesh Berry [2004
(10) SCALE Page 340], it has been held in Para 9 that "it is not desirable to
lay down any guidelines as inflexible rules in which the departmental
proceedings may or may not be stayed pending trial in criminal case against
the delinquent officer. Each case requires to be considered in the back drop
of its own facts and circumstances. There would be no bar to proceed
simultaneously with departmental inquiry and trial of a criminal case unless
the charge in the criminal trial is of grave nature involving complicated
questions of fact and law." The apex court has referred to the conclusions
given in Para 22 of Captain M. Paul Anthony's case.5\. It is, therefore,
clarified that stay of disciplinary proceedings is not a must in every case,
where there is a criminal trial on the very same charges and the concerned
authority may decide on proceeding with the departmental proceedings after
taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each case and the
guidelines given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, as mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs.[DOPT OM No. 11012/6/2007-Estt. (A), dated 1st August, 2007]  
---  
  
### 15. Action on inquiry report

(1)The disciplinary authority, if it is not itself the inquiring authority
may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, remit the case to the
inquiring authority for further inquiry and report and the inquiring authority
shall thereupon proceed to hold the further inquiry according to the
provisions of Rule 14, as far as may be.(2)The disciplinary authority shall
forward or cause to be forwarded a copy of the report of the inquiry, if any,
held by the disciplinary authority or where the disciplinary authority is not
the inquiring authority, a copy of the report of the inquiring authority
together with its own tentative reasons for disagreement, if any, with the
findings of inquiring authority on any article of charge to the Government
servant who shall be required to submit, if he so desires, his written
representation or submission to the disciplinary authority within fifteen
days, irrespective of whether the report is favourable or not to the
Government servant.(2A)The disciplinary authority shall consider the
representation, if any, submitted by the Government servant and record its
findings before proceeding further in the matter as specified in sub-rules (3)
and (4).(3)[ (a) In every case where it is necessary to consult the
Commission, the Disciplinary Authority shall forward or cause to be forwarded
to the Commission for its advice:(i)a copy of the report of the Inquiring
Authority together with its own tentative reasons for disagreement, if any,
with the findings of Inquiring Authority on any article of charge;
and(ii)comments of Disciplinary Authority on the representation of the
Government servant on the Inquiry report and disagreement note, if any and all
the case records of the inquiry proceedings.(b)The Disciplinary Authority
shall forward or cause to be forwarded a copy of the advice of the Commission
received under clause (a) to the Government servant, who shall be required to
submit, if he so desires, his written representation or submission to the
Disciplinary Authority within fifteen days, on the advice of the
Commission.(4)The Disciplinary Authority shall consider the representation
under sub-rule (2) and/or clause (b) of subrule (3) if any, submitted by the
Government servant and record its findings before proceeding further in the
matter as specified in sub-rules (5) and (6).(5)If the Disciplinary Authority
having regard to its findings on all or any of the articles of charge is of
the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of rule
11 should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall, notwithstanding
anything contained in rule 16, make an order imposing such penalty.(6)If the
Disciplinary Authority having regard to its findings on all or any of the
articles of charge and on the basis of the evidence adduced during the inquiry
is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix)
of rule 11 should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall make an order
imposing such penalty and it shall not be necessary to give the Government
servant any opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed to be
imposed.] [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014.]

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Decisions(1) Final orders to be passed by the 'higher
disciplinary authority' who instituted the enquiry :-When proceedings are
instituted by a "higher disciplinary authority", final orders should also be
passed by such "higher disciplinary authority" and the case should not be
remitted to a lower disciplinary authority, on the ground that on merits of
the case it is sufficient to impose a minor penalty and such minor penalty
could be imposed by a lower disciplinary authority. In such cases the appeal
against the punishment order of the "higher disciplinary authority" shall lie
to the authority prescribed under the CCS (CCA) Rules, as the appellate
authority in respect of such order.[MHA OM No. 6/26/60-Ests.(A) dated the 8th
June, 1962].(2) Not appropriate to bring in past bad records in deciding the
penalty, unless it is made the subject matter of specific charge of the
charge-sheet itself :-A question has arisen whether past bad record of service
of an officer can be taken into account in deciding the penalty to be imposed
on the officer in disciplinary proceedings, and whether the fact that such
record has been taken into account should be mentioned in the order imposing
the penalty. This has been examined in consultation with the Ministry of Law.
It is considered that if previous bad record, punishment etc., of an officer
is proposed to be taken into consideration in determining the penalty to be
imposed, it should be made a specific charge in the charge-sheet itself,
otherwise any mention of the past bad record in the order of penalty
unwittingly or in a routine manner, when this had not been mentioned in the
charge-sheet, would vitiate the proceedings, and so should be
eschewed.[G.I.M.H.A., OM No. 134/20/68-AVD, dated the 28th August, 1968].(3)
Passing of orders by the Disciplinary Authority on the report of Inquiry
Officer - Quick disposal of cases :-The following items sponsored by the Staff
Side of the National Council of the Joint Consultative Machinery were
discussed in the 9th Ordinary meeting of the National Council held on 25th and
26th September, 1970 :-"Suitable provisions should be made in Rule 15 of the
CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 to make it obligatory on the part of the Disciplinary
Authority to pass orders on the enquiry report within a period of 15 days, to
avoid delay".After some discussion, it was decided that the Official Side
might examine the feasibility of prescribing a time-limit of two month within
which the disciplinary authority should pass the orders on the report of the
inquiry officer, and requiring that authority to submit a report to the next
higher authority in cases where the time-limit cannot be adhered to,
explaining the reasons therefor.The suggestion of the Staff Side has
accordingly been examined further. It is felt that, while both in the public
interest as well as in the interest of employees no avoidable delay should
occur in the disposal of disciplinary cases, it is necessary that sufficient
time is available to the disciplinary authority to apply its mind to all
relevant facts which are brought out in the inquiry before forming an opinion
about the imposition of a penalty, if any, on the Government servant. While,
therefore, it has to be ensured that fixing of any time limit on the disposal
of the inquiry report by the disciplinary authority by making a provision in
this regard in the CCS (CCA) Rules should not lead to any perfunctory disposal
of such cases, taking all relevant factors into consideration it is felt that
in cases which do not require consultation with the Central Vigilance
Commission or the UPSC, it should normally be possible for the disciplinary
authority to take a final decision on the inquiry report within a period of
three months at the most. In cases where the disciplinary authority feels that
it is not possible to adhere to this time limit, a report may be submitted by
him to the next higher authority indicating the additional period within which
the case is likely to be disposed of and the reasons for the same. In cases
requiring consultation with the CVC and the UPSC also, every effort should be
made to ensure that cases are disposed of as quickly as possible.[Cabinet
Sectt. (Deptt. of Personnel) Memo No. 39/43/70-Ests.(A) dated the 8th January,
1971].(3A) Delays in passing orders by the Disciplinary Authorities -In the OM
No. 39/43/70-Estt. (A) dated 08.01.1971, it has been envisaged that it should
normally be possible for the disciplinary authority to take a final decision
on the enquiry report within a period of three months. In cases where it is
felt that it is not possible to adhere to this time limit, a report may be
submitted to the next higher authority indicating the additional period
required and reasons for the same. It should also be ensured that cases
involving consultation with the CVC and UPSC are disposed of as quickly as
possible.2\. Though no specific time limit has been prescribed in the above OM
in respect of cases where consultation with CVC and UPSC is required, it is
imperative that the time limit of three months prescribed for other cases
should be adhered to in such cases after receipt of the advice of the
UPSC.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/21/98-Estt.(A) dated 11th
November, 1998](4) Disciplinary cases - need for issuing speaking orders by
competent authorities :-As is well known and settled by courts, disciplinary
proceedings against employees conducted under the provisions of CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965, or under other corresponding rules, are quasi-judicial in nature
and as such, it is necessary that orders in such proceedings are issued only
by the competent authorities who have been specified as
disciplinary/appellate/reviewing authorities under the relevant rules and the
orders issued by such authorities should have the attributes of a judicial
order. The Supreme Court, the case of Mahavir Prasad Vs. State of U.P. (AIR
1970 SC 1302), observed that recording of reasons in support of a decision by
a quasi-judicial authority is obligatory as it ensures that the decision is
reached according to law and is not a result of cap-rice, whim or fancy, or
reached on ground of policy or expediency. The necessity to record reasons is
greater if the order is subject to appeal.2\. However, instances have come to
the notice of this Department where the final orders passed by the competent
disciplinary/appellate authorities do not contain the reasons on the basis
whereof the decisions communicated by that order were reached. Since such
orders may not conform to legal requirements, they may be liable to be held
invalid, if challenged in a court of Law. It is, therefore, impressed upon all
concerned that the authorities exercising disciplinary powers should issue
self-contained speaking and reasoned orders conforming to the aforesaid legal
requirements.3\. Instances have also come to notice where, though the
decisions in disciplinary/appellate cases were taken by the competent
disciplinary/appellate authorities in the files, the final orders were not
issued by that authority but only by a lower authority. As mentioned above,
the disciplinary/appellate/ reviewing authorities exercise quasi-judicial
powers and as such, they cannot delegate their powers to their subordinates.
It is therefore, essential that the decision taken by such authorities are
communicated by the competent authority under their own signatures, and the
order so issued should comply with the legal requirements as indicated in the
preceding paragraphs. It is only in those cases where the President is the
prescribed disciplinary/appellate/reviewing authority and where the Minister
concerned has considered the case and given his orders that an order may be
authenticated by an officer, who has been authorised to authenticate orders in
the name of the President.[Deptt. of Personnel & A.R. OM No. 134/1/81-AVD-I
dated 13.07.1981](5) Supply of copy of inquiry report to the accused
Government servant before final orders are passed by the disciplinary
authority.The issue as to whether in cases, where the disciplinary authority
itself is not the inquiry officer, a copy of the inquiry report should be
furnished to the accused Government servant to enable him to make his
submissions, if any, before the disciplinary authority in regard to the
findings of the report, before such authority passes its final orders, has
been examined. The constitutional requirements laid down in Article 311 (2) of
the Constitution of India, and the provisions of Rule 15 and 17 of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, 1965 and rulings of the various benches of the Central
Administrative Tribunal and of various courts on the matter have been kept in
view.2\. The full bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal in the case of
Prem Nath Sharma Vs. Union of India (represented by Ministry of Railways) have
held that to fulfil the constitutional requirement of affording a reasonable
opportunity, it is necessary that in all cases where the disciplinary
authority is itself not the inquiry authority, a copy of the inquiry report
shall be furnished to the accused Government servant to enable him to make his
submissions in regard to the findings of the inquiry, before the disciplinary
authority passes its order imposing the penalty. While giving its verdict, the
full bench had taken into account the rulings of the various courts pronounced
earlier on this issue. Although the special leave petition filed by the
Ministry of Railways against the aforesaid judgment has been admitted for
hearing and a stay order has been granted by the Supreme Court against its
operation, the various benches of the Tribunal continue to follow the ratio
laid down by the full bench. The special leave petitions filed by the
concerned Ministries and Departments in some of the subsequent cases have not
been admitted by the Supreme Court. In another similar case of E. Bashyam Vs.
Department of Atomic Energy, in the special leave petition filed by the
Department against the judgment of the CAT, the Supreme Court has expressed
its view in favour of the principle laid down by the Tribunal, but directed
that the matter be referred to a larger bench of the court.3\. In the light of
the aforesaid judgments, the matter has been examined in consultation with the
Department of Legal Affairs and it has been decided that in al cases, where an
inquiry has been held in accordance with the provisions of Rule 14 of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, the disciplinary authority, if it is different from the inquiry
authority shall before making a final order in the case, forward a copy of the
inquiry report to the Government servant concerned with the following
endorsement :-"The report of the Inquiry Officer is enclosed. The Disciplinary
Authority will take a suitable decision after considering the report. If you
wish to make any representation or submission, you may do so in writing to the
Disciplinary Authority within 15 days of receipt of this letter."4\. The
aforesaid instructions will operate prospectively from the date of issue and
accordingly will apply only in cases where the disciplinary authority is yet
to pass orders. Past cases need not be reopened for consideration. These
instructions will be reviewed after the final decision of the Supreme Court in
the case of Prem Nath K. Sharma and E. Bashyam.5\. Ministry of Agriculture,
etc. are requested to bring the above instructions to the notice of all
Administrative Authorities under their control for compliance in all future
cases including those in which the Central Administrative Tribunal has
directed that a copy of the inquiry report be furnished to the accused
Government servant before the Disciplinary Authority passes the order. In such
cases the directive of the CAT should be complied with and no SLP should be
filed. However, in cases where the SLPs on this issue are pending before the
Supreme Court, the concerned Ministries/Departments may continue to pursue the
cases for having an early hearing and an authoritative ruling on the
issue.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training's 11012/13/85-Estt. Dated 26th June,
1989].(5A) Reasons for disagreement, if any should be communicated -The
Supreme Court has decided the matter finally in its judgment dated 01.10.1993
in the case of Managing Director (ECIL), Hyderabad Vs. B. Karunakar (JT 1993
(6) SC.I). It has been held by the Supreme Court that wherever the Service
Rules contemplate an inquiry before a punishment is awarded and when the
inquiry officer is not the disciplinary authority, the delinquent employee
will have the right to receive the inquiry officer's report notwithstanding
the nature of the punishment. Necessary amendment providing for supply of copy
of the inquiry officer's report to the delinquent employee has been made in
Rule 15 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 vide Notification No. 11012/4/94-Estt.
(A) dated 03.05.1995. All disciplinary authorities are, therefore, required to
comply with the above mentioned requirement without failure in all cases.2\. A
question has been raised in this connection whether the disciplinary
authority, when he decides to disagree with the inquiry report, should also
communicate the reasons for such disagreement to the charged officer. The
issue has been considered in consultation with the Ministry of Law and it has
been decided that where the Inquiring Authority holds a charge as not proved
and the disciplinary authority takes a contrary view, the reasons for such
disagreement in brief must be communicated to the charged officer along with
the Report of Inquiry so that the charged officer can make an effective
representation. This procedure would require the Disciplinary Authority to
first examine the report as per the laid down procedure and formulate its
tentative views before forwarding the Report of Inquiry to the charged
officer.[Department of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/22/94-Estt. (A) dated
27.11.1995](6) Jurisdiction of the CAT in the matter of quantum of penalty
against Government servants -Supreme Court judgment in case of Parma Nanda Vs.
State of Haryana and others.A number of cases have come to the notice of this
Department where the CAT, though agreeing with the decision of the
disciplinary authority to hold the charges against a delinquent Government
servant as proved, have modified the quantum of penalty on their own
discretion. The question whether the Tribunal could interfere with the penalty
awarded by the competent authority on the ground that it is excessive or
disproportionate to the misconduct proved, was examined by the Supreme Court
in the case of Shri Parma Nanda Vs. State of Haryana and other [1989 (2)
Supreme Court Cases 177] and the Court held that the Tribunal could exercise
only such powers which the civil courts or the High Courts could have
exercised by way of judicial review. The Suprme Court in that case further
observed as under :XX XX XXThe jurisdiction of the Tribunal to interfere with
the disciplinary matters or punishment cannot be equated with an appellate
jurisdiction. The Tribunal cannot interfere with the findings of the Inquiry
Officer or competent authority where they are not arbitrary or utterly
perverse. The power to impose penalty on a delinquent officer is conferred on
the competent authority either by an Act of legislature or rules made under
the proviso to Art. 309 of the Constitution. If there has been an enquiry
consistent with the rules and in accordance with principles of natural justice
what punishment would meet the ends of justice is a matter exclusively within
the jurisdiction of the competent authority. If the penalty can lawfully be
imposed and is imposed on the proved misconduct, the Tribunal has no power to
substitute its own discretion for that of the authority. The adequacy of
penalty unless it is malafide is certainly not a matter for the Tribunal to
concern itself with. The Tribunal also cannot interfere with the penalty if
the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on
evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the
matter.XX XX XXWe may, however, carve out one exception to this proposal.
There may be cases where the penalty is imposed under Clause (a) of the second
proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution. Where the person without
inquiry is dismissed, removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of
conviction of a criminal court, the Tribunal may examine the adequacy of the
penalty imposed in the light of the conviction and sentence inflicted on the
person. If the penalty imposed is apparently unreasonable or uncalled for,
having regard to the nature of the criminal charge, the Tribunal may step in
to render substantial justice. The Tribunal may remit the matter to the
competent authority for reconsideration or by itself substitute one of the
penalties provided under Clause (a)."[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No.
11012/1/90-Ests.(A) dated 28-02-1990](6A) Jurisdiction of the CAT in the
matter of disciplinary action against Government servants -In the case of
State Bank of India Vs. Samarendra Kishore Endow (1994(1) SLR 516) also the
Supreme Court has held that a High Court or Tribunal has no power to
substitute its own discretion for that of the authority.2\. In this Judgment
the Supreme Court has observed as under :On the question of punishment,
learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the punishment awarded is
excessive and that lesser punishment would meet the ends of justice. It may be
noticed that the imposition of appropriate punishment is within the discretion
and judgment of the disciplinary authority. It may be open to the appellate
authority to interfere with it but not to the High Court or to the
Administrative Tribunal for the reason that the jurisdiction of the Tribunal
is similar to the powers of the High Court under Article 226. The power under
Article 226 is one of judicial review. It "is not an appeal from a decision,
but a review of the manner in which the decision was made". In other words the
power of judicial review is meant "to ensure that the individual received fair
treatment and not to ensure that the authority, after according fair
treatment, reaches on a matter which it is authorized by law to decide for
itself a conclusion which is correct in the eyes of the Court."**** **It would
perhaps be appropriate to mention at this stage that there are certain
observations in Union of India Vs. Tulsiram Patel (AIR 1985 SC 1416) which, at
first look appear to say that the Court can interfere where the penalty
imposed is "arbitrary or grossly excessive or out of all proportion to the
offence committed or not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the case
or the requirements of that particular Government service." It must, however,
be remembered that Tulsiram Patel dealt with cases arising under proviso (a)
to Article 311(2) of the Constitution. Tulsiram Patel overruled the earlier
decision of this Court in Challappan (AIR 1975 SC 2216). While holding that no
notice need be given before imposing the penalty in a case dealt with under
the said proviso, the Court held that if a disproportionate or harsh
punishment is imposed by the disciplinary authority, it can be corrected
either by the Appellate Court or by High Court. These observations are not
relevant to cases of penalty imposed after regular inquiry.[Deptt. Of
Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/6/94-Estt. (A) dated 28.03.1994]  
---  
  
### 16. Procedure for imposing minor penalties

(1)Subject to the provisions of [sub-rule (5)] [Substituted 'sub-rule (3)' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014] of rule 15, no order
imposing on a Government servant any of the penalties specified in clause (i)
to (iv) of rule 11 shall be made except after-(a)informing the Government
servant in writing of the proposal to take action against him and of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour on which it is proposed to be taken,
and giving him reasonable opportunity of making such representation as he may
wish to make against the proposal;(b)holding an inquiry in the manner laid
down in [sub-rules (3) to (24) of rule 14] [Substituted 'sub-rules (3) to (23)
of rule 14' by Notification No. G.S.R. 548(E), dated 2.6.2017.], in every case
in which the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that such inquiry is
necessary;(c)taking the representation, if any, submitted by the Government
servant under clause (a) and the record of inquiry, if any, held under clause
(b) into consideration;(d)[ consulting the Commission where such consultation
is necessary. The Disciplinary Authority shall forward or cause to be
forwarded a copy of the advice of the Commission to the Government servant,
who shall be required to submit, if he so desires, his written representation
or submission on the advice of the Commission, to the Disciplinary Authority
within fifteen days; and [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated
31.10.2014](e)recording a finding on each imputation or misconduct or
misbehavior.](1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) of sub-
rule (1), if in a case it is proposed after considering the representation, if
any, made by the Government servant under clause (a) of that sub-rule, to
withhold increments of pay and such withholding of increments is likely to
affect adversely the amount of pension payable to the Government servant or to
withhold increments of pay for a period exceeding three years or to withhold
increments of pay with cumulative effect for any period, an inquiry shall be
held in the manner laid down in [sub-rules (3) to (24) of rule 14]
[Substituted 'sub-rules (3) to (23) of rule 14' by Notification No. G.S.R.
548(E), dated 2.6.2017.], before making any order imposing on the Government
servant any such penalty.(2)The record of the proceedings in such cases shall
include-(i)a copy of the intimation to the Government servant of the proposal
to take action against him;(ii)a copy of the statement of imputations of
misconduct or misbehaviour delivered to him;(iii)his representation, if
any;(iv)the evidence produced during the inquiry;(v)the advice of the
Commission, if any;(vi)the findings on each imputation of misconduct or
misbehaviour; and(vi)[ representation, if any, of the Government servant on
the advice of the Commission: [Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E),
dated 31.10.2014](vii)the findings on each imputation of misconduct or
misbehaviour; and(viii)the orders on the case together with the reasons
therefor.]

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Decision :(1) Enquiry mandatory in certain types of the
penalty of witholding of increments :-It has been decided in the meeting of
National Council held on the 6th and 7th November, 1967, that in cases where
increments are withheld for a period of more than three years or where
increments are stopped with cumulative effect or where such stoppage is likely
to affect adversely the pensionary entitlement, the procedure of holding an
enquiry should invariably be followed.As the Ministry of Finance etc. are
aware, clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 16 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965
makes provisions for holding an enquiry in the manner laid down in sub-rules
(3) to (23) of rule 14 ibid in every case in which the disciplinary authority
is of the opinion that such an inquiry is necessary. In view of the decision
of the National Council, mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it has been
decided that, notwithstanding the provision contained in rule 16 (1) (b) of
the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, if in a case it is proposed, after considering that
representation, if any, submitted by a Government servant, to withhold
increments of pay for a period exceeding three years or to withhold increments
of pay with cumulative effect for any period or if the penalty of withholding
of increments is likely to affect adversely the amount of pension payable to
the Government servant, an enquiry shall invariably be held in the manner laid
down in sub-rules (3) to (23) of rule 14 ibid.[MHA OM No. 7/3/67-Ests.(A)
dated the 19th January, 1968](2) Minor Penalty - holding of inquiry in
specific circumstances :-The Staff Side of the Committee of the National
Council (JCM) set up to consider revision of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 had
suggested that Rule 16 (1) should be amended so as to provide for holding an
inquiry even for imposition of minor penalty, if the accused employee
requested for such an inquiry.2\. The above suggestion has been given a
detailed consideration. Rule 16 (1-A) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 provide for
the holding of an inquiry even when a minor penalty is to be imposed in the
circumstances indicated therein. In other cases, where a minor penalty is to
be imposed, Rule 16 (1) ibid leaves it to the discretion of disciplinary
authority to decide whether an inquiry should be held or not. The implication
of this rule is that on receipt of representation of Government servant
concerned on the imputations of misconduct or misbehavior communicated to him,
the disciplinary authority should apply its mind to all facts and
circumstances and the reasons urged in the representation for holding a
detailed inquiry and form an opinion whether an inquiry is necessary or not.
In case where a delinquent Government servant has asked for inspection of
certain documents and cross examination of the prosecution witnesses, the
disciplinary authority should naturally apply its mind more closely to the
request and should not reject the request solely on the ground that in inquiry
is not mandatory. If the records indicate that, notwithstanding the points
urged by the Government servant, the disciplinary authority could, after due
consideration, come to the conclusion that an inquiry is not necessary, it
should say so in writing indicating its reasons, instead of rejecting the
request for holding inquiry summarily without any indication that it has
applied its mind to the request, as such an action could be construed as
denial of natural justice.[Deptt. of Personnel & Training OM No.
1101218/85-Ests.(A) dated 28th October, 1985]  
---  
  
### 17. Communication of Orders

Orders made by the disciplinary authority shall be communicated to the
Government servant who shall also be supplied with a copy of its finding on
each article of charge, or where the disciplinary authority is not the
inquiring authority, a statement of the findings of the disciplinary authority
together with brief reasons for its disagreement, if any, with the findings of
the inquiring authority [***] [Deleted 'and also a copy of the advice, if any,
given by the Commission' by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014],
and where the disciplinary authority has not accepted the advice of the
Commission, a brief statement of the reasons for such non-acceptance.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Decision(1) Entry of punishments in confidential rolls
:-It has been decided that if as a result of disciplinary proceedings any of
the prescribed punishments (e.g. censure, reduction to a lower post etc.) is
imposed on a Government servant, a record of the same should invariably be
kept in his confidential roll.[G.I., MHA OM No. 38/12/59-Ests.(A) dated the
23rd April, 1960].  
---  
  
### 18. Common Proceedings

(1)Where two or more Government servants are concerned in any case, the
President or any other authority competent to impose the penalty of dismissal
from service on all such Government servants may make an order directing that
disciplinary action against all of them may be taken in a common
proceeding.NOTE-If the authorities competent to impose the penalty of
dismissal on such Government servants are different, an order for taking
disciplinary action in a common proceeding may be made by the highest of such
authorities with the consent of the others.(2)Subject to the provisions of
sub-rule (4) of rule 12, any such order shall specify-(i)the authority which
may function as the disciplinary authority for the purpose of such common
proceeding;(ii)the penalties specified in rule 11 which such disciplinary
authority shall be competent to impose;(iii)whether the procedure laid down in
rule 14 and rule 15 or rule 16 shall be followed in the proceeding.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions(1) Procedure of enquiry when two Government
servants accuse each other :-In a recent case, two Government employees
working in the same office made complaints against each other. The
disciplinary authority initiated departmental proceedings against both the
employees under Rule 18 of the CCS (CCA) Rules. The question whether it is
legally permissible to enquire into the conduct of the accused and the accuser
in one joint proceeding was examined in consultation with the Ministry of Law.
Cross complaints arising out of the same or connected incident or transaction
are not uncommon, and occur frequently in criminal cases. The Code of Criminal
Procedure is silent with regard to the procedure to be adopted in such cases.
The general principle as laid down by the Courts is that the accused in cross
cases should be tried separately and that both the trials should be held
simultaneously or in quick succession so as to avoid conflicting findings and
different appraisal of the same evidence. On the analogy of the criminal law
practice and procedure, a joint proceeding against the accused and accuser is
an irregularity which should be avoided. This should be noted for future
guidance.[G.I. MHA Letter No. 6/98/63-AVD dated the 13th June, 1963].  
---  
  
### 19. Special procedure in certain cases

Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 14 to rule 18-(i)where any penalty
is imposed on a Government servant on the ground of conduct which has led to
his conviction on a criminal charge, or(ii)where the disciplinary authority is
satisfied for reasons to be recorded by it in writing that it is not
reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry in the manner provided in these
rules, or(iii)where the President is satisfied that in the interest of the
security of the State, it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in the manner
provided in these rules, the disciplinary authority may consider the
circumstances of the case and make such orders thereon as it deems
fit:Provided that the Government servant may be given an opportunity of making
representation on the penalty proposed to be imposed before any order is made
in a case under clause (i):Provided further that the Commission shall be
consulted, where such consultation is necessary, [and the Government servant
has been given an opportunity of representing against the advice of the
Commission,] [Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014]
before any orders are made in any case under this rule.[within the time limit
specified in clause (b) of the sub-rule (3) of rule 15] [Inserted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 548(E), dated 2.6.2017.]

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Decisions :(1) Scope of second proviso to Article 311
(2) of the Constitution :-The judgment delivered by the Supreme Court on
11.07.85 in the case of Tulsi Ram Patel and others has been the cause of much
controversy. The apprehension caused by the judgment is merely due to an
inadequate appreciation of the point clarified in this judgment and in the
subsequent judgement of the Supreme Court delivered on September 12, 1985 in
the case of Satyavir Singh and others (Civil Appeal No. 242 of 1982 and Civil
Appeal No. 576 of 1982). It is, therefore, imperative to clarify the issue for
the benefit and guidance of all concerned.2\. In the first place it may be
understood that the Supreme Court in its judgment has not established any new
principle of law. It has only clarified the constitutional provisions, as
embodied in Article 311 (2) of the Constitution. In other words, the judgment
does not take away the constitutional protection granted to government
employees by the said Article, under which no government employee can be
dismissed, removed or reduced in rank without an inquiry in which he has been
informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity to
defend himself. It is only in three exceptional situations listed in clauses
(a), (b) and (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) that the requirement
of holding such an inquiry may be dispensed with.3\. Even under these three
exceptional circumstances, the judgment does not give unbridled power to the
competent authority when it takes action under any of the three clauses in the
second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution or any service rule
corresponding to it. The competent authority is expected to exercise its power
under this proviso after due caution and considerable application of mind. The
principles to be kept in view by the competent authority while taking action
under the second proviso to Article 311 (2) or corresponding service rules
have been defined by the Supreme Court itself. These are reproduced in the
succeeding paragraphs for the information, guidance and compliance of all
concerned.4\. When action is taken under clause (a) of the second proviso to
Article 311 (2) of the Constitution or rule 19 (1) of the CCS (CC&A) Rules,
1965 or any other service rule similar to it, the first pre-requisite is that
the disciplinary authority should be aware that a Government servant has been
convicted on criminal charge. But this awareness alone will not suffice.
Having come to know of the conviction of a Government servant on a criminal
charge, the disciplinary authority must consider whether his conduct, which
had led to his conviction, was such as warrants the imposition of a penalty
and if so, what that penalty should be. For that purpose, it will have to
peruse the judgment of the criminal court and consider all the facts and
circumstances of the case. In considering the matter, the disciplinary
authority will have to take into account the entire conduct of the delinquent
employee, the gravity of the misconduct committed by him, the impact which his
misconduct is likely to have on the administration and other extenuating
circumstances or redeeming features. This however, has to be done by the
disciplinary authority by itself. Once the disciplinary authority reaches the
conclusion that the government servant's conduct was blameworthy and
punishable, it must decide upon the penalty that should be imposed on the
Government servant. (The position has been undergone a change with
incorporation of first proviso to Rule 19, which may be kept in view). This
too has to be done by the disciplinary authority by itself. The principle,
however, to be kept in mind is that the penalty imposed upon the civil servant
should not be grossly excessive or out of all proportion to the offence
committed or one not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the case.5\.
After the competent authority passes the requisite orders as indicated in the
preceding paragraph, a Government servant who is aggrieved by it can agitate
in appeal, revision or review, as the case may be, that the penalty was too
severe or excessive and not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the
case. If it is his case that he is not the person who was in fact, convicted,
he can also agitate this question in appeal, revision or review. If he fails
in all the departmental remedies available to him and still wants to pursue
the matter, he can seek judicial review. The court (which term will include a
Tribunal having the powers of a court) will go into the question whether
impugned order is arbitrary or grossly excessive or out of all proportion to
the offence committed, or not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the
case or the requirements of the particular service to which the government
servant belongs.6\. Coming to clause (b) of the second proviso to Article 311
(2), there are two conditions precedent which must be satisfied before action
under this clause is taken against a government servant. These conditions are
:-(i) There must exist a situation which makes the holding of an inquiry
contemplated by Article 311 (2) not reasonably practicable. What is required
is that holding of inquiry is not practicable in the opinion of the reasonable
man taking a reasonable view of the prevailing situation. It is not possible
to enumerate all the cases in which it would not be reasonably practicable to
hold the inquiry. Illustrative cases would be :-(a) Where a civil servant,
through or together with his associates, terrorises, threatens or intimidates
witnesses who are likely to give evidence against him with fear of reprisal in
order to prevent them from doing so; or(b) where the civil servant by himself
or with or through others threatens, intimidates and terrorises the officer
who is disciplinary authority or members of his family so that the officer is
afraid to hold the inquiry or direct it to be held; or(c) where an atmosphere
of violence or of general indiscipline and insubordination prevails at the
time the attempt to hold the inquiry is made.The disciplinary authority is not
expected to dispense with a disciplinary inquiry lightly or arbitrarily or out
of ulterior motives or merely in order to avoid the holding of an inquiry or
because the Department's case against the civil servant is weak and is,
therefore, bound to fail.(ii) Another important condition precedent to the
application of clause (b) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2), or rule 19
(ii) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 or any other similar rule is that the
disciplinary authority should record in writing the reason or reasons for its
satisfaction that it was not reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry
contemplated by Article 311 (2) or corresponding provisions in the service
rules. This is a constitutional obligation and, if the reasons are not
recorded in writing, the order dispensing with the inquiry and the order of
penalty following it would both be void and unconstitutional. It should also
be kept in mind that the recording in writing of the reasons for dispensing
with the inquiry must precede an order imposing the penalty. Legally speaking,
the reasons for dispensing with the inquiry need not find a place in the final
order itself, though they should be recorded separately in the relevant file.
In spite of this legal position, it would be of advantage to incorporate
briefly the reasons which led the disciplinary authority to the conclusion
that it was not reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry, in the order of
penalty. While the reasons so given may be brief, they should not be vague or
they should not be just a repetition of the language of the relevant rules.7\.
It is true that the Article 311 (3) of the Constitution provides that the
decision of the competent authority under clause (b) of the second proviso to
Article 311 (2) shall be final. Consequently, the decision of the competent
authority cannot be questioned in appeal, revision or review. This finality
given to the decision of the competent authority is, however, not binding on a
Court (or Tribunal having the powers of a Court) so far as its power of
judicial review is concerned, and the court is competent to strike down the
order dispensing with the inquiry as also the order imposing penalty, should
such a course of action be considered necessary by the court in the
circumstances of the case. All disciplinary authorities should keep this
factor in mind while forming the opinion that it is not reasonably practicable
to hold an inquiry.8\. Another important guidelines with regard to this clause
which needs to be kept in mind is that a civil servant who has been dismissed
or removed from service or reduced in rank by applying to his case clause (b)
of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) or an analogous service rule can
claim in appeal or revision that an inquiry should be held with respect to the
charges on which such penalty has been imposed upon him, unless a situation
envisaged by the second proviso is prevailing at the hearing of the appeal or
revision application. Even in such a case the hearing of the appeal or
revision application should be postponed for a reasonable length of time for
situation to return to normal.9\. As regards action under clause (c) of the
second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution, what is required under
this clause is the satisfaction of the President or the Governor, as the case
may be, that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient
to hold an inquiry as contemplated by Article 311 (2). This satisfaction is
for the President or the Governor as a constitutional authority arrived at
with the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers. The satisfaction so
reached by the President or the Governor is necessarily a subjective
satisfaction. The reasons for this satisfaction need not be recorded in the
order of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank; nor can it be made public.
There is no provision for departmental appeal or other departmental remedy
against the satisfaction reached by the President or the Governor. If,
however, the inquiry has been dispensed with by the President or the Governor
and the order of penalty has been passed by disciplinary authority subordinate
thereto, a departmental appeal or revision will lie. In such an appeal or
revision, the civil servant can ask for an inquiry to be held into his alleged
conduct, unless at the time of the hearing of the appeal or revision a
situation envisaged by the second proviso to Article 311 (2) is prevailing.
Even in such a situation the hearing of the appeal or revision application
should be postponed for a reasonable length of time for the situation to
become normal. Ordinarily the satisfaction reached by the President or the
Governor, would not be a matter for judicial review. However, if it is alleged
that the satisfaction of the President or Governor, as the case may be, had
been reached mala fide or was based on wholly extraneous or irrelevant
grounds, the matter will become subject to judicial review because, in such a
case, there would be no satisfaction, in law, of the President or the Governor
at all. The question whether the court may compel the Government to disclose
the materials to examine whether the satisfaction was arrived at mala fide or
based on extraneous or irrelevant grounds, would depend upon the nature of the
documents in question i.e. whether they fall within the class of privileged
documents or whether in respect of them privilege has been properly claimed or
not.10\. The preceding paragraphs clarify the scope of clauses (a), (b) and
(c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution, rule 19 of
CSS (CC&A) Rules, 1965 and other service rules similar to it, in the light of
the judgments of the Supreme Court delivered on 11.07.1985 and 12.09.1985. It
is, therefore, imperative that these clarifications are not lost sight of
while invoking the provisions of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) or
service rules based on them. Particularly, nothing should be done that would
create the impression that the action taken is arbitrary or mala fide. So far
as clauses (a) and (c) and service rules similar to them are concerned, there
are already detailed instructions laying down the procedure for dealing with
the cases falling within the purview of the aforesaid clauses and rules
similar to them. As regards invoking clause (b) of the second proviso to
Article 311 (2) or any similarly worded service rule, absolute care should be
exercised and it should always be kept in view that action under it should not
appear to be arbitrary or designed to avoid an inquiry which is quite
practicable.[Department of Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/11/85-Estt. Dated
the 11th November, 1985].(2) Issue of charge-sheet where action is taken under
Rule 19 :-Paras 6 to 8 of this Department's OM of even No. dated 11th
November, 1985 (Decision No. 1 above) contain instructions relating to factors
that are relevant where action is taken under Clause (b) of the second proviso
to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution.2\. A question has been raised whether,
in a case where clause (b) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the
Constitution is invoked, the disciplinary authority may dispense with the
issuing of charge memo listing the charges. Clause (b) is attracted in a case
where the disciplinary authority concludes, "that it is not reasonably
practicable to hold such an inquiry". The circumstances leading to such a
conclusion may exist either before the inquiry is commenced or may develop in
the course of the inquiry. In the Tulsi Ram Patel case, the Supreme Court
observed as under :-"It is not necessary that a situation which makes the
holding of an inquiry not reasonably practicable should exist before the
disciplinary inquiry is initiated against a Government servant. Such a
situation can also come into existence subsequently during the course of an
inquiry, for instance, after the service of a charge-sheet upon the Government
servant or after he has filed his written statement thereto or even after the
evidence had been led in part. In such a case also, the disciplinary authority
would be entitled to apply clause (b) of the second proviso because the word
"inquiry" in that clause includes part of an inquiry".3\. Article 311 (2) of
the Constitution concerns itself with the punishment of dismissal, removal or
reduction in rank, which comes in the category of major punishment under the
service rules providing the procedure for disciplinary action against
Government servants. The first step in that procedure is the service of a
memorandum of charges or a charge-sheet, as popularly known, on the Government
servant, listing the charges against him and calling upon him, by a specified
date, to furnish a reply either denying or accepting all or any of the
charges. An inquiry hence commences under the service rules with the service
of the charge-sheet. Obviously, if the circumstances even before the
commencement of an inquiry are such that the disciplinary authority holds that
it is not reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry, no action by way of
service of charge-sheet would be necessary. On the other hand, if such
circumstances develop in the course of inquiry, a charge-sheet would already
have been served on the Government servant concerned.4\. In para 6 (i) of this
Department's OM dated 11th November, 1985 (Decision No. 1 above) certain
illustrative cases have been enumerated where the disciplinary authority may
conclude that it is not reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry. It is
important to note that the circumstances of the nature given in the
illustrative cases, or other circumstances which make the disciplinary
authority conclude that it is not reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry,
should actually subsist at the time when the conclusion is arrived at. The
threat, intimidation or the atmosphere of violence or of a general
indiscipline and insubordination, for example, referred to in the illustrative
cases, should be subsisting at the time when the disciplinary authority
arrives at his conclusion. It will not be correct on the part of the
disciplinary authority to anticipate such circumstances as those that are
likely to arise, possibly later in time, as grounds for holding that it is not
reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry and, on that basis, dispense with
serving a charge-sheet on the Government servant.[Department of Personnel &
Training OM No. 11012/11/85-Estt.(A) dated 4th April, 1986].  
---  
  
### 20. Provisions regarding officers lent to State Governments, etc.

(1)Where the services of a Government servant are lent by one department to
another department or to a State Government or an authority subordinate
thereto or to a local or other authority (hereinafter in this rule referred to
as " the borrowing authority"), the borrowing authority shall have the powers
of the appointing authority for the purpose of placing such Government servant
under suspension and of the disciplinary authority for the purpose of
conducting a disciplinary proceeding against him:Provided that the borrowing
authority shall forthwith inform the authority which lent the services of the
Government servant (hereinafter in this rule referred to as "the lending
authority") of the circumstances leading to the order of suspension of such
Government servant or the commencement of the disciplinary proceeding, as the
case may be.(2)In the light of the findings in the disciplinary proceeding
conducted against the Government servant-(i)if the borrowing authority is of
the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of rule
11 should be imposed on the Government servant, it may, after consultation
with the lending authority, make such orders on the case as it deems
necessary:Provided that in the event of a difference of opinion between the
borrowing authority and the lending authority, the services of the Government
servant shall be replaced at the disposal of the lending authority;(ii)if the
borrowing authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in
clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11 should be imposed on the Government servant, it
shall replace his services at the disposal of the lending authority and
transmit to it the proceedings of the inquiry and thereupon the lending
authority may, if it is the disciplinary authority, pass such order thereon as
it may deem necessary, or, if it is not the disciplinary authority, submit the
case to the disciplinary authority which shall pass such orders on the case as
it may deem necessary :Provided that before passing any such order the
disciplinary authority shall comply with the provisions of sub-rules (3) and
(4) of rule 15.Explanation - The disciplinary authority may make an order
under this clause on the record of the inquiry transmitted to it by the
borrowing authority or after holding such further inquiry as it may deem
necessary, as far as may be, in accordance with rule 14.

### 21. Provisions regarding officers borrowed from State Governments, etc.

(1)Where an order of suspension is made or a disciplinary proceeding is
conducted against a Government servant whose services have been borrowed by
one department from another department or from a State Government or an
authority subordinate thereto or a local or other authority, the authority
lending his services (hereinafter in this rule referred to as "the lending
authority") shall forthwith be informed of the circumstances leading to the
order of the suspension of the Government servant or of the commencement of
the disciplinary proceeding, as the case may be.(2)In the light of the
findings in the disciplinary proceeding conducted against the Government
servant, if the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that any of the
penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of rule 11 should be imposed on
him, it may, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of rule 15 and except
in regard to a Government servant serving in the Intelligence Bureau up to the
rank of Assistant Central Intelligence Officer, after consultation with the
lending authority, pass such orders on the case as it may deem
necessary-(i)provided that in the event of a difference of opinion between the
borrowing authority and the lending authority, the services of the Government
servant shall be replaced at the disposal of the lending authority;(ii)if the
disciplinary authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified
in clauses (v) to (ix) of Rule 11 should be imposed on the Government servant,
it shall replace the services of such Government servant at the disposal of
the lending authority and transmit to it the proceedings of the inquiry for
such action, as it may deem necessary.

## Part VII – Appeals

### 22. Orders against which no appeal lies

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Part, no appeal shall lie
against-(i)any order made by the President;(ii)any order of an interlocutory
nature or of the nature of a step-in-aid of the final disposal of a
disciplinary proceeding, other than an order of suspension;(iii)any order
passed by an inquiring authority in the course of an inquiry under Rule 14.

### 23. Orders against which appeal lies

Subject to the provisions of rule 22, a Government servant may prefer an
appeal against all or any of the following orders, namely:-(i)an order of
suspension made or deemed to have been made under rule 10;(ii)an order
imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 11, whether made by the
disciplinary authority or by any appellate or revising authority;(iii)an order
enhancing any penalty, imposed under rule 11;(iv)an order which-(a)denies or
varies to his disadvantage his pay, allowances, pension or other conditions of
service as regulated by rules or by agreement; or(b)interprets to his
disadvantage the provisions of any such rule or agreement;(v)an
order-(a)stopping him at the efficiency bar in the time-scale of pay on the
ground of his unfitness to cross the bar;(b)reverting him while officiating in
a higher service, grade or post, to a lower service, grade or post, otherwise
than as a penalty;(c)reducing or withholding the pension or denying the
maximum pension admissible to him under the rules;(d)determining the
subsistence and other allowances to be paid to him for the period of
suspension or for the period during which he is deemed to be under suspension
or for any portion thereof;(e)determining his pay and allowances-(i)for the
period of suspension, or(ii)for the period from the date of his dismissal,
removal or compulsory retirement from service, or from the date of his
reduction to a lower service, grade, post, time-scale or stage in a time-scale
of pay, to the date of his reinstatement or restoration to his service, grade
or post; or(f)determining whether or not the period from the date of his
suspension or from the date of his dismissal, removal, compulsory retirement
or reduction to a lower service, grade, post, time-scale of pay or stage in a
time-scale of pay to the date of his reinstatement or restoration to his
service, grade or post shall be treated as a period spent on duty for any
purpose.Explanation - In this rule-(i)the expression 'Government servant'
includes a person who has ceased to be in Government service;(ii)the
expression 'pension' includes additional pension, gratuity and any other
retirement benefits.

### 24. Appellate Authority.

(1)A Government servant, including a person who has ceased to be in Government
service, may prefer an appeal against all or any of the orders specified in
Rule 23 to the authority specified in this behalf either in the Schedule or by
a general or special order of the President or, where no such authority is
specified-(i)where such Government servant is or was a member of a Central
Service, Group 'A' or Group 'B' or holder of a Central Civil Post, Group 'A'
or Group 'B' -(a)to the appointing authority, where the order appealed against
is made by an authority subordinate to it; or(b)to the President where such
order is made by any other authority;which the authority making the order
appealed against is immediately subordinat(ii) where such Government servant
is or was a member of a Central Civil Service, Group 'C' or Group 'D', or
holder of a Central Civil Post, Group 'C' or Group 'D', to the authority
toe.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1)-(i)an appeal against
an order in a common proceeding held under Rule 18 shall lie to the authority
to which the authority functioning as the disciplinary authority for the
purpose of that proceeding is immediately subordinate :Provided that where
such authority is subordinate to the President in respect of a Government
servant for whom President is the appellate authority in terms of sub-clause
(b) of clause (i) of sub-rule (1), the appeal shall lie to the
President.(ii)where the person who made the order appealed against becomes, by
virtue of his subsequent appointment or otherwise, the appellate authority in
respect of such order, an appeal against such order shall lie to the authority
to which such person is immediately subordinate.(3)A Government servant may
prefer an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties specified in
rule 11 to the President, where no such appeal lies to him under sub-rule (1)
or sub-rule (2), if such penalty is imposed by any authority other than the
President, on such Government servant in respect of his activities connected
with his work as an office-bearer of an association, federation or union,
participating in the Joint Consultation and Compulsory Arbitration Scheme.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions(1) Appeal in the case of a disciplinary
order against an office-bearer of an association or union :-All appeals to the
President under sub-rule (3) of Rule 24 should be placed before the Minister-
in-charge for final orders irrespective of whether the general directions in
various Ministries, relating to the disposal of appeals addressed to the
President, require such submission or not.In respect of persons serving in the
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the appeals referred to in the preceding
para, shall be disposed of by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India.[G.I. MHA OM No. 7/14/64-Ests.(A) dated the 18th April, 1967].  
---  
  
### 25. Period of Limitation of appeals.

No appeal preferred under this part shall be entertained unless such appeal is
preferred within a period of forty-five days from the date on which a copy of
the order appealed against is delivered to the appellant :Provided that the
appellate authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said
period, if it is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not
preferring the appeal in time.

### 26. Form and contents of appeal.

(1)Every person preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own
name.(2)The appeal shall be presented to the authority to whom the appeal
lies, a copy being forwarded by the appellant to the authority which made the
order appealed against. It shall contain all material statements and arguments
on which the appellant relies, shall not contain any disrespectful or improper
language, and shall be complete in itself.(3)The authority which made the
order appealed against shall, on receipt of a copy of the appeal, forward the
same with its comments thereon together with the relevant records to the
appellate authority without any avoidable delay, and without waiting for any
direction from the appellate authority.

### 27. Consideration of appeal.

(1)In the case of an appeal against an order of suspension, the appellate
authority shall consider whether in the light of the provisions of rule 10 and
having regard to the circumstances of the case, the order of suspension is
justified or not and confirm or revoke the order accordingly.(2)In the case of
an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 11
or enhancing any penalty imposed under the said rules, the appellate authority
shall consider-(a)whether the procedure laid down in these rules have been
complied with and if not, whether such non-compliance has resulted in the
violation of any provisions of the Constitution of India or in the failure of
justice;(b)whether the findings of the disciplinary authority are warranted by
the evidence on the record; and(c)whether the penalty or the enhanced penalty
imposed is adequate, inadequate or severe;and pass orders-(i)confirming,
enhancing, reducing, or setting aside the penalty; or(ii)remitting the case to
the authority which imposed or enhanced the penalty or to any other authority
with such direction as it may deem fit in the circumstances of the case
:provided that-(i)The Commission shall be consulted in all cases where such
consultation is necessary [and the Government servant has been given an
opportunity of representing against the advice of the Commission] [Added by
Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014];[within the time limit
specified in clause (b) of the sub-rule (3) of rule 15] [Inserted by
Notification No. G.S.R. 548(E), dated 2.6.2017.](ii)If such enhanced penalty
which the appellate authority proposes to impose is one of the penalties
specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11 and in inquiry under rule 14 has
not already been held in the case, the appellate authority shall, subject to
the provisions of rule 19, itself hold such inquiry or direct that such
inquiry be held in accordance with the provisions of rule 14 and thereafter,
on a consideration of the proceedings of such inquiry and make such orders as
it may deem fit:(i)if the enhanced penalty which the appellate authority
proposes to impose is one of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of
rule 11 and an enquiry under rule 14 has been held in the case, the appellate
authority shall make such orders as it may deem fit after the appellant has
been given a reasonable opportunity of making a representation against the
proposed penalty; and(ii)no order imposing an enhanced penalty shall be made
in any other case unless the appellant has been given a reasonable
opportunity, as far as may be, in accordance with the provisions of rule 16,
of making a representation against such enhanced penalty.(3)In an appeal
against any other order specified in rule 23, the appellate authority shall
consider all the circumstances of the case and make such orders as it may deem
just and equitable.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions :(1) Time-limit for the disposal of appeals
:-The following suggestions have been examined in order to achieve quicker
disposal of appeals :-(a) the need for and the feasibility of appointing
additional appellate authorities wherever the present workload of appellate
authorities is unduly heavy; and(b) the prescribing of a procedure by which
the position regarding pending appeals could be reviewed by higher authorities
at periodical intervals so as to take suitable and timely remedial action.2\.
The two suggestions mentioned in para 1 have been examined. Although the
appellate authorities are expected to give a high priority to the disposal of
appeals, there might be cases in which the hands of the appellate authority
are too full and it may not be able to devote the time and attention required
for the disposal of appeals within a short period. In such case the appellate
authority can be relieved of his normal work to such an extent as would be
necessary to enable him to devote the required time and attention to the
disposal of appeals pending before him by redistribution of that work amongst
other officers. If, however, the number of appeals received or pending with
any particular appellate authority is very large, the appellate work itself
could be redistributed as far as possible among a number of officers of
equivalent rank and in any case not below the rank of the appellate authority
through a general order issued in exercise of the powers under Rule 24 of the
CCS (CCA) Rules.3\. As regards prescribing procedure for review of the
position regarding pending appeals, it has been decided that, apart from the
provisions laid down in the Manual of Office Procedure whereby cases pending
disposal for over a month are reviewed by the appropriate higher authorities,
a separate detailed statement of appeals pending disposal for over a month
should be submitted by the appellate authority to the next higher authority
indicating particularly the reasons on account of which the appeals could not
be disposed of within a month and the further appeals could not be disposed of
within a month and the further time likely to be taken for disposal of each
such appeal, along-with the reasons therefor. This would enable the
appropriate higher authority to go into the reasons for the delay in the
disposal of appeals pending for more than a month, and take remedial steps
wherever necessary to have the pending appeals disposed of without further
delay. In cases where the appellate authority is the President under Rule 24
of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, the aforesaid statement should be submitted to
the Secretary of the Ministry/Department concerned for similar
scrutiny.(Cabinet Sectt. (Department of Personnel), OM No. 39/42/70-Ests.(A)
dated the 15th May, 1971).(2) Personal hearing at the discretion of appellate
authority in major penalty cases :-The Committee of the National Council (JCM)
set up to review the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has recommended that provision may
be made for personal hearing by the Appellate authority of the employee
concerned if the appeal is against a major penalty.2\. The above
recommendation has been considered in all its aspects. Rule 27 of the CCS
(CCA) Rules, 1965 does not specifically provide for the grant of a personal
hearing by the appellate authority to the Government servant before deciding
the appeal preferred by him against a penalty imposed on him. The principle of
right to personal hearing applicable to a judicial trial or proceeding even at
the appellate stage is not applicable to departmental inquiries, in which a
decision by the appellate authority can generally be taken on the basis of the
records before it. However, a personal hearing of the appellant by the
appellate authority at times will afford the former an opportunity to present
his case more effectively and thereby facilitate the appellate authority in
deciding the appeal quickly and in a just and equitable manner. As Rule 27 of
the CCA Rules does not preclude the grant of personal hearing in suitable
cases, it has been decided that where the appeal is against an order imposing
a major penalty and the appellant makes a specific request for a personal
hearing the appellate authority may after considering all relevant
circumstances of the case, allow the appellant, as its discretion, the
personal hearing.[G.I., Deptt. of Personnel & Trg. OM No. 11012/20/85-Estt.(A)
dated 28th October, 1985].The Staff side in the National Council (JCM) have
requested that the Government servants against whom a major penalty has been
imposed should be allowed the services of defence assistant to present their
case before the competent authority at appeal/revision stage.(2A)The proposal
was discussed in the meeting of the National Council (JCM) on 31.01.1991 and
it has been decided that in all those cases where a personal hearing is
allowed by the appellate authority in terms of OM dated 28.10.85, referred to
above, the Government servant may be allowed to take the assistance of a
defence assistant also, if a request is made to that effect.[G.I.Deptt. of
Personnel & Trg. OM No. 11012/2/91-Estt.(A) dated 23.04.91]  
---  
  
### 28. Implementation of orders in appeal.

The authority which made the order appealed against shall give effect to the
orders passed by the appellate authority.

## Part VIII – Revision And Review

### 29. Revision.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules-(i)the President;
or(ii)the Comptroller and Auditor-General, in the case of a Government servant
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department; or(iii)the Member
(Personnel) Postal Services Board in the case of a Government servant serving
in or under the Postal Services Board and Adviser (Human Resources
Development), Department of Telecommunications in the case of a Government
servant serving in or under the Telecommunications Board; or(iv)the Head of a
Department directly under the Central Government, in the case of a Government
servant serving in a department or office (not being the Secretariat or the
Posts and Telegraphs Board), under the control of such Head of a Department;
or(v)the appellate authority, within six months of the date of the order
proposed to be revised or(vi)any other authority specified in this behalf by
the President by a general or special order, and within such time as may be
prescribed in such general or special order;may at any time, either on his or
its own motion or otherwise call for the records of any inquiry and revise any
order made under these rules or under the rules repealed by rule 34 from which
an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred or from
which no appeal is allowed, after consultation with the Commission where such
consultation is necessary, and may-(a)confirm, modify or set aside the order;
or(b)confirm, reduce, enhance or set aside the penalty imposed by the order,
or impose any penalty where no penalty has been imposed; or(c)remit the case
to the authority which made the order to or any other authority directing such
authority to make such further enquiry as it may consider proper in the
circumstances of the case; or(d)pass such other orders as it may deem
fit:Provided that no order imposing or enhancing any penalty shall be made by
any revising authority unless the Government servant concerned has been given
a reasonable opportunity of making a representation against the penalty
proposed and where it is proposed to impose any of the penalties specified in
clauses (v) to (ix) of rule 11 or to enhance the penalty imposed by the order
sought to be revised to any of the penalties specified in those clauses, and
if an inquiry under rule 14 has not already been held in the case no such
penalty shall be imposed except after an inquiry in the manner laid down in
rule 14 subject to the provisions of rule 19, and except after consultation
with the Commission where such consultation is necessary [and the Government
servant has been given an opportunity of representing against the advice of
the Commission:] [Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated
31.10.2014][within the time limit specified in clause (b) of the sub-rule (3)
of rule 15] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 548(E), dated
2.6.2017.]Provided further that no power of revision shall be exercised by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General, Member (Personnel), Postal Services Board,
Adviser (Human Resources Department), Department of Telecommunications or the
Head of Department, as the case may be, unless-(i)the authority which made the
order in appeal, or(ii)the authority to which an appeal would lie, where no
appeal has been preferred, is subordinate to him.(2)No proceeding for revision
shall be commenced until after-(i)the expiry of the period of limitation for
an appeal, or(ii)the disposal of the appeal, where any such appeal has been
preferred.(3)An application for revision shall be dealt with in the same
manner as if it were an appeal under these rules.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions(1) Procedure to be followed while proposing
enhancement of the penalty already imposed on a Government servant :-Instances
have been brought to the notice of this Ministry in which when orders of
punishment passed by the subordinate authorities were reviewed under Rule 29
(1) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, and a provisional conclusion reached that
the penalty already imposed was not adequate, the authorities concerned set
aside/cancelled the order of punishment already passed by the subordinate
authorities and simultaneously served show-cause notices for the imposition of
higher penalties. Thereafter, the replies of the Government servants to show-
cause notices were considered and the Union Public Service Commission also
consulted, wherever necessary, before the imposition of enhanced penalties.It
is clarified that in case of the kind mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it
is not appropriate to set aside/cancel the penalty already imposed on the
Government servants, more so when the revising authority is the President, as
strictly speaking cancellation of the penalty, if done in the name of the
President amounts to modification by the President of the earlier order of the
subordinate authority, for which prior consultation with the Union Public
Service Commission is necessary under Regulation 5 (1) (c) of the UPSC
(Exemption from Consultation) Regulations, 1958. The correct procedure in such
cases will, therefore, be to take action in accordance with the first proviso
to Rule 29 (1) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, without cancelling/setting aside
the order of the subordinate authority. It is only at the final stage when
orders are issued modifying the original penalty, that it would be necessary
to set aside the original order of penalty.[G.I. MHA OM No. 39/2/68-Ests.(A)
dated the 14th May, 1968].  
---  
  
### 29A. Review.

The President may, at any time, either on his own motion or otherwise review
any order passed under these rules, when any new material or evidence which
could not be produced or was not available at the time of passing the order
under review and which has the effect of changing the nature of the case, has
come, or has been brought, to his notice:Provided that no order imposing or
enhancing any penalty shall be made by the President unless the Government
servant concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of making a
representation against the penalty proposed or where it is proposed to impose
any of the major penalties specified in rule 11 or to enhance the minor
penalty imposed by the order sought to be reviewed to any of the major
penalties and if an enquiry under rule 14 has not already been held in the
case, no such penalty shall be imposed except after inquiring in the manner
laid down in rule 14, subject to the provisions of rule 19, and except after
consultation with the Commission where such consultation is necessary [and the
Government servant has been given an opportunity of representing against the
advice of the Commission.] [Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated
31.10.2014][within the time limit specified in clause (b) of the sub-rule (3)
of rule 15] [Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 548(E), dated 2.6.2017.]

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions.(1) President's power of review under Rule
29 -Attention is invited to this Department Notification of even number dated
the 6th August, 1981 amending Rule 29 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, and
introducing Rule 29-A therein. The amendment has been necessitated by the
judgment of the Delhi High Court in the case of Shri R.K.Gupta Vs. Union of
India and another (Civil Writ Petition Nos. 196 of 1978 and 322 of 1979) in
which the High Court has held that under Rule 29 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965
-(1) the President has power to review any order under the CCS (CCA) Rules,
1965 including an order of exoneration, and(2) the aforesaid power of review
is in the nature of revisionary power and not in the nature of reviewing one's
own order.The matter has been examined in consultation with the Ministry of
Law who has observed that the judgment of the Delhi High Court would indicate
that the President cannot exercise his revisionary powers in a case in which
the power had already been exercised after full consideration of the facts and
circumstances of the case. There is, however, no objection to providing for a
review by the President of an order passed by him earlier in revision if some
new fact or material having the nature of changing the entire complexion of
the case comes to his notice later. Accordingly, Rule 29-A, has been
introduced specifying the power of the President to make a review of any order
passed earlier, including an order passed in revision under Rule 29, when any
new fact or material which has the effect of changing the nature of the case
comes to his notice. If may also be noted that while the President and other
authorities enumerated in Rule 29 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 exercise the
power of revision under that rule, the power of review under Rule 29-A is
vested in the President only and not in any other authority. With the
amendment of Rule 29 and the introduction Rule 29-A, the heading of Part VIII
of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 has also been appropriately changed as "Revision
and Review".[MHA, (D/o P&AR) OM No. 11012/1/80-Ests.(A) dated the 3rd
September, 1981].  
---  
  
## Part IX – Miscellaneous

### 30. Service of orders, notices, etc.

Every order, notice and other process made or issued under these rules shall
be served in person on the Government servant concerned or communicated to him
by registered post.

### 31. Power to relax time-limit and to condone delay.

Save as otherwise expressly provided in these rules, the authority competent
under these rules to make any order may, for good and sufficient reasons or if
sufficient cause is shown, extend the time specified in these rules for
anything required to be done under these rules or condone any delay.

### 32. [ [Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 769(E), dated 31.10.2014]

***]

32\. Supply of copy of Commission's advice.Whenever the Commission is
consulted as provided in these rules, a copy of the advice by the Commission
and where such advice has not been accepted, also a brief statement of the
reasons for such non-acceptance, shall be furnished to the Government servant
concerned along with a copy of the order passed in the case, by the authority
making the order.  
---  
  
### 33. Transitory Provisions.

On and from the commencement of these rules, and until the publication of the
Schedules under these rules, the Schedules to the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, and the Civilians in Defence
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1952, as amended from
time to time, shall be deemed to be the Schedules relating to the respective
categories of Government servants to whom they are, immediately before the
commencement of these rules, applicable and such Schedules shall be deemed to
be the Schedules referred to in the corresponding rules of these rules.

### 34. Repeal and Saving.

(1)Subject to the provisions of rule 33, the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, and the Civilians in Defence
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1952, and any
notifications or orders issued thereunder in so far as they are inconsistent
with these rules, are hereby repealed:Provided that-(a)such repeal shall not
affect the previous operation of the said rules, or any notification or order
made, or anything done, or any action taken, thereunder;(b)any proceedings
under the said rules, pending at the commencement of these rules shall be
continued and disposed of, as far as may be, in accordance with the provisions
of these rules, as if such proceedings were proceedings under these
rules.(2)Nothing in these rules shall be construed as depriving any person to
whom these rules apply, of any right of appeal which had accrued to him under
the rules, notification or orders in force before the commencement of these
rules.(3)An appeal pending at the commencement of these rules against an order
made before such commencement shall be considered and orders thereon shall be
made, in accordance with these rules as if such orders were made and the
appeals were preferred under these rules.(4)As from the commencement of these
rules any appeal or application for review against any orders made before such
commencement shall be preferred or made under these rules, as if such orders
were made under these rules :Provided that nothing in these rules shall be
construed as reducing any period of limitation for any appeal or review
provided by any rule in force before the commencement of these rules.

### 35. Removal of doubts.

If any doubt arises as to the interpretation of any of the provisions of these
rules, the matter shall be referred to the President or such other authority
as may be specified by the President by general or special order, and the
President or such other authority shall decide the same.

Government of India's orders/decisions6  
---  
  
Government of India's Instructions.(1) Copy of advice by UPSC to be given to
Government servant -Rule 32 lays down inter alia that a copy of the advice
given by the Union Public Service Commission should be furnished to the
Government servant concerned. It has been decided, in consultation with the
Commission, that henceforth the Commission should furnish two spare copies
along with the original advice letter in each case. In respect of disciplinary
cases received from State/Central Government in regard to All India Service
Officers also, the Commission will adopt the same practice, the only
difference being that, in case of references received from State Governments,
one spare copy of the advice letter will be sent to them and the other to Home
Ministry for information.[MHA OM No. F.23/19/60-Ests.(B) dated the 29th
December, 1964].(2) Procedure regarding closing of disciplinary cases in the
event of death of the charged official.This Department has been receiving
references seeking clarification whether disciplinary cases initiated against
the Government servant under CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, would be closed in the
event of death or the charged officer during pendency of the proceedings.
After careful consideration of all the aspects, it has been decided that where
a Government servant dies during the pendency of the inquiry i.e. without
charges being proved against him, imposition of any of the penalties
prescribed under the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, would not be justifiable.
Therefore, disciplinary proceedings should be closed immediately on the death
of the alleged Government servant.[Deptt. Of Personnel & Training OM No.
11012/7/99-Estt. (A) dated 20th October, 1999](3) Disciplinary jurisdiction of
Election Commission of India over Government servants deputed for election
duties -.One of the issues in Writ Petition (c) No. 606/1993 in the matter of
Election Commission of India Vs. Union of India & Others was regarding
jurisdiction of Election Commission of India over the Government servants
deputed for election duties under section 28A of the Representation of the
People Act, 1951 and section 13CC of the Representation of the People Act,
1950. The Supreme Court by its order dated 21.09.2000 disposed of the said
petition in terms of the settlement between the Union of India and Election
Commission of India. The said Terms of Settlement are as under :-"The
disciplinary functions of the Election Commission over officers, staff and
police deputed to perform election duties shall extend to -(a) Suspending any
officer/official/police personnel for insubordination or dereliction of
duty;(b) Substituting any officer/official/police personnel by another such
person, and returning the substituted individual to the cadre to which he
belongs, with appropriate report on his conduct;(c) making recommendation to
the competent authority, for taking disciplinary action, for any act of
insubordination or dereliction of duty, while on election duty. Such
recommendation shall be promptly acted upon by the disciplinary authority, and
action taken will be communicated to the Election Commission; within a period
of 6 months from the date of the Election Commission's recommendation.(d) the
Government of India will advise the State Governments that they too should
follow the above principles and decisions, since a large number of election
officials are under their administrative control."2\. The implication of the
disposal of the Writ Petition by the Supreme Court in terms of the above
settlement is that the Election Commission can suspend any
officer/official/police personnel working under the Central Government or
Public Sector Undertaking or an autonomous body fully or substantially
financed by the Government for insubordination or dereliction of duty and the
Election Commission can also direct substituting any officer/official/police
personnel by another person besides making recommendations to the Competent
Authority for taking disciplinary action for insubordination or dereliction of
duty while engaged in the preparation of electoral rolls or election duty. It
is also clarified that it is not necessary to amend the service rules for
exercise of powers of suspension by the Election Commission in this case since
these powers are derived from the provisions of section 13CC of the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 and section 28A of the Representation
of the People Act, 1951 since provisions of these Acts would have overriding
effect over the disciplinary rules. However, in case there are any conflicting
provisions in an Act governing the disciplinary action, the same are required
to be amended suitably in accordance with the Terms of Settlement.[Deptt. Of
Personnel & Training OM No. 11012/7/98-Estt. (A), dated 7th November, 2000](4)
Disciplinary jurisdiction of Election Commission of India over Government
servants deputed for election duties.Reference is invited to the Department of
Personnel and Training's O.M. No. 11012/7/98-Estt. (A) dated 07.11.2000 (copy
enclosed) on the above mentioned subject and to say that the Election
Commission have observed that the Governments in many cases do not initiate
proceedings promptly against Government servants on the Commission's
recommendations.2\. As per the aforementioned O.M. dated 07.11.2000,
disciplinary action against officers, staff and police personnel deputed on
election duties shall be governed by the principles and decisions agreed to
between the Union Government and the Election Commission and as recorded by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in its Order dated 21.09.2000 in Writ
Petition (C) No. 606 of 1993 (Election Commission of India vs. Union of India
and Ors.). The terms of settlement were as follows :-"The disciplinary
functions of the Election Commission over officers, staff and police deputed
to perform election duties shall extend to -(a) Suspending any
officer/official/police personnel for insubordination or dereliction of
duty;(b) Substituting any officer/official/police personnel by another such
person, and returning the substituted individual to the cadre to which he
belongs, with appropriate report on his conduct;(c) making recommendation to
the competent authority, for taking disciplinary action, for any act of
insubordination or dereliction of duty, while on election duty. Such
recommendation shall be promptly acted upon by the disciplinary authority, and
action taken will be communicated to the Election Commission; within a period
of 6 months from the date of the Election Commission's recommendations;(d) the
Government of India will advise the State Governments that they too should
follow the above principles and decisions, since a large number of election
officials are under their administrative control."It has been brought to the
notice of this Department by the Election Commission of India that in many
cases the Governments concerned do not initiate promptly disciplinary action
against the delinquent officials as recommended by the Commission as envisaged
in the aforesaid agreement.3\. The instructions issued in terms of the DOPT's
O.M. dated 07.11.2000 are, therefore, reiterated and it is emphasized that the
terms of settlement have to be complied with while adhering to the provisions
of the relevant disciplinary rules. The recommendations of the Election
Commission made to the Competent Authority for taking disciplinary action for
any act of insubordination or dereliction of duty while on duty shall be
promptly acted upon by the disciplinary authority and action taken should be
communicated to the Election Commission within a period of six months from the
date of the Election Commission's recommendations.4\. All
Ministries/Departments are requested to bring the aforementioned Terms of
Settlement and the contents of para 3 above to the notice of all concerned for
information and compliance.[DOPT O.M. No. 11012(4)/2008-Estt. (A)Dated the
20th March, 2008].(5) Disciplinary jurisdiction of Election Commission of
India over Government servants deputed for election duties.Reference is
invited to the Department of Personnel and Training's O.M. of even number
dated 20.03.2008 on the above mentioned subject and to say that attention was
drawn therein to the principles and decisions agreed to between the Union
Government and the Election Commission of India in respect of disciplinary
action against the Government servants deputed for election duties. The
relevant Terms of Settlement have been cited in para 1 of DOPT's O.M. No.
11012/7/98-Estt. (A) dated 07.11.2000. As per part(c) of these Terms of
Settlement,(a) the disciplinary functions of the Election Commission over the
officers, staff and police deputed to perform election duties shall extend,
inter alia, to making recommendation to the competent authority for taking
disciplinary action for any act of insubordination or dereliction of duty
while on election duty.; and(b) such recommendation shall be promptly acted
upon by the disciplinary authority and the action taken will be communicated
to the Election Commission within a period of six months from the date of the
Commission's recommendation.The instructions issued in this regard were
reiterated in the DOPT's O.M. dated 20-3-2008 wherein it was emphasized that
the aforementioned Terms of Settlement have to be complied with while adhering
to the provisions of the relevant disciplinary rules.2\. The matter concerning
departmental proceedings against officials appointed on election duty has
recently been further considered by the Government. It has now been decided
that it shall be mandatory for the disciplinary authorities to consult the
Election Commission if the matter is proposed to be closed only on the basis
of a written explanation given by officer concerned to enable the Commission
to provide necessary inputs to the disciplinary authorities before the
Disciplinary Authorities take a final decision.[DOPT O.M. No.
11012(4)/2008-Estt. (A) Dated the 28th July, 2008](6) Disciplinary
jurisdiction of Election Commission of India over Government servants deputed
for election duties.Reference is invited to the Department of Personnel and
Training's letter of even number dated 20.03.2008 on the above mentioned
subject and to say that attention was drawn therein to the principles and
decisions agreed to between the Union Government and the Election Commission
of India in respect of disciplinary action against the Government servants
deputed for election duties. The relevant Terms of Settlement have been cited
in para 1 of DOPT's letter No. 11012/7/98-Estt. (A) dated 07.11.2000. As per
part(c) of these Terms of Settlement,(a) the disciplinary functions of the
Election Commission over the officers, staff and police deputed to perform
election duties shall extend, inter alia, to making recommendation to the
competent authority for taking disciplinary action for any act of
insubordination or dereliction of duty while on election duty.; and(b) such
recommendation shall be promptly acted upon by the disciplinary authority and
the action taken will be communicated to the Election Commission within a
period of six months from the date of the Commission's recommendation.The
instructions issued in this regard were reiterated in the Department of
Personnel and Training's letter dated 20-3-2008 wherein it was emphasized that
the aforementioned Terms of Settlement have to be complied with while adhering
to the provisions of the relevant disciplinary rules.2\. The matter concerning
departmental proceedings against officials appointed on election duty has
recently been further considered by the Government. It has now been decided
that it shall be mandatory for the disciplinary authorities to consult the
Election Commission if the matter is proposed to be closed only on the basis
of a written explanation given by officer concerned to enable the Commission
to provide necessary inputs to the disciplinary authorities before the
Disciplinary Authorities take a final decision.3\. It is requested that the
decision referred to in para 2 may be followed by all the State
Governments/Union Territory Administration in the cases of officials deputed
by them for election duties.[DOPT O.M. No. 11012(4)/2008-Estt. (A) Dated the
28th July, 2008]  
---

