## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund)
Regulations, 2014

TAMILNADU  
India

# Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund)
Regulations, 2014

## Rule CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-POWER-SYSTEM-DEVELOPMENT-
FUND-REGULATIONS-2014 of 2014

  * Published on 28 February 2014 
  * Commenced on 28 February 2014 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 February 2014.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund)
Regulations, 2014Published vide Notification (Draft) No. L-1/148 /2014/CERC,
dated 28th February, 2014In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections
178(1) and 178 (2) (ze) of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003) and all
other powers enabling it in this behalf and after previous publication, the
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission hereby makes the following
regulations, namely

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 2014.(2)These
regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:(a)"Act" means
the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003), including amendments
thereto;(b)"Appraisal Committee" shall mean the Committee constituted by
Government of India, Ministry of Power for the purpose of scrutiny (techno-
economic appraisal) and prioritization of various project proposals for
funding from PSDF and such other functions relating to PSDF as may be
assigned;(c)"Central Commission" means the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 76 of the
Act;(d)"Congestion Relief Regulations" means Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Measures to relieve congestion in real time operation)
Regulations, 2009 as amended from time to time and any subsequent enactment
thereof;(e)"Congestion Amount" has the same meaning as assigned to it in
Regulation 33 of the Power Market Regulations;(f)"Congestion Charge" has the
same meaning as assigned to it under Congestion Relief
Regulations;(g)"Detailed Procedure" means the procedure for implementation and
administration of PSDF in accordance with these regulations as notified by the
Nodal Agency with the approval of the Monitoring Committee;(h)"Deviation
Settlement Charges" has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Deviation
Settlement Regulations;(i)"Deviation Settlement Mechanism Regulations" means
the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Deviation Settlement and
related matters) Regulations 2014 as amended from time to time including
subsequent enactment thereof;(j)"Grid Code" means the Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Indian Electricity Grid Code) Regulations 2010, as
amended from time to time including any subsequent enactment
thereof;(k)"Monitoring Committee" shall mean the committee constituted by
Government of India, Ministry of Power for the purpose of sanctioning of
projects, release of funds from PSDF and over all monitoring of the
implementation of projects and such other functions as may be
assigned;(l)"PSDF" means the Power System Development Fund constituted under
Regulation 3 of these regulations;(m)"Reactive Energy Charges" has the same
meaning as assigned to it in the Grid Code;(n)"State Commission" means the
State Electricity Regulatory Commission as referred to in sub-section (1) of
Regulation 83 of the Act.(2)Save as aforesaid and unless repugnant to the
context or the subject-matter otherwise requires, words and expressions used
in these regulations and not defined, but defined in the Act, or the
regulations made thereunder by the Commission, shall have the meanings
assigned to them respectively in the Act or the regulations.(3)The provisions
of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897) as amended from time to time
shall apply for the interpretation of these regulations as they apply for the
interpretation of an Act of Parliament.

### 3. Constitution of the Fund.

(1)There shall be constituted a hind to be called the "Power System
Development Fund" or "PSDF" and there shall be credited thereto.-(a)Congestion
charges standing to the credit of the "Congestion Charge Account" after
release of amounts payable to Regional Entities entitled to receive congestion
charges along with interest, if any, in accordance with the Congestion Relief
Regulations;(b)Congestion amount arising from the difference in the market
prices of different regions as a consequence of market splitting in power
exchanges in accordance with Power Market Regulations;(c)Deviation Settlement
Charges standing to the credit of the "Regional Deviation Pool Account Fund"
after final settlement of claims in accordance with Deviation Settlement
Mechanism Regulations;(d)RLDC reactive energy charges standing to the credit
of Reactive Energy Charges Account in accordance with the Grid Code;(e)Such
other charges as may be notified by the Commission from time to time:(2)The
agencies which are authorized to collect Congestion charges, Congestion
amount, Deviation Settlement charges, Reactive energy charges under the
respective regulations and such other charges as may be notified by the
Commission from time to time, shall transfer to the credit of the Fund the
balance amounts in the charges under sub-clauses (a) to (e) of clause (1) of
this regulation on monthly basis or on such periodicity as may be provided in
the Detailed Procedure.(3)The PSDF shall be maintained and operated through
the Public Account of India.

### 4. Utilization of the PSDF.

(1)PSDF shall be utilized for the following purposes:(a)Transmission systems
of strategic importance based on operational feedback by Load Despatch Centers
for relieving congestion in inter-State transmission system (ISTS) and intra-
State Transmission Systems which are incidental to the ISTS.(b)Installation of
shunt capacitors, series compensators and other reactive energy generates for
improvement voltage profile in the Grid.(c)Installation of special protection
schemes, pilot and demonstrative projects, standard protection schemes and for
setting right the discrepancies identified in the protection schemes and for
setting right the discrepancies identified in the protection audits on
regional basis.(d)Renovation and Modernization (R&M) of transmission and
distribution system for relieving congestion.(e)Any other scheme/ project in
furtherance of the above objectives such as technical studies and capacity
building.(2)PSDF shall also be utilized for the projects proposed by
distribution utilities in the above areas that have a bearing on grid safety
and security, provided that these projects are not covered under any other
scheme of the Government of India, such as Restructured Accelerated Power
Development & Reforms Programme (RAPDRP), Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran
Yojana (RGGVY) etc.(3)The private sector projects shall not be eligible for
assistance from PSDF.

### 5. Nodal Agency and its functions.

(a)National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) shall be the Nodal Agency for the
implementation of the scheme under these regulations.(b)The Nodal Agency shall
perform the following functions:-(i)Act as Secretariat to the Monitoring
Committee and the Appraisal Committee.(ii)Prepare a Detailed Procedure for
release and disbursement from PSDF consistent with the Procedure approved by
the Monitoring Committee from time to time.(iii)Keep the Record of Business
transacted at each meeting of the Appraisal Committee and the Monitoring
Committee.(iv)Prepare detailed procedure for preparation of Budget, Accounting
of receipts/ disbursals from PSDF Public Account and Audit with the approval
of the Monitoring Committee.(v)Prepare Annual Report of the PSDF.(vi)Perform
such other functions as may be assigned by the Monitoring Committee.

### 6. Appraisal Committee.

\- There shall be an Appraisal Committee to be constituted by the Government
of India (Ministry of Power) for scrutiny (techno-economic appraisal) and
prioritization of the various projects proposals for funding from PSDF and
such other functions as may be assigned by the Monitoring Committee.

### 7. Monitoring Committee.

\- Government of India (Ministry of Power) shall constitute an Inter-
Ministerial Monitoring Committee under the Chairmanship of Secretary (Power)
Government of India to be known as Monitoring Committee. The Monitoring
Committee will consider such projects (or their revised costs) for sanction
based on the Appraisal Report and Regulatory Approval of the Central
Commission or the respective State Commissions, as the case may be. Based on
the sanctions by the Monitoring Committee, the funds will be released to the
project entities from the Budget of Ministry of Power. This Committee will
also monitor the implementation of various projects sanctioned by it. Release
of funds from PSDF will be regulated as per the extant instructions of the
Ministry of Finance in this regard.

### 8. Procedure for Application, Screening, Appraisal, Monitoring, Sanction
etc of PSDF.

(a)The Regional Power Committees, Generating Companies, Transmission
Licensees, Distribution Licensees, Load Despatch Centers, Power Exchange as
the case may be, shall furnish necessary details of the projects, schemes or
activities to the Nodal Agency.(b)The Nodal Agency shall place these projects
or scheme or activities for technical scrutiny by the Appraisal
Committee.(c)After scrutinizing the proposals, the Appraisal Committee shall
submit its Appraisal Report and recommendations in writing to the Central
Commission or respective State Commissions, as the case may be, and to the
project entity who has submitted the proposal.(d)The project entity shall then
file petition with the Central Commission or respective State Commission, as
the case may be, for regulatory approval of the scheme for funding from PSDF.
The Commission shall accord the regulatory approval if the scheme conforms to
any of the purposes mentioned in Regulation 4 of these regulations and the
Central Commission or the State Commission may seek such information from the
entity and such other person as may be considered necessary.(e)After
regulatory approval, the entity will approach the Nodal Agency who will
forward the project proposals to the Monitoring Committee for administrative
sanction/approval and release of funds as per the Detailed Procedure.(f)The
Monitoring Committee will consider the projects for sanction based on
Appraisal Report and Regulatory Approval of the Commission in accordance with
the extant rules/ instructions for sanction/ approval and release of funds on
the lines of Restructured Accelerated Power Development & Reforms Programme
(RAPDRP) Scheme and Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana (RGGVY)
Scheme.(g)The release of funds from PSDF will be regulated as per the extant
instructions of the Ministry of Finance in this regard.(h)The release of funds
to Nodal Agency from the Public Account for further disbursement to project
entities will be made after exercising requisite expenditure control, provided
that the scheme has adequate funds provisioned for in the Demand for Grants of
Ministry of Power.

### 9. Assistance Pattern.

\- The funding will be made as a grant, subject to availability of funds. The
quantum of grant shall depend on the strategic importance and the size of the
project and shall be considered for release as per these regulations. Detailed
guidelines in this regard shall be prepared by the Monitoring Committee in
consultation with the Central Commission.

### 10. Execution, Operation & Maintenance of the Assets.

\- The project entity shall be responsible for the execution as well as
Operation & Maintenance of the projects during its useful life. Operation and
Maintenance of the Project shall be governed in accordance with the Central
Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff)
Regulations, 2014, as amended from time to time or any subsequent enactment
thereof.

### 11. Budget & Accounts Preparation and Audit of PSDF, Utilization
Certificate, Preparation of Subsidiary Records and Documents required for
Disbursement from PSDF.

\- Preparation of Budget, Accounting of Receipts/ disbursals from PSDF Public
Account, Utilization Certificates, and Audit etc shall be governed in
accordance with the provisions made in the Detailed Procedure in this regard.

### 12. Implementation, Monitoring and Control of Projects/Schemes.

(a)The Regional Power Committees, Transmission Licensees, Distribution
Licensees, Load Despatch Centers, Power Exchanges, Central Transmission
Utility (CTU), State Transmission Utility (STU) for intra-State systems which
are incidental to the ISTS will be the Implementing Agencies.(b)The Appraisal
Committee in consultation with Ministry of Power will evolve a mechanism to
evaluate the implementation of projects by laying down objective quantifiable
financial and technical outcome parameters for each category of projects
funded under the Scheme.

### 13. Annual Report.

\- An Annual Report of the fund including the projects undertaken during the
year, together with the Balance Sheet and Audited Accounts shall be submitted
to the Central Government and the Central Commission. The Annual Report shall
also be laid on the table of both Houses of Parliament though the Ministry of
Power.

### 14. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these
regulations, the Commission may, by general or specific order, make such
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the regulations
made thereunder as may appear to be necessary for removing the difficulty in
order to achieve the objectives of these regulations.

### 15. Repeal and Savings.

(a)Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations 2010 are
hereby repealed.(b)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken or purported to have been done or taken including any procedure,
minutes, annual reports, confirmation or declaration or any instrument
executed under the repealed regulations shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the relevant provisions of these regulations.

