## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Chennai Court of Small Causes (Validation of Proceedings) Act, 1943

TAMILNADU  
India

# Chennai Court of Small Causes (Validation of Proceedings) Act, 1943

## Act 7 of 1943

  * Published on 28 February 2943 
  * Commenced on 28 February 2943 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 February 2943.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Chennai Court of Small Causes (Validation of Proceedings) Act, 1943(Tamil Nadu
Act 7 of 1943)Received the assent of the Governor on the 28th February 2943
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 9th March 1943An Act
to validate certain proceedings and acts of the Court of Small Causes of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].Whereas the Court of Small
Causes of Chennai was located at Tiruvallur outside the Presidency- town of
Chennai from the 13th April, 1942 to the 13th June 1942, both days
inclusive;And Whereas doubts have consequently arisen as to the validity of
the proceedings and acts of the said Court during the period aforesaid;And
Whereas it is expedient to remove these doubts and validate such proceedings
and act [It is hereby enacted as follows:-] [Substituted for the paragraph
containing the enacting formula and the paragraph preceding that paragraph by
section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Re-enacting and Repealing (No. I) Act, 1918 (Tamil
Nadu Act VII of 1948).]

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act maybe called the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] Court of Small Causes (Validation of Proceedings) Act, 1943.

### 2. Validation of certain proceedings and acts of the Court of Small
Causes, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act. 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).].

All decrees and orders passed, all plaints, written statements, applications,
petitions and other documents received, all proceedings taken, and all other
acts and things done, by or before the Court of Small Causes of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or any judge or officer thereof,
during the period from the 13th April, 1942 to the 13th June 1942, both days
inclusive, shall be deemed to have been validly passed, received, taken or
done, notwithstanding that the said Court was located outside the Presidency-
town of Chennai during the period aforesaid.

