## Union of India - Act

## Cinematograph (Certification) Rules, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Cinematograph (Certification) Rules, 2024

  * Published in Gazette of India on 15 March 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 March 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Cinematograph Act,
1952 (37 of 1952), and in supersession of the Cinematograph (Certification)
Rules, 1983, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :
-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1) These rules shall be called the Cinematograph (Certification) Rules,
2024.(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-(i) _"Act"_ means the
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952);(ii) _"advisory panel"_ means the
advisory panel of the Board constituted under rule 7;(iii) _"applicant"_ means
a person applying for certification of a film for public exhibition under
section 4;(iv) _"Assistant Regional Officer"_ means an assistant regional
officer appointed under rule 9 and includes the Secretary to Chairperson;(v)
_"Board"_ means the Board of Film Certification constituted under section
3;(vi) _"Chairperson"_ means the Chairperson of the Board;(vii) _"Chief
Executive Officer"_ means a Chief Executive Officer appointed under rule
9;(viii) _"Examining Officer"_ means a Chief Executive Officer or a Regional
Officer or an Additional Regional Officer or an Assistant Regional Officer or
such other officer appointed by the Central Government for the purpose of
examination of films;(ix) _"feature film"_ means fictionalized story long
film;(x) _"foreign films"_ means films produced outside India;(xi) _"long
film"_ is a film running 72 minutes or more, including the credit and title
time of the film;(xii) _"member"_ means a member of the Board and includes the
Chairperson;(xiii) _"Regional Officer"_ means a Regional Officer appointed
under rule 9 and includes a Chief Executive Officer, an Additional Regional
Officer and an Assistant Regional Officer or such other officer appointed
under that rule;(xiv) _"section"_ means a section of the Act;(xv) _"short
film"_ means a film running less than 72 minutes;(xvi) _"UA certificate"_
means a "UA' certificate with the appropriate "UA marker' as defined under
clause (i) of section 2 of the Act; and

### 3. Terms of office.

(1) A member of the Board shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central
Government.(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), the Chairperson
shall hold office for a period of three years and shall continue to hold
office until their successor is appointed;Provided that pending the
appointment of their successor, the Central Government may appoint another
person to act as Chairperson in the interim for a period not exceeding one
year.(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), every other member shall
hold office for a period not exceeding three years:Provided that the term of
the members shall continue until new members are appointment in their
place:Provided further that the term of the members shall be discontinued in
the sequence of their appointment.(4) A retiring member or a member whose term
of office has expired by efflux of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.

### 4. Representation of women in the board.

The Central Government may take such steps as it thinks fit to appoint women
members in the Board so that there is due representation for women, where for
one-third of the members in the Board shall be women and preferably half shall
be women.

### 5. Casual vacancy.

A casual vacancy in the Board by resignation, death or removal of a member or
otherwise shall be filled by the appointment of another member who shall hold
office for the full term of membership provided under sub-rule (3) of rule 3.

### 6. Headquarters.

Unless otherwise directed by the Central Government, the headquarters of the
Board shall be at Mumbai.

### 7. Temporary absence of Chairperson.

Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, when the Chairperson is
unable to discharge their functions owing to absence, illness or any other
cause, the Central Government may nominate a member of the Board who will
discharge the functions of the Chairperson until the Chairperson resumes their
duties.

### 8. Constitution of advisory panels.

(1) The Central Government shall constitute an advisory panel at each of the
regional offices of the Board.(2) An advisory panel constituted under sub-rule
(1) shall consist of such number of members as the Central Government may,
after consultation with the Board, determine.(3) The Central Government may,
after consultation with the Board, appoint any person whom it thinks fit to be
a member of an advisory panel;Provided that the Central Government may
dispense with such consultation in respect of such number of members not
exceeding one-third of the total number of members of the advisory panel, as
that Government thinks fit,Provided further that for at least one-third of the
members of the advisory panel shall be women and preferably half shall be
women.

### 9. Terms of office of members of advisory panels.

(1) A member of an advisory panel shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Central Government.(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), every such
member shall hold office for a period not exceeding three years;(3) A retiring
member or a member whose term of office has expired by efflux of time shall be
eligible for reappointment,(4) The Central Government may remove from office
any member of an advisory panel before the expiration of their term of office.

### 10. Officers of the Board.

(1) For the purpose of enabling the Board to perform its functions under the
Act, the Central Government may appoint a Chief Executive Officer, Regional
Officers, Additional Regional Officers, Assistant Regional Officers and such
other officers at the headquarters and at each of the regional offices of the
Board:Provided that the Central Government may delegate to the
Chairperson/Chief Executive Officer subject to such conditions and
limitations, if any, as may be specified by it, the power of appointment
conferred on it under this sub-rule, other than the powers of appointment in
relation to the posts of Regional Officer and Additional Regional
Officer.Provided further that the Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer may
grant leave to or suspend or remove from service any officer appointed by him
under the powers delegated to him under this sub-rule.(2) The Regional
Officers, Additional Regional Officers, Assistant Regional Officers and other
officers appointed under sub-rule (1) shall perform such duties as may be
assigned to them under these rules, or by the Chairperson or Chief Executive
Officer or by the Board.

### 11. Duties of the Board.

The Board shall, in addition to other duties prescribed under these rules,-(1)
submit an annual report to the Central Government reviewing the work done by
the Board during the preceding financial year and the report shall contain a
detailed analytical study of the trends in film industry;(2) prescribe the
manner in which the registers, records and accounts of the Board shall be
kept; and(3) review the work of the Regional Officers and members of the
Advisory Panels.

### 12. Assessment of public reactions to films.

With a view to determining the principles to be observed in certifying films,
the Board may take such steps as it thinks fit to assess public reactions to
films, and for that purpose, the Board may hold symposia or seminars of film
critics, film writers, community leaders and persons engaged in the film
industry, or such other persons and also undertake local or national surveys
to study the impact of various kinds of films on the public mind.

### 13. Terms and conditions of service (other than salary and allowances) of
the Chairperson of the Board and allowances payable to the other members of
the Board.

(1) The Chairperson, if they are a paid full-time officer, shall be entitled
to draw travelling and daily allowances as admissible under the Fundamental
and Supplementary Rules, 1922 and shall be entitled to leave and leave salary
and such other benefits and shall be governed by such conditions of service as
are applicable to Central Government Officers engaged on contract:Provided
that in the case of an officer of an All India or Central Civil or General
Central Service or State Service being appointed as Chairperson he shall be
entitled to leave and leave salary and other benefits admissible to officers
of such service so long as they continue to belong to that Service:Provided
further that if an officer who has already been holding a post under
Government on contract with the benefits of Contributory Provident Fund is
appointed as Chairperson, shall be allowed to carry forward the unutilised
portion of leave earned by them during previous service and they shall also
continue to be eligible for the Contributory Provident Fund benefits.(2) Every
honorary member (including the Chairperson where they do not receive any
salary) may,-(a) be paid an allowance for attending the preview of a film or
meeting of the Revising Committee or the Board at the rate as notified from
time to time by the Central Government for each day of such preview or
meeting;(b) if they are an out-station member, travel by air or by train as
admissible according to the orders issued by the Central Government from time
to time in respect of journeys undertaken by them for the performance of their
duties as such members;

### 14. Allowances payable to members of the advisory panels.

(1) Every member of the advisory panel shall be entitled to draw travelling
and daily allowances for journeys performed by them for attending the meetings
of the Board outside the headquarters or for the purpose of discharging any
other duties prescribed under the Act with prior approval of the Chairperson
on the scale provided under the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, 1922
applicable to First Grade officers of Central Government.(2) Every member of
the advisory panel shall be entitled to receive a consultancy fee for
attending a preview of film or a meeting of the Committee or Panel or for
verification of cuts and affected contents at the rate as notified from time
to time by the Central Government, provided that payment of daily allowance in
terms of sub-rule (1) above will not be admissible in addition to the payment
of consultancy fees under this sub-rule.(3) Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-rules (1) and (2), if any member of the advisory panel is a Member of
Parliament, they shall not be entitled to any remuneration other than the
allowances defined in clause (a) of section 2 of the Parliament (Prevention of
Disqualification) Act, 1959 (10 of 1959).

### 15. Meetings of the Board.

(1) The Board shall ordinarily meet once a quarter for the transaction of
business but the Chairperson may at any time call an extraordinary meeting if
they consider it necessary to do so.(2) Meetings of the Board shall be held at
such places as the Chairperson may at their discretion fix for the purpose.

### 16. Co-opted Members.

The Chairperson may co-opt the Chief Executive Officer or any one or more of
the regional officers or any officer of the Central Government as a member or
members of the Board for the purpose of attending a particular meeting of the
Board and such officer or officers shall then be entitled to participate in
the deliberations of the Board at that meeting but shall not be entitled to
vote.

### 17. Notice of meeting.

(1) At least twenty-one clear days notice of all meetings of the Board shall
be given to each member.(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule
(1), an urgent meeting may be called by the Chairperson at three clear days'
notice.(3) The notice shall state the business to be transacted at the
meetings and no business other than that stated shall be transacted at such
meeting except with the consent of the Chairperson or on his motion.

### 18. Business ordinarily to be transacted at meetings.

The business of the Board shall ordinarily be transacted at a meeting duly
called in accordance with the provisions of these rules:Provided that the
Chairperson may, if they think fit, circulate any urgent matter among the
members for their opinion.

### 19. Quorum.

At every meeting of the Board, quorum shall be considered to be constituted if
there are:(a) four members if the Chairperson is present; or(b) six members if
the Chairperson is absent.

### 20. President of the meeting.

Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairperson, or in his
absence, by a member elected by the members present from among themselves.

### 21. Question to be decided by majority of votes.

Every question before the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes, and
in the case of equality of votes, the Chairperson or the member elected to
preside under rule 19, as the case may be, shall have a second or casting
vote.

### 22. Application for examination of films.

(1) Every application to certify a film for public exhibition shall be made on
the online portal of the Board, hereinafter referred to as the e-cinepramaan
portal in accordance with the format of the Common Application Form as
prescribed by the Board.(2) Any application to re-certify or change the
category of a film that has received final certification from the Board, to be
exhibited on television or such other media other than the medium originally
certified, shall be made on the e-cinepramaan portal in accordance with the
Common Application Form.(3) The application referred to in sub-rule (1) above
shall be made through the Regional Officer concerned as per the First
Schedule:Provided that in case of foreign films, the Chairperson may direct or
permit applications in respect of them to be made or transferred to a Regional
Officer other than the Regional Officer to whom such applications would have
been made but for this proviso:Provided further that the Chairperson may in
the following circumstances, direct or permit applications in respect of any
films or class of films to be made or transferred to a Regional Officer other
than the Regional Officer to whom such applications would have been made but
for this proviso, namely,-(i) where the Chairperson is satisfied that
immediate action for examination of a film is necessary, or(ii) where
examination of a film with the assistance of persons well acquainted with the
language of the film is not possible at the place where but for the provisions
of this proviso, it would have been made for examination, or(iii) for such
other reasons as may be specified by the Chairperson in writing.(4) Every such
application under sub-rules (1) or (2) shall be accompanied by online
submission of following on the e-cinepramaan portal,-(a) the payment of fee
prescribed under rule 36;(b) the synopsis of the film, together with full
credit titles;(c) the complete script, including the full text of the songs,
if any;(d) the same language subtitles, same language audio description, or
same language closed captions, if any, and any other accessibility features as
may be notified, from time to time, by the Central Government;(e) a statement
showing the duration of the film; and(f) the documents submitted under clauses
(c), (d) and (e) shall be accompanied by the Time Counter Reading:Provided
that where the film is in a language other than English or any Indian language
listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India, the applicant
shall furnish the translation in English or Hindi of the synopsis, the
complete script and the full text of the songs, if any:Provided further that
in the case of a film referred to in the preceding proviso, the Regional
Officer may direct the applicant to also furnish the translation in English or
Hindi of the full text of the dialogue, speeches or commentary in the film;(g)
a declaration made in writing by the producer of the film declaring that no
cruelty was caused to the animals used during shooting of the films produced
in India under any other law, for the time being in force._Explanation._ \-
For the purpose of this clause:(i) "animal" shall have the meaning assigned to
it under clause (a) of section 2 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,
1960 (59 of 1960);(ii) "cruelty" means treating the animals in any manner
specified in clauses (a) to (o) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (59 of 1960);(h) if the
applications made for the purpose of a fresh certificate under sub-rule (2) of
rule 30, the copy of original certificate or duplicate certificate; and(i) if
the application is made by a person other than the producer or copyright
holder of the film an authorisation in writing on a stamped paper of
appropriate value to be notified by the Chairperson from the producer or
copyright holder of the film.(5) If, in the case of a short film, the Regional
Officer is satisfied that the applicant is not able to furnish the documents
specified in sub-rule (4) along with the application for reasons beyond his
control, the Regional Officer may direct that such documents may be furnished
within such period after the examination of the film as they may specify or
that the submission of such documents may be dispensed with.(6) No such
application shall be accompanied by any documents other than those mentioned
in sub-rule (4).

### 23. Examining Committee.

(1) On receipt of an application under Rule 22, the Regional Officer shall
appoint an Examining Committee to examine the film and the examination shall
be made at the cost of the applicant on such date, at such place and at such
time as the Regional Officer may determine.(2) The Examining Committee shall
consist of:-(a) in the case of a short film, a member of the advisory panel
and an examining officer either of whom shall be a woman; and(b) in the case
of a long film, four members of the advisory panel and an examining officer of
whom two persons shall be women:Provided that if the examining officer is
unavoidably absent at the examination of a film, the Examining Committee shall
consist of two members of the advisory panel in a case falling under clause
(a) and five members of the advisory panel in a case falling under clause
(b):Provided further that in the Examining Committee, in a case falling under
clause (a) one member shall be a woman and in a case falling under clause (b)
two members shall be women.(3) The Regional Officer may invite such subject or
language experts in the field of film as it may consider appropriate, for the
examination of a film by the Examining Committee:Provided that the expert
invitees who attend the meetings of the Examining Committee shall be paid such
fees and allowances as may be prescribed by the Central Government:Provided
further that where such an expert has not been invited for the initial
screening, if the Examining Committee decides that the film is required to be
seen by such expert, the screening may be done again by the Board, without any
cost to the applicant.(4) The film to be examined by the Examining Committee
shall be:(a) in its final form with the background music and all sound effects
duly recorded on the film itself, and(b) the title, castings and credits shall
be displayed in the language of the dialogue of the film, and the same may be
displayed in any other language if so desired by the applicant.(5) All
previews of films for the purpose of examination for certification and the
reports and records relating thereto shall be treated as confidential.(6) The
names of the members of the Examining Committee examining the film shall not
be disclosed to any official or nonofficial not concerned with the preview of
the particular film or to any other person including the applicant.(7) Nothing
in sub-rules (5) and (6) shall affect the disclosure of names of persons in
the certificate granted by the Board.(8) The applicant shall not be allowed to
be present inside the preview theatre.(9) Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-rules (5), (6) and (8) the Chairperson may by special or general order
permit any member of the staff to be present at the preview to render such
assistance as may be required.(10) The Examining Committee shall examine the
film having regard to the principles for guidance in certifying films
specified in sub-section(1) of section 5B and the guidelines issued by the
Government under subsection (2) of section 5B.(11) Immediately after the
examination of the film each member of the Examining Committee attending the
examination shall before leaving the preview theatre record their opinion in
writing in Form VIII set out in the Second Schedule spelling out in clear
terms the reasons therefore and state whether they consider-(a) that the film
is suitable for unrestricted public exhibition. i.e. fit for "U' certificate;
or(b) that the film is suitable for unrestricted public exhibition with an
endorsement of caution as to whether a child below the age of seven,thirteen
or sixteen may be allowed to see the film should be considered by the parents
or guardian of such child with respect to the appropriate "UA marker', i.e.
fit for "UA with UA marker' certificate; or(c) that the film is suitable for
public exhibition restricted to adults, i.e. fit for "A' certificate; or(d)
that the film is suitable for public exhibition restricted to members of any
profession or any class of persons having regard to the nature, content and
theme of the film, i.e. fit for "S' certificate; or(e) that the film is
suitable for "U' or "UA with UA marker' or "A' or "S' certificate as the case
may be if a specified portion or portions be excised or modified there from;
or(f) that the film is not suitable for unrestricted or restricted public
exhibition, i.e. that the film be refused a certificate;and if the Chairperson
is away from the regional centre where the film is examined, the form
aforesaid shall be prepared in duplicate.(12) The Examining Officer shall
furnish the examination form to all the concerned Examining Committee members
for recording their recommendations.(13) After the screening of the film, the
examining officer shall see that-(a) the recommendation of every member of the
Committee is recorded in unambiguous terms and each excision or modification
is properly specified in clear terms with reason or reasons therefor;(b) the
same is duly signed by the members of the Committees and(c) where the report
of any member of the Committee is incomplete, that fact is brought to the
notice of the member concerned before they leave the preview theatre.(14) The
examining officer shall within three working days, submit the recommendations
of all members of the Examining Committee to be considered by the authority
prescribed in Third Schedule based on the type and length of the content.(15)
It shall be the personal responsibility of the examining officer to examine
whether each and every guideline issued by Government has been followed and to
bring any lapse or deviation to notice of the Chairperson.(16) The quorum for
the Examining Committee for a long film shall be four of whom at least two
persons shall be women.

### 24. Certification.

On receipt of the record referred to in sub-rule (14) of rule 23, the
authority having jurisdiction in the matter as given in Third Schedule shall
take further action on behalf of the Board in conformity with the
recommendation of the Examining Committee either unanimous or by majority,
unless the provisions of sub-rule (1) of rule 25 are not attracted:Provided
that in case of a short film when the Committee is divided in its opinion, the
Chairperson shall either examine the film himself and take, or direct the
Regional Officer concerned to take further action on behalf of the Board to
give effect to his decision.

### 25. Revising Committee.

(1) On receipt of the record referred to in Rule 23, the Chairperson may on
his own motion or on the request of the applicant upon a representation made
under sub-section (2) of section 4, refer it to a Revising Committee
constituted for the purpose.(2) The Revising Committee shall, subject to sub-
rule (5), consist of a Chairperson and not more than nine members, being
members of the Board or members of any of the advisory panels, to be specified
by the Chairperson.Provided that subject to the provisions of sub-rule (11),
the Chairperson shall give due representation to women in the Committee by
nominating such number of women members as he thinks fit.(3) The Regional
Officer may invite such subject/language experts in the field of film as it
may consider appropriate, for the examination of a film by the Revising
Committee;Provided that the expert invitees who attend the meetings of the
Revising Committee shall be paid such allowances as may be prescribed by the
Central Government.(4) The Chairperson or in his absence a member of the Board
nominated by the Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of the Revising
Committee.(5) The Regional Officer of the center where the application was
received under rule 22, may be invited to attend any meeting of the Revising
Committee and participate in proceedings thereof but he shall have no right to
vote thereat.(6) No member of the advisory panel who has been a member of the
Examining Committee for any film shall be a member of the Revising Committee
in respect of the same film.(7) The provisions of sub-rule (5) to (10) of Rule
23 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the examination of film by the Revising
Committee or the Board.(8) The Revising Committee shall examine the film at
the expense of the applicant, on such date, at such place and at such time, as
the Chairperson may determine.(9) For the purpose of examination by a Revising
Committee, the applicant shall present the same version of the film which was
shown to the Examining Committee and he shall make no change whatsoever in it
and he shall furnish the necessary declaration in writing in that behalf;(10)
Immediately after examination of the film, each member of the Revising
Committee shall before leaving the preview theatre record his recommendations
in writing in Form VIII set out in the Second Schedule spelling out in clear
terms the reasons thereof and stating they consider-(a) that the film is
suitable for unrestricted public exhibition, i.e. fit for "U' certificate;
or(b) that the film is suitable for unrestricted public exhibition but with an
endorsement of caution as to whether a child below the age of seven, thirteen
or sixteen may be allowed to see the film should be considered by the parents
or guardian of such child with respect to the appropriate "UA marker' i.e. fit
for "UA with UA marker' certificate; or(c) that the film is suitable for
public exhibition restricted to adults, i.e. fit for "A' certificate; or(d)
that the film is suitable for public exhibition restricted to members of any
profession or any class of persons having regard to the nature, content and
theme of the film, i.e. fit for "S' certificate; or(e) that the film is
suitable for grant of "U' or "UA with UA marker' or "A' or "S" certificate, as
the case may be, if a specified portion or portions be excised or modified
therefrom; or(f) that the film is not suitable for unrestricted or restricted
public exhibition, i.e. that the film be refused a certificate.(11) The
Presiding Officer of the Revising Committee shall, within three days, send the
recommendations of all the members of the Revising Committee to the
Chairperson.(12) The quorum of the Revising Committee shall be five members of
whom at least two persons shall be women;Provided that the number of women
members shall not be less than one-half of the total members of a Committee
constituted under sub-rule (2).(13) The decision of a Revising Committee shall
be that of the majority of the members attending the examination of the film
and, in the event of an equality of votes, the Presiding Officer shall have a
second or casting vote:Provided that where the Chairperson disagrees with the
decision of the majority of the Committee the Board shall itself examine the
film or cause the film to be examined again by another Revising Committee and
that the decision of the Board or the second Revising Committee, as the case
may be, shall be final.

### 26. On receipt of the orders of the Board under section 4 or section 5A,
the Regional Officer shall communicate the same to the applicant through the-
cinepramaan portal and take such other steps in accordance with the said
orders as they may deem necessary.

### 27. Issue of certificate subject to removal of portions of film.

(1) Where the applicant is informed by a Regional Officer that a film will not
be granted "U' or "UA with UA marker' or "A' or "S' certificate, as the case
may be unless a specified portion or portions thereof be removed from the
film, the Regional Officer may issue such a certificate if he is satisfied on
a declaration made in writing (in Form IX set out in the Second Schedule) by
the applicant that the portion or portions objected to have been excised from
film and from all copies thereof, wherever they may exist._Explanation._ \-
For the purpose of being satisfied that the portion or portions objected to
have been excised from the film and from all copies thereof, the Regional
Officer or the Chairperson may at the expense of the applicant examine the
relevant portions of the film or cause it or them to be examined by one or
more members of the advisory panel at such time and place as they may
determine.(2) A certificate issued under sub-rule (1) shall be endorsed with a
specification of the portion or portions required to be removed and a
statement of the exact length of each part or parts removed and in the case of
reduction of scene or sequences, it shall mention the length of the portion
reduced and the length of the portion retained and shall bear a clearly
visible triangle drawn at the left-hand bottom corner of the certificate.

### 28. Deposit of certified film.

In the case of a feature film, prior to the grant of certificate to the
applicant under the foregoing rules, a copy of the film for such period and in
such format as may be prescribed by the Board shall be deposited by the
applicant with the Board at his own expense for the purpose of record.Provided
that an applicant may voluntarily deposit a copy of the certified film with
the National Film Development Corporation-National Film Archive of India in
such format and on such payment as may be prescribed by NFDC-NFAI for
preservation of the film.

### 29. Validity of certificate.

A certificate granted by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 5A in
respect of a film shall be valid perpetually from the date on which the
certificate is granted, and shall be valid throughout India.

### 30. Compliance with section 6A.

(1) The manner of notification to the distributor or exhibitor for the purpose
of section 6A, shall be in the electronic form (containing both Parts I and II
thereof) with the certified film to be distributed or exhibited.(2) The
provisions of sub-rule (1) shall apply in relation to an amendment of a
certificate in respect of a film as it applied in relation to the certificate
itself.(3) A copy of certificate of a film referred to in sub-rule (1) shall
accompany the film and be prominently exhibited in the theatre on all days on
which the film is exhibited therein.

### 31. Alteration of film after issue of certificate.

(1) When a film is altered by, excision, addition, colouring or otherwise
after it has been certified under these rules, including addition of
subtitles, audio descriptions or closed captioning in languages other than the
original language of the film or any other accessibility measures as notified
by the Central Government from time to time, it shall not be exhibited unless
the portions excised, added, coloured or otherwise altered, have been reported
to the Board in Form III in the Second Schedule and the Board has endorsed the
particulars of the alteration or alterations on the certificate,Provided that
any of the excisions, additions, colouring or any other alterations reported
to the Board for endorsement under this sub-rule shall conform with the
category of film it has been certified as under rule 27._Explanation._ \- Any
addition, deletion, alteration or replacement of background music in a film
shall not be deemed to be an alteration (unless the Chairperson by general or
special order otherwise directs) of the film within the meaning of this sub-
rule.(2) For the purpose of exercising its powers under sub-rule (1) the
Regional Officer shall appoint an Examining Committee to examine the contents
of the film in which the portions are altered, at the expense of the
applicant, in such manner and with such assistance as he may deem fit and
where the Examining Committee considered it necessary to do so, it shall re-
examine the entire film:Provided that where a film is altered by excision or
by the change of a coloured film into black and white version only, it shall
not ordinarily be necessary to appoint an Examining Committee unless the
Regional Officer in any case otherwise directs.(3) The Examining Committee,
appointed under sub-rule (2) shall consist of one member of the Advisory Panel
and an Examining Officer,Provided that where the Examining Officer is
unavoidably absent at the examination of the film, the Examining Committee
shall consist of two members of the Advisory Panel.(4) Pending examination of
the altered film under this rule, the applicant shall not exhibit the film
incorporating the proposed alteration.(5) Where the film or any portion
thereof as the case may be, is re-examined under this rule, the Chairperson
shall unless, for reasons to be recorded in writing, he declines permission
for the alteration, make suitable endorsement in the certificate granted in
relation to the film.

### 32. Certificates.

(1) A certificate authorising the public exhibition of a film shall be in one
of the forms [Forms IV, IV-A, V, V-A, VI, VI-A, VII or VII-A] set out in the
Second Schedule according as the film is fit for "U' or "UA with UA marker' or
"A' or "S' or [V/U or V/UA with UA marker or V/A or V/S] certificate as the
case may be.(2) The certificate shall be signed for and on behalf of the Board
by the Chairperson or by a regional officer for the Chairperson.(3) The
prescribed mark of the Board shall be a film copy of the certificate, i.e. a
trailer certificate which shall be affixed to the film and always exhibited
with it, where the trailer certificate shall be for such duration as one can
read it on the screen:Provided that Part I or Part II of the certificate shall
be shown for a minimum duration of 10 seconds each:Provided further that if
there are no excisions or modifications ordered by the Board, Part II of the
certificate need not be shown.

### 33. Fees.

(1) A fee shall be charged for the examination of every film at the rates laid
down in the following Table which may be amended from time to time by the
Central Government and shall be payable through the ecinepramaan portal:

## Title Table of Fees

Duration in minutes (up to and inclusive of) | Examination Fees (Other than Predominantly Educational films) (in rupees) | Examination Fees (Predominantly Educational films) (in rupees) | Screening Fees (in rupees)  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
10 | 1,900 | 550 | 150  
20 | 3,650 | 1,100 | 300  
30 | 5,950 | 1,200 | 400  
40 | 7,350 | 1,450 | 550  
50 | 9,150 | 1,850 | 700  
60 | 10,900 | 2,200 | 850  
70 | 12,700 | 2,550 | 950  
80 | 14,700 | 2,950 | 1,050  
90 | 17,650 | 3,300 | 1,250  
100 | 18,250 | 3,650 | 1,400  
110 | 20,050 | 4,000 | 1,550  
120 | 21,850 | 4,350 | 1,650  
130 | 23,800 | 4,750 | 1,800  
140 | 23,800 | 5,100 | 1,950  
150 | 27,200 | 5,450 | 2,100  
160 | 29,150 | 5,850 | 2,200  
170 | 30,950 | 6,200 | 2,350  
180 | 32,750 | 6,550 | 2,500  
190 | 34,750 | 6,950 | 2,650  
200 | 36,300 | 7,250 | 2,800  
  
(2) Application under the priority scheme may be made upon payment of 3 times
the fee payable for examination of the film as per sub-rule (1) of rule 33,
for scheduling examination of a filmpreferably within five days, subject to
available slots as decided by Central Board of Film Certification.(3) Fee for
the examination of a film for certifying alterations under rule 31 shall be
calculated only with reference to the contents, in which the portions excised,
added, coloured, or otherwise altered occur and for the purposes at the rates
notified from time to time by the Central Government, for original
certification shall be applicable:(4) In the event of an application for
certification being withdrawn before the film is examined, the Board may, on
an application, refund to the applicant the amount of fee paid towards the
examination of the film after deducting 25 per cent. of the amount so paid.(5)
In the event of an applicant failing to present a print before the Examining
Committee or the Revising Committee on the day and time and at the place fixed
for such examination, an additional fee of 25 per cent. of the fee payable for
examination of the film shall be paid before another place, date and time for
the examination of the film is fixed.

### 34. Power of entry.

The Chairperson or any member of the Board or an advisory panel or a Regional
Officer or any other officer or member of the staff of the Board or any
officer of the Central government authorised in writing by the Chairperson, or
members, or any officer of the Central Government authorised in writing by the
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting in this behalf may enter any place licensed under the law in
force relating to cinemas, in the discharge of their duties under the Act or
these rules and thereupon the owner or the manager of such place shall provide
him with a seat of the highest rate or the next lower class to view the film
without charging the admission fee and entertainment tax.

### 35. Advertisement of films.

Any person advertising a film granted "UA with UA marker', "A' or "S'
certificate or the exhibition of such film by means of insertions in
newspapers, hoardings, posters, handbills or trailers shall, after the date of
its certification, indicate in such insertions in newspapers, hoardings,
posters, handbills or trailers that the film has been certified for such
public exhibition and such advertisement shall indicate only the certified
title of a film.

### 36. Maintenance of Records.

(1) The Board and Regional Officers shall maintain an electronic record of the
following -(a) the name of every film examined under the Act;(b) the name of
the person applying for the certificate;(c) the name of the person or company
producing or releasing the film;(d) the name of the country in which the film
was originally produced;(e) the name of the place where the film was
examined;(f) the date of the examination;(g) the names of the persons who
examined the film;(h) the result of the examination and of any further
proceedings thereon;(i) the number and date of the certificate issued, if any,
together with a copy of any endorsement made thereon(j) such other particulars
as may be determined by the Board.

### 37. Time limit in relation to certification of films.

(1) After an application under rule 22 for the certification of a film,
complete in all respects (including the payment of fee) is received, the Board
shall scrutinize the application within seven days from the receipt
thereof.(2) The Board shall, within fifteen days from receiving an application
under sub-rule (1) refer the film for examination to an Examining
Committee.(3) The films may be referred to the Examining Committee in the
order in which the applications are received:Provided that the Regional
Officer may on receipt of request from any applicant and on payment of
examination fee under rule 33 as per the priority scheme, following the order
of receipt of priority application, alter the order of examination of the
film.(4) (a) In case where the Examining Committee, after examination of the
film, considers that a scrutiny of the shooting script (including same-
language subtitles, same-language audio descriptions and same-language closed
captioning, if any) is necessary or the authenticity of the incidents depicted
in a film of historical, mythological, biographical, or legendary nature is to
be verified, a provisional report to that effect shall be submitted by the
Regional Officer to the Chairperson within a maximum of three working days
after such examination.(b) An online communication shall be sent to the
applicant within a maximum of three working days following the receipt of the
Chairperson's order on the provisional report referred to in clause (a) and
the applicant shall submit the script or the authentic sources on which the
subject of his film, is based within five days from the date of such
communication.(c) In case, where the members of the Examining Committee after
the examination of the film submit to the Chairperson a provisional report
indicating that expert opinion on subjects depicted in the film such as
subjects relating to defense or foreign relations or any particular religion
or law or medicine or any other subject, should be sought before the final
report is submitted, the Chairperson may after taking into consideration the
circumstances of the case specify a time limit for obtaining the expert
opinion and for the submission of the final report of the Examining Committee
thereafter.(d) In other cases, the script submitted by the applicant or the
authentic sources furnished by him shall be scrutinised by the examining
officer and the final report of the Examining Committee shall be forwarded by
the examining officer to the Chairperson within five days from the date of
receipt of the script or the authentic sources, as the case may be.(5) (a) On
receipt of the orders of the Board on the recommendations of the Examining
Committee, in case where sub-section (2) of section 4 is applicable, the
communication to the applicant shall be issued within three days.(b) The
applicant shall submit his reply within five working days of the receipt of
the communication.(6) In case where the film is not referred to a Revising
Committee, a certificate shall be issued, or decision communicated within two
days.(7) (a) In cases where a film is to be referred to a Revising Committee,
the Revising Committee shall be constituted within twenty days from the
receipt of the necessary documents from the applicant.(b) The provisions of
sub-rule (3) to (6) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the examination of films
by the Revising Committee.(c) When a film is referred to another Revising
Committee or to the Board in terms of proviso to sub-rule (13) of rule 25, the
time limit will be further extended on the lines of clauses (a) and (b) of
this sub-rule.(8) The applicant shall submit the modifications and surrender
the cuts, if any, and the affected contents together with full particulars
thereof, within a period of fourteen working days from the date of the final
orders of the Board under section 4:Provided that where the applicant applies
to the Board that they intend to appeal against the orders of the Board, the
Board may extend the period specified above for surrender of the cuts by such
period as it thinks fit, but in any case not beyond fourteen days from the
date of disposal of the appeal or from the date of expiration of the period
for filing the appeal in cases where no appeal is filed.(9) The modification
or cuts and the affected contents shall be examined by the regional officer
within ten working days of the submission of the same.(10) If the modification
or cuts are found to be due and adequate on the scrutiny of the relevant
contents and all particulars necessary for the presentation of the certificate
are fully furnished, certificate shall be prepared and issued within five
working days of the date of submission of the film or upload of the final
script on ecinepramaan portal, as the case may be, as required under these
rules.(11) If however the modification or cuts are found to be inadequate on a
scrutiny of the relevant contents, the regional officer shall record the same
and send within two days a further communication to the applicant through the
e-cinepramaan portal for compliance with the orders of the Board.(12) The
applicant shall submit further modification or cuts to the regional officer
within three days from the date of receipt of the communication.(13) The
Regional Officer shall again verify further modification or cuts and the
contents within five days of the receipt of the same and if the cuts are found
to be adequate a certificate shall be issued.(14) For the purpose of these
rules, only working days shall be taken into account while calculating time
periods.

### 38. Preservation of records of certification of films.

The records of certification of films shall be preserved for a period as
prescribed by the Board.

## First Schedule

_[See rule 22]_ Applications For Certification of Films Imported Into or
Produced In The States/Union Territories Mentioned In Column 3 Shall Be
Presented At The Regional Office In Col 2:

Sl. No. | Regional Office Situated at | Films imported into or produced in  
---|---|---  
1 | Bengaluru | State of Karnataka  
2 | Mumbai | States of Goa, Gujrat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu  
3 | Kolkata | States of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands  
4 | Cuttack | States of Odisha and Chhattisgarh  
5 | Delhi | States of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Chandigarh and Delhi  
6 | Guwahati | States of Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland, Assam, Meghalaya, Sikkim and Tripura, Manipur.  
7 | Hyderabad | States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana  
8 | Chennai | State of Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry  
9 | Thiruvananthapuram | State of Kerala and the Union Territory of Lakshadweep  
  
**Note.** \- [1] The dubbed version of a film, in whatever Indian language,
will be submitted for certification only to the Regional Office where the
original version of the film was certified in the first instance.

## Second Schedule

## Title **Form III**

_[See rule 31]_(Report under rule 31 of the Cinematograph (Certifications)
Rules, 2024 regarding an alteration or alterations in a certified film. )
....................................................................

1\. Name of the applicant: |   
---|---  
2\. Name of the film : |   
3\. Certificate No. | Dated  
4\. Particulars of alterations : |   
Scene No. | Description of the scene/dialogue/song length  
  
**(Specify the exact time-stamp of alteration or alterations in which the
alteration or alterations occurs or occur)ToThe Chairman, Central Board of
Film Certification Through the Regional Officer at
.............................................................................................I
declare that the above particulars are true in every respect and are full
description of the alteration or alterations made in the film after its
certification.Date:Signature of ApplicantAddress :Form IV[See rule
32(1)]Government of India Central Board of Film CertificationThe Certificate
Is Valid For Theatrical Release OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category.......................
"U".......................................Film....................................................Duration
MtsAfter examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/
Revising Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said
Examining Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the
film is fit for unrestricted public exhibition subject to excisions and
modifications listed in Part II on the reverse:-Unrestricted Public
ExhibitionFurther certified that the excisions and modifications imposed by
the Board have actually been carried out.Name of the applicantName of the
ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and modifications :Form
IV-A[See rule 32(1)]Government of India Central Board of Film
CertificationThis Certificate Is Valid For Video Films OnlyPart ICertificate
No.................Dated.........................Category.......................
"V/U".......................................Film....................................................LengthAfter
examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/ Revising
Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said Examining
Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the film is fit
for unrestricted public exhibition subject to excisions and modifications
listed in Part II on the reverse:-Universal VideoFurther certified that the
excisions and modifications imposed by the Board have actually been carried
out.Name of the applicantName of the ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of
excisions and modifications :Form V[See rule 32(1)]Government of India Central
Board of Film CertificationThis Certificate Is Valid For Theatrical Release
OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"A".......................................Film.......................................................Length
MtsAfter examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/
Revising Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said
Examining Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the
film is fit for public exhibition, restricted to adults only, subject to
excisions and modifications listed in Part II on the reverse:-Adults
OnlyFurther certified that the excisions and modifications imposed by the
Board have actually been carried out.Name of the applicantName of the
ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and modifications :Form
V-A[See rule 32(1)]Government of India Central Board of Film CertificationThis
Certificate Is Valid For Video Films OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"V/A".......................................Film.......................................................After
examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/ Revising
Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said Examining
Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the film is fit
for public exhibition, restricted to adults only, subject to excisions and
modifications listed in Part II on the reverse:-Adults Only VideoFurther
certified that the excisions and modifications imposed by the Board have
actually been carried out.Name of the applicantName of the
ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and modifications :Form VI[See
rule 32(1)]Government of India Central Board of Film CertificationThis
Certificate Is Valid For Theatrical Release OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"U/A With U/A
Marker".......................................Film....................................................After
examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/ Revising
Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said Examining
Committee/ Revising Committee,the Board hereby certifies that the film is fit
for public exhibition with endorsement of caution that the question as to
whether in child below the age of seven , thirteen or sixteen years may be
allowed to see the film should be considered by the parents or the guardian of
such child and also subject to excisions and modifications listed in Part II
on the reverse:-Parental GuidanceFurther certified that the excisions and
modifications imposed by the Board have actually been carried out.Name of the
applicantName of the ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and
modifications :Form VI-A[See rule 32(1)]Government of India Central Board of
Film CertificationThis Certificate Is Valid For Video Films OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"V/A".......................................Film...................................................Length
MtsAfter examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/
Revising Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said
Examining Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the
film is fit for public exhibition with endorsement of caution that the
question as to whether in child below the age of seven, thirteen or sixteen
years may be allowed to see the film should be considered by the parents or
the guardian of such child and also subject to excisions and modifications
listed in Part II on the reverse:-Parental Guidance VideoFurther certified
that the excisions and modifications imposed by the Board have actually been
carried out.Name of the applicantName of the ProducerCHAIRMANPart
IIParticulars of excisions and modifications :Form VII[See rule
32(1)]Government of India Central Board of Film CertificationThis Certificate
Is Valid For Theatrical Release OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"S".......................................Film....................................................After
examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/ Revising
Committee mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said Examining
Committee/ Revising Committee the Board hereby certifies that the film is fit
for public exhibition restricted to members of any profession or any class of
persons, subject to excisions and modifications listed in Part II on the
reverse:-Specialised AudienceFurther certified that the excisions and
modifications imposed by the Board have actually been carried out.Name of the
applicantName of the ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and
modifications :Form VII-A[See rule 32(1)]Government of India Central Board of
Film CertificationThis Certificate Is Valid For Video Films OnlyPart
ICertificate.No.................Dated.........................Category........................
"V/S".......................................Film.................................................After
examination of the film by the members of the Examining Committee/ Revising
Committee/ mentioned below and on the recommendations of the said Examining
Committee/ Revising Committee, the Board hereby certifies that the film is fit
for public exhibition restricted to members of any profession or any class of
persons, subject to excisions and modifications listed in Part II on the
reverseSpecialised Audience VideoFurther certified that the excisions and
modifications imposed by the Board have actually been carried out.Name of the
applicantName of the ProducerCHAIRMANPart IIParticulars of excisions and
modifications :Form VIII[See rules 23(11) and 25(10)]Central Board of Film
CertificationForm of Report of Member of Examining/Revising CommitteeN.B. :-
Please study the guidelines issued by the Government once again before you
preview the film.Title of the film and language..............Colour/Black and
White............Running time of the film............... Date of
Examination.............................Name of the
Member...........................................I. I certify that I have
carefully examined the above film with reference to the guidelines.I recommend
refusal of certificate to the film. ORI recommend the grant of the following
certificate "U'/'UA with UA marker'/ "A' / "S' with excisions or/and
modifications without excisions/ or and modification[Delete whichever is not
applicable]II. In the case of grant of "S' certificate, please specify the
class or group of persons which should constitute the specialised
audience:-.........................................................................................................III.
Reasons for refusal of certificate or grant of "UA with UA marker'/ "A' / "S'
certificate..........................................................................................................Note.
- "U' unrestricted public exhibition"UA with UA marker'- unrestricted public
exhibition with an endorsement of caution that the question as to whether in
child below the age of seven, thirteen or sixteen years may be allowed to see
the film should be considered by the parents or the guardian of such
child."A'- public exhibition restricted to adults."S'- public exhibition
restricted to members of any profession or any class of persons.IV. Details of
excisions/modifications (Please see note below)

Sl No | Clear and Specific description of excisions or modifications | Reasons with specific reference to the guidelines  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
V. Thematic classification (only in the case of feature films):-VI. Any other
remarks (including justification for permitting certain visuals and/or words
prima facie appear to be objectionable)VII. I certify that there would be no
infraction of the guidelines if the film is granted a certificate as
recommended above.I also certify that the film has been judged in its entirety
from the point of view of its overall impact; that the film has been examined
in the light of the period depicted in the film and contemporary standards of
the country and the people to which the film relates; and that the film does
not deprive the morality of the people.I certify that while recommending the
film for unrestricted public exhibition I have satisfied myself that the film
is suitable for family viewing, including children...........SignatureNotes:
1. While recommending excisions the beginning and the end of the excision
should be clearly described and the time period of the excision may be given
as a percentage of the total scene.2\. If certain portions are to be
completely deleted whole reducing a scene or sequence these should be
specified.Form-IX[See rule 27]I/We
............................................................................
the applicant(s) in respect of the film by the Board of Film Certification in
the film................................. do hereby declare that the
portion(s) objected to by the Board of Film Certification in the film
..................... as endorsed on the certificate have been excised from
the film.I/We further declare that the above declaration is correct in all
respects...........................Signature of applicantPlace:Name:Date
:Address:

## Third Schedule

[See rule 23(14)]Based on the type and length of the content to be certified,
an examining officer shall send the recommendations of all members of the
Examining Committee under sub-rule (14) of rule 23 to the authority given
below:

S. No. | Type and length of the Content | Authority for approving the Content  
---|---|---  
1. | Theatrical Long (more than 72 minutes) | Chairperson  
2. | Theatrical Medium (10 to 72 minutes) | Chairperson  
3. | Theatrical Short (less than 10 minutes) - Trailer/ Teaser/ Promo and other cinematic content | Chairperson  
4. | Theatrical Short (less than 10 minutes) - Others | Regional Officer concerned  
5. | Dubbed Theatrical Long | Regional Officer concerned  
6. | Dubbed Theatrical Medium | Regional Officer concerned  
7. | Dubbed Theatrical Short | Regional Officer concerned  
8. | Video Long/ Medium | Chief Executive Officer  
9. | Video Short - Trailer/ Teaser/ Promo and other cinematic content | Chairperson  
10. | Video Short - Others | Regional Officer concerned  
11. | Category Conversion Long | Chief Executive Officer  
12. | Revised Film Category | Chief Executive Officer  
  
**Note.** \- (1) The above table can be amended by the Board from time to time
with the approval of the Central Government.

