## Union of India - Act

## Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973

## Act 26 of 1973

  * Published on 1 May 1973 
  * Commenced on 30 May 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 December 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Coal Mines Nationalisation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Act 57 of 1986) on 15 December 1986] 

Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973Act NO. 26 of 1973

### 1484.

Object and Reason.- Act 67 of 1976.- After the nationalisation of coal mines a
number of persons holding coal mining leases unauthorisedly started mining of
coal in the most reckless and unscientific manner without regard to
considerations of conservation, safety and welfare of workers. Not only were
they resorting to slaughter mining by superficial working of outcrops and
thereby destroying a valuable national asset and creating problems of water-
logging, fires, etc., for the future development of the deeper deposits, their
unsafe working also caused serious and fatal accidents. They were making
larger profits by paying vcry low wages, and by not providing any safety and
welfare measures. Thefts of coal from adjacent nationalised mines were also
reported after the Commencement of these unauthorised operations. The number
of these unauthorised operations had shown an increasing trend of late. Areas
where illegal and unauthorised operations were being carried on, were without
proper geological of mine plans and also without any assessment of reserves in
regard to quality and quantity of coal which could be made available after
detailed exploration work was undertaken and results analysed. No scientific
ex ploitation of these deposits could be undertaken in the nationalised sector
without these details. It was, therefore, considered that it would not be
appropriate either to nationalise these unauthorisedly worked mines after
taking them over under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973 or
to get the connected mining leases prematurely terminated and re-granted to
Government Companies under the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Act, 1957. In view of the policy followed by the Central Government that the
coal industry is to be in the nationalised sector, it was decided that the
Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 should be amended to provide for
termination of all privately held coal leases except those held by privately
owned steel companies, so that it may he possible for the Central Government,
Government Company or Corporation to take mining leases where necessary, after
the necessary exploration has been made as to the extent of the deposits of
coal, etc.2\. It is now proposed to replace this Ordinance by an Act of
Parliament. -Gazette of India, 7-5-1976, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. S33.Act
22 of 1978.- After the nationalisation of coal mines in India under the Coking
Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and the Coal Mines (Nationalisation)
Act, 1973, it was brought to light that certain provisions of these Acts
needed clarification. It is, therefore, necessary to suitably amend these Acts
with a view to removing the ambiguities as well as certain practical
difficulties which have come to light in the implementation thereof. The main
amendments are as follows:(a) As doubts were expressed whether certain amounts
like dues on account of the sale of coal and coal products effected before the
date of nationalisation of coking coal mines and coal mines, subsides due for
the pre-nationalisation period and earnest monies and security deposits made
by the owners of coal mines with the various authorities were covered by the
exception to the assets vesting in the Government on nationalisation, it is
proposed to clarify in the said Acts that current assets vesting in the
Government do not include such amounts.(b) The said Acts do not specify the
interest rate admissible on the claimed amounts after the appointed day. In
the absence of such a provision, the secured creditors have included in their
claims interest at very high rates which, if allowed, will deprive the lower
priority creditors, mostly Government organisations and small suppliers. It
is, therefore, proposed to insert a new section in each of the said Acts to
provide that the interest payable on such amounts shall be at such rate not
exceeding the rate of interest accruing on any amount deposited by the
Commissioner of Payments with a nationalised bank or in the Public Account of
India as required under the said Acts.(c) It is proposed to empower the
Commissioner of Payments(i) to authorise the persons appointed to assist him
under the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 to exercise all or any
of the powers exercisable by him under the Act. Such a provision already
exists in the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973;(ii) to transfer cases
from one Assistant Commissioner to another or to himself;(iii) to issue a
notification inviting the owners, managing contractors and such other persons
who are owners of any machinery, equipment or other property which has vested
in the Central Government or a Government Company under the nit and which does
not belong to the colliery owners to apply for the residuary amount lying with
the Com[Vol. 716 A.M./50 missioner of Payments after settling all the
claims.(d) It is proposed to legalise joint claims filed by workers through
Trade Unions or through the officers under the Chief Labour Commissioner
(Central) against the colliery owners.(e) Such of the claims as had not been
time-barred on the relevant date when the management of the coal mines was
taken over by Government and had been filed before the specified dates but had
been rejected merely on the ground that such claims had become time-barred are
proposed to be restored and dealt with.(f) It is proposed to prescribe a
period of sixty days within which appeals against the decisions of the
Commissioner of Payments have to be filed and to apply the relevant provisions
of the Limitation Act, 1963, to such appeals. It is also proposed to extend
the right of appeal to the colliery owners.(g) It is proposed to provide that
the period of three years after which undisbursed amounts shall revert to the
general revenue account should be counted from the date on which the last
order for disbursement was made by the Commissioner of Payments and not from
the date on which the amount was paid by the Government to the
Commissioner.(h) With a view to dealing effectively with persons who indulge
in illegal mining of coal, it is proposed to amend sub-section (2) of section
30 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973, by enhancing the punishment
of imprisonment from two years to three years and of fine from ten thousand
rupees to twenty thousand rupees.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects. Gaz., of Ind., 26-4-1978, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 445.Act 57 of
1986.- After the nationalisation of coal mines in India under the Coking Coal
Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 (Coking Coal Act) and the Coal Mines
(Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (Coal Mines Act), certain judicial pronouncements
in regard to the interpretation of the provisions of the said Acts
necessitated a few amendments in the relevant provisions of those Acts. It was
also found necessary to remove certain ambiguities and difficulties in
implementing those provisions. The Coal Mines Nationalisation Laws (Amendment)
Ordinance, 1986 (7 of 1986) was thus promulgated by the President on the 7th
October, 1986 to make certain amendments in the above two Acts. Some of the
important amendments which the Ordinance proposed were as follows:(a) the
definition of "mine" in the Coking Coal Act and the Coal Mines Act included
all coal and coke belonging to the owner of the mine whether in stock or in
transit and all coal under production in a mine on a day immediately prior to
the date on which the coal mines were nationalised. Accordingly, the amounts
specified in the Schedules to the two Acts included the value of the coke and
coal in stock lying at the mines at the time of nationalisation. The Supreme
Court, however, in a recent case, while agreeing with the contention that the
coke and coal stocks lying at the mine vested in the Government as a result of
nationalisation, took the view that the value of coke and coal stocks had to
be taken into account for balancing the position of accounts as on the date
immediately preceding the date of nationalisation. This would have involved
double payment of the amount in as much as the value of the coke and coal
stocks had already been included in the amounts mentioned in the Schedules to
the Acts against each coal mine. In order to make the intention clear sections
10 and 22 of the Coking Coal Act and sections 8 and 19 of the Coal Mines Act
were amended retrospectively to remove any doubts in the matter and to clarify
that the amounts specified in the Schedules to the relevant Acts shall also be
deemed to include the amounts required to be paid to the owner in respect of
the stock of coke and coal or other assets referred to in the definition of
"mine" in the relevant Acts. Necessary provision validating the action taken
under the two Acts was also made.(b) With the commencement of the Coal Mines
(Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 1976 on 294-1976, carrying on of coal mining
operation or leasing for mining coal by any private party were prohibited.
Thus, section 4 (2) of the Coking Coal Act and section 3 (2) of the Coal Mines
Act became redundant and were omitted with effect from 29-4-1976 with a saving
clause to protect action, if any, taken under the existing provisions. A
provision for correction of an error, omission or mis-description was also
added to section 3 of the Coal Mines Act, on the lines of a similar provision
in the Coking Coal Act.(c) Section 25 of both the Acts was amended so as to
clarify that any amount in excess of payment over receipts in the statement of
accounts prepared by the coal companies shall be deemed to be the amount
advanced by the Central Government or the Custodian.(d) Section 26 of both the
Acts was also amended to empower the Commissioner of Payments to make
apportionment of the amount among the various owners on the basis of the
highest annual production in the relevant coal mines during the last 3 years
immediately preceding the appointed day.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the
above-mentioned Ordinance. It also seeks to make certain further amendments of
a clarificatory nature, which have been explained in the memorandum annexed to
this Bill. - Gazette of India, 17-11-1986, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 12 (No.
48).[30th May, 1973]An Act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the
right, title and interest of the owners in respect of the coal mines specified
in the Schedule with a view to re-organising and reconstructing such coal
mines so as to ensure the rational, co-ordinated and scientific development
and utilisation of coal resources consistent with the growing requirements of
the country, in order that the ownership and control of such resources are
vested in the State and thereby so distributed as best to subserve the common
good, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it enacted
by Parliament in the Twenty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and Commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973.(2)The
provisions of sections 30 and 31 shall come into force at once and the
remaining provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on
the 1st day of May, 1973.

### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appointed day" means
the 1st day of May, 1973;(b)"coal mine" means a mine in which there exists one
or more seams of coal;(c)"company" means a company as defined in section 3 of
the Companies Act, 1956, (1 of 1956) and includes a foreign company within the
meaning of section 591 of that Act;(d)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
Payment appointed under section 17;(e)"Custodian" means the Custodian
appointed under sub-section (2) of section 11, to take over, or carry on, the
management of a coal mine;(f)"Government company" has the meaning assigned to
it by section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);(g)"managing
contractor" means the person, or body of persons, who, with the previous
consent, in writing, of the State Government, has entered into an arrangement,
contract or understanding, with the owner of a coal mine under which the
operations of the coal mine are substantially controlled by such person or
body of persons;(h)"mine" means any excavation where any operation for the
purpose of searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried
on, and includes-(i)all borings and bore holes;(ii)all shafts, whether in the
course of being sunk or not;(iii)all levels and inclined planes in the course
of being driven;(iv)all open cast workings;(v)all conveyors or aerial ropeways
provided for bringing into or removal from a mine of minerals or other
articles or for the removal of refuse therefrom;(vi)all lands, buildings,
works, adits, levels, planes, machinery and equipments, instruments, stores,
vehicles, railways, tramways and sidings in, or adjacent to, a mine and used
for the purposes of the mine;(vii)all workshops (including buildings,
machinery, instruments, stores equipment of such wordships and the lands on
which such workships stand) in, or adjacent to, a mine and used substantially
for the purposes of the mine or a number of mines under the same
management;(viii)all coal belonging to the owner of the mine, whether in stock
or in transit, and all coal under production in a mine;(ix)all power stations
in a mine or operated primarily for supplying electricity for the purpose of
working the mine or a number of mines under the same management;(x)all lands,
buildings and equipments belonging to the owner of the mine, and in, adjacent
to or situated on the surface of, the mine where the washing of coal obtained
from the mine or manufacture, therefrom, of coke is carried on;(xi)all lands
and buildings [other than those referred to in sub-clause (x)], wherever
situated, if solely used for the location of the management, sale or liaison
officers or for the residence of officers and staff, of the mine;(xii)all
other fixed assets, movable and immovable, belonging to the owner of a mine,
wherever situated, and current assets, belonging to a mine, whether within its
premises or outside, and also any money lawfully due to such owner in relation
to the mine in respect of any period prior to the appointed day.Explanation.-
The expression "current assets" does not include dues from sundry debtors,
loans and advances to other parties and investments, not being investments in
the coal mine;(i)"Mineral Concession Rules" means the rules, for the time
being in force, made under the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Act, 1957 (67 of 1957);(j)"mining company" means a company owning a coal mine,
and in relation to a foreign company within the meaning of section 591 of the
Companies Act, 1956, (1 of 1956) the undertaking of that company in
India;(k)"notification" means a notification published in the Official
Gazette;(l)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(m)"specified date" means such date as the Central Government may, for the
purpose of any provision of this Act, by notification, specify; and different
dates may be specified for different provisions of this Act;(n)words and
expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Coal Mines
(Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952, (12 of 1952) have the
meaning, respectively, assigned to them in that Act;(o)words and expressions
used herein and not defined in this Act or in the Coal Mines (Conservation,
Safety and Development) Act, 1952, (12 of 1952) but defined in the Mines Act,
1952, (35 of 1952) have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the
Mines Act, 1952.

## Chapter II  
Acquisition Of The Rights Of Owners Of Coal Mines

### 3. Acquisition of rights of owners in respect of coal mines.-

(1)On the appointed day, the right, title and interest of the owners in
relation to the coal mines specified in the Schedule shall transferred to, and
shall vest absolutely in, the Central Government free from all
incumbrances.(2)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that if,
after the appointed day, the existence of any other coal mine comes to the
knowledge of the Central Government, the provisions of the Coal Mines (Taking
Over of Management) Act, 1973, (15 of 1973) shall, until that mine is
nationalised by an appropriate legislation, apply to such mine.

### 4. Central Government to be the lessee of the State Government.-

(1)Where the rights of an owner under any mining lease granted, or deemed to
have been granted, in relation to a coal mine, by a State Government or any
other person, vest in the Central Government under section 3, the Central
Government shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have
become the lessee of the State Government or such other person, as the case
may be, in relation to such coal mine as if a mining lease in relation to such
coal mine had been granted to the Central Government and the period of such
lease shall be the entire period for which such lease could have been granted
by the State Government or such other person under the Mineral Concession
Rules, and thereupon all the rights under such mining lease, including
surface, underground and other rights granted to the lessee shall be deemed to
have been transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government.(2)On the
expiry of the term of any lease, referred to in sub-section (1), such lease
shall, if so desired by the Central Government, be renewed, on the same terms
and conditions on which the lease was held, immediately before the appointed
day, by the lessor, for the maximum period for which such lease can be renewed
under the Mineral Concession Rules.

### 5. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a Government
company.-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 and 4, the Central
Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to
comply, or has complied, with such terms and conditions as that Government may
think fit to impose, direct, by an order in writing, that the right, title and
interest of an owner in relation to a coal mine referred to in section 3,
shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, vest in the
Government company either on the date of publication of the direction or on
such earlier or later date (not being a date earlier than the appointed day),
as may be specified in the direction.(2)Where the right, title and interest of
an owner in relation to a coal mine vest in a Government company under sub-
section (1), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such
vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee in relation to such coal mine as
if a mining lease in relation to the coal mine had been granted to the
Government company and the period of such lease shall be the entire period for
which such lease could have been granted under the Mineral Concession Rules;
and all the rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to
such coal mine shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have
become the rights and liabilities, respectively, of the Government
company.(3)The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 4 shall apply to a
lease which vests in a Government company as they apply to a lease vested in
the Central Government and references therein to the "Central Government"
shall be construed as references to the Government company.

### 6. Properties vested in the Central Government to be freed from mortgages,
etc.-

(1)All property which vests in the Central Government or in a Government
company under this Chapter shall, by force of such vesting, be freed and
discharged from any trust, obligation, mortgage, charge, lien and all other
incumbrances affecting it and any attachment, injunction or decree or order of
any court restricting the use of such property in any manner shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn.(2)Every mortgagee of any property which has vested
under this Act in the Central Government or a Government company, and every
person holding any charge, lien or other interest in or in relation to any
such property shall give, within such time and in such manner as may be
prescribed, an intimation to the Commissioner of such mortgage, charge, lien
or other interest.(3)For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the
mortgagee of any property referred to in sub-section (1) or any other person
holding any charge, lien or other interest in, or in relation to any, such
property shall be entitled to claim, in accordance with his rights and
interest, payment of the mortgage money or other dues, in whole or in part,
out of the amount specified in relation to such property in the Schedule, but
no such mortgage, charge, lien or other interest shall be enforceable against
any property which has vested in the Central Government or the Government
company.

### 7. Central Government or Government company not to be liable to prior
liabilities.-

(1)Every liability of the owner, agent, manager or managing contractor of a
coal mine, in respect of any period prior to the appointed day, shall be the
liability of such owner, agent, manger or managing contractor, as the case may
be, and shall be enforceable against him and not against the Central
Government or the Government company.(2)For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that-(a)save as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Act, no
claim for wages, bonus, royalty, rate, rent, taxes, provident fund, pension,
gratuity or any other dues in relation to a coal mine in respect of any period
prior to the appointed day, shall be enforceable against the Central
Government or the Government company;(b)no award, decree or order of any
court, tribunal or other authority in relation to any coal mine passed after
the appointed day, but in relation to any matter, claim or dispute which arose
before that day, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the
Government company,(c)no liability for the contravention, before the appointed
day, or any provision of law for the time being in force, shall be enforceable
against the Central Government or the Government company.

## Chapter III  
Payment Of Amount

### 8. Payment of amount to owners of coal mines.-

The owner of every coal mine or group of coal mines specified in the second
column of the Schedule, shall be given by the Central Government, in cash and
in the manner specified in Chapter VI, for the vesting in it, under section 3,
of the right, title and interest of the owner in relation to such coal mine or
group of coal mines, an amount equal to the amount specified against it in the
corresponding entry in the fifth column of the Schedule.

### 9. Payment of further amount.-

(1)In consideration of the retrospective operation of the provisions of
sections 3, 4 and 5, there shall be given by the Central Government, in cash,
to the owner of every coal mine or group of coal mines specified in the
Schedule, an amount equal to the amount which would have been , but for the
provisions of the said sections 3, 4 and 5, payable to such owner under the
Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973, for the period commencing on
the 1st day of May, 1973, (15 of 1973) and ending on the date on which this
Act receives the assent of the President.(2)In addition to the amount referred
to in sub-section (1), there shall be given by the Central Government, in
cash, to other owner of every coal mine or group of coal mines specified in
the Schedule, simple interest at the rate of four per cent.per annum on the
amount specified against such owner in the corresponding entry in the fifth
column of the Schedule for the period commencing on the date on which this Act
receives the assent of the President and ending on the date on which payment
of such amount is made by the Central Government to the Commissioner.(3)The
amounts referred to in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall be in
addition to the amount specified in the Schedule.

### 10. Income derived by the owners of coal mines after the appointed day to
be refunded to the Central Government.-

(1)Where, in pursuance of any decree, order or injunction of a court or
otherwise, the Central Government or the Custodian appointed under the Coal
Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973, (15 of 1973) was prevented from
taking over the management of any coal mine, the owner of such coal mine shall
render, within sixty days from the date on which management of the coal mine
is delivered to the Central Government or Government company, as the case may
be, accounts in relation to the period commencing on the date of commencement
of the said Act and ending on the date of delivery of such management to the
Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be, will regard
to the-(a)assets and stores of the coal mine acquired or sold by him during
the said period;(b)coal sold or despatched during the said period;(c)income
derived by him from the coal mine during the said period.(2)If, on examination
of the accounts referred to in sub-section (1), any income is found to have
been derived by the owner from the coal mine during the period referred to in
that sub-section, such income shall be recoverable by the Central Government
from the amount payable under section 8 to the owner of such coal mine, and,
the debt due to the Central Government on this account shall rank as an
unsecured debt.(3)If no account is rendered by the owner of a coal mine within
the period referred to in sub-section (1) or if the Central Government or the
Government company has any reason to believe that the account rendered by such
owner is incorrect or false in material particulars, the Central Government or
the Government company may refer the matter to the Commissioner and thereupon
the Commissioner shall determine the income derived by the owner from the coal
mine during the period referred to in sub-section (1), and take steps to
recover the said income from the amount payable to the owner of the coal mine
under section 8, as if the debt due to the Central Government on this account
were an unsecured debt.(4)No mortgage, charge, lien or other incumbrance in
relation to a coal mine or any asset thereof shall be binding on the Central
Government or the Government company if such mortgage, charge, lien or other
incumbrance was created, at any time during the period in which the Central
Government of the Custodian was prevented, by any decree, order or injunction
or a court or otherwise, from taking over the management of the said coal
mine.

## Chapter IV  
Management, Etc., Of Coal Mines

### 11. Management, etc., of coal mines.-

(1)The general superintendence, direction, control and management of the
affairs and business of a coal mine, the right, title and interest of an owner
in relation to which have vested in the Central Government under section 3,
shall,-(a)in the case of a coal mine in relation to which a direction has been
made by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 5, vest in the
Government company specified in such direction, or(b)in the case of a coal
mine in relation to which no such direction has been made by the Central
Government, vest in one or more Custodians appointed by the Central Government
under sub- section (2), and thereupon the Government so specified or the
Custodian so appointed, as the case may be, shall be entitled to exercise all
such powers and do all such things as the owner of the coal mine is authorised
to exercise and do.(2)The Central Government may appoint an individual or a
Government company as the Custodian of a coal mine in relation to which no
direction has been made by it under sub-section (1) of section 5.

### 12. Duty of persons in charge of management of coal mines to deliver all
assets, etc.-

(1)On the vesting of the management of a coal mine in a Government company or
on the appointment of a Custodian, all persons in charge of the management of
such coal mine immediately before such vesting or appointment, shall be bound
to deliver to the Government company or the Custodian, as the case may be, all
assets, books of account, registers or other documents in their custody
relating to the coal mine.(2)The Central Government may issue such directions
as it may deem desirable in the circumstances of the case to the Government
company or Custodian as to its or his power and duties and the Government
company or Custodian may also, if it or he so desires, apply to the Central
Government at any time for instructions as to the manner in which the
management of the coal mine shall be conducted by it or him or in relation to
any other matter arising in the course of such management.(3)The Custodian
shall receive from the funds of the coal mine, in relation to which he or it
is the Custodian, such remuneration as the Central Government may fix and
shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government.

### 13. Accounts and audit.-

The Custodian of every coal mine shall maintain the accounts of such mine in
such manner and under such conditions as may be prescribed.

## Chapter V  
Provisions Relating To Employees Of Coal Mines

### 14. Employment of certain employees to continue.-

(1)Every person who is a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947, (14 of 1947) and has been, immediately before the appointed day, in
the employment of a coal mine shall become, on and from the appointed day, an
employee of the Central Government or, as the case may be, of the Government
company in which the right, title and interest of such mine have vested under
this Act, and shall hold office or service in the coal mine with the same
rights to pension, gratuity and other matters as would have been admissible to
him of the rights in relation to such coal mine had not been transferred to,
and vested in, the Central Government or the Government company, as the case
may be, and continue to do so unless and until his employment in such coal
mine is duly terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions of
employment are duly altered by the Central Government or the Government
company.(2)The Central Government or the Government company in which the
right, title and interest in relation to a coal mine have vested, may employ,
on mutually acceptable terms and conditions, any person who is not a workman
within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947) and who
has been immediately before the appointed day, in the employment of a coal
mine, and no such employment the said person shall become an employee of the
Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be.(3)Save as
otherwise provided in sub-section (1) and (2), the services of every person
employed by the owner or occupier of a coal mine before the appointed day
shall stand terminated on and from the specified date.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947) or in
any other law for the time being in force, the transfer of the services of any
officer or other employee of a coal mine to any other mine shall not entitle
such officer or other employee to any compensation under this Act or any other
law for the time being in force and not such claim shall be entertained by any
court, tribunal or other authority.(5)Where, under the terms of any contract
of service or otherwise, any person whose services become terminated or whose
services become transferred to the Central Government or Government company by
reason of the provisions of this Act is entitled to any payment by way of
gratuity or retirement benefits or for any leave not availed of, or any other
benefits, such person may enforce his claim against the owner of the coal mine
but not against the Central Government or the Government company.

### 15. Provident and other funds.-

(1)Where a coal mine has established a provident fund, superannuation welfare
or other fund for the benefit of its employees, the monies relatable to the
employees, whose services have become transferred by or under this Act to the
Central Government or a Government company shall, out of the monies standing,
on the appointed day, to the credit of such provident fund, superannuation,
welfare or other fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, the Central
Government or the Government company, as the case may be.(2)The monies which
stand transferred, under sub-section (1), to the Central Government or a
Government company shall be dealt with by that Government or company, as the
case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 16. Superannuation fund, etc., to be distributed to employees whose
employment becomes terminated under this Act.-

Where the employment of an employee stands terminated by reason of sub-section
(3) of section 14 and such employee is not employed by the owner of the coal
mine in any of his other establishments, such owner shall pay to such employee
the amount standing at his credit in the provident fund and also pay him the
amounts due to him as superannuation, welfare and other benefits admissible to
him as if the employee had superannuated or his service with the coal mine had
terminated on the day immediately preceding the specified date.

## Chapter VI  
Commissioner Of Payments

### 17. Commissioner of Payments to be appointed.-

(1)For the purpose of disbursing the amounts payable to the owner of each coal
mine or group of coal mines, the Central Government shall appoint such person
as it may think fit to be the Commissioner of Payments.(2)The Central
Government may appoint such other persons as it may think fit to assist the
Commissioner and thereupon the Commissioner may authorise one or more of such
persons to also exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by him under
this Act, and different persons may be authorised to exercise different
powers.(3)Any person authorised by the Commissioner to exercise any powers may
exercise those powers in the same manner and with the same effect as if they
have been conferred on that person directly by this Act and not by way of
authorisation.(4)The salaries and allowances of the Commissioner and other
persons appointed under this section shall be defrayed out of the Consolidated
Fund of India.

### 18. Payment by the Central Government to the Commissioner.-

(1)The Central Government shall, within thirty days from the specified date,
pay, in cash, to the Commissioner for payment to the owner of a coal mine, an
amount equal to the amount specified against the coal mine in the Schedule and
shall also pay to the Commissioner such sums as may be due to the owner of a
coal mine under section 9.(2)In addition to the sum referred to in sub-section
(1), the Central Government shall pay, in cash, to the Commissioner, such
amount as may become due to the owner of a coal mine in relation to any
period, after the appointed day, during which the management of the coal mine
remains vested in the Central Government.(3)A deposit account shall be opened
by the Central Government, in favour of the Commissioner, in the Public
Account of India, and every amount paid under this Act to the Commissioner
shall be deposited by him to the credit of the said deposit account in the
Public Account of India, and thereafter the said deposit account shall be
operated by the Commissioner.(4)Separate records shall be maintained by the
Commissioner in respect of each coal mine in relation to which payments have
been made to him under this Act.(5)Interest accruing on the amounts standing
to the credit of the deposit account referred to in sub-section (3) shall
enure to the benefit of the owners of coal mines.(6)References in this section
to the owner of a coal mine shall, in relation to a group of coal mines
specified in the Schedule, be construed as references to coal mines.

### 19. Statement of accounts in respect of the period of management by the
Central Government, etc.-

(1)The Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be, shall
cause the books in relation to each coal mine, the management of which has
vested in it under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973, (15
of 1973) to be closed and balanced as on the date immediately before the
appointed day, and shall cause a statement of account, as on that day, to be
prepared, within such time, in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed, in relation to each such mine in respect of the transactions
effected by it during the period for which the management of such coal mine
remained vested in it:Provided that where two or more coal mines were owned,
before the commencement of this Act, by the same owner, a consolidated
statement of accounts may be prepared for all the coal mines owned by such
owner.(2)All amounts received by the Central Government or the Government
company after the closure of such accounts shall, where such accounts relate
to transactions effected before the appointed day, be included in the said
statement of accounts in respect of the coal mine to which the said receipt
relates.(3)The Central Government or the Government company in which the
right, title and interest of coal mine stand vested shall be entitled to
receive, up to the specified date, to the exclusion of all other persons, any
money, due to the coal mine, realised after the appointed day notwithstanding
that the realisations pertain to a period prior to the appointed day:Provided
that where such realisations have not been included in the statement of
accounts as on the day immediately before the appointed day, a supplementary
statement of accounts shall be prepared and furnished, at such intervals as
may be prescribed by the Central Government or the Government company to the
owner of the coal mine.(4)The liabilities of the coal mine (not being
liabilities arising out of advances made by the Central Government or the
Government company), which could not be discharged by the appointed day, may
be discharged by the Central Government or the Government company up to the
specified date, and every payment so made shall be included in the statement
of accounts as on the day immediately before the appointed day, indicating
therein the period in relation to which the payments were made:Provided that
the liabilities in relation to the period prior to the appointed day, which
have not been discharged on or before the specified date, shall be the
liabilities of the owner of the coal mine.(5)A copy of each statement of
accounts prepared under this section shall be delivered by the Central
Government or the Government company, as the case may be, to the Commissioner
and also to the owner:Provided that where the number of owners is more than
one, only one copy of the statement of accounts shall be given to the owners
for the benefit of all of them.(6)The statement of accounts prepared under
this section shall be audited by a person who is qualified to be appointed as
an auditor of a company under section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956, (1 of
1956) and the auditor so appointed shall receive from the funds of the coal
mine, such remuneration as the Central Government may fix.(7)The audit of the
statement of accounts shall be conducted in such manner as the Central
Government may direct.

### 20. Claims to be made to the Commissioner.-

Every person having a claim against the owner of a coal mine shall prefer such
claim before the Commissioner within thirty days from the specified
date:Provided that if the Commissioner is satisfied claimant was prevented by
sufficient cause from preferring the claim within the said period of thirty
days, be may entertain the claim within a further period of thirty days but
not thereafter.

### 21. Priority of claims in relation to arrears of provident fund, etc.-

(1)Every person employed by the owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines
may make a claim to the Commissioner to the effect that the sums deducted
under sub-section (4) of section 7 of the Coal Mines (Taking Over of
Management) Act, 1973, (15 of 1973) are not sufficient to meet fully the
amount of arrears due to him, on the appointed day within the meaning of that
Act, from the owner of such coal mine or group of coal mines,-(a)in relation
to a provident fund, pension fund, gratuity fund or any other fund established
for the welfare of the persons employed by the owner of a coal mine or group
of coal mines, or(b)as wages, and that a sum equal to the deficiency may be
recovered from the amount specified in the Schedule against the owner of such
coal mine or group of coal mines.(2)Where a claim is made under sub-section
(1), the Commissioner shall determine the extent of the deficiency and shall,
after such determination, deduct in the first instance, out of the amount paid
to him under section 8, a sum equal to the extent of the deficiency determined
by him under this sub-section.(3)All sums deducted by the Commissioner under
sub-section (2) shall, in accordance with such rules as may be made under this
Act, be credited by the Commissioner to the relevant fund or be paid to the
persons to whom such sums are due, and on such credit or payment, the
liability of the owner in respect of all the amounts of arrears due as
aforesaid shall stand discharged.(4)The deductions made by the Commissioner
under sub-section (2) shall have priority over all other debts, whether
secured or unsecured.

### 22. Priority in relation to other claims.-

(1)Save as otherwise provided in section 21, every secured debt due from the
owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines shall have priority over all other
debts and shall be paid in accordance with the rights and interests of the
secured creditors.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force, there shall be paid in priority to all other
unsecured debts, not being the amounts advanced by the Central Government or
the Custodian appointed under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act,
1973, (15 of 1973) for the management of the coal mine,-(a)all sums due to the
State Government including royalty and dead rent;(b)all amounts due in respect
of any compensation or liability for compensation under the Workmen's
Compensation Act, 1923, (8 of 1923) in respect of the death or disablement of
any employee of the coal mine unless such mine has, under such contract with
insurers as mentioned in section 15 of the said Act, rights capable of being
transferred to and vested in, the workmen; and(c)all sums deducted by the
employer from the salary or wages of any workman or other employee for credit
to any provident fund, or any other fund established for the welfare of the
employees of the coal mine but not deposited to the credit of the said
fund.(3)The debts specified in sub-section (2) shall rank equally among
themselves and be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet
them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions and be paid
accordingly.

### 23. Admission or rejection of claims.-

(1)The Commissioner shall fix a certain date on or before which every claimant
shall file the proof of his claim or be excluded from the benefit of the
disbursement made by the Commissioner.(2)Not less than fourteen days' notice
of the date so fixed shall be given by advertisement in one issue of the daily
newspaper in the English language and one issue of the daily newspaper in the
regional language as the Commissioner may consider suitable, and every such
notice shall call upon the claimant to file the proof of his claim with the
Commissioner within the time specified in the advertisement.(3)Every claimant
who fails to file the proof of his claim within the time specified by the
Commissioner shall be excluded form the disbursements made by the
Commissioner.(4)The Commissioner shall, after such investigation as may, in
his opinion, be necessary and after giving the owner of the coal mine an
opportunity of refuting the claim and after giving the claimant a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, in writing, admit or reject the claim in whole or
in part.(5)The Commissioner shall have the power to regulate his own procedure
in all matters arising out of the discharge of his functions including the
place or places at which he will hold his sittings and shall, for the purpose
of making any investigation under this Act, have the same powers as are vested
in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (5 of 1908) while
trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)the summoning
and enforcing the attendance of any witness and examining him on oath;(b)the
discovery and production of any document or other material object producible
as evidence;(c)the reception of evidence on affidavits;(d)the issuing of any
commission for the examination of witnes.(6)Any investigation before the
Commissioner shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of
sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the
Commissioner shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section
195 and Chapter XXXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898).(7)A
claimant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner may prefer
an appeal against the decision to the principal civil court of original
jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the coal mine is
situated.Provided that where a person who is a Judge of a High Court is
appointed to be the Commissioner, such appeal shall lie to the High Court for
the State in which the coal mine is situated, and such appeal shall be heard
and disposed of by not less than two Judges of that High Court.

### 24. Disbursement of money by the Commissioner to claimants.-

Where, after meeting the claims admitted by him, of secured creditors, and
unsecured creditors having priority under sub-section (2) of section 22, the
total amount of claims of other unsecured creditors admitted by the
Commissioner, does not exceed the total amount of the money credited to the
account of a coal mine, every such admitted claim shall be paid in full and
the balance, if any, shall be paid to the owner, but where such amount is
insufficient to meet in full the total amount of the admitted claims, all such
claims shall abate in equal proportions and be paid accordingly.

### 25. Amounts advanced by the Central Government how to be recovered.-

Every amount advanced by the Central Government or the Custodian as the case
may be, for the management of a coal mine during the period in which the
management of such coal mine remained vested in the Central Government, shall
be recovered from the income derived from the transactions which took place at
any time after the commencement of the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management)
Act, 1973, (15 of 1973) but before the appointed day notwithstanding that such
income was derived after the appointed day:Provided that where such income in
insufficient to meet in full the total amount of the advance made by the
Central Government or the Custodian for the management of the coal mine, the
Central Government may make a claim to the Commissioner for the deficiency and
thereupon the claim in respect of such deficiency shall have priority over the
claims of all other unsecured creditors of the coal mine including those
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 22.Explanation.- In this section,
"Custodian" means the Custodian appointed under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of
Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973).

### 26. Disbursement of amounts to the owners of coal mines.-

(1)If out of the monies paid to him in relation to a coal mine or group of
coal mines specified in the second column of the Schedule, there is a balance
left after meeting the liabilities of all the secured and unsecured creditors,
the Commissioner shall disburse such balance to the owner of such coal mine or
group of coal mines.(2)Before making any payment to the owner of any coal mine
or group of coal mines under sub-section (1), the Commissioner shall satisfy
himself as to the right of such person to receive the whole or any part of
such amount, and in the event of there being a doubt or dispute as to the
right of the person to receive the whole or any part of the amount, referred
to in sections 8 and 9, the Commissioner shall refer the matter to the court
and make the disbursement in accordance with the decision of the court.(3)For
the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the entries in the fourth
column of the Schedule shall not be deemed to be conclusive as to the right,
title and interest of any person in relation to any coal mine specified in the
corresponding entries in the second column of the Schedule and evidence shall
be admissible to establish the right, title interest of any person in relation
to such coal mine.(4)In relation to a coal mine the operations of which were,
immediately before the taking over of the management of such coal mine under
the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973, (15 of 1973) under the
control of a managing contractor, the amount specified in the fifth column of
the Schedule against such coal mine shall be apportioned between the owner of
the coal mine and such managing contractor in such proportions as may be
agreed upon by or between the owner and such managing contractor, and in the
event of there being no such agreement, in such proportions as may be
determined by the court on a reference made to it by the Commissioner.(5)Where
any machinery, equipment or other property in a coal mine has vested in the
Central Government or a Government company under this Act, but such machinery,
equipment or other property does not belong to the owner of such coal mine,
the amount specified in the fifth column of the Schedule against such coal
mine shall, on a reference made to it by the Commissioner, be apportioned by
the court between the owner of such coal mine and the owner of such machinery,
equipment or other property having due regard to the value of such machinery,
equipment or other property on the appointed day.Explanation.- In this
section, "court", in relation to a coal mine, means the principal civil court
of original jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
coal mine is situated.

### 27. Undisbursed or unclaimed amount to be deposited to the general revenue
account.-

Any money paid to the Commissioner which remains undisbursed or unclaimed for
a period of three years from the last day on which the disbursement was made,
shall be transferred by the Commissioner to the general revenue account of the
Central Government; but a claim to any money so transferred may be preferred
to the Central Government by the person entitled to such payment and shall be
dealt with as if such transfer had not been made, the order, if any, for
payment of the claim being treated as an order for the refund of revenue.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 28. Effect of this Act on other laws.-

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything in
consistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or
in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act, or
in any decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority.

### 29. Contracts to cease to have effect unless ratified by Government.-

(1)Every contract entered into by the owner or occupier of any coal mine for
any service, sale or supply and in force immediately before the appointed day
shall, on and from the expiry of one hundred and twenty days from the
appointed day, cease to have effect unless such contract is, before the expiry
of that period, ratified, in writing by the Central Government and in
ratifying such contract the Central Government may make such alteration or
modifications therein as it may think fit:Provided that the Central Government
shall not omit to ratify a contract unless it is satisfied that such contract
is unduly onerous or has been entered into in bad faith or is detrimental to
the interests of the coal mine.(2)The Central Government shall not omit to
ratify a contract or make any alteration or modification therein except after
giving to the parties to the contract a reasonable opportunity of being heard
and except after recording in writing its easons for refusal to ratify the
contract.

### 30. Penalties.-

Any person who,-(a)having in his possession, custody or control any property
forming part of the undertaking of any coal mine referred to in the Schedule
wrongfully withholds such property from the Central Government or the
Government company, or(b)wrongfully obtains possession of, or retains, any
property forming part of the undertaking of any coal mine specified in the
Schedule or wilfully withholds or fails to furnish to the Central Government
or any person specified by that Government, any document relating to such coal
mine which may be in his possession, custody or control or fails to deliver to
the Custodian any assets, books of account, registers or other documents in
his custody relating to the coal mine in respect of which a Custodian has been
appointed, or(c)wrongfully removes or destroys any property of any coal mine
or prefers any claim under this Act which he knows or has reasonable cause to
believe to be false or grossly inaccurate, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.

### 31. Offences by companies.-

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.- For the
purposes of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a
firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 32. Mining companies not to be wound up by the court.-

No proceeding for the winding up of a mining company, the right, title and
interest in relation to the coal mine owned by which have vested in the
Central Government or a Government company under this Act or for the
appointment of a receiver in respect of the business of the company, shall lie
in any court except with the consent of the Central Government.

### 33. Delegation of powers.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, direct that all or any of the
powers exercisable by it under this Act may also be exercised by any person or
persons as may be specified in the notification.(2)Whenever any delegation of
power is made under sub-section (1), the person to whom such power has been
delegated shall act under the direction, control and supervision of the
Central Government.

### 34. Make rules.-

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the manner in which the coal mine shall be
managed by a Government company or a Custodian;(b)the manner in which monies
in any provident or other fund referred to in section 15 shall be dealt
with;(c)the form and manner in which the statement of accounts referred to in
section 19 shall be prepared;(d)any other matter which is required to be, or
may be, prescribed.(3)Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session of
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so however, that nay such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 35. Power to revenue difficulties.-

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions to this
Act, remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of a period of two years from the appointed day.THE SCHEDULE(See
sections 3, 8 and 18)

S. No. | Name of the mine | Location of the mine | Name and Address of owners of the mine |  Amount(in rupees)  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
ASSAM  
Jeypore Coal field  
1. | Bimalpore | Post Office Sibsagar | Bimalpore Collieries Limited, Post Office, Sibsagar. | 4,000  
2. | Dilli | Post Office Banhat, Sibasagar | Dilli Collieries Association Limited, Post Office, Tinsukia. | 4,000  
3. | Jeypore | Post Office Namrup | Jeypore Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office, Namrup. | 75,000  
Makum Coalfield, Lakhlimpur  
4. | Baragolai | Post Office Baragolai | Assam Railways and Trading Company Limited, Margherita. | 48,84,000  
5. | Ledo | Post Office Ledo | Assam Railways and Trading Company Limited, Margherita. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 4  
6. | Namdang | Post Office Baragolai | Assam Railways and Trading Company Limited, Margherita. | 4,000  
7. | Tipong | Post Office Ledo | Assam Railways and Trading Company Limited, Margherita. | Amount included in the amount specified SI. No. 4  
Mikir Coalfield  
8. | Koilajan | Post Office Koilajan | Koilajan Collieries Limited, Post Office Dimapur, Nagar Hills. | 38,000  
9. | Seelvata | Post Office Diphu, District Mikir Hills | Hira Padda Dipali Dutta, Shilong. | 4,000  
BIHAR  
Daltongagj Hutar Coalfield, Palamau  
10. | Hutar | Post Office Hutar Colliery | Sone Valley Portland Cement Company Limited, Post Office Japla, Palamau. | 2,98,000  
11. | Jagaldaga | Post Office Latehar, Palamau | Shri S.K. Dutta, 23/P/IA, Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta-54. | 4,000  
12. | Rajhara | Post Office Rajhara Colliery | Ram Saran Das & Brothers, 18, Netaji Suhhas Road, Calcutta-I, | 6,67,000  
East Bokaro Coalfield, Hazaribagh  
13. | East Bokaro | Post Office Pichri | East Bokaro Collieries Company(Private) Limited, Post Office, Pichri. | 15,000  
14. | New Selected Dhori | Post Office Bermo |  Gopal N.Singh, Krishna N. Singh, Govind N. Singh, Shyam N. Singh, Girdher N. Singh.Nominated Owner : Shri Bhuneshwar Goswami, Post Office Bermo, Hazarihagh. | 4,80,000  
15. | Pure Dhori | Post Office Tantri | Pure Dhori Colliery Company, Post Office Tantri, Hazarihagh. | 29,200  
16. | Selected Kargali | Post Office Pichri | Vaydanji J. Dave, Post Office Box 8, Jharia. | 1,73,000  
Hurrah Coalfield (Santhal Pargana)  
17. | Hurrah Block IA | Pulberia, Post Office Mahagama | Ideal Mining Combine, Post Office Mahagama, District Santhal Pargana. | 3,000  
18. | Hurrah Block IB | Post Office Mahagama | Dwaraka Prasad Marwari, Post Office Mahagama, District Santhal, Pargana. | 4,000  
19. | Bergo | Post Office Denro (Santhal Pargana) | Khudiram Seal, Post Office Dhanro (Santhal Pargana). | 4,000  
20. | Churl Jilwari | Post Office Godda | Fulchand Ram, Post Office Godda (Santhal Pargana). | 18,000  
21. | Luhuaua | Post Office Mahagama |  Messrs.S.P. Coal Enterprises, Post Office Mahagama, District Santhal Pargana. | 18,000  
22. | Paharpur | Post Office Mahagama |  S.P.Coal Enterprises, Post Office Mahagama (Santhal Pargana). | 7,000  
23. | Paul's Chilgo | Post Office Amrapara (Santhal Pargana) | Paul Brothers, Post Office Jamtara (Santhal Pargana) | 4,000  
24. | Simlong | Post Office Dhamni |  H.N.Bhagar, Post Office Barhait (Santhal Pargana). | 4,000  
Jainty Coalfields (Sandal Pargana)  
25. | Bhawanipur | Post Office Chitra | Sidheswari Prasad, N.Deo, Post Office Chitra. | 13,000  
26. | Central Saharpuri | Post Office Chitra |  M.N.Singh and S.S. Singh, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana). | 15,000  
27. | Chatkam | Post Office Dhamni (Santhal Pargana) |  H.N.Bhagat, Post Office Barhait (Santhal Pargana) | 4,000  
28. | Chitra Central | Post Office Chitra |  B.N.Mandal and Company, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana). | 7,000  
29. | East Damagorah | Post Office Kukraba |  R.N.Singh, Post Office Saroth | 15,000  
30. | Gandharb | - | Shri Tibriwal, Post Office, Deoghar. | 4.000  
31. | Girija | Post Office Chitra | Shri M.K. Singh, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana) | 4,000  
32. | Haripur | Post Office Mahagama | Purushottam Das, Post Office Mahagama (Santhal Pargana) | 4,000  
33. |  Harinsingha(Coal Pit) | Village and Dumka (Santhal Pargana) | Biswanath Himathsingha, Post Office Dumka (Santhal Pargana) | 4,000  
34. | Jayanti Central | - | Shri O.P. Santhalia, 16, India Exchange Place Calcutta-I | 54,000  
35. | Jayanti Khas | - | Shri Saligram Prasad Singh, Post Office Madhupur | 4,000  
36. | Jilwari No. 7 | - | Shri Jagannath Prasad Bhagat, Post Office, Saraunri. | 4,000  
37. | Mondal's Damgora East Sec. | Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana) |  C.C.Mondal, Post Office Dishergarh, Burdwan. | 15,000  
38. | Mondal's Damgora West | Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana) |  A.K.Bhaduri, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana). | 4,000  
39. | North Saharjuri | - | Shri A.P. Singh and others, Post Office Kukraha. | 7,000  
40. | Patrika | Post Office Chitra | Shri N.K. Singh, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana). | 6,000  
41. | Phulberia | - | Shri M.P. Marwari, Post Office Mahajama. | 5,000  
42. | Saharjuri | Post Office Kukraha |  M.G.Mishra, Post Office Kukraha. | 17,000  
43. | Tarahad Bootbari | Post Office T. K. Gram | Sri Durga Jamjuri Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Barakar, District Burdwan. | 4,000  
44. | Tulsi Dabor | Post Office Chitra | Nalini Kumar Singh, Post Office Chitra (Santhal Pargana) | 19,000  
Jharia Coalfield  
45. | Agarwal Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | Agarwalla Godhur Coal Company, Post Office Kusunda, Dhanbad. | 95,000  
46. | Baramessia Sikarichuck | Post Office Tundoo | Thakur Rama Avtar Singh, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 49,000  
47. | Baherabera Chuck | Post Office Tundoo | Thakur Gupteswar Prasad Singh, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 45,000  
48. | Barwabera | Post Office Nawagarh |  B.Trigunai and Brothers, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 73,000  
49. | Barora | Post Office Nawagarh | Barora Coal Concern, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 4,26,000  
50. | Bastacolla | Post Office Dhansar | Bastacolla Coal Company Limited, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 23,32,000  
51. |  Basudev'A' (Narayan seam) | Post Office Khas Jinagora |  A.B.Jugdutt and Company, Jharia. | 9,000  
52. | Bera Colliery | Post Office Jharia | Bera Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia. | 12,28,000  
53. | Bright Kusunda | Post Office Dhansar | Bright Kusunda Colliery Company, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
54. | Bright Tasra | Post Office Sindri | Seth Jharumal, Post Office Sindri, Dhanbad. | 18,000  
55. |  Basudev'A' | Post Office Khas Jeenagora |  R.B.Jugdutt and Company, Jharia. | 17,000  
56. | Banerjee's Dobary | Post Office Jharia | S.B. Banerjee and Sons Post Office Jharia. | 4,000  
57. | Central Ganeshpur | Post Office Nawagarh | Shyamlal Sunda and Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 41,000  
58. | Central Kendwadih | Post Office Nawagarh | Narsing Harji, Post Office, Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 2,88,000  
59. | Central Kessurgarh | Post Office Nawagarh | Bhairobux Agarwalla, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 80,000  
60. | Central Baihardih | Post Office Katrasgarh |  K.K.Chandra and Brothers, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 76,000  
61. | Central Sinidih | Post Office Tundoo | Srimati Manjula Devi, Post Office Tundoo. | 4,000  
62. | Central Golukdih | Post Office Jharia | Srimati Jyotsna Devi, "Nilachal;" Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 44,000  
63. | Central Dobary | Post Office Jharia | Srimati Jayanti Devi, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 42,000  
64. | Central Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Moolji N. Cholla, Post Office Katrasgarh. Dhanbad. | 1,01,000  
65. | Central Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | Central Godhur Colliery Company, Post Office Kusunda, Dhanhad | 42,000  
66. | Central Jayramdih | Post Office Nawagarh | Paul Brothers, Post Office Nawagarh,Dhanbad. | 49,000  
67. | Central Tasra | Post Office Sindri | Central Tasra Coal Company Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanhad. | 52,000  
68. | Central Angarpathra | Post Office Sijua | Central Angarpathra Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 99,000  
69. | Central Bansjora | Post Office Sijua | Khas Sijua Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,13,000  
70. | Chandore | Post Office Katrasgarh |  R.N.Singh and Others, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 67,000  
71. | Chandore | Post Office Sijua |  D.P.Agarwalla, Jharia, Dhanbad | 16,000  
72. | Central Sulunga | Post Office Khas Jeenagora | Purushottampur Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad | 4,98,000  
73. | Central Chandore | - | Srimati Jyotsna Devi, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
74. | Damra Khas | Post Office Nawagarh | Sheikh Brothers and Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 56,000  
75. | Damra Pinalgoria | Post Office Nawagarh | Lala Mohinder Paul, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 35,000  
76. | Diamond Phularitand | Post Office Kharkharee | Shyama Coal Company, Post Office Kharkharee. | 63,000  
77. | Dhansar | Post Office Dhansar | Pure Dhansar Coal Company, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 3,18,000  
78. | Dhansar, NBH | Post Office Dhansar | Dhansar Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 2,84,000  
79. | East Benedih | Post Office Nawagarh | East Bengal Coal Concern (Private) Limited, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 1,09,000  
80. | East Dharmaband | Post Office Nawagarh | East Dharmaband Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad | 22,000  
81. | East Khas Baihardih | Post Office Tundoo | East Khas Baihardih Coal Company, Post Office Tundoo. | 1,00,000  
82. | East Mandra | Post Office Nawagarh | Bharat Coal Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanhad | 55,000  
83. | East Bastacolla | Post Office Dhansar | East Bastacolla Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,32,000  
84. | East Busseriya | Post Office Kusunda | East Busscriya Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Shanti Bhawan, Dhanbad. | 10,08,000  
85. | East Sinidih | Post Office Tundoo |  P.Chanchandi and Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Tundoo | 60,000  
86. | East Kujama | Post Office Jharia | East Kujama Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 43,000  
87. | East Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Shri Baijnath Chowdhury and Others, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad | 40,000  
88. | East Kendwadih | Post Office Dhansar | East Kendwadih Coal Company Limited, Kusunda. | 43,000  
89. | East Lohabati | Post Office Ramnagargarh | East Murulidih Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,48,000  
90. | East Tetulmari | Post Office Sijua | East Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited, Sijua | 4,000  
91. | East Murulidih | Post Office Mohuda |  P.K.Lalla, Post Office Kharkharee, District Dhanbad | 4,000  
92. | Last Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | East Godhur Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Dhanhad. | 4,000  
93. | Goldea Jeenagora | Post Office Khas Jeenagora | Salunga Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office Dhanbad | 7,64,000  
94. | Ghutway | Post Office Karmatand | Ghutway Colliery Company. Dugda, District Hazaribagah. | 4,000  
95. | Golden Sinidih | Post Office Tundoo | Hit Narayan Singh, Post Office Tundoo Dhanbad. | 9,000  
96. | Ideal Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Ideal Keshalpur Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 39,000  
97. | Jogidih | Post Office Tundoo |  P. K.Lalla and Brothers, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 68,000  
98. | Joyramdih | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Joyramdih Coal Company, Post Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad. | 2,42,000  
99. |  Kendwadih(Mondal) | Post Office Nawagarh |  B.N.Mondal and Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 55,000  
100. | Khas Muraidih | Post Office Tundoo |  U.N.Lala, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
101. | Khas Sinidih | Post Office Nawagarh | Gyan Chand Sunda and Company, Jharia. | 75,000  
102. | Khedo Valley | Post Office Nawagarh | Jiwanlal Sunda, Jora Bhatak, Dhanhad. | 60,000  
103. | Khas Bansjora | Post Office Bansjora | Khas Bansjora Colliery Company, Post Office Bansjora, Dhanbad. | 1,70,000  
104. | Khas Bahiardih | Post Office Tundoo | Khas Bahiardiu Coal Company, Post Office Tundoo. | 33,000  
105. | Katras New | Post Office Katrasgarh | Shrimati Kashibai, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 96,000  
106. | Kuya and Khas Kuya | Post Office Jharia | Kuya Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,33,000  
107. | Khas Katrasgarh | Post Office Katrasgarh | Mustafi and Company, Post Office Katrasbazar, Dhanbad. | 20,000  
108. | Khas Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | Khas Godhur Coal Company, Post Office Kusunda. | 48,000  
109. | Khas Kusunda | Post Office Kusunda | Khas Kusunda Coal Company (Private) Limited, 40, Strand Road, Calcutta-1. | 3,25,000  
110. | Karmatand | Post Office Katmatand | Sri Ram Coal Company, Post Office Karmatand. | 1,63,000  
111. | Khas Joyramdih | Post Office Nawagarh | Khas Joyramdih Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 12,000  
112. | Khas Matigora | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Khas Matigora Colliery Company, Post Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
113. | Kalisthan Angarpathra | Post Office Katrasgarh | Kalisthan Angarpathra Coal Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 43,000  
114. | Khas Sijua | Post Office Sijua | Khas Sijua Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office, Jharia, Dhanbad. | 5,42,000  
115. | Khas Kandra | Post Office Sirdri | Nasib Singh, Constituted Attorney (Owner Sukla, Chandra Prava Debi and Sons, Post Office Sindri) | 4,000  
116. | KhasPandedih | Post Office Sijua | The Khas Pandedih Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
117. | Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Seo Shankar Bole, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
118. | Liberty | Post Office Jharia | Agarwal Mining Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad | 1,18,000  
119. | Laxmi salanpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | L.B. Singh and Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
120. | Mandra South Barora | Post Office Katrasgarh | Bijoy Narain Singh and Jagdeo Prasad Singh Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 35,000  
121. | Model Muraidih | Post Office Nawagarh |  R.K.Pandey, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 6,000  
122. | Manaitand | Post Office Dhanbad | Manaitand Colliery Company, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 1,11,000  
123. | Majhlitand | Post Office Tundoo | Sri Pritish Lalla, Post Office Tundoo. | 51,000  
124. | Model Joyramdih | Post Office Nawagarh | Paul Brothers, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
125. | Model Angarpathra | Post Office Sijua |  B.L.Agarwalla, Post Office Govindpur, Dhanbad. | 1,10,000  
126. | Modern Sudarndih | Post Office Pathardih | Modern Sudamdih Colliery Company, Post Office Pathardih, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
127. | New Kendwadih | Post Office Nawagarh |  K.P.Lail & Sons, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 49,000  
128. | New Muraldih | Post Office Kharkharee |  Messrs.Kamalendu and Subhendu Banerjee, 420, Shyampukur Street, Calcutta. | 4,000  
129. | North and Khas Muraldih | Post Office Nawagarh | Kaluram Heliwal, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
130. | North Baramossia | Post Office Tundoo | North Baramossia Coal Company, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad. | 60,000  
131. | North Tundoo Khas | Post Office Katrasgarh |  R.L.Aggarwala, Post Office Katrasgarh | 4,000  
132. | North Bhuggatdih | Post Office Dhansar | Srimati Narmada Bala Gupta, Sri Dina Nath Agarwal and Bansdo Prasad Agarwala, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,29,000  
133. | Nichitpur | Post Office Bansjora | Nichitpur Coal Company (Private) Limited, 7, Manoharpukar Road, Calcutta-26. | 3,03,000  
134. | North Sinidih | Post Office Tundoo | Sankariall Kejrilall, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,65,000  
135. | New Golakdih | Post Office Govindpur | Biswanath Agrawalla, Post Office Govindpur, Dhanbad. | 14,000  
136. | North Golukdih | Post Office Baliapur | Kishanlall Ranjelall, Post Office Baliapur, Dhanbad. | 1,41,000  
137. | Narayanpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Srimati Naraini Devi, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 1,38,000  
138. | North Akashkinari | Post Office Katrasgarh | Khimji Dossa and Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 2,17,000  
139. | North Dharmahand | Post Office Katrasgarh | Kunverji Kalyanji, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 44,000  
140. | North Tentuliya | Post Office Katrasgarh | Debram Ramji, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 3,26,000  
141. | North Dohari | Post Office Jharia | Sahana Coal Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad | 1,44,000  
142. | North and West Ghanuadih | Post Office Jharia | North and West Ghanuadih Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad | 6,64,000  
143. | New Katras | Post Office Katrasgarh | New Katras Coal Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad | 41,000  
144. | New Salanpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Madhu Lachman and Sons, Post Office Katrasgarh | 6,000  
145. | North Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | North Keshalpur Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 12,35,000  
146. | North Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | North Godhur Colliery Company, Post Office Kusunda, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
147. | North Loyabad | Post Office Bansjora | North Loyabad Coal Company, Post Office Bansjora, Dhanbad. | 3,89,000  
148. | North Kessurgarh | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Nandalall Shaha and Others, Post Office Nawagarh. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 111.  
149. | Nudkhurkee | Post Office Nudkhurkee | M.B. Roy and Brothers, Post Office Nudkhurkee | 3,57,000  
150. | National Tasra | Post Office Sindri | Kailash Ram Khanna, Post Office Sindri, Dhanbad. | 13,000  
151. | New Angarpathra | Post Office Katrasgarh | New Angarpathra Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 1,08,000  
152. | New Pandedih | Post Office Sijua | New Pandedih Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia. | 10,000  
153. | North and North East Angarpathra | Post Office Katrasgarh | North Angarpathra Coal Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 72,000  
154. | North Tetulmari | Post Office Sijua | North Tetulmari Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 8,89,000  
155. | New Busserya | Post Office Bansjora | New Busserya Coal Company, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 11,000  
156. | New Joyramdih | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Ajit Kumar Chandra, Post Office Nudkhurkee. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 98.  
157. | North Gondudih | Post Office Kusunda | North Gondudih Colliery Company,Post Office Kusunda. | 4,000  
158. | New Aukland Colliery | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Sri Sankar Sen, Post Office, Nudkhurkee, Dhanhad. | 4,000  
159. | New Dohary | Post Office Jharia | New Dohary Coal Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanhad. | 4,000  
160. | New Phularitand | Post Office Nawagarh | New Phularitand Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanhad. | 4,000  
161. | New Kunji | Post Office Mohuda |  Mrs. B.Kaul, Tower House, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
162. | New Tasra | Post Office Sindri | New Tasra Coal Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanhad. | 4,000  
163. | Pure Barora | Post Office Nawagarh |  N.Sahai, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 1,60,000  
164. | Pure Benedih | Post Office Nawagarh | Doaba Coal Company (Private) Limited, Sunda House, Joraphatak Road, Dhanbad. | 11,000  
165. | Pure Dharmaband | Post Office Katrasgarh |  B.N.Jagdeo Prasad Singh, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanhad. | 17,000  
166. | Pure Ganeshpur | Post Office Nawagarh | Pure Ganeshpur Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia Dhanhad. | 1,14,000  
167. | Pure Nichitpur | Post Office Bansjora | Pure Nichitpur Colliery Company, Post Office Bansjora Dhanbad. | 58,000  
168. | Pure Sinidih | Post Office Tundoo | Thakur Ram Avtar Singh, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
169. | Pure Sudcraidih | Post Office Tundoo | Thakur G.P. Sing, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 30,000  
170. | Pure Selected Golakdih | Post Office Jharia | Pure Selected Golakdih Colliery Company, Post Office Puria, Dhanbad. | 93,000  
171. | Pure Bhuggatdih | Post Office Jharia | Pure Bhuggatdih Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 1,05,000  
172. | Pure Salanpur | Post Office Katrasgarh |  G.V.Modi (Receiver), Post Office Jharia. | 44,000  
173. | Pinalgoria | Post Office Nawagarh | East Kessurgarh Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh. | 26,000  
174. | Pure Damoda | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Pandit Ram Bhaju Upadhya and Company, Post Office Nudkhurkee. | 2,10,000  
175. | Pure Joyramdih | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Pure Joyramdih Colliery Company, Post Office Nudkhurkec, Dhanbad. | 1,24,000  
176. | Pure Selected Bansjora | Post Office Sijua |  H.C.Bhutani, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 4,56,000  
177. | Pure Selected Tetulmari Colliery | Post Office Sijua | Pure selected Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad. | 45,000  
178. | Pure Golakdih | Post Office Jharia | Pure Golakdih Coal Company, Post Office Jharia Dhanbad. | 80,000  
179. | Pathergosia | Post Office Mohuda | Bharat Mining Corporation, 9, Old Court House Street, Calcutta. | 4,000  
180. | Pure Bansjora | Post Office Sijua | Madanlal Baswatia, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
181. | Pure Chandore | - | The West Chandore Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
182. | Ramgarh Jharia | Post Office Karmatand | Ramgarh Jharia Colliery Company, Post Office Karmatand, Dhanbad | 1,64,000  
183. | Royal Tisra | Post Office Jharia | Royal Tisra Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia. Dhanbad. | 50,000  
184. | Real Sudamdih | Post Office Pathardih | Madhab Sinha, Post Office Pathardih. | 4,000  
185. | Selected Mandra | Post Office Nawagarh | Selected Mandra Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh. | 18,000  
186. | Selected Muraidih | Post Office Nawagarh | Selected Muraidih Colliery Company, Jiwan Sadan, Dhanabad. | 22,000  
187. | South Barora | Post Office Nawagarh |  D.P.Lall and Sons, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 2,97,000  
188. | Selected Govindpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Selected Govindpur Coal Concern, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 42,000  
189. | Selected Keshalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Selected Keshalpur Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
190. | Selected Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | Selected Godhur Coal Company, Post Office Kusunda, Dhanbad. | 91,000  
191. | Sri Godhur | Post Office Kusunda | Katasaria Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad | 35,000  
192. | South Loyabad | Post Office Bansjora | South Loyabad Coal Company, Post Office Bansjora, Dhanbad. | 21,000  
193. | Selected Sudamdih | Post Office Sindri Institute | Selected Sudamdih Colliery Company, Post Office Sindri Institute, Dhanbad | 41,000  
194. | Selected Jogta | Post Office Jharia | Selected Jogta Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
195. | South Muraidih | Post Office Katrasgarh | South Muraidih Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 6,000  
196. | Sudreadih | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Sunda Shamlal, Post Office Nawagarh. | 4,000  
197. | Selected Ghanuadih | Post Office Jharia | Selected Ghanuadih Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
198. | Selected Joyrampur | Post Office Jharia | Selected Joyrampur Colliery Company, Ananda Bhava, Post Office Jharia. | 4,000  
199. | South Jamdiha | Post Office Nudkhurkee | Natwarlal Shamaldas and Company, Post Office Nudkhurkee. | 4,000  
200. | Sree Jagannath | Post Office Tundoo | North Baramessia Colliery Company Limited. Ashok Bagan, Post Office Dhanabad | 4,000  
201. | Upper Mandra | Post Office Nawagarh | Upper Mandra Colliery Company, Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad. | 92,000  
202. | Upper Jeenagora | Post Office Jeenagora |  G.S.Atwal, 243, Sector 9/C, Chandgarh | 4,000  
203. | Upper Jharia | Post Office Jharia | Upper Jharia Colliery Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
204. | Victory | Post Office Dhansar | United Mining Company Limited,Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 9,17,000  
205. | West Phularitand | Post Office Nawagarh | West Phularitand Colliery Company,Post Office Jharia, Dhanabad. | 55,000  
206. | West Jogidih | Post Office Katrasgarh | Bihar National Coal Company, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 39,000  
207. | West Katras | Post Office Katrasgarh |  N.K.Bose and Brothers, West Katras Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 1,22,000  
208. | West Koiludih | Post Office Katrasgarh | West Koiludih Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh. | 1,08,000  
209. | West Ramkanali | Post Office Katrasgarh | West Ramkanali Colliery Company,Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad. | 13,82,000  
210. | West Joyramdih | Post Office Nudkhurkee |  A.K.Chandra, Post Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 98.  
211. | West Angarpathra | Post Office Katrasgarh | West Angarpathra Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 1,30,000  
212. | West Chandore | Post Office Sijua | West Chandore Colliery Company, Post Office, lharia, Dhanbad. | 85,000  
213. | West Mudidih | Post Office Sijua | Waliram Taneja Mines (Private) Limited Post Office Sujua, Dhanbad. | 14,39,000  
214. |  West& Sowaria, Salanpur. | Post Office Katrasgarh | M.P. and D.D. Agarwalla, Dhanbad Bazar, Dhanbad. | 55,000  
215. | West Bhurangya | Post Office Mohuda |  P.K.Lalla, Post Office Kharkharce. | 4,000  
216. | West Gobindpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | West Gobindpur Coal Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
217. | West Kesthalpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | West Keshalpur Colliery Company, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
218. | West Maheshpur | Post Office Tundoo | Sri Agarwalla Coal Company, Post Office Tundoo, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
219. | West Salanpur | Post Office Katrasgarh | Ganga Bishan Mohandra, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
Bihar - Raniganj (Mugma Coalfield)  
220. | Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati | Oriental Coal Company Limited, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta. | 28,59,000  
221. | Basumata | Post Office Nirshachati |  D.N.Chandra and Brothers, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
222. | Bhogkat | Post Office Mugma | Banga Laxmi Coal Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 5,000  
223. | Chapapur | Post Office Nirshachati |  B.N.Dutta and Others, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 25,000  
224. | Central Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati |  A.K.Chandra and Others, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 28,000  
225. | Central laikdih | Post Office Mugma | Central Laikdih Colliery Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
226. | Chattabar | - |  Messrs.New Chattabar Coal Company Limited, Post Office Chirkunda, District Dhanbad. | 18,000  
227. | Dahibari | Post Office Mugma | Dahibari Coal Company, Post Office Mugma. | 7,50,100  
228. | East Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati |  S.N.Chanda and Brothers, Post Office Nirshachati. | 1,09,000  
229. | East Kapasara | Post Office Mugma | Banga Luxmi Coal Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 37,000  
230. | East Kumardhubi | Post Office Chirkunda | Sri Laxmi Narain Trust, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 7,15,000  
231. | East Rajpura | Post Office Mugma | Rajpura Coal Company, Post Office Mugma. | 10,400  
232. | East Shampur | Post Office Kumardhubi | Oriental Coal Company, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad. | 16,000  
233. |  Edgarcoor(Durgamata) | Post Office Chirkunda | Durgamata Coal Company, Post Office Chirkunda. | 5,200  
234. | Edgarcoor | Post Office Kumardhubi | Srimati Sankarben Patel, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad. | 14,400  
235 | East Palasia | Post Office Mugma | Shri K.K. Goswami, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 32,300  
236. |  Edgarcoor(Agarwalla) | Post Office Nirshachati |  B.R.Agarwalla and Company, Post Office Kumardhubi Dhanbad., | 31,000  
237. | Jamdohi Basantimata | Post Office Mugma | Jamdohi Coal Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 4,43,800  
238. |  Jamburya(Selected Jamburya) | Post Office Nirshachati | East India Coal Company Limited, 4, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 1,24,000  
239. | Kalimata | Post Office Mugma |  G.L.Dubey, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad | 1,24,300  
240. | Kapasara | Post Office Mugma | Bihar Coal Syndicate (Private) Limited, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 65,300  
241. | Khas Kalimati | Post Office Kumardhubi | Khas Kalimati Coal Company, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad | 1,00,000  
242. | Khas Nirsha | Post Office Nirshachati | Mohatta Brothers, 19, British Indian Street, Calcutta-I | 2,73,000  
243. | Khoodia | Post Office Nirshachati | Khoodia Coal Company, Post Office Nirshachati, Receiver, Onkarmal Agarwalla, Post Office Barakar, Burdwan. | 2,18,000  
244. | Khas Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati | West Bengal Coalfields Limited, Administrative Office, Post Office Moria Colliery, Burdwan. | 11,12,000  
245. | Khas Brindabanpur | Post Office Mugma | Bal Krishna Coal Company, Post Office Barakar. | 7,000  
246. | Khas Edgarcoor | Post Office Kumardhubi |  B.N.Mondal and L.L. Agarwalla, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad | 4,000  
247. | Kooardih | Post Office Barakar | Banerjee and Company, Post Office Barakar | 1,29,000  
248. | Lower Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati | Associated Laikdih Colliery Limited, 18, Netaji Subhash Road, Calcutta. | 7,52,000  
249. | Lower Begunia | Post Office Mugma | Associated Laikdih Colliery Limited, 18 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 4,000  
250. | Merah | Post Office Chirkunda | Raghunath Agarwalla, Post Office Chirkunda. | 1,28,000  
251. | Nayadanga | Post Office Nirshachati |  K.G.Saiji & Sons, Post Office Searsole Rajhari, Burdwan. | 1,02,000.  
252. | Nirsha Khas | Post Office Nirshachati | Nirsha Khas Colliery (Private) Limited, Post Office Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan. | 1,37,800  
253. | North Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati | North Badjna Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Ranaghat, Nadia. | 8,27,000  
254. | North Laikdih | Post Office Nirshachati | North Laikdih Coal Company, 22, Strand Raod, Calcutta. | 2,17,000  
255. | Oriental | Post Office Kumardhubi | Oriental Coal Company, Post Office Kumardhubi. | 41,000  
256. | Pure Laikdih | Post Office Nirshachati | Pure Laikdih Colliery (Private) Limited, 26A, Fern Road, Calcutta-19. | 2,18,400  
257. | Pure Mandman | Post Office Mugma | East Indian Coal Company Limited, 4, Clive Row Calcutta | 1,46,000  
258. | Pure Rajpura | Post Office Kumardhubi | Shrimati Sankarben Patel Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad. | 79,000  
259. | Pure Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati |  D.Mondal & Company, Post Office Nirshachati | 3,04,000  
260. | Palasia | Post Office Mugma | K.K. Goswami, Post Office Mugma. | 73,000  
261. | Pure Hariajan | Post Office Nirshachati | East Indian Coal Company Limited, 4 Clive Row, Calcutta. | 78,000  
262. | Pure Singhpur | Post Office Nirshachati | Satya Pal Kapoor, Kapoor Niwas, Dhanbad. | 1,68,000  
263. | Rajpura | Post Office Mugma |  R.K.Coal Company, Barakar (West Bengal). | 37,000  
264. | Reliance | Post Office Kumardhubi | Reliance Coal Company, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanhad. | 1,30,000  
265. | Ramkrishna | Post Office Chirkunda |  P.N.Mukherjee, Post Office Chirkunda. | 83,600  
266. | Raj | Post Office Kumardhubi |  D.N.Sen, Post Office Magma,Dhanhad. | 10,000  
267. | Satyanarayan | Post Office Kumardhubi | Rurmal Agarwal, Post Office Satyanarayan Colliery, Kumardhubi. | 55,700  
268. | Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati | Khas Shampur Coal Company, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 2,51,000  
269. | Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati | The Kamala Coal Company, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 17,400  
270. | South Marina | Post Office Mugma | Guljarilal Agarwalla, Post Office, Jharia, Dhanbad. | 29,800  
271. | Shri Durgamata | Post Office Mugma |  J.N.Garai & Others, Post Office Chirkunda. | 81,700  
272. | Shri Gopinathpur | Post Office Nirshachati | Srimati Mahamaya Devi, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 3,23,400  
273. | Shri Lakhmimata | Post Office Chirkunda |  J.K.Garai & Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad. | 1,55,000  
274. | Sudarshan Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati |  K.L.Bhambri & Company, Post Office, Nirshachati, Dhanhad. | 1,07,800  
275. | Shri Raghunathji | Post Office Chirkunda | Shri Raghunathji Coal Company,Post Office Chirkunda. | 90,600  
276. | Selected Fatka | Post Office Nirshachati | Shri Krishna Colliery Company(Private) Limited, Post Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad. | 1,13,000  
277. | South Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati | South Badjna Coal Company, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 253.  
278. | Shampur | Post Office Mugma | The Durga Coal Company, Post Office Mugma. | 39,000  
279. | Selected Bhaljori | Post Office Dhanbad | Selected Bhaljori Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
280. | Selected Laikdih | Post Office Govindpur | Satya Narayan Agarwala & Partners, Post Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad. | 8,000  
281. | South East Badjna | Post Office Nirshachati |  J.K.Banerjee & Others, Post Office Nirshachati Dhanbad | 4,000  
282. | Tewari's Beldanga Khas | Post Office Churulia |  M/s.S.C. Tewari & Others. Post Office Parsundi, District Birbhum | 4,000  
283. | Upper Mehtadih | Post Office Nirshachati | East Indian Coal Company, 4, Clive Row Calcutta-1. | 1,69,000  
284. | West Barakar | Post Office Kumardhubi | Dinendra Nath Das, Post Office Kumardhubi. | 4,000  
285. | West Barakar | Post Office Mugma | Bihar Fire Bricks and Potteries Limited, 22, Strand Raod, Calcutta-1. | 15,000  
286. | West Chanch | Post Office Nirshachati | West Chanch Coal Company, Post Office Barakar. | 8,000  
287. | West Laikdih | Post Office Mugma | West Laikdih Coal Company, 152, B.K. Pal Avenue, Calcutta-5. | 64,200  
288. | West Rajpura | Post Office Mugma | Kalyancshwari Coal Company, Post Office Mugma, Dhanhad. | 8,000  
289. | West Shampur | Post Office Nirshachati | Beharilal Agarwalla, Post Office Nirshachati Dhanhad. | 4,000  
Karanpura Coalfields  
290. | Ara | Post Office Kuju | North Ramgarh Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 8, Deodar Street, Calcutta-19. | 6,87,000  
291. | Banwar | Post Office Mandu | Raghunath Bhagat, Hazaribagh. | 4,000  
292. | Churi | Post Office Ray | United Karanpura Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 91, Stephen House, Calcutta. | 4,40,000  
293. | Central Saunda | Post Office Saunda | United Collieries Limited, 5, Royal Exchange Place, Calcutta-I | 28,00,000  
294. | Dakra Buk Buka | Post Office Khalari | United Karanpura Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 91, Stephen House, Calcutta. | 25,84,000  
295. | Damodar Valley | Post Office Hendegir |  B. K.Bhaduri & Sons, 10, Purulia Road, Ranchi. | 1,31,000  
296. | Datma | Post Office Kaju |  M.K.Rana (Receiver), Bansilal Chowk, Hazarihagh. | 4,000  
297. | Gidhania | Post Office Ramgarh | (1) Dhori Coal Company Limited,(2) M/s. Anderson Wright Limited, 34/4, Gros Venor House, Old Court House, Calcutta. | 4,000  
298. | Hindegir | Post Office Hindegir | Hindcgir Mining Corporation Limited, Hirapur, Dhanhad. | 5,45,000  
299. | Hessagora | Post Office Kuju | Hessagora Coal Company, Post Office Kuju. | 88,000  
300. | Jharkhand | Post Office Ghatutand | (Ownership under dispute) | 11,000  
301. | Karanpura Dewarkhand | Post Office Khalari | Karanpura Dowarkhand Colliery Company Limited, F.3, Gillanders House, Calcutta. | 10,83,000  
302. | Karkata | Post Office Khalari | Ajit Prasad Singhdco & Others, 82, Stephen House, Calcutta-1. | 5,16,000  
303. | Karanpura | Post Office Patratu | Association Karanpura Colliery (Private) Limited, 18, Netaji Subhash Road, Calcutta-1. | 12,14,000  
304. | Khas Karanpura | Post Office Patratu | Khas Karanpura Collieries Limited, 71, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. | 8,30,000  
305. | Kedla | Post Office Ghatutand | (Ownership under dispute) | 34,000  
306. | Kaju | Post Office Kuju | Kuju Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Kuju. | 1,82,000  
307. | Lapanga | Post Office Bhadaminagar | Hindustan Coal Company, Bhadaminagar, Hazaribagh. | 2,36,000  
308. | Laiyo | Post Office Daneya | North Bokaro Coal Comapny, Post Office Daneya, Hazaribagh. | 1,89,500  
309. | Manki | Post Office Ray | National Cement Mines & Industries, 82, Stephen House East, Calcutta-1. | 2,58,000  
310. | Mael | Post Office Chitarpur | Rajballav Singh, Chitatpur, Hazaribagh. | 73,000  
311. | Model Dhori | Post Office Chainpur | Model Dhori Colliery Company, Hazaribagh. | 39,000  
312. | Mourpa | Post Office Kuju |  A.K. Roy& R.P. Choudhury, Post Office Kuju. | 2,29,500  
313. | Managardh | Post Office Mandu | Mani Chatterjee, Hazaribagh. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 327.  
314. | New Sirkar Colliery | Post Office Mandu | (Ownership under dispute) | 4,000  
315. | Pindra | Post Office Kuju | Pindra Coal Company, Ram Narayan Jai's Compound, Ranchi. | 93,000  
316. | Pakribarwadih | Post Office Barkagaon | Sayed Bokir Mehdi, Ranchi. | 4,000  
317. | Ray | Post Office Ray |  N.C.M.I.Limited, 82, Stephen House, Calcutta. | 5,63,000  
318. | Rauta | Post Office Ramgarh Cantonment. | (Ownership under dispute) | 4,000  
319. | Religara | Post Office Religara | The Karanpura Colliery Limited Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1. | 77,70,000  
320. | South Karanpura | Post Office Hindegir | Chauhan Brothers, Old Commissiooner's Compound, Ranchi. | 1,25,000  
321. | Sugia | Post Office Chitarpur | Sugia Coal Company, Chitarpur. | 4,500  
322. |  Saunda'D' (Bird's) | Post Office Bhurkunda | Karanpura Collieries Limited Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 319.  
323. | Sirka | Post Office Argada | South Karanpura Coal Company Limited, Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1. | 28,83,000  
324. | Saruhera | Post Office Kuju | North Ramgarh Coal Company Limited, 8, Deodar Street, Calcutta-19. | 2,42,000  
325. | Semra | Post Office Mandu |  B. M.Roy, Burrabazar, Hazaribagh. | 9,000  
326. | Toera | Post Office Kuju |  M.N.Chatterjee, Post Office Kuju. | 1,12,000  
327. | Topa | Post Office Kuju | Topa Coal Company, Kuju, Receiver: M.H. Chatterjee and S.K. Banerjee, Post Office Kuju, Hazaribagh. | 1,23,000  
328. | West Tumang | Post Office M.C. Chuskieganj, Ranchi. | Chauhan Brothers, Old Commissioner's Compound, Ranchi. | 2,89,500  
329. | Kabrihad | Post Office Beniadih | Serampore Coal Company, Post Office Giridih. | 23,000  
MADHYA PRADESH  
Central India Coalfields  
330. | Chirimiri | Post Office Chirimiri | Chirimiri Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 18/22, Sheik Memon Street, Bombay-2. | 37,51,000  
331. | New Chirimiri (Ponri Hill) | Post Office Chirimiri | Dadabhoy's New Chirimiri Ponri Hill Company (Private) Limited, Post Box No. 85, Nagpur. | 63,60,000  
332. | North Chirimiri | Post Office Geihapani | United Collieries Limited, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta. | 15,01,000  
333. | North Jhagrakhand | Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery. | Jhagrakhand Colliery (Private) Limited, 13, Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19. | 61,42,000  
334. | Pure Chirimiri | Post Office Chirimiri |  K.N.Dhady, Post Office Chirimiri | 1,80,000  
335. | Rajnagar | Post Office Rajnagar |  M/s.Dalchand Bahadur Singh, 15, Gariahat Road,Calcutta-19. | 14,71,000  
336. | Ramnagar | Post Office Ramnagar | Vindhya Colliery (Private) Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 12,02,000  
337. | South Jhagrakhand | Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery. | Jhagrakhand Collieries (Private) Limited, 15, Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 333.  
338. | West Chirimiri | Post Office Chirimiri | Indra Singh & Sons (Private) 7, Wellesly Place, Calcutta-1. | 33,75,000  
339. | West Jhagrakhand | Post Ottire West JhagraKhand | Jhagrakhand Collieries (Private) Limited, 13, Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 333.  
Pench-kanhan Valley Coalfields  
340. | Amhara | Post Office Junnerdeo |  N.H.Ojha & Company Limited, F-3, Gillander House, 8, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 5,41,000  
341. | Barkui | Post Office Parasea | Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, 'Hong Kong House', 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1. | 53,08,000  
342. | llarkuhi West | Post Office Parasea |  M/s.J.A. Trivedi Brothers, Post Box No. 1. Balaghat, District Chhindwara. | 2,16,000  
343. | Bhamori | Post Office Parasea | Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, 'Hong Kong House', 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1. | 94,04,000  
344. | Chandamata | Post Office Parasea | Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 341.  
345. | Datla East | - |  M/s.Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, Post Office Parasca, District Chhindwara. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 343.  
346. | Darla West | Post Office Junnerdeo | Amalgamated Coalfield Limited, 'Hong Kong House', 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 343.  
347. | Damua | Post Office Damua Colliery | (Ownership under dispute) | 6,76,000  
348. | Dhao | Post Office Dhao | Shri Durga Prasad, Dhao Colliery, Junnerdeo, Chhindwara. | 21,500  
349. | East Dongarchickli | Post Office Parasea | Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, 'Hong Kong House' 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1 | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 341.  
350. | Eklehra | Post Office Parasea | Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, 'Hong Kong House', 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 343.  
351. | East Barkuhi | Post Office Parasea |  J.A.Trivedi and Brothers, Balaghat, Chhindwara, Mdhya Pradesh. | 4,000  
352. | Ghorawari-Hirdagarh | Post Office Ghorawari-Khurd |  J.A.Trivedi and Brothers, Balaghat, Chindwara, Madhya Pradesh. | 3,47,000  
353. | Ghorawari Kalan | Post Office Ghorawari |  T.K.Sukhla, Post Office Ghorasora, Chhindwara. | 4,000  
354. | Jamkunda | Post Office Junnerdeo |  N.H.Ojha and Company Limited, F/3, Gillander House, 8 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-l. | 4,000  
355. | Kalichhapar | Post Office Damau Collieries. | (Ownership under dispute) | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 347.  
356. | Newton Chickli | Post Office parasea | Newton Chickli Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara. | 52,01,000  
357. | North Chandameta | Post Office Parasea | Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, 'Hong Kong House', 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 341.  
358. | Nandora | Post Office Parasea | Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, Parasea | 41,000  
359. | Rakhikol | Post Office Rakhikol |  S.C.Kambata (Private) Limited, Maharshi Karve Road, Bombay-20. | 2,51,000  
360. | Rawanwara | Post Office Parasea | Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 343.  
361. | Rawanwara Khas | Post Office Parasea | Oriental Coal Company Limited, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta. | 9,14,000  
362. | Sial Ghogri | Post Office Junnerdeo | Sial Ghogri Group, Nelson Square, Nagpur. | 2,94,000  
363. | Sukri | Post Office Parasea | The Jamai Majri Coal Company Limited, Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara. | 6,92,000  
364. | South Panara | Post Office Junnerdeo | Lala Bikimla Jagannath, Post Office Junnerdeo, Chhindwara. | 4,000  
Raigarh Coalfield  
365. | Baroud | Post Office Ghorghoda |  P.R.Gupta and Others, Raigarh, Madhya Pradesh. | 11,000  
366. | Domnara | Post Office Kharsia-Raigarh. | R.N. Poddar, North Amhajhari Road, Nagpur. | 12,000  
367. | Dumnara | - |  Shri J.K. Poddar, 32, Wardha Road, Nagpur. | Amount included in the amount specified against Si. No. 366.  
Sohagpur and Johilla Coalfields  
368. | Amlai | Post office Dhanpuri | Rewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall Street, Calcutta-1. | 97,42,000  
369. | Bhadra | Post Office Kotma | Rewa Mining Company Limited, Post Office Kotma. | 6,27,000  
370. | Birsingpur | Post Office Birsingpur Pali. | Johilta Coalfields Limited, Post Office Birsingpur Pali, District Sahdol. | 22,13.000  
371. | Burhar Nos. 1 and 2 | Post Office Dhanpuri | Rewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall Street, Calcutta-l. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 368.  
372. | Burhar No. 3 | Post Office Dhanpuri | Rewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall Street, Calcutta-l. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 368.  
373. | Kotma | Post Office Kotma Colliery. | Associated Cement Company Limited, 121, Maharshi Karve Road, Bombay-20. | 44,28,000  
374. | Nowrazabad | Post Office Nowrazabad | Associated Cement Company Limited, 121, Maharshi Karve Road, Bombay-20. | 32,41,000  
375. | Rungta | Post Office Rungta Colliery | Mahabir Prasad Rungta and Partners, Post Office Rungta Colliery. | 4,42,000  
376. | Umaria | Post Office Umaria | Rewa Coalfields Limited, Post Office Umaria, District Sahdol. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 368.  
MAHARASHTRA  
Kamptee Coalfield  
377. | Inder |  |  M/s.Oriental Coal Company Limited, 25, Brahourne Road, Calcutta-1. | 8,29,000  
378. | Kamptee | Post Office Kamptee |  M/s.Oriental Coal Company Limited, 25, Brabournc Road, Calcutta-1. | 21,22,000  
Wardha Velley Coalfield  
379. | Ballarpur | Post Office Ballarpur | Ballarpur Collieries Company, Biseswar House, Lajpat Rai Marg, Post Box No. 11, Nagpur. | 38,77,000  
380. | Chanda Rawatwari | Post Office Chanda |  R.B.Seth & Sri Ram Durga Prasad Tumsar, District Bhandara. | 8,21,000  
381. | Ghugus | Post Office Maneakpur | Ballarpur Collieries Company, Biseswar House, Post Box No. 11, Nagpur. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 379.  
382. | Hindustan Lalpeth | Post Office Chanda | Perfect Pottery Company Limited, Hanumantlal, Jubbalpore | 17,80,000  
383. | New Majri | Post Office Shivaji Nagpur, Chanda. | Sethia Mining and Manufacturing Corporation, 4. Bakul Bagan Row, Calcutta-25. | 10,10,000  
384. | Rajur | Post Office Rajur | Rajkumar Mining Company | 75,000  
385. | Sasti | Post Office Ballarpur | Ballarpur Collieries Company Limited, Temple Road, Post Box No. 11, Nagpur. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 379.  
386. | Shri Mahakali | Post Office Mahakali | Shri Mahakali Coal Mines Limited, 23B, Netaji Suhhas Road, Calcutta-I, (Under Liquidator). | 4,000  
MEGHALAYA  
Khasi and Jaintia Coalfields  
387. | Barsora |  | Assam Bengal Cement Company Limited, 7, Wellesley Place, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
388. | Cherapunji | Post Office Cherapunji, District Kand J. Hills. | The Cherrachhatak Ropeway Company Limited, 1 and 2, Old Court House Corner, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
389. | Laitryngew |  | The Cherrachhatak Ropeway Company Limited, 1 and 2, Old Court House Corner, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
390. | Laitryngew |  |  The Laitryngew Cherra Coal Association, Post Office Cherapunji, District U.K.Hills. | 4,000  
391. | Mawsynram | Post Office Mawsynram, U.K. Hills. |  Messrs.Sidroka Marbaniang, Post Office Shillong. | 4,000  
392. | Thangjinath | Post Office Pynursla. | Assam Trading and Mining Company (Private) Limited, Shillong. | 7,000  
ORISSA  
Ib Valley Coalfield  
393. | Hingir Rampur | Post Office Rampur Colliery. | Hingir Rampur Coal Company Limited, Post Box 109, Home Street, Fort, Bombay. | 18,74,000  
394. | Ib River | Post Office Brajrajnagar | Chandmal Indra Kumar Karnani, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta-1. | 1,50,000  
395. | Orient | Post Office Brajrajnagar | Western Bengal Coal Company Limited, Administrative Office, Moira Colliery, District Burdwan. | 34,90,000  
WEST BENGAL  
396. | Ajoy Bank | Post Office Nutandanga | Ajoy Coal Company (Private) Limited, 34A, Sardar Sankar Road, Calcutta-29. | 47,000  
397. | Ardhagram Khas | Post Office Ardhagram |  M/s. R.K. Agarwala and Sons (Private) Limited, Lai Bazar, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
398. | Adjoy Second Bengal | Chranpur | Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 432.  
399. | Alkusa | Post Office Samdi |  J.D.Mondal, Post Office Samdi, Burdwan. | 16,000  
400. | Alkusa Gopalpur | Post Office Samdi | Khanna Coal Corporation, Post Office Samdi | 1,31,000  
401. | Aldih | - | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 411.  
402. | Akhalpur | Post Office Charanpur | West Jamuria Coal Company Limited, 2, Brabournc Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
403. | Aurung | Post Office Kasta | Kasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogus Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
404. | Barmondia 3 and 4 Pits. | Post Office Kanayapur | New Beerbhum Coal Company Limited 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | 8,90,000  
405. | Bhamuria | Post Office Bhvnuria | Naturia Coal Company (Private)Limited, Post Office Bhamuria, District Purulia. | 1,31,000  
406. | Burradheme | Post Office Sitarampur | North Dheme Coal Company Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 1,12,000  
407. | Babisole | Post Office Ondai | Bharat Mining Corporation Limited, 91, Stephen House, 5th Floor, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. | 85,100  
408. | Belbaid | Post Office Toposi | Belbaid Collieries Limited, Post Office Raniganj, Burdwan. | 2,06,000  
409. | Bankola | Post Office Ukhra | Burrakar Coal Company Limited, Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1. | 36,78,000  
410. | Banksimula 7 and 8 Pits. | Post Office Charanpur | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-I | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 432.  
411. | Bhanora | Post Office Charanpur | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | 1,41,30,000  
412. | Bhanora South | Post Office Charanpur | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 411.  
413. | Bright's Rana | Post Office Charanpur |  D.Bright and Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Charanpur Burdwan. | 2,30,000  
414. | Benodi Katta | Post Office Samdi | Jiwanlal Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office Samdi. | 19,000  
415. | Bhagran | Post Office Salanpur | The South Bhagran Coal Company, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan. | 1,01,000  
416. | Bon-Jemihari | Post Office Salanpur Company | Bon-Jemihari, Anthracite Coal, Post Office Salanpur,Burdwan. | 2,65,000  
417. | Benali | Post Office Raniganj | Nimcha Coal Company (Private) Limited, 21, Jatindra Mohan Avenue, Calcutta-6. | 45,000  
418. | Bhadulia | Post Office Khoirasole | Dubrajpur Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Bhadulia, Birbhum. | 15,000  
419. | Bejdi | Post Office Sitarampur | Equitable Coal Company, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 411.  
420. | Bhutdoba | Post Office Asansol |  A.P.Dutta and Company, Hutton Road, Asansol. | 4,000  
421. | Borachak | Post Office Asansol | Borachak Collieries Company, Post Office Sitarampur. | 4,000  
422. | Bhatmura | - |  P.K.Agarwalla and Others, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
423. | Bharatchak | - |  B.N.Sanyal (Private) Limited, District Burdwan. | 4,000  
424. | Borejore | Post Office Hazaribagh | Samla Kajora Coal Company, Post Office Hazarihagh, Birbhum. | 4,000  
425. | Banksimula Old Pits | - | Bengal Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
426. | Bansrachak | - | New Birbhum Coal Company Limited, Burdwan. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 611.  
427. | Bamanbandh | Post Office Charanpur | Gopal Narayan Singh, Nageswar Bag, Post Office Buniadganj, Gaya. | 4,000  
428. | Bon-biddi | Post Office Salanpur | Shri Durgadas Maji, Village Khurdika, Post Office Salanpur, District Burdwan. | 34,000  
429. | Bastahpur | Post Office Khyeresel | Sakti Pada Nayak and Others, Post Office Bhadulia, Burdwan. | 4,000  
430. | Banksimula 11 and 12 Pits | Post Office Charanpur | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
431. | Belrui Dishergarh | Post Office Sitarampur |  M/s.Belrui Dishergarh Colliery (Private) Limited, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
432. | Chinakuri Nos. 1 and 2 Pits | Post Office Sunderchak | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 3,75,06,000  
433. | Chinakuri No. 3 Pit | Post Office Sunderchak | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
434. | Chowkidanga | Post Office Topasi | Birbhum Mining (Private) Limited, 7, Mono harpukur Road, Calcutta. | 16,000  
435. | Central and Lower Jambad. | Post Office Bahula | East Bahula Collieries Limited, 18, Netaji Suhhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 5,34,000  
436. |  Chora Pits1\. Chora-10 Pits.2\. Chora-7 and 9 Pits. | Post Office Bahula, Burdwan | Chora Coal Company, 8, Synagogue Street Calcutta-1. | 11,77,000  
437. | Central Satgram | Post Office Jaykaynagar | Harsookdas Balkissendas, 22, Burtolla Street, Calcutta | 9,46,000  
438. | Chalbalpur | Post Office Jaykaynagar |  K.L.Selected Coal Coneren, Post Office Jaykaynagar. | 93,000  
439. | Chapui Khas | Post Office Kalipahari | Sahu Minerals and Properties Ltd., A-3, Prithviraj Road, Jaipur. | 16,28,000  
440. | Central Jamuria | Post Office Nandi |  B.D.Gorach, Nuruddin Road, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan. | 9,000  
441. | Chaptoria | Post Office Salanpur | East Chaptoria Coal Company (Private) Limited, 22, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 99,000  
442. | Chinchuria | Post Office Asansol | Ajoy Bank Minerals, Post Office Churulia, Burdwan. | 4,000  
443. | Chak Keshabganj | - | Shrimati Indumati Devi C/o Kartick Ch. Mukherjee, Village Jasidih, Post Office Dishergarh, District Burdwan. | 4,000  
444. | Chowrassia | - | Chowrassia Coal Company, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 4,000  
445. | Chinchuria and Chinchuria East. | - | Bahadur Singh Bhutoria and Others, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan | 4,000  
446. | Central Nandi | Post Office Nandi | Sri Nathumall Layelka, Post Office Raniganj, Burdwan. | 4,000  
447. | Central Sitaipur | - | Kanailal Mukherjee, Village Rajpur, Nandi, Post Office Jamuria, Burdwan. | 4,000  
448. | Central Kenda | Post Office Toposi | Gopal Prasad Pandey, Central Kenda Collieries, Post Office Toposi. | 4,000  
449. | Chora Khas | Post office Chora | Selected Chora Coal Company Limited, 6, Ezra Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
450. | Central Dishergarh | Central Dishergarh | Central Dishergarh Coal Company Limited, 174, Harrison Road, Calcutta. | 4,000  
451. | Chakbaga Khas | District Bankura | Sankar Prasad Singh Deo, Panchakeleraz, Purulia. | 4,000  
452. | Chowrashi | Post Office Neturia | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
453. | Churulla East | Post Office Churulla | East Churulia Colliery Company, Post Office Churulia, Burdwan. | 4,000  
454. | Central Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Dutta's Kajora Coal Company Limited, 1, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 15,000  
455. | Chinchuria Khas | Post Office Asansol | Khas Chinchuria Collieries Limited, Post Office Asansol. | 4,000  
456. | Charanpur | Post Office Charanpur | Iswar Shib Thakur Sabehat, Post Office Nirsachatti. | 4,000  
457. | Churulia | Post Office Churulia | New Churulia Coal Company (Private) Limited, 4, Lyons Range, Calcutta. | 6,000  
458. | Central Baraboni | Post Office Baraboni |  Sri A.K.Ghosh and Shri B.N. Tarkatirtha, Post Office Baraboni, Burdwan. | 4,000  
459. | Central Poniati | Post Office Nandi | Central Poniati Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 4,000  
460. |  Deoli(Mondal's) | Post Office Dishergarh |  B.N.Mondal and Company, Post Office Dishergarh, Burdwan. | 1,56,000  
461. | Dhemomain | Post Office Sitarampur | Dhemomain Collieries and Industries Limited, 36, Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-16. | 9,27,000  
462. | Darula | Post Office Pandaveswar | East Satgram Coal Company Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta. | 5,41,000  
463. | Domoda | Post Office Raniganj | Damodar Coal Company (Private) Limited. Post Office Raniganj, Burdwan. | 5,64,000  
464. | Damra | Post Office Kalipahari | Katras Jherriah Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 17,41,000  
465. | Dabor | Post Office Samdi | H. Roy and T. Roy, Dabor Colliery (Private) Limited, Post Office Samdi, Burdwan. | 85,000  
466. | Damagoria Amdiha | Post Office Samdi | Damagoria Amdiha Coal Company, Post Office Salanpur | 1,31,000  
467. | Deshermohan | Post Office Churulia |  C.L.Poddar and Others, Post Office Churulia. | 1,09,000  
468. | Dalmiya | Post Office Salanpur |  R.S.Dalmiya, 26, New Alipore Road, Calcutta-27. | 1,07,000  
469. | Damra | Post Office Kalipahari |  A.P.Dutta and Company, Hutton Road, Asansol. | 4,000  
470. | Develia and W. Develia | Post Office Kalipahari |  K.D.N.Singh, Chattapathar, Post Office Kalipahari. | 4,000  
471. | Dhussal | - | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
472. | Dhundabad | Post Office Samdi |  J.B.Mondal and Company, Post Office Samdi. Burdwan. | 4,000  
473. | Dhadka | Post Office Asansol | Dhadka Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Asansol. | 4,000  
474. | Diguli | Post Office Churulia | Oriental Mining and Trading Syndicate, Post Office Churulia, Burdwan | 4,000  
475. | East Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram | Amalgamated Jambad Syndicate (Private) Limited, 33, Biplabi Rash Behari Bose Road, Calcutta-1. | 1,93,000  
476. | East Kajora | Post Office Ondal | Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 56,000  
477. | East Sitalpur | Post Office Ukhra | East Barrakar Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Ukhra. | 7,75,000  
478. | East Jamehari | Post Office Raniganj | Harsookdas Balkissendas, 22 Burtolla Street, Calcutta-7 | 2,09,000  
479. | East Nimcha | Post Office Jaykaynagar | East Laikdih Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jaykaynagar, Burdwan. | 69,56,000  
480. | East Satgram | Post Office Jaykaynagar | East Satgram Coal Company (Private) Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
481. | East Baraboni | Post Office Charanpur | East Baraboni Coal Company (Private) Limited, 4, Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta-19. | 4,000  
482. | East Jamuria | Post Office Toposi | East Jamuria Coal Company, Post Office Toposi, Burdwan. | 93,000  
483. | East Ramnagar | Post Office Salanpur |  D.R.Sabhlok (Through Constituted Attorney B.L. Satnalika, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan). | 44,000  
484. | East Lachipur | Post Office Sitarampur | East Lachipur Collieries Balrui Dishergarh Colliery Company, Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
485. | East Dhundabad | Post Office Samdi | East Dhundabad Colliery, Post Office Sitarampur. | 4,000  
486. | East Parsundi | Post Office Barhra, District Birbhum | East Parsundi Collieries Limited, 2, Commercial Building, 102, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
487. | East Searsole | Post Office Raniganj | Shri Jayanta Kr. Banerjee and Others, Burdwan. | 4,000  
488. | East Bonbiddi | Post Office Salanpur | Shri T.K. Mahato, Managing Agent, Salanpur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
489. | Ekrah Nandi (New Jamuri) |  | Ekrah Nandi Coal Company, F-2, Clive Building, 8, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
490. | Goenka Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Goenka Coal Company, S. B. Goenka, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 7,75,000  
491. | Guru Gopinath | Post Office Kalipahari | Gnananda Industries (Private) Limited, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 7,75,000  
492. | Ghusick | Post Office Kalipahari | Coal and Mineral Syndicate, 36, Strand Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,75,000  
493. | Ghusick | Post Office Kalipahari | Ghusick and Muslia Collieries Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 5,44,000  
494. | Girmint | Post Officer Charanpur | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
495. | Gourangdih | Post Office Panuria | Gourangdih Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Panuria, Burdwan. | 1,33,000  
496. | Gourangdih Begunia | Post Office Jamgram | Jamgram Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Jamgram,Burdwan. | 1,08,000  
497. | Gangaram Chak | Post Officc Barhara | Mishra Mukherjee & Company, Post Office Sagarbhanga, Birhhum. | 26,000  
498. | Gopalpur | Post Office Mejia | Shri D.B. Parmar, Post Office Ardhagram, Bankura. | 4,000  
499. | Hirakhun | Post Office Neturia | Shrimati Durgadevi Singhania, Post Office Neturia, District Purulia. | 7,000  
500. | Haripur | Post Office Bahula | Selected Baraboni Coal Company (Private) Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 9,32,000  
501. | Hindustan Alkusa | Post Office Samdi | Shri S.N. Agarwala, Post Office Burrakar, Burdwan. | 98,000  
502. | Hamirpur | Post Office Mejia | New Hamirpur Colliery Company, Post Office Toposi, Burdwan.4,000 |   
503. | Itapara | Post Office Entapara, District Burdwan. | Shri Keshordeo, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 4,000  
504. | Jorekuri | Post Office Churulia | Jorekuri Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Box No. 55, Dhanbad. | 26,000  
505. | Jambad Selected | Post Office Kajoragram | Shri Devji Gelabhai & Others, Post Office Kajoragram, Burdwan. | 4,85,000  
506. | Jaipuria Kajora | Post Office Ondal | Swadeshi Mining & Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 7,24,000  
507. | Jotejanki Khas | Post Office Toposi |  Messrs.Banerjee Santan, Post Office Toposi, Burdwan. | 2,12,000  
508. | Jambad Kajora | Post Office Siduli | Jambad Kajora Colliery Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Siduli, Burdwan. | 4,33,000  
509. | Jaykaynagar | Post Office Jaykaynagar. | Aluminium Corporation of India Limited. | Post Office Jaykaynagar, Burdwan.  
10,88,000 |  |  |  |   
510. | Jamuria A and B Pits. | Post Office Nandi | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
511. | Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram. | North Adjoy Coal Company, Post Office Kajoragram, Burdwan. | 15,000  
512. | Jamuna Kanali New | Post Office Mejia, District Bankura. | New Jamuna Kanali Colliery Company, Post Office Rajgaran, District Bankura | 4,000  
513. | Jamehari Selected | Post Office Raniganj | Coal Products (Private) Limited, Post Office Nutandanga, District Burdwan. | 4,000  
514. | Jotedhemo | Post Office Ukhra | Jotedhemo Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 23/B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 15,000  
515. | Jamehari Khas East | Post Office Searsol Rajbari | Jamehari Khas Colliery Private Limited, Post Office, Searsol Rajbari. | 4,000  
516. | Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram | S.S. Devi's Jambad Coal Concern (Private) Limited, 10, Akhil Mistri Lane, Calcutta. | 4,000  
517. | Jamuria 5 and 6 Pits. | Post Office Charanpur | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 2, Fairlie Place, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
518. | Jamuria 7 and 8 Pits. | Post Office Charanpur | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 2, Fairlie Place, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
519. | Kasta Bengal | Post Office Churulia | Kasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 13,000  
520. | Kajora and Western Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Shri K.C. Palchowdhury, Post Office Kajoragram, Burdwan. | 2,07,000  
521. |  Kajora(Guzdar) | Post Office Kajoragram | The Guzdar Kajora Coal Mines Limited, Post Office Kajoragram. | 2,24,000  
522. | Kajora Selected | Post Office Raniganj | Kajora Selected Colliery Company Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 3,38,000  
523. | Khas Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Khas Kajora Coal Company Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 21,09,000  
524. | Khas Searsole | Post Office Searsole Rajbari. | Kumar K.N. Maliah, Post Office Searsole Rajbari. | 7,000  
525. | Krishnagar | Post Office Toposi | Parasea Colliery Limited, 25, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 1,18,000  
526. | Kunustoria | Post Office Toposi | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 432.  
527. | Kottadih | Post Office Kottadih | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 112, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 411.  
528. | Kumardih | Post Office Ukhra | Kumardih Coal Company, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 11,99,000  
529. | Kumarkhala | Post Office Bahula | Kumarkhala Colliery Company, Post Office Bahula, Burdwan. | 2,36,000  
530. | Khas Chadbalpur | Post Office Jaykaynagar. |  Rani H.Devi and Rani K. Devi, Post Office Searsole Rajhari, Burdwan. | 6,97,000  
531. | Kalipahari | Post Office Kalipahari | Ghusick and Muslia Colliery Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 4,03,000  
532. | Kuardih | Post Office Kalipahari | Kuardih Coal Company (Private) 41, Limited, Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-16. | 39,82,000  
533. | Khas Baraboni | Post Office Raghunath Chak. |  A.K.Collieries Company, 34-A, Sardar Sankar Road, Calcutta-29. | 19,000  
534. | Khas Mohanpur | Post Office Samdi | Late Shri Ramgoti Hazra, Post Office Kajoragram, Burdwan. | 74,000  
535. | Khoirabad | Post Office Panuria |  M/s.Jamgram Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Bara Kalihari, District Bankura. | 51,000  
536. | Kalikapur Kalibari. | Post Office Bara Kalibari | Shri Harihar Banerjee and others, Post Office Bara Kalibari, District Burdwan. | 4,000  
537. | Kanyapur | Post Office Neturia | Neturia Coal Company Limited, Post Office Neturia, District Purulia. | 4,000  
538. | Khas Dhundabad | Post Office Samdi | Nagrath Collieries Limited, Post Office Sarodi. | 4,000  
539. | Khas Sitalpur | Post Office Ukhra |  N.H.Ojha Company (Private) Limited, Clive Building, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
540. |  Kajora(Roy Dutta) | Post Office Kajoragram | Roy Dutta and Company, Post Office Kajora, Burdwan. | 4,000  
541. | Khandra Sitalpur | - |  N.H.Ojha Company (Private) Limited, Clive Building, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
542. | Khudika | Post Office Salanpur | Sri Krishna Colliery, Post Office Salanpur. | 4,000  
543. | Kalidaspur | Post Office Mejia | Shri M.D. Chatterjee, 2, Thana Road, Asansol. | 4,000  
544. | Khiratore Khas | Post Office Khiratore |  Messrs.Sankari Prasad Singh Deo, Post Office Panchakot Raj, Purulia. | 4,000  
545. | Khas Jambad | Post Office Ukhra | Shri Mohanlal Goenka, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 11,000  
546. | Kumarpur | Post Office Sitarampur | Shri M.M. Bose, Borachak, Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
547. | Kankartola | Post Office Kankartola | Kankartola Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office Kankartola, Burdwan. | 75,000  
548. | Kasta | Post Office Churulia | Kasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 26,000  
549. | Lachipur | Post Office Kajoragram | Katras Jherriah Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | 10,53,000  
550. | Lower Kenda | Post Office Kajoragram | Khas Kenda Colliery Company (Private) Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 5,49,000  
551. | Lohat | Post Office Salanpur | Shri Bhuramal Agarwal, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan. | 64,000  
552. | Lakshmi |  | Shri Sahadev Dutta, Birbhum. | 4,000  
553. | Monoharhahal | Post Office Asansol |  Messrs.Chandramal Indra Kumar (Private) Limited, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,99,000  
554. | Mukherjee's Jote Janaki. | Post Office Toposi | Shri C.R. Mukherjee, Netaji Subhas Road, Raniganj, Burdwan. | 27,000  
555. | Madhujore | Post Office Kajoragram | Madhujore Coal Company (Private) Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 30,13,000  
556. | Mahabir | Post Office Raniganj | Mahahir Collieries Limited, 178, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta. | 1,43,000  
557. | Moira | Post Office Moira Colliery | Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 9/1, R.N. Mukherjee Road, Calcutta. | 43,15,000  
558. | Mithapur | Post Office Searsole Rajbari | Shri Nirmal Kumar Geaulecha, 7/2, Babu Lai Lane, Calcutta-7. | 1,59,000  
559. | Modern Satgram | Post Office Raniganj | West Bengal Mining Company, Post Office Raniganj. | 12,98,000  
560. | Muslia | Post Office Kalipahari | Ghusick and Muslia Collieries Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 60,000  
561. | Mohanpur | Post Office Samdi |  S.N.Chaudhury & Company, Kartar Nivas, Bumpur Road, Asansol. | 1,19,000  
562. | Madhabpur | Post Office Ondal | Madhabpur Coal Company, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 1,54,000  
563. | Methani | Post Office Sitarampur | Equitable Coal Company, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
564. | Mondal's Nandi | Post Office Nandi | Mondal and Company, Post Office Dishergarh. | 4,000  
565. | Middle Kajora & | Post Office Kajoragram Southern Kajora. | Shri K.C. Pal Choudhury, Kajoragram. | 4,000  
566. | Mondalpur | Post Office Nandi | Mondalpur Coal Company Limited, Post Office Neamatpur. | 4,000  
567. | Mangalpur | Post Office Raniganj | New Beerbhoom Coal Company Limited, Managing Agents M/s. Andrew Yule and Company Limited, Post Box 150, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
568. | Sheikhpur | - | Shri M.M. Chaterjee, Ondal. | 4,000  
569. | Mouthdih | Post Office Sunderchak |  Messrs.Mouthdih Coal Company, Dishergarh. | 4,000  
570. | Madanpur | - | Ghanshyam Coal Industries (Private) Limited, 9, Bhawani Dutta Lane, Calcutta-7. | 4,000  
571. | New Kenda | Post Office Toposi | New Birbhum Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | 41,23,000  
572. | North.Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram | North Jambad Coal Company, Post Office Kajoragram, Burdwan. | 98,000  
573. | North Searsole | Post Office Searsole Rajbari. | Searsole Mining and Industries (Private) Limited, Post Office Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan. | 12,33,000  
574. | Nag's Kajora Jambad. | Post Office Ukhra | Shrimati Ashalata Nag and Others, 4, Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta. | 3,57,000  
575. | North Chora | Post Office Bahula | Shri B.M. Dutta, North Chora Colliery Company, Post Office Bahula, Burdwan. | 68,000  
576. | New Jamehari Khas | Post Office Jaykaynagar | New Jamehari Khas Colliery (Private) Limited, Post Office Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan. | 13,47,000  
577. | New Satgram | Post Office Devchandnagar | Shethia Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 4, Bakul Bagan, Row, 'Manohar Mahal' Calcutta-25. | 18,70,000  
578. | Nimcha | Post Office Raniganj | Nimcha Coal Company (Private) Limited, 1/1, Rowland Road, Calcutta-20. | 3,32,000  
579. | North Brook | Post Office Jaykaynagar | Shri Bimal Kanti Roy, Post Office Jaykaynagar. | 5,58,000  
580. | New Ghusick | Post Office Kalipahari | West Ghusick Coal Company Limited, 10, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 2,53,000  
581. | North Charanpur | Post Office Charanpur | Shri B.N. Ganguly, Ushagram, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan. | 18,000  
582. | North Ghusick | Post Office Majihara | Shri Ganesh Coal Company, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan. | 36,000  
583. | New Damagoria | Post Office Salanpur | New Damagoria Coal Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan. | 4,06,000  
584. | North East Salanpur | Post Office Samdi | Shri A.R. Acharyya, Post Office Heamatpur, Burdwan. | 1,28,000  
585. | North West Salanpur | Post Office Samdi | Shri A.N. Mukherjee and others, Post Office Samdi, Burdwan. | 32,000  
586. | New Bhagran | Post Office Sitarampur |  Shri S.Banerjee (Nilachal), Post Office Baraboni, Burdwan. | 4,000  
587. | North Poniati | Post Office Baraboni | Shri B.B. Dutta, Post Office Baraboni, Burdwan. | 18,000  
588. | New Ardhagram | Post Office Ardhagram | Shri B.P. Singlideo, Post Office Panchakotraj, District Purulia. | 4,000  
589. | New Bamna | Post Office Salanpur | New Bamna Colliery Company, Mehta Press, Asansol. | 58,000  
590. | Nakrekonda Baljuri Nabaghanapur Maheshpur. | - | Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 15, India Exchange Place, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 654.  
591. | Nakrekonda and Sarpi | - | Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 15, India Exchange Place, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 654.  
592. | New South Baraboni | Post Office Baraboni |  Messrs.Amiya Bala Ghose and Sons, Post Office Baraboni. | 13,000  
593. | Narsamuda | Asansol | Sanpukuria Asansol Colliery Limited, 18, Mission Row Calcutta. | 4,000  
594. | North Mosila | Post Office Kalipahari | North Mosila Colliery Company, Post Office Kalipahari. | 4,000  
595. | New Begunia | Post Office Barakar | Shri S.K. Mukherjee, Barakar. | 4,000  
596. | Numi | Post Office Ethora | Mukherjee P. (Rai Bahadur), G.T. Road Delhi | 4,000  
597. | New Mangalpur |  | Shri Jaladhar Mondal, Village Bonbiddi, Post Office Salanpur. | 4,000  
598. | North Haripur | Post Office Ghore |  Previously owned by Shri K.L. Dutta, Post Office Bahula, Burdwan. Dutta Pal and Company, North Haripur Colliery, Post Office Bahula (Partners-K.L. Dutta and D.N.Pal), Burdwan. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 529.  
599. | New Madhabpur | - |  A.B.Ojha and Company, 23/B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 618.  
600. | New Nandi | Post Office Nandi | Shrimati Gayatri Devi, wife of Shri Subodh Mukherjee, Feeder Road, Raniganj. | 4,000  
601. | New Jamuria | Post Office Nandi | Selected Satgram Collieries Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 618.  
602. | Palasthali | Post Office Churulia | Palasthali Coal Concern (Private) Limited, 53, Mechua Bazar Road, Chinsura (Hooghly). | 8,000  
603. | Pariarpur | Post Office Kalipahari | Shri Shcwslamal Agarwalla, Post Office Sainthia, Birbhum. | 4,000  
604. | Parbelia | Post Office Neturia | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
605. | Patmohana | Post Office Patmohana |  Messrs.Patmohana and Bharatchak Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 9,45,000  
606. | Poidih | Post Office Sunderchak | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
607. | Prossono Dutta's Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Shri P.C. Dutta and Sons, 71A, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 1,30,000  
608. | Parascole | Post Office Kajoragram | Parascole Coal Company, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 16,56,000  
609. | Parasea | Post Office Kajoragram | Parasea Collieries Company, 25, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 29,19,000  
610. | Proper Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Shri Nimbarak Proper Kajora Coal Company (Private) Limited, 135, Biplabi Rash Behari Bose Road, Calcutta-1. | 1,27,000  
611. | Pure Bansra | Post Office Raniganj | Pure Kustore Colliery Company Limited, 8, Lyons Range, Calcutta. | 10,39,000  
612. | Pure Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram | Pure Jambad Colliery Private Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta. | 3,52,000  
613. | Pure Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | East Barakar Coal Company (Private) Limited, 18, Netaji Subbas Road, Calcutta. | 6,40,000  
614. | Pure Kenda | Post Office Ukhra | Pure Kenda Coal Company, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 4,000  
615. | Pure Searsole | Post Office Searsole | Kumari Rant H. Devi, Post Office Rajbari, Burdwan. | 2,48,000  
616. | Pansuli | Post Office Nutandanga | Krishna Valley Selected Coal Company, Post Office Nutandanga. | 33,000  
617. | Pure Samla | Post Office Nutandanga | Sun Distributors and Mining Company Limited, 14, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 2,78,000  
618. | Pure Sitalpur | Post Office Ukhra | Pure Sitalpur Coal Concern (Private) Limited, 23-B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 3,50,000  
619. | Pansuli Nutandanga | Post Office Gogla | Shri D.T. Dhanuka, Post Office Nutandanga, Burdwan. | 3,01,000  
620. | Pottery | Post Office Raniganj |  Burn& Co., 12, Mission Row, Calcutta. | 4,000  
621. | Pretoria | Post Office Charanpur | Seebpore Coal Company Limited, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 8,4,000  
622. | Purushottampur and Abhirampur | - | Tata Iron & Steel Company Limited. 4,000 |   
623. | Pandaveswar | Post Office Barakar | Shri Pandaveswar Coal Company Limited, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
624. | Poniati Baraboni | Post Office Charanpur | Shrimati Ashalata Nag and others, Mandcvilla Gardens, Calcutta-19. | 4,4,000  
625. | Premier Nandi | Post Office Nandi | Shri Sunil Kumar Mitra, 19/A, Dalimtala Lane, Calcutta-6. | 4,000  
626. | Pure Dalurband (Near Samla Dalurband) | - | Pure Dalurband Coal Company, Post Office Pandaveswar, Burdwan. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 660.  
627. | Poniati Mines | Post Office Nandi | Krishna Valley Selected Coal Company, Post Office Nandi, Burdwan. | 11,000  
628. |  Ramjibanpur(Nag's) | Post Office Sitarampur | Ramjibanpur Coal Company Limited, 4, Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta. | 4,20,000  
629. | Ranipur | Post Office Disbergarh | Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 411.  
630. | Real Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Real Kajora Colliery Trust, 24, Strand Road, Calcutta. | 1,48,000  
631. | Real Jambad | Post Office Bahula | Oriental Coal Company (Private) Limited, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta. | 4,66,000  
632. | Ratibati | Post Office Kalipahari | West Bengal Mining Company, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 19,29,000  
633. | Radhamadhabpur | Post Office Kalipahari | Ghusick and Muslia Collieries Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan. | 71,000  
634. | Rana Number 6 Pit | Post Office Kalipahari | Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta. | 94,66,000  
635. | Raniganj | Post Office Raniganj | Bengal Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
636. | Radhahallavpur | Post Office Samdi | Automotive Manufactutrer's Agencies, P-27, Princep Street, Calcutta-13. | 14,000  
637. | Rangakanali | Post Office Samdi | Messrs, Surajmal Gupta and others, 135, Biplabi Rashhehari Bose Road, Calcutta I. | 82,000  
638. | Real Salanpur | Post Office Salanpur | Salanpur Syndicate Limited, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 4,000  
639. | Real Raniganj | Post Office Raniganj | Real Raniganj Coal Company Limited, Post Office Raniganj. | 4,000  
640. | Real Nandi | Post Office Nandi | Real Nandi Collieries Limited, 8/2, Hastings Street, Calcutta. | 4,000  
641. | Russa | Post Office Russa | Selected Raniganj Collieries, 21, Ekdalia Road, Calcutta. | 4,000  
642. | Sanctoria | Post Office Dishergarh | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8 Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
643. | Seetalpur | Post Office Dishergarh | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
644. | Sodepur 9 and 10 Pits | Post Office Sunderchak | Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 432.  
645. | South Joyramdanga | Post Office Asansol | Dishergarh Coal Company Limited, 3, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 4,72,000  
646. | Searsole | Post Office Raniganj | Scarsole Coal Company Limited, 22, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. | 2,61,000  
647. | Singaran | Post Office Toposi | Singaran Coal Syndicate Limited, 237-P/IA, Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta. | 1,02,000  
648. | Sitaldassji Selected | Post Office Searsole Rajbari. | Messrs, Puranmall Shreeniwas and Brothers, Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan. | 2,80,000  
649. | South Jambad | Post Office Kajoragram | South Parasia Collieries (Private) Limited, 33, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 8,000  
650. | South Parasia | Post Office Kajoragram | South Parasia Collieries (Private) Limited, 25, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 1,14,000  
651. | Samla Baidyanathpur | Post Office Pandaveswar | Ashoka Mineral and Company, Post Office Pandavcswar, Burdwan. | 2,88,000  
652. | Samla Chatrisgonda | Post Office Pandaveswar | Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 2,31,000  
653. | Samla Dalurband | Post Office Pandaveswar | Samla, Dalurhand Coal Company (Private) Limited. Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad. | 6,25,000  
654. | Samla Manderboni | Post Office Pandaveswar | Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 9/1, R.N. Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-1. | 24,67,000  
655. | Samla Kendra | Post Office Pandaveswar | Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road. Calcutta-1. | 11,34,000  
656. | Samla Pandaveswar | Post Office Pandaveswar | Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 2,25,000  
657. | Samla Ramnagar | Post Office Pandaveswar | Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 4,50,000  
658. | Sarpi Kajora | Post Office Ukhra | Sarpi Kajora Coal Mines (Private) Limited, 33, Canning Street, Calcutta. | 6,49,000  
659. | Selected Kajora Jambad | Post Office Pandaveswar | Selected Kajora Jambad Collicry, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 1,31,000  
660. | Selected Samla | Post Office Pandaveswar | Selected Dalurband Coal Company (Private) Limited, 137, Cotton Street, Calcutta-7. | 7,04,000  
661. | Siduli | Post Office Ukhra | Siduli Colliery Company, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 1,42,000  
662. | Sitalpur | Post Office Siduli | Sitalpur Coal Company (Private) Post Office Siduli, Burdwan. | 3,02,000  
663. | South Adjai | Post Office Gogla | Gopal Collieries Limited, 174, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta-7. | 4,000  
664. | Sunkerpore | Post Othee Ukhra | Ukhra Minerals (Private) Limited, Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan. | 4,17,000  
665. |  Satgram(Nageswar) | Post Office Searsole Rajbari | Nageswar Coal Company Kargil Colliery, Post Office Bermo, Hazaribagh. | 4,75,000  
666. | Selected Searsole | Post Office Raniganj | Puranmal Jagannath, Post Office Raniganj. | 4,88,000  
667. | Sri Amritnagar Selected | Post Office Raniganj | Sriniwas and Sons, Post Office Raniganj. | 14,41,000  
668. | Seebpore | Post Office Gharanpur | Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Row. Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
669. | Sripur Incline | Post Office Kalipahari | Lodna Collicry Company (1920) Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 634.  
670. | Sripur 1, 2 and 3 Pits | Post Office Kalipahari | Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 634.  
671. | Sripur 4, 5 and 6 Pits | Post Office Kalipahari | Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against SI. No. 634.  
672. | Samdi Sangramgarh | Post Office Samdi | B. Hazra and Company, Post Office Samdi. | 3,44,000  
673. | Shibpur |  | Manish Kumar Mukherjee and Doctor A.K. Bhattacharjee, Post Office Shibpur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
674. | Shri Ghanshyam | Post Office Kajora | Ghanshyam Coal Industries (Private) Limited, 7, Bhowani Dutt Lane, Calcutta-7. | 53,000  
675. | Shabanpur | Post Office Salanpur | Shridhar Mukherjee, New Beerbhum Coal Company, Burdwan. | 4,000  
676. | Selected Kajora | Post Office Raniganj | Kajora Selected Colliery Company, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
677. | Selected Dhundabad | Post Office Salanpur | Selected Dhundahad Colliery Company, Post Office Salanpur. | 4,000  
678. | South Nawpara | Post Office Ondal | Pure Dishergarh Coal Company Limited, 51, Garanhatta Lane, Calcutta. | 4,000  
679. | Sitalnagar | Post Office Kajoragram | Jagannath Buchasia and others, Purna Nibash Mansion, Raniganj. | 4,000  
680. | Sree | Post Office Charanpur | Belbaid Colliery Limited, Post Office Raniganj. | 4,000  
681. | Sree Sitalpur | - | Pure Sitalpur Coal Concern, 23/B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | Amount included in the amount specified against Sl. No. 618.  
682. | Selected Banskuri | Post Office Mejia | Selected Banskuri Colliery Company, 3, Gangedhar Sarayan, Post Office Raniganj. | 4,000  
683. | Santalmoutha | Post Office Neturia | Moutha Dishergarh Coal Company, Post Office Barakar. | 4,000  
684. | South Kenda | Post Office Toposi | South Kenda Coal Company (Ratanlal Goenka and Surajbhan Ganeriwala), Post Office Toposi. | 15,000  
685. | Sibdaspur | Post Office Salanpur | Sibdaspur Colliery Company, Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
686. | Selected Jamuria | Post Office Nandi |  A.K.Goswamy, Post Office Birkulti, Burdwan. | 4,000  
687. | Satpukuria | Post Office Asansol | Satpukuria and Asansol Collieries Limited, 18, Mission Row, Calcutta. | 4,000  
688. | South Sarnia | Post Office Pandaveswar | Kalyanji Mavji and Company, 14, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. | 11,000  
689. | Salanpur A Seam | Post Office Salanpur | New Sergarh Coal Company, Post Office Salanpurr, Burdwan. | 4,000  
690. | South East Baraboni Khas. | Post Office Charanpur | Bharat Collieries Limited, 11, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 4,000  
691. | Shyamsundarpur | Post Office Ukhra | Burdwan Collieries Limited, 5, Synagogue Street, Calcutta. | 15,000  
692. | Sarnia Govindpur | Post Office Pandaveswar | Sarnia Govindpur Collieries (Private) Limited, 33, Canning Street, Calcutta-1. | 4,000  
693. | Selected Nandi | Post Office Siduli | Jyotsna Devi, Post Office Sitarampur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
694. | Saltore | Post Office Saltore | Barakar Coal Company, Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta. | 4,000  
695. | Selected Baraboni | Post Office Charanpur | Selected Baraboni Coal Company Limited, Post Office Charanpur, Burdwan. | 4,000  
696. | Toposi | Post Office Toposi | Associated Nandi Collieries Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. | 7,65,000  
697. | Tara | Post Office Birkulti | Tara Colliery Limited, 19, Radha Nagar Road, Burnpur, Asansol. | 1,07,000  
698. | Toposi Koradanga | Post Office Toposi | Toposi Koradanga Coal Concern, Post Office Toposi, Burdwan. | 4,000  
699. | Uttar Dhadha | Post Office Kajoragram | New Beerhhum Coal Company, 8, Clive Row, Calcutta. | 4,000  
700. | Upper Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Hari Prasad Bhan Singha, 29-A, Sir H. Goenka Street, Calcutta-7. | 4,000  
701. | Victory Group | Post Office Nutandanga | Coal Products (Private) Limited, 3, Bankshall Street, Calcutta | 12,55,000  
702. | Visheshari Khandra | Post Office Ukhra |  N.H.Ojha and Company, Gillander's House, 18, Netaji Subhas Road,Calcutta. | 9,37,000  
703. |  Viceroy(Mandal's) | Post Office Dishergarh |  B.N.Mandal and Company, Parkeh's Building, 22, Canning Street, Calcutta. | 4,000  
704. | Western Kajora | Post Office Kajoragram | Western Kajora Collieries (Private) Limited, 178, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta. | 2,37,000  
705. | West Baraboni | Post Office Raghunath Chak. | Modern Coal Trading Company (Private) Limited, Post Office Raghunath Chak, Burdwan. | 71,000  
706. | West Palasiha | Post Office Asansol |  P.K.Agarwala and others (B.L. Agarwala and Sons), Post Office Jharia. | 4,000  
707. | West Jamuria | Post Office Charanpur | West Jamuria Coal Company Limited, 2, Brabournc Road, Calcutta. | 4,000  
Darjeeling Coalfield  
708. | Dalingkota | Post Office Pillan's Hat | Himalaya Coal and Mineral Industries, Post Office Bagrakote, Darjeeling. | 4,000  
709. | East Bagrakote | Post Office Pillan's Hat | Dalingkote Colliery, Post Office Pillan's Hat, Darjeeling | 4,000  
710. | Cagu | Post Office Manabari | Choudhury and Chakravarty, Chaturhhati Post Office Bagrakote | 4,000  
711. | Lithi Valley | Post Office Fagu |  B.D.Sharma, Darjeeling. | 4,000

