## Union of India - Act

## Coastal Aquaculture Authority Rules, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Coastal Aquaculture Authority Rules, 2024

## Rule G-S-R-33-E of 2024

  * Published on 12 January 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 January 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 of the Coastal Aquaculture
Authority Act, 2005 (24 of 2005) and in supersession of the Coastal
Aquaculture Authority Rules, 2005 except as respects things done or omitted to
be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1) These rules may be called the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Rules,
2024.(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,(a) _"Act"_ means
the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act, 2005 (24 of 2005);(b) _"Authority"_
means the Coastal Aquaculture Authority established under sub-section (1) of
section 4 of the Act;(c) _"biosecurity measures"_ means all biosecurity
measures and programmes including physical, chemical and biological measures
necessary to protect the coastal aquaculture units and stocks from the ingress
and consequences of all diseases that represent a high risk;(d) _"biosecurity
audit"_ means an audit to examine, the types of biosecurity measures, their
relevance, execution and effectiveness in securing such coastal aquaculture
units and stocks from the ingress of any disease;(e) _"Chairperson"_ means the
Chairperson of the Authority;(f) _"farm"_ means a coastal aquaculture unit
where culturing of fish, including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, seaweed or
any other aquatic life is done under controlled conditions in ponds, pens,
cages, rafts, enclosures or otherwise, in saline or brackish water in coastal
areas and includes nursery rearing, but does not include freshwater
aquaculture;(g) _"fee"_ means any fee stipulated in these rules;(h) _"Form"_
means a Form appended to these rules;(i) _"Guidelines"_ means any of the
Guidelines referred to in rule 3;(j) _"Hatchery"_ means a coastal aquaculture
unit carrying on coastal aquaculture activity of breeding and seed production
of fish, including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, seaweed or any other aquatic
life, in saline or brackish water and includes rearing of Nauplii and Live
Feed, but does not include freshwater aquaculture;(k) _"high health stock"_
means any fish stocks including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, or any other
aquatic species that are raised in bio secure facilities, following bio secure
management measures, fed with bio secure feeds and has the established history
of freedom from specific pathogens for a continuous period of at least six
months;(l) _"live feed"_ means the live invertebrates, micro algae and such
other organisms either cultured or captured from wild and used alive as the
feed for different stages of any fish, including crustacean, mollusc, finfish,
or any other aquatic species;(m) _"nursery"_ means a coastal aquaculture unit
either indoor or outdoor, intended to rear the larval forms of any fish,
including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, seaweed or any other aquatic life, to
a juvenile to transfer to the farm where the juveniles are grown to a
commercial size;(n) _"member"_ means member of the Authority appointed under
sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act and includes the Chairperson;(o)
_"regulations"_ mean the regulations made by the Authority under section 25 of
the Act;(p) _"Schedule"_ means any of the Schedule appended to these rules;(q)
_"Specific Pathogen Free"_ means any fish stocks including crustacean,
mollusc, finfish, or any other aquatic species and any bio secured coastal
aquaculture unit, following bio secure management measures, using bio secure
feeds and has the established history of freedom from specific pathogens for a
continuous period of at least two years;(r) _"specific pathogen tolerant"_
means the any fish stocks including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, or any other
aquatic species tolerant to a specific disease such that the stock can be
infected but may not develop the disease or it may develop it to a lesser
extent;(s) _"specific pathogen resistant"_ means a qualitative trait of any
fish stocks including crustacean, mollusc, finfish, or any other aquatic
species having resistant to infection by a specific pathogen.(t)
_"notification"_ means a notification published in the Official Gazette.(2)
The Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the
Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act, 2005 (24 of 2005) or the Environment
Protection Act, 1986 (29 of 1986) shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in those Acts.

### 3. Guidelines.

For the purposes of ensuring that coastal aquaculture does not cause any
detriment to the coastal environment and to protect the livelihood of various
sections of the people living in the coastal areas, all coastal aquaculture
units and activities shall comply with the following Guidelines to be issued
in compliance with section 3 of the Act, namely:(a) _Guidelines_ for
regulating coastal aquaculture;(b) _Guidelines_ for regulating hatcheries and
farms for seed production and culture of Specific Pathogen Free Litopenaeus
vannamei;(c) _Guidelines_ for seed production and culture of Specific Pathogen
Free Penaeus monodon;(d) _Guidelines_ for the health monitoring, disease
surveillance and Specific Pathogen Free certification of coastal aquaculture
units and stocks in India;(e) _Guidelines_ for certificate of compliance for
aquaculture inputs;(f) _Guidelines_ for the establishment and operation of
Nucleus Breeding Centres and Broodstock Multiplication Centres in India;(g)
_Guidelines_ for solid waste management in coastal aquaculture units or
activities.

### 4. Terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and members.

(1) The Chairperson shall be entitled to such salary and allowances and such
conditions of service in respect of leave, pension, and other matters as
admissible to a Secretary to the Government of India.(2) The Secretary of the
Authority shall be an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to
Government of India to be appointed on deputation basis by the Central
Government through Central Staffing Scheme of the Government of India,
initially for a term of three years, which may be extended for one more term
of three years, or till he attains the age of superannuation, whichever is
earlier.(3) The members appointed under clauses (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (fa)
and (g) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act shall be part-time members
and shall not be entitled for any salary and allowances under these
rules:Provided that non-official members shall be entitled to sitting fees as
well as Travelling Allowance, Dearness Allowance, etc. as may be fixed by the
Central Government from time to time.(4) A member appointed under clauses (b),
(c), (d), (e), (f), (fa) and (g) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act
shall cease to be a member if such member ceases to hold the office by virtue
of which he was appointed.(5) The Chairperson may resign his office by giving
notice in writing to the Central Government and upon such resignation being
accepted by the Central Government, the Chairperson shall be deemed to have
vacated his office.(6) A member may resign his office by a letter addressed to
the Chairperson.(7) The office of a member shall fall vacant from the date on
which the resignation of such member is accepted by the Central Government or
on expiry of thirty days from the date of the receipt of the resignation by
the Chairperson, whichever is earlier.(8) The Central Government may remove
any member who becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
section 5 of the Act.(9) The Central Government may also remove any member if
he, without the approval of the Chairperson, fails to attend three consecutive
meetings of the Authority.(10) A member of the Authority nominated by the
Central Government under sub-section (3A) of section 4 of the Act, shall
exercise the power of the Chairperson relating to-(i) deciding the date and
place of Authority meetings;(ii) calling meetings of the Authority;(iii)
approving the agenda for such meetings;(iv) inviting special invitees to the
meetings of the Authority;(v) presiding over meetings, and;(vi) such other
powers and functions as may be assigned to him by the Central Government.(11)
The Secretary shall function as the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority
and shall be responsible for the implementation of the work programs and
decisions arrived by the Authority or by the committees set up by it and
discharge the duties imposed on him under these rules.(12) The Secretary
shall, in consultation with the Chairperson, fix the date, time, place and
also draw up agenda for every meeting.(13) The Secretary shall have powers of
general superintendence over the functioning of the Authority, which shall
include,-(a) to grant leave to the officers and staff of the Authority;(b) to
exercise administrative control over all divisions and officers of the
Authority;(c) to call for documents and record and to inspect or cause to be
inspected, the accounts and places of storage or of business as required under
these rules;(d) to sanction expenditure for contingencies, supplies and
services and purchase of articles required for the functioning of the office
of the Authority;(e) cause all important papers and matters to be presented to
the Authority as early as practicable; and(f) issue directions as to the
method of carrying out the decisions of the Authority.(14) The Secretary shall
ensure timely conduct of meetings of the District, Sub-Divisional Level or
such other committees, as per the timeline specified in the regulations, for
the speedy and timely disposal of matters related to the implementation of the
Act and these rules.(15) The Secretary shall oversee the functioning of
authorised officers and adjudicating officers under the Act for the speedy and
timely disposal of matters related to the implementation of the Act on the
field.

### 5. Functions of Authority.

The Authority shall perform the following other functions in addition to the
functions specified under section 11 of the Act, namely, -(i) to ensure that
the agricultural lands, mangroves, wet lands, forest lands, land for village
common purposes and the land meant for public purposes and national parks and
sanctuaries shall not be converted for construction of coastal aquaculture
farms so as to protect the livelihood of coastal community;(ii) to deal with
any issues pertaining to coastal aquaculture including those which may be
referred to it by the Central Government;(iii) to survey the entire coastal
area of the country and advise the Central Government and the State
Governments to formulate suitable strategies for achieving eco-friendly
coastal aquaculture development;(iv) may develop a nationwide aquaculture
mapping and zonation, including the following, namely:-(a) use of high
resolution geographic information system maps, integrated with land surveys,
sub- divisions, boundaries and land ownership merged with the land use map and
regulatory requirements under the law;(b) identify and locate the potential
areas, based on multiple parameters including the water source such as sea
front, estuary, river, creek, backwater, the type of land through the
multicriteria decision support system that are validated by the field
surveys;(c) define broad zones suitable for different type of aquaculture and
other allied activities or species or stocking density or in combination of
all in such zones to deter and abate any environmental hazard;(v) to advice
and assist the States to take steps for containment of infection and disease
management through development of Aquaculture Management Areas with enhanced
traceability;(vi) to take steps for the grant of auto registration for the
coastal aquaculture units located in the potential zones identified through
aquaculture maps;(vii) to advise and extend support to the State Governments
to construct common infrastructure such as common water in-take and discharge
canals by the coastal aquaculture farms and common effluent treatment systems
for achieving eco-friendly and sustainable development of coastal
aquaculture;(viii) to fix or adopt standards, certify, monitor, regulate or
prohibit coastal aquaculture inputs such as seed, feed, growth supplements
including probiotics, therapeutants and such other inputs used in coastal
aquaculture for the maintenance of the water bodies and the organisms reared
therein and other aquatic life for the prevention, control and abatement of
any detriment to the coastal aquaculture or coastal environment as may be
specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for aquaculture
inputs referred to in clause (e) of rule 3;(ix) to carry out and sponsor
investigations and studies or schemes relating to environment protection and
demonstration of eco-friendly technologies in coastal aquaculture;(x) to
collect and disseminate data and other scientific and socio-economic
information in respect of matters related to coastal aquaculture;(xi) to
prepare manuals, codes and audio-visual material relating to sustainable
development of coastal aquaculture and activities relating thereto;(xii) to
organise through media and other means of communication a comprehensive
programme regarding sustainable utilisation and fair and equitable sharing of
the coastal resources for aquaculture purpose;(xiii) to plan and organise
training of personnel engaged or likely to be engaged in sustainable
utilisation of the coastal resources for aquaculture purposes;(xiv) to
constitute various technical committees, sub-committees, working groups, sub-
groups that may comprise of the members and officers of the Authority,
scientists and officers of the national research institutes or State
Governments, public representatives or representatives of the civil society or
coastal aquaculture association or local body or farmer producer organisations
for preparation of technical manuals, code of conduct, etc.;(xv) to direct the
owners or operators of the coastal aquaculture units to carry out such
modifications to minimise the impacts on coastal environment including
stocking density and the use of aquaculture inputs certified by the
Authority;(xvi) to order seasonal closure of the coastal aquaculture units for
the sustainability of the coastal aquaculture practices, maintaining
environmental sustainability and protection of livelihoods or for any other
reasons considered necessary in the interest of coastal environment;(xvii) to
make recommendations to the Government for amending the Guidelines from time
to time taking into account the changes in technology, farming practices, etc,
and incorporating modifications, as may be necessary, in such Guidelines, to
ensure environmental protection and the livelihoods of the coastal
communities;(xviii) to safeguard the coastal aquaculture and the environment
from the impact of diseases and pests, through risk analysis, risk mitigation
measures, inspection and implementation of mitigation response
arrangements;(xix) to formulate requirements for the health monitoring,
disease surveillance and certification of coastal aquaculture units and stocks
as Specific Pathogen Free by ensuring freedom from diseases as specified in
the Guidelines for health monitoring, disease surveillance and Specific
Pathogen Free certification of coastal aquaculture units and stocks in India
referred to in clause (d) of rule 3.

### 6. Powers and functions of one man Authority.

(1) The one man authority to be appointed under sub- section (2) of section 11
of the Act shall exercise the powers of a District Magistrate with regard to
the compensation as may be settled between the workers and the management.(2)
While settling the compensation to be paid to the workers, factors such as the
likely loss of income for the workers, the alternate employment opportunities
for them and the paying capacity of the employer may be taken into account.(3)
For the purposes of ensuring that the amount of compensation settled is paid
to the workers, the one man authority shall exercise the powers of the
Collector and District Magistrate under the land revenue laws of the
respective States.

### 7. Power to enter on any coastal aquaculture unit.

(1) The person authorised by the Authority shall have the powers to take one
or more persons including police personnel to carry out the functions
mentioned in this rule.(2) The powers of a person authorised by the Authority
to enter on any coastal aquaculture unit shall be subject to the following
conditions, namely:-(i) the Authority's decisions to make any inspection,
survey, measurement, valuation or inquiry as well as removal or demolition of
any structure shall be intimated to the owner of the coastal aquaculture unit
or his representative at least twenty-four hours in advance in writing and
delivered to him by registered post or by messenger and such notice shall also
be pasted at a prominent place in the premise of the coastal aquaculture
unit:Provided that if the owner refuses to accept the notice, such pasting
shall be deemed to be due service of the notice on him:Provided further that
the requirement of notice may be waived by the Authority in such cases and for
such reasons to be recorded in writing, as it deems fit:(ii) the activities
mentioned in section 12 of the Act shall be carried out in the presence of the
owner or his representative if he desires to do so and such owner may also be
permitted to bring his own staff (not more than two) to assist in the
inspection, survey, measurement, valuation or inquiry;(iii) the removal or
demolition of any structure shall be carried out under a panchanama and
wherever possible a representative of the local body may be included in the
team and his signature recorded in the panchanama:Provided that the owner
shall be liable to pay the cost of demolition and cost of damage to the
environment, if any, assessed in such manner as may be specified in the
Guidelines;(iv) the persons authorised by the Authority to perform the
functions mentioned under clauses (a) and (b) of section 12 of the Act shall
do so only during the daytime before sunset;(v) the persons authorised by the
Authority to perform the functions under clause (a) of section 12 of the Act
shall endeavour that such functions are carried out without causing any damage
to the civil structures, equipment, machinery or the standing crop.

### 8. Other functions to be performed by an authorised person.

Any person authorised by the Authority shall,-(i) take samples of water, soil,
aquaculture input and the farmed animal for the purpose of detection of banned
antibiotics, chemicals and other pharmacologically active compounds adopting
appropriate procedures for collection, analysis, reporting and follow up
action;(ii) subject to the provisions of rule 7, remove or demolish any
coastal aquaculture unit or any structure therein causing pollution that has
been ordered by the Authority to be removed or demolished under clause (d) of
sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Act;(iii) drain the water from the
coastal aquaculture unit or destroy the standing crop therein, causing
pollution that has been ordered by the Authority to be so destroyed;(iv)
authorise or recognise laboratories to carry out analysis of soil, water,
aquaculture inputs, farmed animals or other farmed aquatic life for the
purpose of health monitoring and disease surveillance; detection of banned
antibiotics, chemicals and other pharmacologically active substances or such
other material.

### 9. Registration and fees.

(1) Every application for registration of any coastal aquaculture unit or
coastal aquaculture activity under section 13 of the Act shall be made in
Form-I or Form-II, specific to each coastal aquaculture unit or activity
specified in Schedule-II, to be obtained from the office of the Member
Convener of Sub- Divisional Level Committee or District Level Committee, or
from the office of the Authority or downloaded from the website of the
Authority.(2) The application for the registration of any coastal aquaculture
unit or activity in the case of, -(a) sea weed culture, cage culture, raft
culture, pen culture, Recirculatory Aquaculture System , Bio-floc, nurseries,
etc., and traditional coastal aquaculture farms irrespective of their size,
shall be made in Form-I, by the owner or operator thereof to the Sub-
Divisional Level Committee or directly to the District Level Committees (in
the absence of a Sub-Division in a particular District) where the coastal
aquaculture unit is located.(b) Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery, Live Feed
Unit, Nucleus Breeding Centre and Broodstock Multiplication Centre shall be
made in Form-II, by the owner or operator thereof directly to the
Authority.(3) The Authority may, in the public interest, make provision for
on-line filing of an application for registration.(4) Every application for
registration of a coastal aquaculture unit or activity shall be accompanied
with-(a) a fee as specified in Schedule-I; and(b) the documents as specified
in Schedule-II.(5) The fees for registration shall be payable in the form of a
Demand Draft or electronically through online mode in favour of the Member
Convener of the Sub-Divisional Level Committee or District Level Committees in
the absence of a Sub-Division in a particular District or in favour of the
Coastal Aquaculture Authority.(6) In case of any defect in the application,
the Member Convener of the Sub-Divisional Level Committee concerned shall
within seven days of receipt of application, inform the applicant in writing,
to rectify the defect within fifteen days from the date of receipt of such
information:Provided that if the applicant fails to rectify the defect within
such period, the application for registration shall be deemed to have been
rejected.(7) The Sub-Divisional Level Committee or District Level Committees
in the absence of a Sub-Division in a particular District may, if satisfied
that the application for registration complies with the requirements,
recommend the same for registration in the manner provided in rule 10.(8)
Where the application for registration is refused, the reasons for such
refusal shall be recorded in writing and a copy of the order of refusal shall
be furnished to the applicant.(9) On receipt of the application from the Sub-
Divisional Level Committee or the Divisional Level Committee, as the case may
be, the Authority or any officer authorised by the Authority may require the
applicant to furnish within a such period as may be specified by it, such
additional information as he may consider necessary for the purpose of
registration or renewal and every such applicant shall be bound to furnish
such information within the specified period.(10) The Authority may, upon
satisfaction, grant registration or by order, refuse registration or renewal
thereof, if the applicant fails to furnish the required information or
furnishes incorrect information and a copy of the order together with reasons
for such refusal shall be communicated to the applicant.(11) The grant of
registration or refusal thereof shall be made within a period of sixty days
from the date of receipt of application by the Authority:Provided that the
time limit for processing the application by the Sub-Divisional Level
Committee, the District level committee and the Authority, shall be as
specified in the regulations.(12) Any person aggrieved by an order of refusal
under this rule may, within thirty days from the date of receipt by him of a
copy of the order of refusal, appeal to the Chairperson who may either affirm,
vary or set aside such order.

### 10. Manner of considering application for registration of certain coastal
aquaculture units or activities.

(1) On receipt of an application for registration under sub-rule (2) of rule
9, the Sub-Divisional Level Committee or the District Level Committee (in the
absence of a Sub-Division in a particular District) shall scrutinise the
application including documents furnished therewith in respect of the coastal
aquaculture units irrespective of their size and process them as follows,
namely:-(a) in the case of coastal aquaculture farms up to 2.0 hectare water
spread area, sea weed culture, cage culture, raft culture, pen culture,
Recirculatory Aquaculture System, Bio-floc, nurseries etc., and traditional
coastal aquaculture farms irrespective of their size, Sub-Divisional Level
Committee upon satisfaction of the information furnished therein, shall
recommend the application directly to the Authority for consideration of
registration,-(b) in the case of coastal aquaculture farms above 2.0 hectare
of water spread area and upto 5.0 hectare of water spread area, the Sub-
Divisional Level Committee shall recommend the application directly to the
Authority for consideration of registration only after making such inquiry
including inspection as it thinks fit, to satisfy itself that the registration
of such farm shall not be detrimental to the coastal environment;(c) in the
case of coastal aquaculture farms above 5.0 ha of water spread area, the Sub-
Divisional Level Committee shall recommend the application to the District
Level Committee for consideration of registration,-(i) after making such
inquiry including inspection as it thinks fit, to satisfy itself that the
registration of such farm shall not be detrimental to the coastal
environment;(ii) after making further inquiries to ascertain that the coastal
aquaculture farm conforms to the stipulations laid down in the Guidelines for
regulating coastal aquaculture referred to in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of rule
3.(2) On receipt of an application under clause (c) of sub-rule (1), the
District Level Committee, upon satisfaction, shall further recommend the
application to the Authority for consideration of registration.(3) For the
purposes of this rule, the compositions of the Sub-Divisional Level and the
District Level Committees shall be as under, namely:-(A) Sub-Divisional Level
Committee:(a) Revenue Divisional Officer or Sub-Collector of a sub-division
-Chairperson, ex officer;(b) Tahsildar or Mandal Revenue officer within the
sub-division - Member, ex officer;(c) Sub-divisional Agriculture Officer or
equivalent- Member, ex officer;(d) Assistant Conservator of Forest or
equivalent - Member, ex officer;(e) Sub-divisional officer of Irrigation or
Water Resources- Member, ex officer;(f) Block Development Officer- Member, ex
officer;(g) Assistant Director of Fisheries in the district or equivalent -
Member Convener, ex officer.(B) District Level Committee:(a) District
Collector or Deputy Commissioner of the District or Additional Collector or
Joint Collector or Additional Deputy Commissioner-Chairperson, ex officer;(b)
Revenue Divisional Officer or Sub-Collector of sub-division- Member, ex
officer;(c) Chief Executive Officer of Zila parishad or equivalent- Member, ex
officer;(d) District Head of Agriculture- Member, ex officer;(e) Divisional
Forest Officer or equivalent- Member, ex officer;(f) District Head of
Irrigation or Water Resources- Member, ex officer;(g) Representative from
Marine Products Export Development Authority- Member, ex officer;(h) any other
Government Official in the District to be co-opted by the Collector or Deputy
Commissioner of the District- Member, ex officer;(i) District Head of
Fisheries- Member Convener, ex officer.(4) Any recommendations under this rule
by the District Level Committee or the Sub- Divisional Committee, as the case
may be, shall be made by a quorum consisting of two thirds of the members
including the Chairperson and the Member Convener, at its meeting for making
such recommendation.

### 11. Manner of considering application for registration of coastal
aquaculture Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery, Live Feed Unit, Broodstock
Multiplication Centre and Nucleus Breeding Centre.

(a) Hatchery or Nauplii Rearing Hatchery or Live Feed Unit in Form-II, to the
Authority; and(b) Broodstock Multiplication Centre or a Nucleus Breeding
Centre, in the Form specified in the Guidelines for establishment and
operation of Nucleus Breeding Centres and Broodstock Multiplication Centres in
India referred to in clause (f) of rule 3, to the Central Government.(2) On
receipt of such application for prior permission under sub-rule (1), the
Authority or the Central Government, as the case may be, shall verify the
particulars given in the application along with documents attached therewith
and process the application in such manner as may be specified in the
Guidelines referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (f) of rule 3.(3) The
Authority or the Central Government shall issue a prior permission for the
construction of Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery or Live Feed Unit,
Broodstock Multiplication Centre or Nucleus Breeding Centre on being satisfied
that the application complies with the Guidelines referred to in clauses (a),
(b), (c) and (f), of rule 3;(4) Upon receipt of the prior permission under the
sub-rule (3), the owner or operator of the facility shall construct the
Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery or Live Feed Unit or Nucleus Breeding
Centre or Broodstock Multiplication Centre, in accordance with the biosecurity
measures specified in the Guidelines referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c) and
(f) of rule 3 and shall intimate the completion of construction to the
Authority for inspection of the unit, along with an application in Form-II for
registration.(5) Upon such intimation, the Technical and Inspection Committee
constituted for such purpose shall inspect the coastal aquaculture units or
activities and furnish the report with its specific recommendations to the
Authority within three weeks of such intimation.(6) The deficiencies or
shortfalls, if any, observed and communicated by the Technical and Inspection
Committee, shall be rectified by the owner or operator and the compliance of
the same shall be communicated to the Authority.(7) On receipt of compliance
report under sub-rule (5) or sub-rule (6), the Authority shall grant the
registration within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of the
application by the Authority and order of any refusal shall be communicated to
the applicant duly furnishing the reasons therefor.(8) Any owner or operator
aggrieved by an order of refusal under sub-rule (7) may, within thirty days
from the date of receipt of such order of refusal, prefer appeal to the
Chairperson in writing, who may either affirm, vary or set aside such order of
refusal.

### 12. Form for certificate of registration.

(1) The Authority may grant the certificate of registration including through
electronic means,-(a) in Form-IV, in the case of coastal aquaculture unit or
activity referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (2) of rule 9; and(b) in Form-
V, in the case of coastal aquaculture unit or activity referred to in clause
(b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 9.(2) The certificate of registration granted
under these rules shall be valid for five years from the date of such
registration and shall be renewed for similar period with the same
registration number in accordance with the procedure laid down in rule 13 and
subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
certificate.(3) In case of coastal aquaculture units established on the lands
allotted or assigned by the Government, the validity of registration of
coastal aquaculture unit shall be co terminus with the period for which the
land has been allotted or assigned or reallotted or reassigned by the
Government:Provided that the cumulative validity of such registration shall
not exceed five years and no separate application for extension of validity of
registration shall be required under this sub-rule within such period of five
years for which the land has been reallotted or reassigned.(4) The coastal
aquaculture units registered by the Authority shall have the right to access
and draw the quality saline water or seawater from the nearest source and to
discharge the treated effluent by laying pipeline without causing any damage
to the coastal environment in compliance with the procedures as may be
specified in the Guidelines.

### 13. Renewal of registration.

(1) Every application for renewal of registration of a coastal aquaculture
unit or activity shall be made by the owner or operator thereof, before ninety
days from the date of expiry of its period of validity, to the Authority in
Form-I, or Form-II, specified in Schedule-II, along with the documents
establishing the ownership and operational status of the coastal aquaculture
unit or activity.(2) The Authority on being satisfied with the application
under sub-rule(1), shall renew the registration for a further period of five
years.(3) In case of delay in making application for renewal of registration
within the period specified in sub- rule (1), the application for renewal of
registration of the coastal aquaculture unit or activity shall be accompanied
with a request for condoning the delay, specifying the reasons for the delay
and shall be accompanied by such additional fee, which shall be two times the
applicable fee for renewal of registration for the period from the date of
expiry of such registration.(4) The Authority, if satisfied that the delay was
due to sufficient cause, may condone the delay in making application for
renewal within the specified time, subject to payment of fees specified in
sub-rule (3):Provided that all the registration of whose validity has expired
as on the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette,
may be condoned on payment of such fees as the Authority deems fit, if an
application for condonation of the delay is made within one year from the date
of such publication.(5) The Authority may undertake any inquiries including
inspections, as deems fit, to conform the claims made in the application under
these rules by itself or through Sub-Divisional Level Committee or District
Level Committee and the owner or operator of coastal aquaculture unit shall be
liable for any acts of omission or commission under these rules, the Act, the
regulations or the Guidelines.(6) The fees payable for renewal of registration
shall be the same as specified in Schedule-I for registration of a coastal
aquaculture unit or activity and shall be paid to the Authority in the form of
a Demand Draft or electronically through online mode.(7) The time limit for
consideration of renewal of registration shall be as specified in the
regulations.(8) Where the Authority is satisfied that further continuation of
the said coastal aquaculture unit or activity is harmful to the coastal
environment, it shall refuse to renew the registration thereof:Provided that
the Authority shall, before such refusal for renewal of the registration, give
the concerned owner or operator, an opportunity for being heard and a copy of
the order together with the reasons for the refusal shall be communicated to
such owner or operator.(9) Any owner or operator aggrieved by an order of
refusal of renewal may, within thirty days from the date of receipt by him of
a copy of the order of refusal, appeal to the Chairperson who may affirm, vary
or set aside such order.

### 14. Issuance of duplicate certificate of registration of coastal
aquaculture unit or certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs.

(1) Any loss or mutilation of the certificate of registration of a coastal
aquaculture unit or activity or a certificate of compliance for aquaculture
inputs shall be reported forthwith, by the owner or operator, to the police
authority concerned.(2) The application for grant of a duplicate certificate
of registration of coastal aquaculture unit or certificate of compliance for
aquaculture inputs shall be accompanied with a fee of five hundred rupees to
be paid electronically or in the form of a Demand Draft drawn in favour of the
Coastal Aquaculture Authority along with a non-traceable certificate issued by
the police authority concerned or a self-declaration in the case of damaged
certificate.(3) The Authority shall issue a duplicate certificate of
registration of the coastal aquaculture unit or a duplicate certificate of
compliance for aquaculture inputs, as the case may be, ordinarily within
fifteen days from the date of receipt of such application after duly verifying
the facts and documentary evidence, if any, and satisfying itself as to the
genuineness of the application.

### 15. Cancellation of registration.

(1) Where the Authority is satisfied that any person has obtained a
certificate of registration under sub-rule (1) of rule 12 by furnishing false
information or in contravention of any of the provisions of these rules or of
the conditions mentioned in the certificate of registration, it shall, without
any prejudice to any other action that may be taken against such person,
cancel the certificate of registration of coastal aquaculture unit or
activity:Provided that before cancelling such certificate, the person
concerned shall be given an opportunity of being heard and a copy of the order
together with the reasons for the cancellation shall be communicated to the
person concerned.(2) Any person aggrieved by an order of cancellation under
this rule may, within thirty days from the date of receipt by him of a copy of
the order of cancellation, appeal to the Chairperson who may either affirm,
vary or set aside such order.

### 16. Transfer of ownership or interest therein of coastal aquaculture unit
or activity.

(1) Every application for transfer of ownership or interest therein of coastal
aquaculture unit by way of sale or by operation of law, shall be made with
documentary evidence for substantiating the claim and accompanied with the
fees as specified in Schedule-I.(2) The Authority shall, after making such
enquiry as it deems fit, allow the transfer of ownership of coastal
aquaculture unit for the remaining period of validity of registration
ordinarily within a period of fifteen days from the date of receipt of such
application:Provided that the Authority may, by order, refuse an application
for transfer of ownership or interest therein of a coastal aquaculture unit if
the applicant fails to furnish the information asked for or furnishes
incorrect information and a copy of the order together with reasons for such
refusal shall be communicated to the applicant.(3) Any owner or operator
aggrieved by an order of refusal under sub-rule (2) may, within thirty days
from the date of receipt of such order of refusal, prefer an appeal to the
Chairperson in writing who may either affirm, vary or set aside such order of
refusal.(4) If, during the period of validity of the registration, the owner
or operator of a coastal aquaculture unit or activity desires to make any
change in the certificate of registration, he shall apply to the Authority at
least thirty days before the expiry of the period of validity of such
registration and the Authority shall after making such enquiries, as it
considers necessary, where it agrees to the change, cause the details of such
change to be entered in the certificate of registration.

### 17. Manner of assessing cost of damage to environment.

(1) The Authority shall constitute a committee to be called the environmental
monitoring committee consisting of such members as it deems fit, to assess the
cost of damage to the environment and cost of demolition as may be specified
in the Guidelines.(2) The operator or owner of such coastal aquaculture unit
or activity shall be liable for payment of the assessed cost of damage to
coastal environment, including the cost of demolition of such unit, into the
account of the Authority.(3) The receipts of amount shall be maintained by the
Authority and be utilised for the purposes as may be specified in the
Guidelines.

### 18. Standards and certification of aquaculture inputs.

(1) The Authority shall constitute expert committees consisting of independent
scientific experts including representatives from stake holders as it deems
appropriate, who shall recommend -(a) new standards of product or
labelling;(b) standards of product or labelling developed by any other
competent authority or institution, for different categories of aquaculture
inputs for adoption; and(c) for prohibition of such pharmacologically active
substance, antimicrobial agent or other material, the use of which in coastal
aquaculture may cause harm to human health, based on the best scientific
evidences available to it, including the following, namely: -(i)
Chloramphenicol;(ii)Nitrofurans including: Furaltadone, Furazolidone,
Furylfuramide, Nifuratel,Nifuroxime, Nifurprazine, Nitrofurantoin,
Nitrofurazone;(iii) Neomycin;(iv) Nalidixic acid;(v) Sulphamethoxazole;(vi)
Aristolochiaspp and preparations thereof;(vii) Chloroform;(viii)
Chlorpromazine;(ix) Colchicine;(x) Dapsone;(xi) Dimetridazole;(xii)
Metronidazole;(xiii) Ronidazole;(xiv) Ipronidazole;(xv) Other
nitroimidazoles;(xvi) Clenbuterol;(xvii) Diethylstilbestrol (DES);(xviii)
Sulfonamide drugs (except approved Sulfadimethoxine;(xix) Sulfabromomethazine
and Sulfaethoxypyridazine);(xx) Fluroquinolones;(xxi) Glycopeptides.(2) On the
acceptance of the recommendation of such expert committee, the Authority
shall, from time to time, -(a) specify the standards developed or adopted for
different categories of aquaculture inputs;(b) by an order, prohibit such
pharmacologically active substance, antimicrobial agent or other material for
use in any coastal aquaculture;(c) undertake such other measures as may be
recommended by the expert committees for confirming the standards and freedom
from pharmacologically active substances, antimicrobial agents and other
prohibited substances;(d) provide adequate publicity to the standards for
different categories of inputs and share the list of such pharmacologically
active substance, antimicrobial agent or other material that are prohibited
for use in any coastal aquaculture activity with all the stakeholders
concerned.(3) No aquaculture inputs shall be made available or used in coastal
aquaculture without the certification from the Authority, except those
specifically exempted by the Authority, as may be specified in the Guidelines
for certificate of compliance for aquaculture input referred to in clause (e)
of rule 3.(4) Every application for certificate of compliance of an
aquaculture input shall be in Form-III, accompanied with such documents as
specified in Schedule-III, and with a fee of ten thousand rupees per product
to be paid electronically or in the form of a Demand Draft drawn in favor of
the Coastal Aquaculture Authority.(5) The Authority shall scrutinise the
application including the documents furnished therewith to conform that the
aquaculture input complies with the standards and is free from the
pharmacologically active substances, antimicrobial agents and other prohibited
substances, as specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for
aquaculture input referred to in clause (e) of rule 3.(6) Where the Authority
is satisfied that the aquaculture input conforms to the standards, the
Authority may grant the certificate of compliance through electronic means in
Form-VI.(7) The grant of certification or refusal, as the case may be, shall
be made within a period of ninety days from the date of receipt of application
for certification.(8) The certificate of compliance granted under the sub-rule
(6) shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of grant of such
certificate of compliance.(9) Every application for the renewal of validity of
certificate of compliance of an aquaculture input shall be in Form-III,
accompanied with such documents specified in Schedule-III and fee as specified
in sub-rule 4.(10) The certificate of compliance of an aquaculture input
granted under sub-rule (6) shall be renewed by the Authority for a similar
period in accordance with the procedures specified in the Guidelines for
certificate of compliance for aquaculture input referred to in clause (e) of
rule 3.(11) The Authority shall monitor the compliance of aquaculture inputs
in the manner specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for
aquaculture input referred to in clause (e) of rule 3.

### 19. Health monitoring, disease surveillance and Specific Pathogen Free
certification.

(1) The Specific Pathogen Free certification shall be mandatory for -(a) all
Broodstock Multiplication Centres, Nucleus Breeding Centres, Live Feed Units
for Artemia and Polychaete worms and the stocks therein; and(b) any other
coastal aquaculture unit or stock as the Central Government may, by an order,
specify from time to time.(2) The Authority may recommend the need for
Specific Pathogen Free certification for any coastal aquaculture units and
stocks.(3) The Central Government may, from time to time, specify -(a) the
competent authority for effective implementation of health monitoring, disease
surveillance and Specific Pathogen Free certification;(b) the list of referral
laboratories;(c) the pathogens of concern or any other matter connected
therewith, for species-specific coastal aquaculture unit in consultation with
the Technical Advisory Committee constituted for the purpose.(4) The Central
Government may grant -(a) accreditation of Specific Pathogen Free status to
any coastal aquaculture unit or stock; and(b) authorisation to sell the stocks
as High Health or Specific Pathogen Free stock.(5) The process of health
monitoring, disease surveillance, chain of custody sampling and testing to
conform the freedom from diseases or pathogens and the manner of certification
shall be as specified in the Guidelines for health monitoring, disease
surveillance and Specific Pathogen Free certification of coastal aquaculture
units and stocks in India, referred to in clause (d) of rule 3.

### 20. The form and time for preparation of budget.

(1) The Authority shall, in each financial year, prepare a budget for the
Authority for the next financial year and submit it for sanction to the
Central Government on or before such dates as may be appointed by the Central
Government.(2) No expenditure shall be incurred until the budget is sanctioned
by the Central Government and the sanction for that expenditure by the
competent authorities is received.(3) The budget shall be prepared containing
the following or as may be directed by the Central Government, indicating,
-(a) the estimated opening balance;(b) the estimated receipts referred to in
sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Act;(c) the estimated expenditure
classified under the following broad heads or such other heads as per the
schemes approved by the Central Government, namely:-(i) administration;(ii)
development;(iii) statistics;(iv) inspection or works;(v) financial and other
assistance / subsidy scheme;(vi) others.(4) Wherever applicable, full details
shall be given under various sub-heads for each broad head specified in sub-
rule (3), indicating estimated expenditure including that of pay of officers,
expenses of establishment, allowance, honoraria, contingencies, and the
like.(5) Supplementary estimates of expenditure, if any, shall be submitted
for the sanction of the Central Government in such form and on such dates as
may be directed by it in this behalf.

### 21. The form and time for preparation and submission of annual report.

(1) The Chairperson or such employee of the Authority as may be authorised in
this behalf, shall prepare, as soon as may be after the commencement of each
financial year, an annual report which shall include an account of the
activities of the Authority during the previous financial year, containing the
following information, namely: -(a) a statement of corporate and operational
goals and objectives of the Authority;(b) annual targets and physical and
financial terms set for various activities together with a brief review of the
actual performance with reference to those targets;(c) an administrative
report on the activities of the Authority during the previous financial year
and an account of the activities which are likely to be taken up during the
next financial year;(d) a summary of the actual financial results during the
previous financial year and year of report;(e) important changes in policy and
specific measures either taken or proposed to be taken, which have influenced
or are likely to influence the profitability or functioning of the
Authority;(f) new projects or expansion schemes contemplated, together with
their advantages, financial implications and programme for execution;(g)
important changes in the organisational set up of the Authority;(h) report on
employer-employee relations and welfare activities of the Authority; and(i)
report on such other miscellaneous subjects as may be deemed fit by the
Authority or the Central Government, for reporting to the latter.(2) The
annual report shall be placed for adoption in the meeting of the Authority and
shall be signed by the Chairperson or in his absence by two members authorised
for the purpose by the Chairperson and authenticated by fixing the common seal
of the Authority and required copies thereof shall be submitted to the Central
Government by the 31st day of December of the following year.

### 22. Form and manner of maintaining accounts of Authority.

(1) The Authority shall maintain accounts of all receipts and expenditure
relating to every financial year.(2) A separate bank account shall be
maintained for the registration fee.(3) The expenditure incurred in a
particular financial year shall be shown under separate heads and sub-
heads.(4) The opening balance, if any, shall also be stated as such,
separately.(5) The closing balance of the year shall be shown at the foot of
the accounts on the expenditure side.(6) The books of accounts and other books
in relation to the accounts will be maintained in the form as laid down in the
various General Financial Rules, the Central Treasury Rules and the Receipts
and Payment Rules, in force from time to time.(7) Except as otherwise provided
in these rules, the provisions of the Central Treasury Rules, the Delegation
of Financial Power Rules, 1978 and the General Financial Rules, 2017 of the
Central Government, for the time being in force, shall subject to such
modifications or adaptations as may be made by the Authority therein with the
previous approval of the Central Government, apply to all financial
transactions of the Authority.Schedule-I[See rules 9 (3)(a), 13(6) and
16(1)]**Fee for registration/renewal/transfer of ownership or interest therein
of coastal aquaculture units or activities**

|  | **Fee**  
---|---|---  
SR NO. | **Coastal aquaculture unit or activity** | **Registration / renewal/ transfer of ownership or interest therein**  
| Farm  
1 | Up to 5.0 hectare water spread area | Two hundred rupees (or fraction of a hectare), subject to a minimum of five hundred rupees  
Above 5 hectare up to 10 hectare water spread area | One thousand rupees plus five hundred rupees per hectare (or fraction of a hectare) in excess of 5 hectares.  
Above 10 hectare water spread area | Three thousand five hundred rupees plus One thousand rupees per hectare (or fraction and above of a hectare) in excess of 10 hectares.  
2 | Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery, Live Feed Unit | Registration fee of ten thousand rupees  
Monitoring fee of fifty thousand rupees and  
Performance guarantee as may be specified by the Authority.  
3 | Broodstock Multiplication Centre or Nucleus Breeding Centre | Registration fee of twenty thousand rupees  
Monitoring fee for freedom from disease and  
Performance guarantee as may be specified by the Authority.  
4 | Sea weed culture | Rupees one hundred per registration  
5 | Pen culture, raft culture and cage culture etc. | Two rupees per cubic meter subject to minimum of Two hundred rupees  
**6** | **Recirculatory Aquaculture System and Bio- floc systems in indoor or outdoor cement cisterns** | **Ten rupees per cubic meter subject to minimum of five hundred rupees**  
  
Schedule-II _[See rules 9(1), (3)(b) and 13(1)]_**Application Forms and
documents for registration/renewal of coastal aquaculture unit or activities**

SR NO. | **Farm, seaweed culture, pen culture, raft culture, cage culture, Recirculatory Aquaculture System and Bio-floc** | **Hatchery, Nauplii Rearing Hatchery, Live Feed Unit, Broodstock Multiplication Centre and Nucleus Breeding Centre**  
---|---|---  
**1** | Duly filled in application in Form-I | Duly filled in Form-II  
**2** | Applicable registration fee | Applicable registration fee  
proof of electronic payments including Unique Transaction Reference Number | proof of electronic payments including Unique Transaction Reference Number  
**3** | Copy of the registered sale deed / lease deed of the site / proof of Government assigned /allotment document/ in local language and the translated English version with self-attestation | Copy of the registered sale deed / lease deed of the site / proof of Government assigned /allotment document/ in local language and the translated English version with self-attestation  
**4** | Partnership deed, if applicable | Partnership deed, if applicable  
**5** | Company/Firm registration certificate (if applicable) | Company /firm registration certificate. If leased, copy of the registered lease agreement  
**6** | Copy of Field Measurement Book sketch of the site | Copy of Field Measurement Book sketch of the site  
**7** | Layout of the farm (Duly depicting the layout of Effluent Treatment Plant for farms with water spread area more than 5 hectares and also for farming of exotic species with stocking density of above 20 Number. Post Larvae per meter2 irrespective of the extent of water spread area) | Declaration in Part A of Form-II on fifty rupees non judicial stamp paper  
**8** | Blueprint for the construction approved by the competent authority if any and if applicable | Blueprint for the construction approved by the competent authority  
**9** | Environment Impact Assessment report (Mandatory for farms /mariculture units above 10 hectare water spread area) | Layout of the Hatchery or Nauplii Rearing Hatchery or Broodstock Multiplication Centre or Nucleus Breeding Centre along with drainage system  
**10** | Environment Management Plan report (Mandatory for farms/mariculture units above 40 hectare water spread area) | Water quality test report from the water source  
**11** | No Objection Certificate from local administration | No Objection Certificate from local administration  
**12** | Project report, if applicable | Certified audited financial statement of the firm for the last three years (if applicable)  
**13** | Any other document (please specify) | Terms and conditions of agreement with the Indian firms  
**14** | - | Copy of the Memorandum of Understanding/agreement indicating a firm commitment for the supply of Specific Pathogen Free shrimp Broodstock or Parent Post-larvae as per the requirement  
**15** | - | Certificate of freedom from disease issued by Competent Authority for the facility for at least for a continuous period of two years  
**16** | - | Diagnostic reports of the facility of the overseas supplier during the recent surveillance from a Government authorised or World Organisation for Animal Health referral laboratory  
  
Schedule-III[See rules 18(4) and (9)]Application Form and documents for
certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs / renewal

**Sr. No.** | **Form and documents**  
---|---  
**1** | Duly filled application for each product separately in Form-III  
**2** | Applicable processing fee in the form of a Demand Draft  
**3** | Details of applicant company such as certificate of incorporation, Goods and Services Tax certificate, micro, small or medium enterprises, etc.)  
**4** | Copy of the agreement between applicant company and merchant manufacturer (if applicable) (for Indian manufactured product only)  
**5** | Details of manufacturing facility (License to work a factory/ Good Manufacturing Practice or Best Aquaculture Practices or Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point System or International Organisation for Standardisation certificate of registration, etc.) (applicable for both Indian manufactured product and imported product)  
**6** | Process certification for imported product (Good Manufacturing Practice or Best Aquaculture Practices or Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point System or International Organisation for Standardisation or any other certificate)  
**7** | Original label, in accordance with the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs referred to in clause (e) of rule 3  
**8** | Manufacturing Process (Detailed) and testing process for quality control  
**9** | Original laboratory report (NOT earlier than a month) from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories accredited laboratory for the parameters as specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs referred to in clause (e) of rule 3  
**10** | Undertaking for sample retention and reimbursing the cost of samples collected by the task force in the format specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs referred to in clause (e) of rule 3  
**11** | Notarised self-declaration in the format specified in the Guidelines for certificate of compliance for aquaculture inputs referred to in clause (e) of rule 3  
**12** | Notarised agreement between applicant company and overseas principal manufacturer (for imported products only)  
**13** | Health certificate / sanitary certificate/ veterinary certificate or any other certification indicating antibiotic- free status issued by the country of origin  
**14** | Tamper proof mechanism if any available (with detailed description and illustration)  
**15** | List of records maintained in the unit  
  
**Form-I** _[See rules 9(1), (2)(a) and 13 (1)]_**Application for
registration/renewal of coastal aquaculture unit or activity referred to in
clause (a) of sub-rule (2) of rule 9** 1\. Applicant details :Passport size
photo(a) Name of the applicant(s)/ registered company/ establishment (in BLOCK
LETTERS):(b) Permanent Address:(c) Address for Communication:(d) Mobile number
:(e)Email ID :(f) Aadhar Number:2\. Details of coastal aquaculture
unit/activity: farms; nursery; seaweed culture; pen culture; raft culture;
cage culture; Recirculatory Aquaculture System ; Bio-floc systems for which
registration is applied for: please specify :(a) State:(b) District:(c) Taluk
/ mandal:(d) Revenue village:(e) Survey Number(s):(f) Geo coordinates
(mandatory for mariculture units)LatitudeLongitude(g) Ownership right (whether
freehold or lease hold or Government assigned / allotted land/coastal public
water bodies) please furnish details:(h) Validity period of lease hold /
Government assigned / allotted land/coastal water bodiesFromTo3\. Type of
culture for which registration is applied for(a) Farm with earthen Ponds(b)
Pens(c) Cages(d) Rafts(e) Enclosures(f) Others (specify)4\. Details of the
coastal aquaculture unit/activity: farms; nursery; seaweed culture; pen
culture; raft culture; cage culture; Recirculatory Aquaculture System ; Bio-
floc systems(a) Newly constructedYes / No(b) Already existing / operatingYes /
No(c) If , already existing/operating, details of the following(i) Date of
commencement of operations(ii) If previously registered by Coastal Aquaculture
Authority, registration number and expiry date(d) Total areaNumberUnit
areaTotal area(1) coastal aquaculture unit: farms; nursery; Recirculatory
Aquaculture System ; Bio-floc systems (hectare)(2) seaweed culture: pen
culture; raft culture; cage culture; Mariculture units (meter2/ meter3)(e)
Water Spread AreaNumberWater spread area per unitTotal water spread area(1)
coastal aquaculture unit: farms; nursery; Recirculatory Aquaculture System;
Bio-floc systems (hectare)(2) seaweed culture: pen culture; raft culture; cage
culture; Mariculture units (meter2/ meter3)5\. If the whole or a part of the
above coastal aquaculture unit(s) falls under any one of the following
categories, please furnish detailsCategoryVillageSurvey NumberExtent (in
hectare)(a) Agricultural land(b) Forests land(c) Land for village common
purpose(d) Land meant for public purpose(e) Wetland(f) Mangrove6\. Water
source for the aquaculture unit(a) SeaYes / No(b) Creek/estuary/ canal/ back
waterYes / No(c) If water source is as mentioned in (b) above, indicate the
name of the source7\. Distances of the unit site from the following(a) High
tide line(b) Nearest drinking water source(c) Agricultural land(d) Mangrove(e)
Marine protected area(f) Adjacent aquaculture farm(g) Human settlements
(Indicate the population of the settlement)(h) National parks(i)
Sanctuaries(j) Reserve forests(k) Breeding, spawning grounds and other aquatic
life(l) Beaches(m) Coral reefs(n) Heritage area8\. Species and stocking
densitySpeciesStocking density (Numbers per meter2/ meter3)(a) Crustacean(b)
Mollusc(c) Finfish(d) Seaweed(e) Any other9\. Details of bio-security
arrangements(a) Crab fencing(b) Bird fencing(c) Hand wash / foot bath(d)
Reservoirs(e) Filters10\. Furnish Project Report giving details with sketch
(to scale) of design and layout of the aquaculture farm in operation/ proposed
along with operational details, water intake and wastewater treatment facility
:11\. If Effluent Treatment System has been in operation/ proposed, please
furnish layout, design and technical details :12\. Whether Environment Impact
Assessment/ Environment Management Plan were carried out on the environment of
the aquaculture farm with reference to other land uses in its neighbourhood
and based on operational details of the unit as furnished in the project
report, please state specifically, whether :(a) the aquaculture activity has
the effect of causing water logging of adjacent areas or polluting the
drinking water source :(b) by use of supplementary feeds/ medicines / drugs,
etc. will consequently increase sedimentation which will be harmful to the
environment:(c) such activity would cause siltation, turbidity with
detrimental implication on local fauna and flora :13\. If, Environment Impact
Assessment has been done, please attach the report (Mandatory for coastal
aquaculture unit /mariculture units above 10 hectare water spread area) :14\.
If Environment Management Plan has been drawn up, please furnish details
(Mandatory for coastal aquaculture unit /mariculture units above 40hectare
water spread area) :15\. Details of remittance of processing fee
:**Declaration** I/ We
___________________________________________________________ son (s) / daughter
(s) / wife of_ ________________________________residing at_
__________________________________________________________ hereby declare that
the information furnished above is true to the best of my/our knowledge and
belief. The coastal aquaculture unit /mariculture operations carried out by
me/ us had not neither polluted the environment nor damaged the ecology of the
adjacent area. I am / we are fully aware that if it is found that the
information furnished by me / us is false or there is any kind of deviation /
violation of the conditions on which certificate of registration may be issued
by the Authority, the certificate of registration issued may be either
suspended or cancelled and liable for penal action under Coastal Aquaculture
Authority Act or the rules, regulations and guidelines made
thereunder.Place:Date:Signature of the applicant or applicants**Form-II**
_[See rules 9(1), (2)(b), 11 (1)(a), (4) and 13 (1)]_**Application for
registration/renewal of coastal aquaculture unit or activity referred to in
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) (b) of rule 9**

