## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Code of Regulations for Approved Nursery and Primary Schools

TAMILNADU  
India

# Code of Regulations for Approved Nursery and Primary Schools

## Rule CODE-OF-REGULATIONS-FOR-APPROVED-NURSERY-AND-PRIMARY-SCHOOLS of 1991

  * Published on 24 April 1991 
  * Commenced on 24 April 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 April 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Code of Regulations for Approved Nursery and Primary SchoolsPublished vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 484, Education, dated 24th April 1991

## Chapter I  
Introduction

### 1. (i) The Code applies to Approved Nursery and Primary Schools under the
control of Director of Elementary Education, Tamil Nadu.

(ii)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may by
notification appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- The Approved Nursery/Primary Schools in this Code signifies the schools
which were approved by the Department of Elementary Education. In this Code,
unless the context otherwise requires,-(i)The term "School" signifies Approved
Nursery and Primary Schools;(ii)The term "Government" signifies the Government
of Tamil Nadu;(iii)The term "Director"- signifies the Director of Elementary
Education;(iv)Headmaster/Headmistress denotes the head of Approved Nursery and
Primary Schools;(v)"Educational Agency" means any person or body of person
which has established and is administering or proposes to establish and
administer such Nursery and Primary Schools;(vi)The term "Board" means Board
of approved Nursery and Primary Schools.

### 3.

The responsibility of maintenance and control of every Approved
Nursery/Primary School shall vest in a governing body which shall be
responsible for the fulfilment of all the conditions. The governing body may
entrust the management of a school to a Manager or/and a Correspondent
responsible to it. But, such delegation will not divest of ultimate
responsibility to the Department and Government. The Manager or/and
Correspondent duly appointed by the governing body of the Educational Agency
shall be approved by the Department.In communicating with the department, the
Manager or Correspondent should invariably address the Director of Elementary
Education or the authority appointed by him.

### 4.

The interpretation of any Article in this Code shall vest with the

### 5.

The appendices to the Code shall have the same effect as Articles of the Code
and shall be treated as part of the Code.

### 6.

The Approved Primary/Nursery Schools will be considered as a separate entity
by the Department.

### 7.

The Schools will continue to be fee based and use English or Tamil or other
minority languages as medium of instruction.

### 7A.

Tamil should be taught compulsorily in the Nursery Classes and Standards I to
V. In the case of pupils whose mother tongue is not Tamil and who wish to
study their own language under Second Language, Tamil be made a Compulsory
Additional Language.

### 8.

This Code shall be applicable also to Pre-primary Classes, Std. I to V of
Approved Nursery /Primary Schools.

### 8A.

The Management should be prepared to rim the Institution without any kind of
Grant-in-aid from the Government all the time.

### 8B.

A separate Board of Approved Nursery and Primary Schools will be constituted.

## Chapter II  
Approval of Unrecognised Nursery/primary Schools

### 9.

All unrecognised Nursery/Primary Schools as on will be given approval by the
Department on submission of particulars in the proforma prescribed (Annexure
I). Approval will be accorded for Nursery Classes and Primary Classes, i.e.,
Standards I to V that actually exist.

### 10. Powers to grant Approval.

\- (i) The competent authority to grant approval to an unapproved of Nursery/
Primary Schools or to upgrade the existing school will be the Director or an
Officer authorised by him. The application will be made in proforma prescribed
in Annexure I. The fees to be paid in respect of every application to open an
Approved Nursery/Primary School shall be Rs. 500. The fee shall be credited to
Government under the Head of Account prescribed by the Department.(ii)A list
of Approved Nursery/Primary Schools approved by the Department shall be placed
before the Board for information.(iii)The following conditions shall be
satisfied for the purpose of approval.(a)[ The Educational Agency shall
produce- [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 117, School Education (Q-l). Department,
dated the 7th September 2004.](1)a licence permitting the use of the School
building as public Building under the Tamil Nadu Public Buildings (Licensing)
Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act XIII of 1965);(2)a structural stability certificate
of the School building issued by the Executive Engineers of the Public Works
Department or from the Chartered Engineers in the panel of qualified and
Registered Engineers maintained by the District Collectors in accordance with
the Tamil Nadu Public Buildings (Licensing) Act, 1965;(3)a Sanitary and
Hygiene Certificate issued by the Health Officer of the locality; and(4)a No
Objection Certificate obtained from the Station Officer (Fire and Rescue) in
the area, where the School is situated.(aa)There shall not be any thatched
structure in the School Premises.](b)Where the licence has been issued for a
specific period, the fresh licence shall be produced before the expiry of the
period of validity of the said licence.(c)The Educational Agency must satisfy
that the school is actually needed in the locality or district and that it has
sufficient buildings, class rooms, laboratories, furniture, sanitary
facilities and adequate grounds for Physical Training activities.[xxx]
[Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 85, School Education (Ql) Department, dated the 20th
June 2003.](d)The Management should create an endowment as prescribed below
which shall be deposited in any small savings scrip within three months and
send a copy of the Deposit Receipt to the Director or an Officer authorised by
him for verification.

Strength | Endowment  
---|---  
(i) Schools with up to 100 pupils. | Rs. 5,000  
(ii) Schools with 101-250 pupils. | Rs. 7,500  
(iii) Schools with 251-500 pupils. | Rs. 15,000 (in three equal annual instalments)  
(iv) Schools with above 501 pupils. |  Rs. 25,000 (in three annual instalments) Rs.10,000+ Rs. 10,000+ Rs. 5,000 ---  
  
(e)In addition to the creation of the endowment referred to above in the case
of new schools, the Educational Agency shall also deposit in any scheduled-
bank in the name of the school, a sum equivalent to a minimum of one month's
salary of the staff employed in the school to serve as a working capital of
the school which may be drawn for the disbursement of salary to the members of
the staff on the due date in the event of any delay in the disbursement of
salary.(f)The Educational Agency in the case of new schools should have
fulfilled all the conditions stipulated by the competent authority at the time
of according approval to open the school. No school shall be permitted to
function without approval. Nobody will be permitted to start the school
without getting the approval from the competent authority.(g)The school shall
be situated in a building which is accessible to all castes and
communities.(h)The management of a school shall not appoint any teacher whose
certificate has been suspended or cancelled or who has been declared unfit to
be a teacher in approved schools or who has been convicted for offences
involving moral turpitude.(i)It shall be open to the competent authority to
reject the application of a new school for approval if he considers that any
one of the conditions has not been satisfied.(j)The Director or Officer
authorised by him may visit an approved school during school hours.(k)The
sanitary certificate must be obtained from the Competent Health
Authorities.(l)The Educational Agency should adopt a common curriculum
prescribed by the Government with freedom for teachers to innovate teaching
methodologies. An approved Nursery/Primary School should follow only approved
text books which are prepared/approved in accordance with the prescribed
curriculum and syllabus for the pre-primary and primary classes. Guide books
will be supplied for all the subjects.(m)The approval is given for LKG, UKG, I
Std. to V Std. in English, Tamil medium and other minority languages.(n)Annual
affiliation continuance fee shall be as follows:-

No. of pupils |  | Annual Affiliation Fees  
---|---|---  
Up to -100 | - | Rs. 150  
101-250 | - | Rs. 250  
251-500 | - | Rs. 400  
501 and above | - | Rs. 500  
  
(o)[ Further approval, to those Nursery/Primary Schools which have already got
the approval of the Education Department will continue only if they come
forward to teach any two of the three subjects, under Part III through the
Medium of Tamil.] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 97, School Education (C2), dated
the 9th April 1999.]

### 11. Withdrawal of permission.

(a)The competent authority for withdrawing approval of a Nursery/Primary
School will be the Director or an Officer authorised by him.(b)The approval
shall be withdrawn permanently or for any specified period by the Director or
an Officer authorised by him after a proper enquiry, if the Educational Agency
or its authorised representative violates any one of the conditions stipulated
for approval.

### 11A. [ Admission in Elementary Schools. [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 97,
School Education (C2), dated the 9th April 1999.]

\- Boys and Girls who are studying / have studied in approved schools,
approved under Regulation for approved Nursery and Primary Schools, Tamil Nadu
or recognised schools, recognised under the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private
Schools (Regulation) Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1974) and the Tamil Nadu
Recognised Private Schools (Regulation) Rules, 1974 are eligible for admission
in recognised schools. Any pupil who studied in an unapproved or unrecognised
school, as the case may be, shall be admitted in the eligible standard and
based on the performance in the entrance test conducted by the recognised
school in which they are seeking admission provided they satisfy the other
conditions for admission. A pupil from an unrecognised school shall not be
admitted into a standard above standard VI.]

## Chapter III  
Admission And Withdrawals

### 12. Admission.

\- (i) The Headmaster/Headmistress will have the right of admission and will
also be responsible for admission and to Rules and Instructions issued by the
Department from time to time.(ii)A pupil with a valid transfer certificate
shall be admitted to the standard to which the transfer certificate declare
him/her fit. The pupil should not be placed in a class higher or
lower.(iii)Age of Pupils.-Pupils admitted into pre-primary classes and five
years of age on 31st July of that year, 31st July will be the reference date.
No exemption from the operation of the age rules will be applied for or
sanctioned for pupils studying in Standard I for it defeats the very purpose
of having a minimum age limit.(iv)Age rules need not be applied in other
Standard for pupils who are coming for admission with valid transfer
certificates from other recognised schools.(v)Age rules should be applied to
the pupils as applicable to pupils of recognised Schools. The Director or an
Officer authorised by him is competent to give exemption up to a period for
six months in deserving cases on the recommendation of Headmaster/Headmistress
in the case of admission in Std. II and above.(vi)Application of admission
shall be made in the form prescribed in Annexure II. The
Headmaster/Headmistress may at his/her discretion demand a valid birth
certificate at the time of admission. Baptism Certificate may be accepted as
equal to birth certificate. The date of birth once entered will not be altered
except when on obviously absurd entry has to be corrected or when a civil
court directs correction in any individual case. In these cases, the
correction should be made only under the orders of Director or Officer
authorised by him and should be attested by an Officer authorised by the
Director.(vii)No pupil who has not attended an approved school in the first
term shall be admitted in the second term to any of the approved school
without the prior permission of the Director or an Officer authorised by him.
(The first term will constitute the months from June to December, and the
Second term will constitute the months from January to April).(viii)Transfer
Certificates received from other States should bear the counter signature of
the Inspecting Officer of the concerned State.

### 13. Withdrawal.

\- Transfer Certificate may be issued only on application by parents or
guardians in writing. Transfer Certificates should not be issued in the case
of pupils debarred till the period is over. A form for Transfer Certificate is
given in Annexure III.

## Chapter IV  
School Regulations

### 14.

(i)School Hours.- The ordinary school day shall consist of not less than four
hours in Stds. I to V. The holding of school for more than three consecutive
hours is prohibited. In the lower classes, if the pupils are young, at least
one break of fifteen minutes shall be allowed where the course of continuous
instructions extends to three hours.(ii)Working days.-The minimum number of
working days in a year should be 220 including Examination Days. At the
beginning of an academic year, the schools will draw up a list of working days
and holidays and send the same to the Director or an Officer authorised by
him.(iii)School Uniform:(a)Uniform for Teachers and Headmistresses:Yellow
Saree and Yellow Blouse.(b)Uniform for Boys:Navy Blue shorts and White half
shirts, Black shoes with white socks, Blue tie with school badge.(c)Uniform
for Girls:Navy Blue Skirts, White Blouse, Blue socks, Blue tie with School
badge.Admission in excess of 50 pupils in a standard or a section of a
standard should not be made without the prior permission of the Director or an
Officer authorised by him provided there is sufficient accommodation. There
should not be more than four sections in a class. Each section should have a
separate classroom. To open a fifth section for a standard, permission should
be obtained from the Director or an Officer authorised by him. Information
shall be given to the Director or an officer authorised by him when a section
is closed down.(iv)The name of the school should be as found in the approval
order. The name of the school will be exhibited prominently in Tamil and
English.

### 15. Annual promotion.

\- Promotions will be made annually by the Headmaster/Headmistress. The
Headmaster/Headmistress will be ultimately responsible for promotion. There
will be no double promotion in any one year.The Headmaster/Headmistress will
draw the principle of promotions every year in consultation with the Staff
Council. Principles may differ for each standard and section. But once
principles are framed there should be no deviation. Standard wise principles
of promotion and detention lists should be recorded in a register and signed
by the Headmaster/ Headmistress and teachers concerned within a week after the
completion of promotions and before publishing the results. However, the
promotion rules applicable to recognised primary schools shall be applied. ^

## Chapter V  
Financial Side of Approved Nursery and Primary Schools

### 16.

(i)The approved Nursery and Primary schools will, continue to enjoy the
financial autonomy hitherto enjoyed by them. They will ensure that the fees
that they are levying are reasonable and are commensurate with the expenditure
involved and amenities provided. After the financial year is over, the
accounts are to be audited by a Chartered Accountant and a certificate signed
by the auditor to the effect that the accounts have been audited, should be
sent to the Director or an Officer authorised by him within a month after the
completion of audit.(ii)The teaching and non-teaching staff in Approved
Nursery and Primary Schools should be paid decent salary proportionate to the
income of the School which is primarily made up of School Fees.

## Chapter Vi  
Staff

### 17. Qualification of the Staff.

\- The Staff will be qualified in accordance with the rules prescribed in
Annexure V to the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools (Regulation) Rules,
1974 insofar as it applied to the members of staff in these schools:Proviso:
Only Lady Teachers be appointed for Nursery Classes and for Standards I to
V.(a)The teaching staff who are untrained at the time of approval will be
retained conditionally in service till they undergo proper training courses.
The teaching and non-teaching staff can be appointed by the respective
managements.(b)The teachers to be appointed in future in the existing approved
Nursery and Primary Schools and the teachers to be appointed in the new
Nursery and Primary Schools to be opened should be qualified trained teachers
only.

### 18.

The members of the staff including the Headmaster/Headmistress will retire at
the age of 58. If they have to retire in the middle of the academic year, they
will continue to be re-employed till the close of the academic year, i.e.,
31st May. The Director is empowered to give extension for a period of two
years only. One year at a time in respect of Headmaster/Headmistress of
unrecognised Nursery/Primary Schools who attain the age of 58 in special cases
provided that the services, conduct and character of the
Headmaster/Headmistress are extraordinarily satisfactory and the management,
also recommends and he/she is physically fit to continue in service for the
period to be extended.

### 19.

In a vacancy, member of teaching and non-teaching staff shall be appointed
only on probation for a period of 12 months from the date of his/her
appointment. But, the school authority may, before the expiry of that period
extend it, to a further period not exceeding 12 months for reasons to be given
in writing to the teacher and acknowledged by the teacher.

### 20. Terminations.

\- (A) In respect of a teacher or a member of non-teaching staff appointed
temporarily or to act on probation, the management shall have power to
terminate the services of such teacher or a member of non-teaching staff
without notice for any or all of the following reasons:-(i)Wilful neglect of
duty, serious misconduct, gross insubordination, mental unfitness, suspension
or cancellation of Teachers Certificate by the Director or by an Officer
authorised by him under the Code of Regulations for approved Nursery/Primary
schools.(ii)With notice of two months or two months salary in lieu thereof for
the following reasons:-(a)Incompetence,(b)Retrenchment, and(c)physical
unfitness or any other good cause.Terminations. - (B) In respect of teachers
or a member of non-teaching staff appointed permanently, the management shall
have the power to terminate the services of such teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff without notice for any or all of the following
reasons:-(i)Wilful neglect of duty, serious misconduct, gross insubordination,
mental unfitness, suspension, or cancellation of teachers certificate by the
Director or an Officer authorised by him under the Code of Regulations for
approved Nursery/Primary Schools.(ii)With three months notice or three months
salary in lieu thereof for the following
reasons:-(a)Incompetence;(b)Retrenchment;(c)and physical unfitness or any
other good cause.Subject to the Proviso given below:(i)The School authority
shall not terminate the services of the said teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff whether summarily or otherwise without informing him/her in
writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and giving him/her
what in their views is a reasonable opportunity for stating his/her case in
writing and before coming to a final decision, shall duly consider his/her
statement and if he/she so desires give him/her a personal hearing or conduct
an enquiry.(ii)It shall be lawful for the school authority at any time if
satisfied on medical evidence that the said teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff is unfit and is likely for a considerable period to continue
unfit by reason of ill-health for the discharge of his/her duties as such
teacher or a member of non-teaching staff to terminate his/her services on
paying him/her three month salary less any amount which may have been paid to
him/her as leave allowance after the date of his/her last appearance in the
school, for the regular discharge of his/her duties as teacher or a member of
non-teaching staff subject to a minimum of one month full salary.(iii)That the
said teacher or a member of non-teaching staff shall not during the period of
this agreement when he /she has not been given notice or termination of
his/her services by the school authority or has not given notice to the school
authority for such termination of his/her services apply for an appointment
under any other authority except through the school authority and the penalty
for any breach of this may at the discretion of the school authority be
dismissal from service. The school authority shall not refuse to forward such
application but may decline to relieve him/her when the need arises unless he/
she gives due notice or pays an amount equal to the salary for three
months.(iv)That the said teacher or a member of non-teaching staff when he/she
becomes a permanent member of the staff of the said school shall be entitled
to have his/her services terminated either by giving to the school authority
three months notice thereof in writing or by paying that authority three
months salary in lieu of such notice.

### 21. Minor Punishment.

\- The management may impose any of the following minor punishments on the
said teacher or a member of non-teaching staff for any irregularity or breach
of the code of conduct on the part of the said teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff.(i)Censure;(ii)Withholding of increment with or without
cumulative effect;(iii)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the
monetary value equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld
where such an order cannot be given effect to:Provided the management follows
all the procedure as laid down for awarding major punishment and arrives at
the decision of awarding a punishment.

### 22. Agreements.

\- Tire management shall enter into an agreement with the teacher or a member
of non-teaching staff in Forms given in Annexure V, if the appointment is for
a period exceeding six months.Three copies of the Agreement shall be executed.
One copy shall be furnished to the teacher or a member of non-teaching staff
concerned, the other copy shall be retained by the management and the third
copy shall be forwarded to the Director or an Officer authorised by him.(a)In
all cases of punishment, except in cases, of censure, an appeal lies with the
Director or an Officer authorised by him in respect of Headmaster/
Headmistress, teachers and other staff of the Schools. A second appeal shall
lie with the Director of Elementary Education against the orders passed by the
officer authorised by him. If the appeal is made after two months from the
receipt of orders of punishment, it will be considered as belated.

## Chapter VII  
Leave Rules

### 23.

The leave rules approved by the Government of Tamil Nadu for teaching and non-
teaching staff in other recognised schools are applicable to approved Nursery
/Primary schools.

## Chapter VIII  
Registers

### 24.

The following registers will be maintained by Approved Nursery/ Primary
Schools:-

### 1\. Pupil's Attendance-Register

### 2\. Staff Attendance Register - Teaching

### 3\. Staff Attendance Register-Non-teaching

### 4\. Admission and withdrawal Registers

### 5\. Stock Register for furniture

### 6\. Stock Register for Library

### 7\. Casual Leave Register

### 8\. Leave other than Casual Leave Register

### 9\. Scale Register Graduate: No. of Secondary Grade, Nursery, etc.

### 10\. Acquittance Register

### 11\. Scholarship Register

### 12\. Concession Register 1

### 13\. Consolidated Marks Register.

### 14\. Promotion Register

### 15\. Visitor's Book

### 16\. Log Book.

The School will maintain counterfoil for all Transfer Certificates issued.The
Registers will be maintained properly and the returns required by the
department will be furnished promptly by management. This will be one of the
conditions of approval.A service Register shall be maintained for every
teacher or a member of non-teaching staff showing among others, date of
appointment, the scale of pay in which he/she appointed, the minimum increment
given from time to time the leave to his/her credit and the leave granted and
other relevant entries like awards of punishment.The procedure adopted by the
Matriculation Schools regarding the opening and maintenance of Teachers
Service Registers shall be adopted in approved Nursery/Primary Schools.

## Chapter IX  
Buildings

### 25. Use of School Buildings.

\- The premises of an educational institution or any subsidiary building
apportioning to it or playground or vacant site belonging to an approved
Nursery/Primary School whether adjacent or remote from it shall ordinarily be
used only for the purpose of functions conducted by such institutions. In no
case the use of such building, playground or vacant site shall be given for
political meetings. The school will make available their halls for the conduct
of examinations, if required.

## Chapter X  
Closure of Schools

### 26.

An Educational Agency shall close a school or a standard of a course of
instructions therein only after giving notice in writing one year prior to
such closure to the competent authority who had given approval to open school,
the standard of the course of instruction. Such notice shall set out an
alternate arrangements proposed to be made for this continuance of instruction
to the pupils of the school or standard or course of instruction. Such closure
however shall be permitted only with effect from the end of school year. The
competent authority while giving such permission shall satisfy himself about
the adequacy of the alternate arrangements proposed to be made and that any
property endowed to the school proposed to be closed shall continue to be used
for the educational purpose in accordance with the object of the Trust or
Endowment.

## Chapter XI  
Disciplinary Regulations For Pupils

### 27.

(i)Cross cases of immorality or insubordination shall be punished by expulsion
after charges are framed and a reasonable opportunity to defend
himself/herself is given and a suitable enquiry is conducted by the
Headmaster/ Headmistress. A report should be sent of all such cases to the
Director or an officer authorised by him within seven days.(ii)If admission
has been secured for a pupil by means of false certificate or false
representation of any kind, he shall be summarily dismissed by the
Headmaster/Headmistress with forfeiture of whatever fees he/she may have
paid.(iii)The Headmaster/Headmistress may frame and issue from time to time
disciplinary rules of a permanent or temporary character regulating the
conduct within the school for the standards of approved Nursery/ Primary
Schools.(iv)The Headmaster/Headmistress may frame and issue from time to time
disciplinary rules of a permanent or temporary character regulating the
conduct outside the school so far as such rules seem necessary to maintain the
credit usefulness and regulation of the school.(v)The Headmaster/Headmistress
shall have full power to inflict the following punishments in the interest of
the students:-(a)Fines;(b)Loss of attendance;(c)Suspension; and(d)Expulsion.

### 28.

(i)If the Headmaster/Headmistress of an approved Nursery/Primary School is
found to be negligent in the discharge of his/her duties or is found to have
committed any irregularity, the Educational Agency will be the authority to
take disciplinary action. The Director shall act when the educational agency
fails to act.(ii)After the conduct of the personal hearing or enquiry by the
management a notice will be issued to him/her setting out the proposed
punishment and he/she shall be given a reasonable time to defend
himself/herself against the proposed punishment.(iii)An appeal shall lie with
the Director in the case of orders issued by the officer authorised by him.

### 29.

If the Correspondent of an approved Nursery/Primary Schools is found guilty of
malpractice and corruption, the Educational Agency shall conduct an enquiry
and take suitable action against him/her failing which the Director or an
Officer authorised by him will take action, after conducting a thorough and
proper enquiry. An appeal shall lie with the Director of Elementary Education
against the orders of the officer authorised by him in this regard.Annexure
IProforma Application for the Approval of Nursery and Primary Schools

### 1\. Name of the School with full address:

### 2\. (a) Date on which the school is permitted by the Director:

(b)Reference number and date of orders of the Directorate:

### 3\. Name of the Educational Agency managing the school:

### 4\. Name of the Manager (if there is a post as such):

### 5\. Name of the authorised Correspondent:

### 6\. Name of the Headmaster/Headmistress of the School:

### 7\. (a) Standard to which approval is sought:

(b)Standard wise and section wise in strength (to be given in a separate
Annexure):(c)Particulars of strength of attendance (roll and attendance) of
such schools (Standard-wise particulars should be furnished):(d)Whether there
is any natural barrier between the existing school/schools and the proposed
school, if so, the same may be furnished in detail.[Sub-items (c), (d), (e),
(f) were added by G.O. Ms. No. 126, School Edn. dated 20-4-1998 and sub-items
(c) and (d) were omitted and sub-items (e) and (f) were renumbered as (c) and
(d) by G.O. Ms. No. 85, School Education (Ql), dated 20-6-2003]

### 8\. Particulars of Teaching and Non/Teaching Staff employed in the school
(to be given in a separate annexure)

SI. No. | Name | Date of Birth |  Academic Qualification with subject studied indegree | Professional Qualifications with subject | Pay |  Total Service other recognized Schools andmatriculation schools | Total Service the present School | Total Service column 7(a)+ 7(b)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7(a) | 7(b) | 7(c)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
### 9\. (a) Details of accommodation and sanitation available should be
enclosed preferably with a sketch

(b)The portions of the building occupied by the approved schools may be shown
separately in the sketch.(c)Whether water facility is available(d)Whether
owned or rented or rent free.

### 10\. Details of furniture, appliances and apparatus available

### 11\. (a) Whether a Library is provided (b) Number of volumes available

### 12\. Playground

(a)Area available in acres(b)Owned or leased

### 13\. (a) Whether the school has created the endowment as required by the
Directorate as prescribed in the Code of Regulations Rule

(b)If so, the amount of endowment created(c)Cash reserve as required in Rule
10(iii)(e)

### 14\. Fees levied in each standard

### 15\. Whether the school is holding a licence permitting the use of the
school building under the Tamil Nadu Public Building (Licensing) Act. (Tamil
Nadu Act 8 of 1965) copy to be enclosed)

### 16\. Whether the school has received a sanitary certificate from the
competent authority (in Chennai City Director of Public Health) (Copy to be
enclosed.)

### 17\. Whether the management is willing to rim the school if approved
without claiming any kind of grant-in-aid from Government at all times.

DeclarationOn behalf of the Management of the school, I hereby declare that we
shall abide by the conditions for approval in rule 10 and the provisions of
the code of regulations for approved Nursery and Primary School.Signature of
the person duly authorised by the Government.Annexure IIApplication for
Admission into Approved Nursery/primary Schools

### 1\. Name of pupil:

### 2\. Date of Birth:

### 3\. Nationality and State to which the pupil belongs:

### 4\. Religion (this information is intended only for statistical purposes):

### 5\. Does the candidate belong to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe or
other socially and educationally backward classes specified in the Tamil Nadu
Educational Rules or is he a convert from the concept from the Scheduled Caste
or the Scheduled Tribe? If so, please specify

### 6\. Whether living with parent or guardian and local residence if not
living with parent or guardian

### 7\. (a) Name of parent:

(b)Occupation:(c)Full Address:

### 8\. (a) Name of guardian:

(b)Occupation:(c)Full address:

### 9\. Class last studied, name of school last attended and whether qualified
for promotion

### 10\. Whether Record Sheet/transfer Certificate or Elementary School
Leaving Certificate and (or) record sheet is attached.

### 11\. Class into which admission is sought.:

### 12\. Mother tongue of the pupil:

### 13\. Languages proposed to be taken under Second Language:

### 14\. Protection from small pox whether vaccinated or small pox marked:

### 15\. Previous school history of pupil:

I declare that the statement above is correct and that the pupil has not
attended any other school besides those mentioned above.I declare that I will
not ask for a change in date of birth in the future.Station:Date:Signature of
Parent/Guardian.Orders of the Headmaster/Headmistress (regarding admission
with signature and date)Annexure IIIForm of Record Sheet/transfer
CertificateNumber: ......................

### 1\. Name of the school which the pupil is leaving:

### 2\. Name of the pupil:

### 3\. (a) Name of the Father:

(b)Nationality, Religion or Caste:(c)Community (State whether the pupil
belongs to) -:(i)Adi Dravidar (SC or ST):(ii)Backward Class:(iii)Most Backward
class:(iv)Converts to Christianity from SC or ST:(v)Denotified Communities:

### 4\. Date of birth (in words) as entered in the Admission Register

### 5\. Standard in which the pupil was reading at the time of leaving (in
words)

### 6\. Date of admission or promotion to that standard. The year to be
entered in words

### 7\. Whether qualified for promotion to a higher standard:

### 8\. Date on which the pupil actually left the school:

### 9\. Date on which application for Record sheet/Transfer Certificate was
made on behalf of the pupil by his/her parent/ Guardian

### 10\. Date of Record Sheet/Transfer Certificate:

### 11\. Signature of the Headmaster/Headmistress:

Annexure IVCode of Conduct for Teachers and Other Persons Employed in an
Approved Nursery and Primary School

### 1\. Every teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery and
Primary School, shall discharge his/her duties efficiently and diligently and
shall conform to the rules and regulations.

### 2\. No teacher or other person employed in approved Nursery/Primary School
shall absent himself/herself from his/her duties without prior permission. In
cases of sickness or absence on medical grounds a medical certificate to the
satisfaction of the school authorities shall be produced within a week.

### 3\. No teacher or other persons employed in an Approved Nursery/Primary
School shall engage directly or indirectly in any trade or business. In the
case of remunerative work like private tuitions, specific written sanction of
the school authorities shall be obtained.

### 4\. (a) No teacher or other persons employed in an approved
Nursery/Primary school shall send any application for employment under any
other agency except through the Management of the School.

(b)The management shall not withhold any such application. It shall, however,
be open to the Management to prescribe reasonable conditions for relieving
him/her.

### 5\. Prior permission of the management shall be obtained in a case where
any teacher or other person, employed in an approved Nursery/Primary school
seeks to accept honorary work without detriment to his/her duties as a
teacher.

### 6\. A teacher or other person employed in an Approved Nursery/Primary
school who becomes involved in a criminal proceedings shall inform the
management of such proceedings.

### 7\. No teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery/Primary
School shall engage himself/herself in any political activity. He/she shall
not be associated with any political party or any organisation which takes
part in politics or shall subscribe to or assist in any other manner any
political movements.

### 8\. No teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery/ Primary
School shall contest or participate in or canvass for any elections. Such
restriction will not however apply to the teachers in respect of elections to
the teachers constituencies.

### 9\. No teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery/Primary
School shall bring or attempt to bring any political or outside pressure on
his/ her superior authority in respect of his/her individual service interest.

### 10\. No teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery/Primary
School shall engage himself/herself or participate in any demonstration or
activity which is prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the
Security of the State or friendly relation with foreign States. Public order,
decency or morality or which involves contempt of Court, defamation or
incitement to an offence.

### 11\. No teacher or other person employed in an approved Nursery/ Primary
School shall indulge in anti-Government activities.

Adoption of legitimate methods of ventilating grievances however shall not be
considered as anti-government.Annexure VForm of AgreementAgreement made this
................ day of ............ One thousand nine hundred and
............ between (management) of the one part and .......... (teacher) of
the other parts.Whereas the management have agreed to engage the said teacher
to serve in the name of the school at (place).............in the capacity of a
teacher and on the salary hereinafter mentioned:Now these present witness and
the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:-

### 1\. That the management shall employ the said teacher and the said teacher
shall serve the management as a teacher at (Place) from the date of his/her
taking charge of such appointment until such employment shall be determined as
hereinafter provided.

### 2\. That the said teacher shall be on probation for a period of twenty
four months from the date of taking charge of his/her appointment, but the
management may before the expiry of that period extend it to a further period
not exceeding twelve months for reasons to be recorded in writing.

### 3\. That the said teacher will employ himself/herself honestly,
efficiently and diligently under the orders and instruction of the
Headmaster/Headmistress or Correspondent or other Officers of the said school
under whom he shall from time to time be placed as teacher in the said school
in which capacity he/she will discharge all such duties appertaining to that
office and do all things which maybe required, of him / her or which are
necessary to be done in his/her capacity as aforesaid and will make
himself/herself in other respects generally, useful as may be required of
him/her.

### 4\. That the said teacher will not normally or on any pretence absent
himself/ herself from his/her duties without first having obtained the
permission of his/ her superior officers authorised in this behalf or in case
of sickness or inevitable accident without forwarding where necessary a
medical certificate satisfactory to the management as may be required by the
leave rules for the time being in force in the said school.

### 5\. That the said teacher will devote his/her whole time to the duties of
the said employment and will not on his/her own account or otherwise either
directly or indirectly carry on or be concerned in any trade, business or
canvassing work, private tuition or the like of a remimerative and without the
specific written sanction of the management.

### 6\. That the said teacher shall conform to all the rules and regulations
for the time being in force in the said school and obey all lawful orders and
directions as he/she shall from time to time receive from any authorised
officer of the said school.

### 7\. That the management shall have the power to terminate the services of
the said teacher when he becomes a permanent member of the staff of the
school-

(a)Without notice for any or all of the following reasons: Wilful neglect of
duty, serious misconduct, gross insubordination, mental unfitness, suspension
or cancellation of teacher's certificate by the Director of Elementary
Education, under the Code of Regulations for the approved Nursery/Primary
Schools.(b)With three months notice or three months salary in lieu thereof for
the following reasons:-Incompetence, Retrenchment, Physical unfitness or any
other good cause:Provided that-(1)(i)The management shall not terminate the
services of the said teacher whether summarily or otherwise without informing
him/her in writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and
giving him/her what in their view is reasonable opportunity for stating
his/her case in writing and before coming to a final decision, shall duly
consider his/ her statement and if he/she so desires give him/her a personal
hearing or conduct an enquiry.(ii)The management shall not, except with the
previous permission of the Director or an officer authorised by him terminate
the services of the said teacher for incompetence if he/she put in five years
of efficient service after he/she is confirmed in his/her appointment,
and(iii)It shall be lawful for the management at any time if satisfied on
medical evidence that the said teacher is unfit and is likely for a
considerable period to continue unfit by reason of ill-health for the
discharge of his/her duties as such teacher, to terminate his/her services on
paying him/her as leave allowance after the date of his/her last appearance in
the school, for the regular discharge of his/her duties as teacher subject to
a maximum of one month's full salary.(2)That the said teacher when he/she
becomes a permanent member of the staff of the said school, shall be entitled
to have his/her services terminated either by giving to the management three
months notice thereof in writing or by paying that authority three month's
salary in lieu of such notice.(3)That the said teacher shall not during the
period of this agreement when he/she has not been given notice of termination
of his/her services by the management or has not given notice to the
management for such termination of his/her services apply for an appointment
under any other authority except through the management and the penalty for
any breach of this may, at the discretion of the management be dismissed from
service. The management shall not refuse to forward such application but may
decline to relieve him/her when the need arises unless he/she gives due notice
or pays an amount equal to the salary for three months he/she is drawing at
that time.(4)That in respect of the teacher appointed temporarily or to act on
probation, the school authority shall have power to terminate the sendees of
any such teacher-(i)Without notice for any or all on the following reasons:-
Wilful neglect of duty; serious misconduct; gross insubordination; mental
unfitness; suspension or cancellation of teachers certificate;(ii)With notice
of two months or two months salary in lieu thereof for the following
reasons:-Incompetence; retrenchment; physical unfitness or any other good
cause.

### 8\. That the said teacher shall be paid for such time as he/she shall be
in the service of the said monthly salary in the scale of Rs.
............starting on an initial salary of Rs with effect from (date) and
the following additional allowances (here specify the allowances).

### 9\. That in the event of the temporary absence of the teacher from duty by
reason of sickness or leave or otherwise, he/she shall be paid such salary
only as shall be determined by rules for the time being in force by the said
school:

Provided always that the said teacher shall get the full salary or a
proportionately reduced amount per month during the vacation, accordingly as
he/she has worked for the full period subject to the instructions given by the
Director or an officer authorised by him.

### 10\. That in the event of either party to this agreement failing to
observe the terms thereof the aggrieved party shall have a right to appeal and
the orders of the Director or an officer authorised by him shall be final and
binding on the parties.

In witness whereof have here set handsSigned by the above named in the
presence ofSigned by the above named in the presence of

