## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, Tamil Nadu

TAMILNADU  
India

# Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, Tamil Nadu

## Rule CODE-OF-REGULATIONS-FOR-MATRICULATION-SCHOOLS-TAMIL-NADU of 1976

  * Published on 29 November 1976 
  * Commenced on 29 November 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 November 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, Tamil NaduPreambleThe
Matriculation Schools in Tamil Nadu form a separate category of their own with
a separate identity, and cater to the special educational needs of people. All
such schools in Tamil Nadu and in the Union Territory of Pondicherry were once
affiliated to the University of Chennai. Later, when Madurai University was
established, the Matriculation Schools in its area were automatically
transferred to it for affiliation.The Syndicate of Chennai University
unanimously decided a few years ago that the Universities need no longer
control Matriculation Schools and suggested that this responsibility might as
well be taken off their shoulders. The Government of Tamil Nadu gave due
consideration to this suggestion and decided, after careful consideration,
that the Matriculation Schools might be transferred to the control of the
Director of School Education and a separate Board of Matriculation Schools
might be formed with the Director of School Education as its Chairman for the
purpose of giving the necessary direction and guidance to these schools. This
decision was communicated in G. O. Ms. No. 2816, Education, dated the 29th
November 1976. On the basis of the suggestions of the Director of School
Education, Government ordered the constitution of the Board of Matriculation
Schools in G. O. Ms. No. 1720, Education, dated the 25th July 1977 and also
defined the terms, conditions and functions of the Board. An Inspectorate of
Matriculation Schools was also formed in G. O. Ms. No. 2678, Education, dated
the 29th December 1977 with an Inspector in the rank of a District Educational
Officer and the necessary ministerial staff.The Matriculation Schools are
allowed to retain their original structure and hence they are permitted to
levy fees and as such they are not eligible for any grant. The Matriculation
Schools, in general, have the freedom to adopt their own curriculum and make
innovations that suit their needs, except during the last two years when they
have to adopt the common curriculum as they prepare their students for the
public examinations. Along with the other schools in the State, the
Matriculation Schools have also switched over to the 10+2 pattern and at the
plus two or higher secondary stage, they have adopted the common curriculum
and syllabus in unison with the other types, of schools recognised by the
State. The Matriculation Examination which was formerly conducted by the
University is now conducted at the end of Standard X by the Director of
Government Examinations who will also conduct the Higher Secondary Public
Examination at the end of Standard XII for all types of schools from 1979-80
onwards. English alone has been the medium of instruction in the Matriculation
Schools so far and they are permitted to retain this structure also. In this
context, it is worth mentioning that the Matriculation Schools of Tamil Nadu
have established a name and a standard for themselves by their academic
efficiency.At the first meeting held on 18th February 1978 with the Director
of School Education in the Chair, the Board of Matriculation Schools decided
that a Code of Regulations might be complied for these schools and appointed
an eight-member Sub-committee for the purpose. The Committee was asked to
present the draft Code for the Board's approval. The draft Code was circulated
to the Heads of all Matriculation Schools for their valuable comments and
suggestions. The Code as now finally adopted by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Matriculation Education is, therefore, the result of combined wisdom of all
the persons involved in Matriculation Education.It is hoped that this Code
which provides for orderly progress of these schools and also for normal
service conditions to the staff will usher in an era of progress and more
progress for these institutions.

## Chapter I  
Introduction

### 1.

(i)The Code applied to Matriculation Schools recognised by the Department of
School Education, Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Department).(ii)It shall
come into [force on such date1] [1st June, 1978 vide Procs. Re. No.
52592/E3/78 dated 22.9.80.] as the Government may by notification appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- The term "Matriculation Schools" in this Code signifies the schools which
were recognised by the Universities of Chennai and Madurai, as the case may
be, and subsequently recognised by the Department. Schools which will be
admitted into this category hereinafter will also be called the Matriculation
Schools and be governed by the said Code.In this Code unless the context
otherwise requires, -(i)The term "School" signifies Matriculation
Schools;(ii)The term "Government" signifies the Government of Tamil
Nadu;(iii)The term "'Director" signifies the Director of School
Education;(iv)The term "Board" signifies Board of Matriculation Schools;(v)The
term "Inspector" signifies the Inspector of Matriculation
Schools;(vi)"Recognised Schools" means a school recognised under this
Code;(vii)"Principal" denotes "The head of a Matriculation
School";(viii)"Education Agency" means any person or body of persons which has
established and is administering or proposes to establish and administer such
Matriculation Schools.

### 3.

The responsibility of maintenance and control of every recognised school shall
vest in a governing body which shall be responsible for the fulfillment of all
the conditions upon which recognition is granted. The governing body may
entrust the management of a school to a Manager or/and a Correspondent
responsible to it. But, such delegation will not divert it of ultimate
responsibility to the Department and Government. The Manager or/and
Correspondent duly appointed by the governing body of the Educational Agency
shall be approved by the Department.In communication with the Department, the
Manager or Correspondent should invariably address the Inspector.

### 4.

The interpretation of any article in this Code shall rest with the Department.

### 5.

The appendices to the Code shall have the same effect as the articles of the
Code and shall be treated as part of the code.

### 6.

The Matriculation Schools will be considered as a separate entity by the
Department.

### 7. The schools will continue to be fee-based and use English as medium of
instruction.

\- They will continue to be free as hitherto to innovate with regard to their
curriculum except for the last one year when they prepare students for the
public examination.

### 8.

This code shall be applicable also to Higher Secondary Section of
Matriculation Schools.

## Chapter II  
Recognition

### 9. Recognition of Matriculation Schools.

\- All Schools enjoying recognition of the Chennai, Madurai Universities as on
1st June 1976 will be recognised by the Department on submission of
particulars in the proforma prescribed (Annexure-I). Recognition will be
accorded from Standards I to X or the Standards that actually exist.

### 10. Recognition of new Matriculation Schools.

\- (i) Powers to grant permission. - The competent authority to grant
permission to open a private matriculation school or to upgrade an existing
school will be the Director. The application will be made in proforma
prescribed in Annexure II. The fees to be paid in respect of every application
to open a new matriculation school shall be Rs. 100. The fee shall be credited
to Government under the Head of Account prescribed by the Department.(ii)A
list of new matriculation schools permitted to be opened by the Director shall
be placed before the Board for information.(iii)Recognition. - The educational
agency of a private matriculation school shall apply in the form prescribed in
Annexure III for recognition of the school to the Director through the
Inspector. The application shall be made within three months from the date of
opening of the school. Where a temporary recognition is accorded, application
for continuance shall be made not later than three months prior to the date of
expiry of the temporary recognition.(iv)The following conditions shall be
satisfied for the purpose of recognition:(a)The educational agency shall
produce a licence, permitting the use of the school building as public
building under the Tamil Nadu Public Buildings (Licensing) Act, 1965 (Tamil
Nadu Act XIII of 1965).(b)Where the licence has been issued for a specific
period, the fresh licence shall be produced before the expiry of the period of
validity of the said licence.(c)The educational agency must satisfy that the
school is actually needed in the locality or District and that it has
sufficient buildings, class rooms, laboratories, furniture, sanitary
facilities and adequate grounds for physical training activities.(d)The
schools applying for recognition after 1st June 1978 should create an
endowment of Rs. 1,00,000 out of which 50 per cent will be deposited at the
time of opening and remaining amount will be deposited in five equal annual
instalments. In respect of minority schools, separate reference should be made
for obtaining exemption from creation of endowment and orders obtained in each
individual case. In the case of old schools which have already created
endowment, the endowment will be limited to Rs. 1,00,000. In the case of
schools which did not create endowment status quo will be maintained. The
schools will be allowed to create the endowment of Rs. 1,00,000 from the fixed
deposit they have made with the University when it matures. The date of
maturity should be intimated to the authority concerned.(e)In addition to the
creation of the endowment referred to above, in the case of new schools, the
Educational Agency shall also deposit in any schedule bank in the name of the
school, a sum equivalent to a minimum of one month's salary of the staff
employed in the school to serve as a working capital of the school which may
be drawn for the disbursement of salary to the members of the staff on the due
date in the event of any delay in the disbursement of salary.(f)The
Educational Agency in the case of new schools should have fulfilled all the
conditions stipulated by the competent authority at the time of according
permission to open the school.(g)The school shall be situated in a building
which is accessible to all castes and communities.(h)The management of a
school shall not appoint any teacher whose certificate has been suspended or
cancelled or who has been declared unfit to be a teacher in recognised schools
or who has been convicted for offences involving moral turpitude.(i)It shall
be open to the competent authority to reject the application of a new school
for recognition if he considers that any one of the conditions has not been
satisfied.(j)The Inspector may visit a recognised school during school hours.

### 11. Withdrawal of recognition.

(a)The competent authority for withdrawing recognition of a Matriculation
School will be the Director.(b)The recognition shall be withdrawn permanently
or for any specified period by the Director after a proper enquiry if the
Educational Agency or its authorised representative violates any one of the
conditions stipulated for recognition.

## Chapter III  
Admission and Withdrawals

### 12. Admission.

\- (i) The Principal will have the right of admission and will also be
responsible for admissions according to the rules.(ii)A pupil with a valid
Transfer Certificate shall be admitted to the Standard to which the Transfer
Certificate declare him/her fit. The pupil should not be placed in a class
higher or lower.(iii)Age of pupils. - Pupils admitted into Standard I should
have completed five years on 31st July of that year. 31st July will be the
reference date. No exemption from the operation of age rules will be applied
for or sanctioned for pupils studying in Standard I which defeats the very
purpose of having a minimum age limit.(iv)Age rules need not be applied in
other standards for pupils who are coming for admission with Transfer
Certificates from recognised schools.(v)Age rules should be applied for pupils
coming from unrecognised private schools. The Inspector is authorised to give
exemption upto a period of six months in deserving cases on the
recommendations of Principals in the case of admission in Standard II and
above.(vi)Application for admission shall be made in the form prescribed in
Annexure IV. The Principal may, at his discretion, demand valid birth
certificate, at the time of admission. Baptism Certificate may be accepted as
equal to birth certificate. The date of birth once entered will not be altered
except when an obviously absurd entry has to be corrected or when a Civil
Court directs correction in any individual case. In these cases, the
corrections should be made only under the Director's orders and should be
attested by the Inspector.(vii)No pupil who has not attended a recognised
school in the first term shall be admitted in the second term to any
recognised school without the prior permission of the Inspector. The first
term will constitute the months from June to December and the second term will
constitute the months from January to April.(viii)Transfer certificate
received from other States for admission into Standard IX and X will be sent
to the Inspector for evaluation.(ix)Admission of pupils coming from
unrecognised schools can be made ordinarily till 31st July up to Standard VI.
The pupils should be judged after testing as fit for the class and the pupils
should satisfy the age rules.(x)Transfer certificates received from other
States should bear the counter signature of the Inspecting Officers of the
concerned State.

### 13. Withdrawal.

\- Transfer certificates may be, issued only on application by parents or
guardians in writing. Transfer certificates should not be issued in the case
of pupils debarred till the period is over. A form for transfer certificate is
given in Annexure V.

## Chapter IV  
School Regulations

### 14. (i) School Hours. - The ordinary school day shall consist of not less
than five hours in Standards VI to X and not less than four hours in Standards
I to V. The holding of school for more than three consecutive hours is
prohibited. In the lower classes, if the pupils are young at least one break
of fifteen minutes shall be allowed where the course of continuous
instructions extends to three hours.

(ii)Working days. - The minimum number of working days in a year should be 200
including examination days. At the beginning of an academic year, the schools
will draw up a list of working days and holidays and send the same to the
Inspector.(iii)Strength. - Strength will be regulated as follows: -The staff
will, ordinarily, be regarded as insufficient if any teacher is required to
teach more than 50 pupils or more than one class at one and the same
time.Admission in excess of 50 pupils in a standard or a section of a standard
should not be made without the prior permission of the Inspector, provided
there is sufficient accommodation. There should not be more than four sections
in a class. Each section should have a separate class room. To open a fifth
section for a standard, permission should be obtained from the Inspector.
Information shall be given to the Inspector when a section is closed down.

### 15. Annual promotion.

\- Promotion will be made annually by the Principal. The Principal will be
ultimately responsible for promotion. There will be no double promotion in any
one year.The Principal will draw the principles of promotions every year in
consultation with the staff council. Principles may differ for each standard
and section. But once principles are framed, there should be no deviation.
Standard-wise principles of promotion and detention lists should be recorded
in a register and signed by the principal and teachers concerned within a week
after the completion of promotions and before publishing the results.

## Chapter V  
Financial Side of Matriculation Schools

### 16.

\- (i) The Matriculation Schools will continue to enjoy the financial autonomy
hitherto enjoyed by them. They will ensure that the fees they are levying are
reasonable and are commensurate with the expenditure involved and amenities
provided. After the financial year is over, the accounts are to be audited by
a Chartered Accountant and a certificate signed by the auditor to the effect
that the accounts have been audited should be sent to the Inspector within a
month after the completion of audit.(ii)The teachers and non-teaching staff in
Matriculation Schools should be paid at least as per the Government scales of
pay revised from time to time.

## Chapter VI  
Staff

### 17. Qualifications of the staff.

\- The staff will be qualified in accordance with the prescription made in
Annexure VI. But no one who is on the role on 1st June 1978, need be
retrenched because of this rule. They should get themselves qualified within a
period of five years from 1st June 1978. This does not apply to teachers who
have already put in 15 years of service in any recognised school and those who
have completed 45 years of age. They should get exemption from the Director of
prescribed qualifications to continue further.

### 18.

(i)The members of the staff including the Principal retire at the age of 60
(sixty) as permitted by the University. If they have to retire in the middle
of the academic year, they will continue to be re-employed till the closure of
the academic year, i.e., 31st May. The Director is empowered to give extension
for a period of two years only. One year at a time in respect of Principals of
Matriculation Schools who attain the age of 60 in special cases provided that
the services, conduct and character of the Principal are extraordinarily
satisfactory and the management also recommends and he/she is physically fit
to continue in service for the period to be extended.(ii)The staff in
Matriculation Schools will be paid at the rate of Government scales of pay and
they are eligible for selection grade after 10 years of service as in other
recognised schools. The teachers and other persons employed in Matriculation
Schools shall be governed by the code of conduct as specified in Annexure VII.

### 19.

In a permanent vacancy, member of teaching and non-teaching staff shall be
appointed only on probation for a period of 12 months from the date of his/her
appointment. But, the school authority may, before the expiry of that period
extend it to a further period not exceeding 12 months for reasons to be given
in writing to the teacher and acknowledged by the teacher.

### 20. Terminations.

\- (A) In respect of teachers or a member of non-teaching staff appointed
temporarily or to act on probation, the management shall have power to
terminate the services of such teacher or a member of non-teaching staff
without notice for any or all of the following reasons: -(i)Wilful neglect of
duty, serious misconduct, gross insubordination, mental unfitness, suspension
or cancellation of teachers certificates by the Director under the Code of
Regulations for Matriculation Schools.(ii)With notice of two months or two
months salary in lieu thereof for the following reasons:
-(a)Incompetence;(b)Retrenchment;(c)Physical unfitness or any other good
cause.(B)In respect of teachers or a member of non-teaching staff appointed
permanently, the management shall have the power to terminate the services of
such teacher or a member of non-teaching staff without notice for any or all
the following reasons: -(a)Wilful neglect of duty, serious misconduct, gross
insubordination, mental unfitness, suspension or cancellation of teachers'
certificates by the Director under the Code of Regulations for Matriculation
Schools.(b)With three months notice or three months salary in lieu thereof for
the following reasons: -(a)Incompetence; (b) Retrenchment; (c) Physical
unfitness or any other good cause.Subject to the proviso given below:(i)The
school authority shall not terminate the services of the said teacher or a
member of non-teaching staff whether summarily or otherwise without informing
him in writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and giving
him/her what in their view is a reasonable opportunity for stating his/her
case in writing and before coming to a final decision shall duly consider
his/her statement and if he/she so desires give him/her a personal hearing or
conduct an enquiry.(ii)After the conduct of the personal hearing or enquiry by
the management, a notice will be issued to him/her setting out the proposed
punishment and he/she shall be given a reasonable time to defend
himself/herself against the proposed punishment.(iii)It shall be lawful for
the school authority at any time if satisfied on medical evidence that the
said teacher or a member of non-teaching staff is unfit and is likely for a
considerable period to continue unfit by reason of ill-health, for the
discharge of his/her duties as such teachers or a member of non-teaching staff
to terminate his/her services on paying him/her three months salary less any
amount which may have been paid to him/her as leave allowance, after the date
of his/her last appearance in the school, for the regular discharge of his/her
duties as such teacher or a member of non-teaching staff subject to minimum of
one month's full salary.(iv)That the said teacher or a member of non-teaching
staff shall not during the period of this agreement when he/she has not been
given notice for termination of his/her services by the school authority, or
has not given notice to the school authority for such termination of his/her-
services apply for an appointment under any other authority except through the
school authority and the penalty for any breach of this may, at the
discretions of the school authority, be dismissed from service. The school
authority shall not refuse to forward such application but may declined to
relieve him when the need arises unless he/she gives due notice or pays an
amount equal to the salary for three months.(v)That the said teacher or a
member of non-teaching staff when he/she becomes permanent member of the staff
of the said school shall be entitled to have his/her services terminated
either by giving to the school authority three months notice thereof in
writing or by paying that authority three months salary in lieu of such
notice.

### 21. Minor punishments.

\- The management may impose any of the following minor punishment on the said
teacher or a member of non-teaching staff for any irregularity or breach of
the code of conduct on the part of the said teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff.(i)Censure; (ii) withholding of increment with or without
cumulative effect; (iii) Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the
monetary value equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld
where such an order cannot be given effect to:Provided that the management
follows all the procedure as laid down for awarding major punishment and
arrives at the decision of awarding a punishment.

### 22. Agreement.

\- The management shall enter into an agreement with the teacher or a member
of non-teaching staff in forms given in Annexure VIII if the appointment is
for a period exceeding six months.Three copies of the agreement shall be
executed. One copy shall be furnished to the teacher or a member of non-
teaching staff concerned, the other copy shall be retained by the management
and the third copy shall be forwarded to the Inspector.

### 22A.

\- In all cases of punishment except in cases of censure, an appeal lies with
the Director in respect of the Principal/Headmaster/Headmistress, B.T.
Assistants and other teachers drawing B.T. scale of pay and for all other
categories of staff including non-teaching staff, the Inspector is the
appellate authority. An appeal shall lie with the Government against the
orders passed by the Director and similarly an appeal shall lie with the
Director against the orders passed by the Inspector. If the appeal is made
after two months from the receipt of orders of punishment, it will be
considered as belated.

## Chapter VII  
Leave Rules

### 23.

The leave rules approved by the Government of Tamil Nadu for teaching and non-
teaching staff in other recognized schools are applicable to Matriculation
Schools also.

## Chapter VIII  
Registers

### 24.

The following registers will be maintained by Matriculation School. -

### 1\. Pupils' attendance Register.

### 2\. Staff Attendance Register - Teaching.

### 3\. Staff Attendance Register - Non-teaching.

### 4\. Admission and Withdrawal Registers.

### 5\. Stock Register for Furniture.

### 6\. Stock Register for Library Books.

### 7\. Casual Leave Register.

### 8\. Leave other than Causal Leave Register.

### 9\. Scale Register: -

### 10\. Acquittance Register

### 11\. Scholarship Register

### 12\. Concession Register

### 13\. Consolidated Marks Register

### 14\. Promotion Register

### 15\. Visitors' Book

### 16\. Log Book

The school will maintain counter-foil for all transfer certificates issued.
The Registers will be maintained properly and the returns required by the
Department will be furnished promptly by the management. This will be one of
the conditions of recognition.A Service Register shall be maintained for every
teacher or a member of non-teaching staff showing, among others, the date of
appointment, the scale of pay in which he/she was appointed, the minimum
increment given, from time to time, the leave to his/her credit and the leave
granted and other relevant entries like awards and punishments.The procedure
adopted in respect of secondary schools shall also be adopted in Matriculation
Schools regarding the opening and maintenance of Teachers' Service Registers.

## Chapter IX  
Building

### 25. Use of school building.

\- The premises of an educational institution or any subsidiary building
apportioning to it or a play ground or vacant site belonging to a
Matriculation School, whether adjacent or remote from it, shall ordinarily be
used only for the purposes of functions conducted by such institution. In no
case, shall the use of such buildings, play ground or vacant site be given for
political meetings. The schools will make available their halls for the
conduct of examinations, if required.

## Chapter X  
Closure of Schools

### 26.

An Educational Agency shall close a school or a standard of a course of
instruction therein, only after giving notice, in writing one year prior to
such closure to the competent authority who had given permission to open
school, the standard or the course of instruction. Such notice shall set out
the alternate arrangements proposed to be made for the continuance of
instruction to the pupils of the school or standard or course of instruction.
Such closure, however, shall be permitted only with effect from the end of the
school year. The competent authority, while giving such permission shall
satisfy himself about the adequacy of the alternate arrangements proposed to
be made and that any property endowed to the school proposed to be closed
shall continue to be used for educational purposes in accordance with the
objects of the Trust or Endowment.

## Chapter XI  
Disciplinary Regulations For Students

### 27.

(i)Gross cases of immorality or insubordination shall be punished by expulsion
after charges are framed and a reasonable opportunity to defend himself is
given and a suitable enquiry is conducted by the Principal. A report should be
sent of all such cases to the Inspector within seven days.(ii)If admission has
been secured for a pupil by means of false certificate or false representation
of any kind, he shall be summarily dismissed by the Principal with forfeiture
of whatever fees he/she may have paid.(iii)The Principal may frame and issue,
from time to time, disciplinary rules of a permanent or temporary character
regulating the conduct within the school for the students of Matriculation
Schools.(iv)The Principal may frame and issue, from time to time, disciplinary
rules of a permanent or temporary character regulating the conduct outside the
school, so far as such rules seem necessary to maintain the credit usefulness
and reputation of the school.(v)The Principal shall have full power to inflict
the following punishments in the interest of the students: -(a)Fines;(b)Loss
of Attendance;(c)Suspension; and(d)Expulsion.

### 28.

(i)If Principal/Headmaster of a Matriculation School is found to be negligent
in the discharge of his/her duties or is found to have committed any
irregularity, the Educational Agency will be the authority to take
disciplinary action. The Director shall act when the Educational Agency fails
to act.(ii)The nature of enquiry to be conducted will be the same as that
referred to in Rule 20.(iii)An appeal shall lie with the Government in the
case of orders issued by the Director.

### 29.

If the Correspondent of a Matriculation School is found guilty of malpractice
and corruption, the Educational Agency shall conduct an enquiry and take
suitable action against him/her failing which the Director will take action
after conducting a thorough and proper enquiry. An appeal shall lie with the
Government against the orders of the Director in this regard.Annexure
IProforma - Particulars Required For Recognition of Matriculation Schools

### 1\. Name of the school with full address.

### 2\. (a) Date in which the school is recognised by the University of
Chennai/Madurai.

(b)Reference number and date of orders of the University according to
recognition to the school.

### 3\. Name of the Educational Agency managing the school.

### 4\. Name of the Manager (If there is a post as such).

### 5\. Name of the authorised Correspondent.

### 6\. Name of the Headmaster/Head-mistress of the School.

### 7\. (a) Whether recognition is sought from L.K.G. to Std. X or Std. I to X
?

(b)If recognition is not sought for LKG and UKG, the same may be
indicated.(c)Standard-wise and section-wise strength (to be given in a
separate annexure)

### 8\. Particulars of teaching and non-teaching staff employed in the school
(to be given in a separate annexure)

SI. No. | Name | Date of birth |  Academic qualifications with subjects studiedin Degree | Professional qualifications with subjects | Pay  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Total service in other recognised schools andMatriculation Schools | Total Service in present school | Total Service Column  
---|---|---  
7(a) | 7(b) | 7(a)+7(b)/7(c)  
  
### 9\. (a) Details of accommodation and sanitation available should be
enclosed preferably with a sketch.

(b)The portions of the building occupied by the unrecognised sections may be
shown separately in the sketch.(c)Whether water facility is
available,(d)Whether owned or rented or rent-free.

### 10\. (a) Details of furniture, appliances and apparatus available.

(b)Whether separate laboratory facilities are available for Physics, Chemistry
and Biology.

### 11\. (a) Whether a library is provided,

(b)Number of volumes available.

### 12\. Language taught under second language.

### 13\. Playground -

(a)Area available in acres;(b)Owned or leased.

### 14\. (a) Whether the school has created the endowment as required by the
University.

(b)If so, the amount of endowment created.

### 15\. Fees levied in each standard.

### 16\. Whether the school is holding a licence permitting the use of the
school building under the Tamil Nadu Public Building (Licensing) Act, 1965
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1965).

### 17\. Whether the school has received a sanitary certificate from the
competent authority (in Chennai city-Director of Public Health)

### 2\. An Assistant Director of Public Health

### 3\. Health Officer of the Corporation

In Muffasul Municipalities having Health Officer, Municipal Health Officer. -
In Municipalities where there are no Health Officer and in rural areas of all
Districts, District Health Officer or if sanitary reasons are given Health
Inspector.(Signature of Correspondent)Annexure IIApplication For the Opening
of A Matriculation School

### 1\. (a) Name of place where the new school is proposed to be opened,

(b)Name of the proposed school.

### 2\. Revenue District, Taluk and Post Office.

### 3\. (i) Details of the management which proposed to open the Matriculation
School.

(ii)Is the management a registered body ?If so, the details should be
furnished.

### 4\. Standards proposed to be opened. (New or upgrading, details may be
furnished)

### 5\. Population of the villages within eight kilometre radius.

### 6\. Population of children in the school age group 11-17, 14-17 in the
villages within eight kilometres radius (Particulars in respect of boys and
girls should be furnished separately).

### 7\. Number of primary and Middle Schools functioning within the eight
kilometre radius with their standard-wise strength.

### 8\. Details of Matriculation Schools and High Schools, within the distance
of eight kilometres together with their standard-wise strength.

### 9\. Whether there is any natural barrier between proposed school and the
existing schools.

### 10\. (a) Name of the Pre-primary, Primary, Middle High Schools in the
locality.

(b)Distance of such schools from the proposed school.(c)Particulars of
strength attendance (roll and attendance) of such schools (Standard-wise
particulars should be furnished).

### 11\. Number of pupils expected to join in each of the standards of the
proposed school.

### 12\. Medium of instruction.

### 13\. Whether the fees of Rs. 100 remitted. If so, the details of
remittance made (Head of account to which the amount is to be remitted).
0202-Edn. Sports & Culture 01-General Edn. 202-Sec. Edn. (5) other receipts
(0202-01-202-AB-0505)

### 14\. Whether the Educational Agency is prepared to create -

(a)Endowment as required in Rule 10(iv)(d);(b)Cash reserve as required in Rule
10(iv)(e).

### 15\. Details of the accommodation, playground area, furniture, etc.,
proposed to be provided for the school.

Place:Signature of the person duly authorised by the Management.Date:Annexure
IIIApplication For Recognition of Schools

### 1\. Name of the school with full address

### 2\. Date of opening of the school (Reference number and date of orders of
the competent authority permitting the opening of the school to be furnished).
In case of minority schools and other schools existing on the date of
commencement of the code, the reference number and the date of submission of
the statement should be indicated.

### 3\. Name of the management managing the school.

### 4\. (i) Name of the Manager.

(ii)Name of the Principal/H.M.(iii)Name of the Correspondent.

### 5\. Standards for which recognition is sought for

### 6\. (a) Standard wise strength and attendance

(b)Whether all the standards are having economic strength.(c)List of teaching
and non-teaching staff employed in the school with details of qualifications,
designation, etc., to be furnished.(d)Whether the teaching and non-teaching
staff are qualified.

### 7\. (a) Details of accommodation and sanitation available should be
enclosed.

(b)Whether owned or rented or rent-free(c)Whether adequate and suitable

### 8\. (a) Details of furniture, appliances and apparatus

(b)Whether adequate and suitable

### 9\. (a) Whether a library is provided

(b)Whether it is adequate.

### 10\. Whether register are maintained in the prescribed forms

### 11\. Whether arrangements have been made for the compulsory medical
inspection of the pupils.

### 12\. Playgrounds

(i)Area available (in acres)(ii)Owned or leased(iii)Whether adequate and fit
for use

### 13\. (i) Whether the school has created -

(a)Endowment as required in Rule 10(iv)(d)(b)Cash reserve as required in Rule
10(iv)(e)(ii)Property full details regarding extent of the property value of
the property, etc., should be furnished.(iii)If the endowment is in the shape
of cash, full details of the amount and mode of investment should be
furnished.(iv)Whether the endowment is unencumbered and whether it stands
absolutely in the name of the school without any reversionary rights.(v)Net
annual income derived from the endowment.(vi)Whether the original deed of
property has been verified by the Government Pleader and certified that the
deed conveys absolute rights to the school without any reversionary rights to
the donor that it is unencumbered.(vii)Whether the original cash investment
certificates have been verified by the Inspector.(viii)Whether attested copy
of the Government Pleader's opinion, income certificate, encumbrance
certificate in respect of the property endowed to the school are
enclosed.(ix)Details of balance endowment to Be created, if any.

### 14\. Whether the management is agreeable to abide by the conditions for
the recognition in rule 10 and the provisions of the code of the regulations
for Matriculations Schools.

DeclarationOn behalf of the management of the school, I hereby declare that
all the conditions specified in the Rules and the departmental orders have
been fulfilled. I also declare that we shall abide by the conditions for
recognition in Rule 10 and the provisions of the code of regulations for
Matriculation Schools.Place:Signature of the personduly authorised bythe
Management.Date:Annexure IVApplication For Admission Into Matriculation School

### 1\. Name of pupil

### 2\. Date of birth

### 3\. Nationality and State to which the pupil belongs

### 4\. Religion (This information is intended only for statistical purposes)

### 5\. Does the candidate belong to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or
other socially and educationally backward classes specified in the Tamil Nadu
Educational Rules or is he a convert from the Scheduled Castes or the
Scheduled Tribe ? If so, please specify.

### 6\. Whether living with parent or guardian and local residence if not
living with parent or guardian.

### 7\. (a) Name of parent

(b)Occupation(c)Full Address

### 8\. (a) Name of guardian

(b)Occupation(c)Full address

### 9\. Class last studied, name of school last attended and whether qualified
for promotion.

### 10\. Whether Transfer Certificate or Elementary School Leaving Certificate
and (or) Record Sheet is attached.

### 11\. Class into which admission is sought.

### 12\. Mother tongue of the pupil

### 13\. Languages proposed to be taken under second language.

### 14\. Protection from small-pox whether vaccinated or small-pox marked.

### 15\. Previous school history of pupil

I declare that the statement above is correct and that the pupil has not
attended any other school besides those mentioned above.I declare that I will
not ask for a change in date of birth in future.

Station: | Signature of Parent/Guardian.  
---|---  
Date: | Order of the Headmaster/Headmistress(regarding admission withsignature and date).  
  
Annexure VForm of Transfer CertificateNumber:

### 1\. Name of the school which the pupil is leaving

### 2\. Name of the pupil

### 3\. (a) Name of the father

(b)Nationality, Religion and Caste(c)Community-State whether the pupil belongs
to -(i)Adi-Dravidar (SC or ST)(ii)Backward Class(iii)Most Backward
Class(iv)Converts to Christianity from SC or ST(v)Denotified Communities

### 4\. Date of Birth in words as entered in Admission Register.

### 5\. Standard in which the pupil was reading at the time of leaving (in
words).

### 6\. Date of admission or promotion to that standard. The year to be
entered in words.

### 7\. Whether qualified for promotion to a higher standard under the Code of
Regulations of Matriculation Schools.

### 8\. Whether the pupil has paid all the fees due to the school.

### 9\. Date on which the pupil actually left the school.

### 10\. Date on which application for transfer certificate was made on behalf
of the pupil by his guardian/pa rent.

### 11\. Date of Transfer Certificate

### 12\. Signature of the Principal.

Annexure VII. Qualifications for appointment as teachers in matriculation
schools

Name of the Post | Qualification required  
---|---  
1\. Principal |  (1) B. A., or B.Sc.,or its equivalent.andB.Ed. or B.T or L.T.andTrained TeachersCertificate to Collegiate Grade.(2) Should haveworked as teacher in recognised schools for a period of not lessthan five years after obtaining B.T. or its equivalent degreeand subject to the approval of the Board.(3) Candidates selected by the EducationalAgency as Principal of the Institution though not having fiveyears experience may be approved if they possess the requirededucational and professional qualifications.  
2\. B. T. Assistants |  B. A. or B.Sc., orits equivalent and B.T. or B.Ed orL.T. and TrainedTeachers' Certificate toCollegiate Grade.  
3\. Secondary Grade Teacher |  (1) S.S.L.C(2) T.S.L.C. or Secondary or its equivalentprovided teachers who have passed the Nursery, Montessori andKindergarten School Leaving Certificate Examination of SecondaryGrade shall be employed to handle standards I and II only.  
4\. Elementary Grade Teacher |  E.S.L.C. or its equivalent and trained teachers'certificate elementary grade or its equivalent.  
5\. Tamil Pandits |  (1) M.A. (Tamil) orB.A. (Tamil) or M.O.L. (Tamil) or B.O.L. (Tamil) and B.Ed., orB.T. or L.T. or Secondary Grade Training or(2) S. S. L. C.completed and Oriental Title of Chennai, Madurai or AnnamalaiUniversity and Pandits training certificate or secondary gradetraining certificates.(3) Provided that persons who have passedPulavar Panditham Examinations of the Madurai Tamil Sangam to beheld upto April 1977 only, with pandits training or secondarygrade, training are also eligible for appointment as TamilPandits in schools. Provided further that person appointed asTamil Pandit in any school prior to the 1st April 1976, shall beeligible for appointment in any other school even after 1stApril 1976.  
6\. Pandits of other languages (Languages otherthan Tamil) |  1\. Degree of anyUniversity in the State or its equivalent with oriental languageas special study; andDegree or Diploma in teaching of anyUniversity in the State or its equivalent; or2\. S.S.L.C.completed and Titles or certificates of proficiency in Orientallearning of an University in the State or its equivalent; andPandits training or secondary grade training.  
7\. Physical Director |  A Degree in Physical Education of any Universityin the State or its equivalent.  
8\. Physical Education Teacher(a) Grade I |  A pass in firstyear B.A., or its equivalent Degree; or2\. Intermediate; or3\. T.S.L.C. orsecondary grade; or4\. Senior Basic GradeGovernment Teachers' Certificate of HigherGrade in Physical Education.  
(b) Grade II |  S.S.L.C. Eligible andGovernment Teachers'Certificate in Physical Education.Explanation. - In high schools, the firstphysical education teacher should be a holder of Higher GradeCertificate. If a Higher Grade Certificate holder is notavailable a person with Government Teachers' Certificate inPhysical Education may be appointed on a regular basis. However,if any additional Physical Education Teacher is to be appointedhe shall be a holder of Higher Grade Certificate in PhysicalEducation.  
9\. Wood Work Instructor |  1\. S. S. L. C.Completed; and2\. Industrial SchoolCertificate; orCertificate course in elementary wood working(old regulations) issued by the College of Arts and Crafts,Chennai; orDiploma course in wood work issued by College ofArts and Crafts (New Regulations) Chennai; and3\. TechnicalTeachers' Certificate; or Craft Instructors' Course Certificateof Teachers' College, Saidapet; and4\. National TradeCertificate in the trade of carpentry. One year course (with)One year paid (Untrained) teaching experience or one year (Paid)work experience in a standard wood work factory or institution;and5\. National apprentice certificate issued bythe National Council for Training in Vocational Trades (woodwork)  
10\. Spinning and Weaving Instructor |  1\. S.S.L.C.completed; and2\. Artisan course orInstructors' Course Certificate of the Government TextileInstitute, Chennai; orGovernment TechnicalExamination Certificate (Lower Grade); orBunayee or KhadiPravisaka course (one year) of the All India SpinnersAssociation, Tiruppur; or Three years course certificate inHandloom and Powerloom weaving issued by the S.M.R.V.Technical InstituteNagercoil awarded prior to 1961; orTwelve months'Craftsman Certificate in Handloom Weaving of S.M.R.V. TechnicalInstitute, Nagercoil; orNational TradeCertificate awarded by the National Council for Training inVocational Trades, Government of India, the Director General ofResettlement and Employment in Hand weaving Trade; orDiploma in HandloomTechnology awarded by the Indian Institute of HandloomTechnology, All India Handloom Board, Salem; and3. Technical Teachers' Certificate; or Craftinstructors' course certificate of Teachers College, Saidapet.  
11\. Instructor in Gardening and Agriculture |  1\. S.S.L.C.completed or its equivalent; and Government TechnicalExamination Certificate (Lower Grade); andTechnical Teachers'Certificate; or2\. Completed Secondary School LeavingCertificate with thirty five per cent in Agriculture, (Theoryand Practical separately) under the diversified course; andTechnical Teachers' Certificate  
12\. Instructor in Home craft |  1\. S.S.L.C.completed; and2\. GovernmentTechnical Examination (Higher Grade in Needle work and DressMaking and Higher Grade in Embroidery) Industrial SchoolCertificate; orNational TradeCertificate awarded by the National Council for Training inVocational Trades Government of India or the Diploma awarded bythe Director-General of Resettlement and Employment, New Delhiin Embroidery and Needle work; orDiploma in costumedesigning and in dress making issued by the State Board ofTechnical Education and Training, Chennai; and3\. Technical Teachers' Certificate  
13\. Instructor in Music |  1\. Degree with Musicunder Part III; or Completed S.S.L.C.; andSangeetha Bushana ofAnnamalai University; or Sangeetha Vidwan title in Music awardedby the Director of Government Examinations, Chennai;orSangeetha Sironmaniof the Chennai University;orDiploma in Music ofthe Chennai University or Madurai University; and TechnicalTeachers' Certificate; or2\. S.S.L.C.Completed; andGovernment TechnicalExamination Certificate (Higher Grade) in Music; and TechnicalTeachers' Certificate; or3\. CompletedS.S.L.C. with forty per cent in Music (Theory and practicalseparately under the Diversified Course); and TechnicalTeachers' Certificate; orDiploma in MusicTeaching awarded by the Director of Examinations; or4\. Teachers' certificate in Indian Music issuedby the Directors of Government Examinations  
14\. Drawing Master |  1\. (a) Degree withDrawing and Painting under Part III of an University in theState or its equivalent; orDiploma in Paintingor Diploma in Drawing of the Annamalai University; or(b) S.S.L.C.completed; andGovernment TechnicalExaminations (Higher Grade) in Free-Hand out line and ModelDrawing; orGovernment Diplomain Drawing; and2\. Technical Teachers' Certificate  
15\. Metal Work Instructor |  Electric wiringInstructor, Book Binding Instructor, Tailoring Instructor,Leather Work Instructor, Clay Modelling and Paper Making CoirInstructor. Basketing and Ratan Work Instructor.1\. S.S.L.C.completed; and2\. Industrial SchoolCertificate; orGovernment Technical Examination of Lower Gradein the subject; orCertificate of theGovernment of India, Director of Resettlement and Employment(Mipistry of Labour)Explanation. - The Industrial SchoolCertificate should ordinarily be of not less than two yearsduration and for the particular subject alone and not for anumber of subjects.  
  
II. Qualifications for the non-teaching staff in matriculation schools

### 1\. Librarian-A Graduate with Diploma or Certificate in Library Science.

### 2\. Clerks-S.S.L.C. with Diploma in Secretarial Course.

### 3\. Typists and Stenographers-S.S.L.C. and professional qualifications.

### 4\. Record Clerk, Laboratory, Library Attender-S.S.L.C passed.

### 5\. Peons and Sport Markers-A pass in Standard VIII

### 6\. Watchman, Waterman, Ayahs, Gardener, Sweeper and Scavenger-To read and
write Tamil.

Appendix VIICode of Conduct For Teachers and Other Persons Employed In A
Matriculation School

### 1\. Every teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
discharge his duties efficiently and diligently and shall conform to the rules
and regulations.

### 2\. No teacher or other persons employed in a Matriculation School shall
absent himself from his duties without prior permission. In cases of sickness
or absence on medical grounds, a medical certificate to the satisfaction of
the school authorities shall be produced within a week.

### 3\. No teacher or other persons employed in Matriculation School shall
engage directly or indirectly in any trade or, business. In the case of
remunerative work like private tuitions, specific written sanction of the
school authorities shall be obtained.

### 4\. (a) No teacher or other persons employed in a Matriculation School
shall send any application for employment under any other agency except
through the management of the school.

(b)The management shall not withhold any such application. It shall, however,
be open to the management to prescribe reasonable conditions for relieving
him.

### 5\. Prior permission of the management shall be obtained in a case where
any teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School seeks to accept
honorary work without detriment to his duties as a teacher.

### 6\. A teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School who
becomes involved in a criminal proceedings shall inform the management of such
proceedings.

### 7\. No teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
engage himself in any political activity. He shall not be associated with any
political party or any organisation which takes part in politics or shall
subscribe to or assist in any other manner in any political movement.

### 8\. No teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
contest or participate in or canvass for any elections. Such restriction will
not, however, apply to the teachers in respect of elections to the teachers'
constituencies.

### 9\. No teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
bring or attempt to bring any political or outside pressure on his superior
authority in respect of his individual service interest.

### 10\. No teacher or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
engage himself or participate in any demonstration or activity which is
prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the
State, the friendly relation with foreign States, public, order, decency or
morality or which involves contempt of Court, defamation or incitement to an
offence.

### 11\. No teacher, or other person employed in a Matriculation School shall
indulge in anti-Government activities.

Adoption of legitimate methods of ventilating grievances, however, shall not
be considered as anti-Government.Annexure VIIIForm of AgreementAgreement made
this ......... day of......... Two thousand and........between (Management) of
the one part and............(Teacher) of the other part;Whereas the management
have agreed to engage the said teacher to serve in the name of the school
at.......... (Place) in the capacity of a teacher and on the salary herein
after mentioned: -Now these present witness and the parties hereto do hereby
agree as follows:

### 1\. That the management shall employ the said teacher and the said teacher
shall serve the management as a teacher at (Place) from the date of his taking
charge of such appointment until such employment shall be determined as herein
after provided.

### 2\. That the said teacher shall be on probation for a period of [twelve
months] [Vide I.M.S. commn. R.C. 930/B/79, dated the 6th May 1980.] from the
date of taking charge of his appointment, but the management may, before the
expiry of that period, extend it to further period not exceeding twelve months
for reasons to be recorded in writing.

### 3\. That the said teacher will employ himself honestly, efficiently and
diligently, under the orders and instruction of the Headmaster or
Correspondent or other officers of the said school under whom he shall, from
time to time, be placed as teacher in the said school in which capacity he
will discharge all such duties appertaining to that office and do all things
which may be required of him or which are necessary to be done in his capacity
as aforesaid and will make himself in other respects generally useful as may
be required of him.

### 4\. That the said teacher will not normally or on any pretence absent
himself from his duties without first having obtained the permission of his
superior officers authorised in his behalf or in case of sickness or
inevitable accident without forwarding where necessary a medical certificate
satisfactory to the management as may be required by the leave rules for the
time being in force in the said school.

### 5\. That the said teacher will devote his whole time to the duties of the
said employment and will not on his own account or otherwise either directly
or indirectly carry on or be concerned, in any trade, business or canvassing
work, private tuition or the like of a remunerative and without the specific
written sanction of the management.

### 6\. That the said teacher shall confirm to all the rules and regulations
for the time being in force in the said school and obey all lawful orders and
directions as he shall, from time to time, receive from any authorised officer
of the said school.

### 7\. That the management shall have the power to terminate the services of
the said teacher when he becomes a permanent member of the staff of the
school.

(a)Without notice for any or all of the following reasons: -Wilful neglect of
duty, serious misconduct, gross insubordination, mental unfitness, suspension
or cancellation of teachers' certificate by the Director of School Education
under the Code of Regulations of Matriculation Schools.(b)With three months
notice or three months' salary in lieu thereof for the following reasons
-Incompetence, retrenchment, physical unfitness or any other good
cause:Provided that -(1)(i)The Management shall not terminate the services of
the said teacher whether summarily or otherwise without informing him, in
writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and giving him
what, in their view is a reasonable opportunity for stating his case in
writing and before coming to a final decision, shall duly consider his
statement and if he so desires give him a personal hearing or conduct an
enquiry;(ii)The Management shall not, except with the previous permission of
the Inspector terminate the services of the said teacher for incompetence, if
he has put in five years of efficient service after being confirmed in his
appointment; and(iii)It shall be lawful for the management at any time if
satisfied on medical evidence that the said teacher is unfit, and is likely
for a considerable period to continue unfit by reason of ill-health, for the
discharge of his duties as such teacher to terminate his services on paying
him as leave allowance after the date of his last appearance in the school,
for the regular discharge of his duties as a teacher subject to a maximum of
one month's full salary.(2)That the said teacher when he becomes a permanent
member of the staff of the said school shall be entitled to have his services
terminated either by giving to the management three months' notice thereof in
writing or by paying that authority three months' salary in lieu of such
notice.(3)That the said teacher, shall not during the period of his agreement
when he has not been given notice of termination of his services by the
management or has not given notice to the management for such termination of
his services apply for an Appointment under any other authority except through
the management and the penalty for any breach of this may at the discretion of
the management be dismissal from service. The management shall not refuse to
forward such application but may decline to relive him when the need arises
unless he gives due notice or pays an amount equal to the salary for three
months which he is drawing at that time.(4)That in respect of the teachers
appointed temporarily or to act on probation, the school authority shall have
power to terminate the services of any such teacher.(i)Without notice for any
or all of the following reasons: -Wilful neglect of duty, serious misconduct,
gross insubordination mental unfitness, suspension or cancellation of
teachers' certificate.(ii)With notice of two months or two months' salary in
lieu thereof for the following reasons: -Incompetence, retrenchment, physical
unfitness or any other good cause.(8)That the said teacher shall be paid for
such time as he shall be in the service of the said monthly salary in the
scale of Rs........... starting on an initial salary of Rs.............. with
effect from .......... (date) and the following additional allowances (here
specify the allowances).(9)That in the event of the temporary absence of the
teacher from duty by reason of sickness or leave or otherwise, he shall be
paid such salary only as shall be determined by rules for the time being in
force in the said school:Provided always that the said teacher shall get the
hill salary or a proportionately reduced amount per month during the vacation
according as he has worked for the full period subject to the instructions
given by the Inspectors.(10)That in the event of either party to this
agreement failing to observe the terms thereof, the aggrieved party shall have
a right to appeal and the orders of the Inspector shall be final and binding
on the parties.In witness where of............. and............. have here set
handsSigned by the above named in the presence ofSigned by the above named in
the presence of

