## Union of India - Act

## Companies (Winding Up) Rules, 2020

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Companies (Winding Up) Rules, 2020

## Rule COMPANIES-WINDING-UP-RULES-2020 of 2020

  * Published on 24 January 2020 
  * Commenced on 24 January 2020 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 January 2020.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Companies (Winding Up) Rules, 2020Published vide Notification No. G.S.R.
46(E), dated 24.01.2020Last Updated 15th February, 2020G.S.R. 46(E). - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 468
and subsections (1) and (2) of section 469 of the Companies Act 2013 (18 of
2013) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules namely: -

## Part I – General

### 1. Short title commencement and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Companies (Winding Up) Rules 2020.(2)They
shall come into force on the 1st day of April 2020.(3)These rules shall apply
to winding up under of Companies Act 2013 (18 of 2013).

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires
-(a)"Act" means the Companies Act 2013 (18 of 2013);(b)"Form" means a Form
annexed to these rules;(c)"Registrar" means the Registrar of the National
Company Law Tribunal or National Company Law Appellate Tribunal and includes
such other officer of the Tribunal or Bench thereof to whom the powers and
functions of the Registrar are assigned;(d)"Registry" means the Registry of
the Tribunal or any of its Benches or of the Appellate Tribunal as the case
may be which keeps records of the applications and documents relating
thereto;(e)"Section" means section of the Act;(f)words and expressions used
and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.

## Part II – Winding up by tribunal

### 3. Petition for winding up.

(1)For the purposes of sub-section (1) of section 272 a petition for winding
up of a company shall be presented in Form WIN 1or Form WIN 2 as the case may
be with such variations as the circumstances may require and shall be
presented in triplicate.(2)Every petition shall be verified by an affidavit
made by the petitioner or by the petitioners where there are more than one
petitioners and in case the petition is presented by a body corporate by the
Director Secretary or any other authorised person thereof and such affidavit
shall be in Form WIN 3.

### 4. Statement of affairs.

\- The statement of affairs as required to be filed under sub-section (4) of
section 272 or sub-section (1) of section 274 shall be in Form WIN 4 and shall
contain information up to the date which shall not be more than thirty days
prior to the date of filling the petition or filling the objection as
applicable and the statement of affairs shall be made in duplicate duly
verified by an affidavit and affidavit of concurrence of the statement of
affairs shall be in Form WIN 5.

### 5. Admission of petition and directions as to advertisement.

\- Upon filing of the petition it shall be posted before the Tribunal for
admission of the petition and fixing a date for the hearing thereof and for
appropriate directions as to the advertisements to be published and the
persons if any upon whom copies of the petition are to be served and where the
petition has been filed by a person other than the company the Tribunal may if
it thinks fit direct notice to be given to the company and give an opportunity
of being heard before giving directions as to the advertisement of the
petition if any and the petitioner shall bear all costs of the advertisement.

### 6. Copy of petition to be furnished.

\- Every contributory of the company shall be entitled to be furnished by the
petitioner or by his authorised representative with a copy of the petition
within twenty four hours of his requiring the same on payment of five rupees
per page.

### 7. Advertisement of petition.

\- Subject to any directions of the Tribunal notice of the petition shall be
advertised not less than fourteen days before the date fixed for hearing in
any daily newspaper in English and vernacular language widely circulated in
the State or Union territory in which the registered office of the company is
situated and the advertisement shall be in Form WIN 6.

### 8. Application for leave to withdraw petition.

(1)A petition for winding up shall not be withdrawn after presentation without
the leave of the Tribunal subject to compliance with any order of the Tribunal
including as to costs.(2)An application for leave to withdraw a petition for
winding up which has been advertised in accordance with the provisions of rule
7 shall not be heard at any time before the date fixed in the advertisement
for the hearing of the petition.

### 9. Substitution for original petitioner.

(a)Where a petitioner -(i)is not entitled to present a petition; or(ii)fails
to advertise his petition within the time prescribed by these rules or by
order of Tribunal; or(iii)consents to withdraw the petition or to allow it to
be dismissed or fails to appear in support of his petition when it is called
on in Tribunal on the day originally fixed for the hearing thereof or any day
to which the hearing has been adjourned; or(iv)if appearing does not apply for
an order in terms of the prayer of his petition; or,(b)where in the opinion of
the Tribunal there is other sufficient cause for an order being made under
this rule the Tribunal may upon such terms as it may think just substitute as
petitioner any other person who in the opinion of the Tribunal would have a
right to present a petition and who is desirous of prosecuting the petition.

### 10. Procedure on substitution.

\- Where the Tribunal makes an order substituting a contributory as petitioner
in a winding up petition it shall adjourn the hearing of the petition to a
date to be fixed by the Bench and direct such amendments of the petition as
may be necessary and such contributory shall within seven days from the making
of the order amend the petition accordingly and file two legible and clean
copies thereof together with an affidavit in duplicate setting out the grounds
on which he supports the petition and the amended petition shall be treated as
the petition for the winding up of the company and shall be deemed to have
been presented on the date on which the original petition was presented.

### 11. Affidavit-in-objection.

\- Any affidavit in objection to the petition under sub-section (1) of section
272 shall be filed within thirty days from the date of order and a copy of the
affidavit shall be served on the petitioner or his authorised representative
forthwith and copies of the affidavit shall also be given to any contributory
appearing in support of the petition who may require the same on payment of
five rupees per page within three working days.

### 12. Affidavit in reply.

\- An affidavit in reply to the affidavit in objection to the petition shall
be filed not less than seven days before the day fixed for the hearing of the
petition and a copy of the affidavit in reply shall be served on the day of
the filing thereof on the person by whom the affidavit in objection was filed
or his authorised representative.Liquidator

### 13. Applicability.

\- Unless specified otherwise the rules hereinafter shall apply to all types
of liquidators.

### 14. Appointment of provisional liquidator or Company Liquidator.

(1)After the admission of a petition for the winding up of a company by the
Tribunal and upon proof by affidavit of sufficient ground for the appointment
of a provisional liquidator the Tribunal if it thinks fit and upon such terms
and conditions as in the opinion of the Tribunal shall be just and necessary
may appoint a provisional liquidator of the company pending final orders on
the winding up petition in pursuance of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 273 and where the company is not the applicant notice of the
application for appointment of provisional liquidator shall be given to the
company in Form WIN 7 and the company shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to make its representation unless the Tribunal for reasons to be recorded in
writing dispenses with such notice.(2)The order appointing the provisional
liquidator shall set out the restrictions and limitations if any on his powers
imposed by the Tribunal in accordance with the sub-section (3) of section 275
and the order shall be in Form WIN 8 with such variations as may be
necessary.(3)An order for the appointment of a provisional liquidator as
passed in accordance with clause (c) of subsection (1) of section 273 shall
also state that it will be the duty of every person who is in possession of
any property books or papers cash or any other assets of the company including
the benefits derived therefrom to surrender forthwith such property books or
papers cash or other assets and the benefits so derived as the case may be to
the provisional liquidator.(4)Where an order for the appointment of
provisional liquidator or Company Liquidator as the case may be has been made
the Registrar shall as provided in sub section (1) of section 277 within a
period not exceeding seven days from the date of passing of the order send
intimation to the Company Liquidator or provisional liquidator in Form WIN 9
by registered post or by speed post or by courier service or by electronic
means and a copy of the order for the appointment of provisional liquidator or
Company Liquidator as the case may be shall also be sent to the Registrar of
Companies together with a copy of the petition and the affidavit if any filed
in support thereof.(5)The provisional liquidator or the Company Liquidator as
the case may be appointed by the Tribunal shall file a declaration in Form WIN
10 disclosing conflict of interest or lack of independence in respect of his
appointment if any with the Tribunal within seven days from the date of
appointment.(6)The provisional liquidator or the Company Liquidator as the
case may be shall be appointed by the Tribunal from amongst the insolvency
professionals registered under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (31 of
2016) unless the official liquidator is appointed.

### 15. Rules applicable to provisional liquidator.

\- The rules relating to Company Liquidators shall apply to provisional
liquidators so far as applicable subject to such directions as the Tribunal
may give in each case.

### 16. Costs etc. of provisional liquidator.

\- Subject to any order of the Tribunal all the costs charges and expenses
incurred by the provisional liquidator shall be paid out of the assets of the
company and if the company does not have sufficient assets or any assets to
pay the costs charges and expenses the Tribunal may make appropriate orders in
this regard.Winding Up Order

### 17. Order to be sent to liquidator and form of order.

(1)For the purposes of sub section (1) of section 277, the order for winding
up shall be in Form WIN 11 with such variations as may be necessary and the
order for winding-up shall be sent by the Registrar after it is signed and
sealed within a period not exceeding seven days from the date of receipt of
the order by the Registrar to the Company Liquidator and the Registrar of
Companies in Form WIN 12 and Form WIN 13 and the copy of the order sent to
Company Liquidator shall be accompanied by a copy of the petition and the
affidavit if any filed in support thereof if not already sent at the time of
appointment of the provisional liquidator.(2)The Company Liquidator shall
cause a sealed copy of the order to be served upon the company in accordance
with the provisions of section 20 at its registered office or if there is no
registered office at its principal or last known principal place of business
or upon such other person or persons or in such manner as the Tribunal may
direct.(3)A copy of the order made by the Tribunal shall also be filed by the
liquidator within thirty days of the receipt with the Registrar of Companies
in form INC-28 of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules 2014.

### 18. Contents of winding up order.

\- An order for winding up a company shall inter-alia contain that it will be
the duty of such of the persons as are liable to submit the books of account
of the company completed and audited upto the date of the order to attend on
the Company Liquidator at required time and place and give him all the
information and it will be the duty of every person who is in possession of
any property books or papers cash or any other assets of the company including
the benefits derived therefrom to surrender forthwith such property books or
papers cash or other assets and the benefits so derived as the case may be to
the Company Liquidator.

### 19. Directions on making winding up order.

\- At the time of making the winding up order or at any time thereafter the
Tribunal shall give directions to the petitioner as to the advertisement of
the order and the persons if any on whom the order shall be served and the
persons if any to whom notice shall be given of the further proceedings in the
liquidation and such further directions as may be necessary.

### 20. Advertisement of order.

\- Save as otherwise ordered by the Tribunal the order for the winding up of a
company by the Tribunal shall within fourteen days of the date of the order be
advertised by the petitioner in a newspaper in the English language and a
newspaper in vernacular language widely circulating in the State or the Union
territory where the registered office of the company is situated and shall be
served by the petitioner upon such person if any and in such manner as the
Tribunal may direct and the advertisement shall be in Form WIN 14.

### 21. Declaration by Company Liquidator.

\- The declaration by the Company Liquidator regarding disclosing conflict of
interest or lack of independence if any in respect of his appointment as
Company Liquidator as referred to in sub-section (6) of section 275 shall be
filed in Form WIN 10 with the Tribunal.

### 22. Company Liquidator to take charge of assets and books and papers of
company.

(1)On a winding up order being made the Company Liquidator shall forthwith
take into his custody or under his control all the properties and effects
actionable claims and the books and papers of the company and it shall be the
duty of all persons having custody of any of the properties books and papers
cash or any other assets of the company to deliver possession thereof to the
Company Liquidator.(2)Where the company its promoters its key managerial
personnel or any other person required to cooperate with the liquidator does
not so cooperate the liquidator may make an application to the Tribunal for an
appropriate order.(3)The Tribunal on receiving an application under sub-rule
(2) shall by an order direct such promoters key managerial personnel or other
person (including contractual counter party supplier service provider or
auditor) -(a)to provide the information requested by the liquidator; and(b)to
comply with the instructions of the liquidator and to cooperate with him in
collection of information and taking custody of the assets properties and
books of accounts.

### 23. Form of proceedings after winding up order is made.

\- After a winding up order is made or a provisional liquidator is appointed
every subsequent proceeding in the winding up shall bear the original number
of the winding up petition besides its own distinctive number but against the
name of the company in the cause-title the words 'in liquidation' or 'in
provisional liquidation' as the case may be shall appear in
brackets.Application For Stay of Suits Etc. On Winding Up Order

### 24. Application for leave to commence or continue suit or proceeding.

\- An application under sub-section (1) of section 279 for leave of the
Tribunal to commence or continue any suit or other legal proceeding by or
against the company shall be made in Form WIN 15 upon notice to the Company
Liquidator and the parties to the suit or proceeding sought to be commenced or
continued.Reports By Company Liquidator Under Section 281

### 25. Report by Company Liquidator.

(1)The report to be submitted by the Company Liquidator under subsection (1)
of section 281 shall be in Form WIN 16 with such variations as may be
necessary and the Company Liquidator may make further report or reports if he
thinks fit according to the provisions of sub-section (4) of the said
section.(2)It shall be the duty of the promoters directors officers employees
and every person who has made or concurred in making of the statement of
affairs if and when required to attend on the Company Liquidator and answer
all such questions as may be put to him give all such further information as
may be required from him and provide such assistance as may be required by the
Company Liquidator.(3)The Tribunal shall within seven days from the receipt of
such report fix a date for the consideration thereof by the Tribunal and
notify the date on the notice board of the Tribunal and to the Company
Liquidator.

### 26. Inspection of statement of affairs and report.

\- Every creditor or contributory by himself or by his agent shall be entitled
to inspect the statement of affairs submitted under sub-section (4) of section
272 or sub-section (1) of section 274 and the report of the Company Liquidator
submitted under sub-rule (1) of rule 25 on payment of a fee of one thousand
rupees and to obtain copies thereof or extracts therefrom on payment of a fee
of five rupees per page.

### 27. Consideration of report by Tribunal.

\- The consideration of the report made by the Company Liquidator pursuant to
section 281 shall be placed before the Tribunal and the Company Liquidator
shall personally or by authorised representative attend the consideration of
the said report and give the Tribunal any further information or explanation
with reference to the matters contained therein which the Tribunal may require
and on consideration of the aforesaid report the Tribunal may pass such orders
and give such directions as it may think fit.Settlement of List of
Contributors

### 28. Provisional list of contributors.

(1)Unless the Tribunal dispenses with the settlement of a list of contributors
the Company Liquidator shall prepare and file in the Tribunal not later than
twenty-one days after the date of the winding up order a provisional list of
contributors of the company with their names and addresses the number of
shares or the extent of interest to be attributed to each contributory the
amount called up and the amount paid up in respect of such shares or interest
and distinguishing in such list the several classes of contributors.(2)The
list shall consist of every person who was a member of the company at the
commencement of the winding up or his representative and shall be divided into
two parts the first part consisting of those who are contributors in their own
right and the second part of those who are contributors as being
representatives of or liable for the debts of others as required under sub-
section (1) of section 281 and the list shall be in Form WIN 17.

### 29. Notice to be given of date of settlement.

(1)Upon the filing of the provisional list of contributors mentioned in rule
28 the Company Liquidator shall obtain a date from the Tribunal for settlement
of the list of contributors and shall give notice of the date appointed to
every person included in such list stating in such notice in what character
and for what number of shares or extent of interest such person is included in
the list the amount called up and the amount paid up in respect of such shares
or interest and informing such person by such notice that if he intends to
object to his being settled as a contributory in such character and for such
number of shares or interest as mentioned in the list he should file in
Tribunal his affidavit in support of his contention and serve a copy of the
same on the Company Liquidator not less than two days before the date fixed
for the settlement and appear before Tribunal on the date appointed for the
settlement in person or by authorised representative and such notice shall be
in Form WIN 18 and shall be sent in the mode set out in section 20 so that it
reaches the contributors not less than fourteen days before the date fixed for
the settlement.(2)The person who posted the notice shall swear by an affidavit
in Form WIN 19 relating to the dispatch thereof and file the same in the
Tribunal not later than two days before the date fixed for the settlement of
the list.

### 30. Settlement of list.

\- On the date appointed for the settlement of the list referred to in rule 29
the Tribunal shall hear any person who objects to being settled as a
contributory or as a contributory in such character or for such number of
shares or extent of interest as is mentioned in the said list and after such
hearing shall finally settle the list in accordance with sub-section (1) of
section 285 and the aforesaid list when settled shall be certified by the
Tribunal under its seal and shall be in Form WIN 20.

### 31. Notice of settlement to contributors.

(1)Upon the receipt of the settled list of contributors as certified by the
Tribunal in terms of rule 30 the Company Liquidator shall within a period of 7
days issue notice to every person placed on the said list of contributors
stating in what character and for what number of shares or interest he has
been placed on the said list what amount has been called up and what amount
paid up in respect of such shares or interest and in the notice he shall
inform such person that any application for the removal of his name from the
aforesaid list or for a variation of the said list must be made to the
Tribunal within fifteen days from the date of service on the contributory of
such notice and such notice shall be in Form WIN 21 and shall be sent to each
person settled on the said list by pre-paid registered post or speed post at
the address mentioned in the said list.(2)An affidavit of service relating to
the dispatch of the notice to the contributors under this rule shall be sworn
by the person who dispatched the said notice and shall be filed in Tribunal
within seven days of the said dispatch of notice and such affidavit shall be
in Form WIN 22.

### 32. Supplemental list of contributors.

\- The Tribunal may add to the list of contributors by a supplemental list or
lists and any such addition shall be made in the same manner in all respects
as the settlement of the original list.

### 33. Variation of list.

\- Save as provided in rule 31 the list of contributors shall not be varied
and no person settled on the list as a contributory shall be removed from the
list or his liability in any way varied except by order of the Tribunal and in
accordance with such order.

### 34. Application for rectification of list.

\- If after the settlement of the list of contributors the Company Liquidator
has reason to believe that a contributory who had been included in the
provisional list has been improperly or by mistake excluded or omitted from
the list of contributors as finally settled or that the character in which or
the number of shares or extent of interest for which he has been included in
the list as finally settled or any other particular contained therein requires
rectification in any respect he may upon notice to the contributory concerned
apply to the Tribunal for such rectification of the list as may be necessary
and the Tribunal may on such application rectify or vary the list as it may
think fit.

### 35. List of contributors consisting of past members.

\- It shall not be necessary to settle a list of contributors consisting of
the past members of a company unless so ordered by the Tribunal and where an
order is made for settling a list of contributors consisting of the past
members of a company the provisions of these rules shall apply to the
settlement of such list in the same manner as they apply to the settlement of
the list of contributors consisting of the present members.Advisory Committee

### 36. Meeting of creditors and contributors.

\- The meeting of the creditors and contributors in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (3) of section 287 to determine the persons who may
be the members of the advisory committee shall be convened held and conducted
in the manner hereinafter provided in these rules for the holding and
conducting of meeting of creditors and contributors.

### 37. Company Liquidator to report result of meeting.

(1)As soon as possible but not later than seven days after the holding of the
meeting of the creditors and contributors the Company Liquidator shall report
the result thereof to the Tribunal and such report shall be in Form WIN
23.(2)Where the creditors and contributors have agreed upon the constitution
and composition of the advisory committee and the persons who are to be
members thereof an advisory committee shall subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 287 be constituted in accordance with such decision and
the Company Liquidator shall set out in his report the names of the members of
the committee so constituted.(3)After being directed by the Tribunal to
constitute an advisory committee where the creditors and contributors have not
agreed upon the composition of the advisory committee and the persons who are
to be members thereof the Company Liquidator shall at the time of making his
report as aforesaid apply to the Tribunal for directions as to what shall be
its composition and who shall be the members thereof and the Tribunal shall
thereupon fix a date for the consideration of the report of the Company
Liquidator and the notice of the date so fixed shall be advertised by the
Company Liquidator in such manner as the Tribunal shall direct not less than
seven days before the date so fixed and the advertisement shall be in Form WIN
24.(4)On the date fixed for hearing of the said application for directions the
Tribunal may after hearing the Company Liquidator and any creditor or
contributory who may appear decide as to who would be the members of the said
advisory committee or pass such orders or give such directions in the matter
as the Tribunal may think fit.

### 38. Filling - up of vacancy in advisory committee.

(1)On a vacancy occurring in the advisory committee the Company Liquidator
shall forthwith summon a meeting of creditors or of contributors as the case
may require to recommend for filling the vacancy and the meeting may by
resolution recommend for reappointing the same or propose for appointing
another creditor or contributory as the case may to fill the vacancy:Provided
that if the Company Liquidator having regard to the position in the winding up
is of the opinion that it is unnecessary for the vacancy to be filled he may
apply to the Tribunal and the Tribunal may make an order that the vacancy
shall not be filled or shall not be filled except in such circumstances as may
be specified in the order.(2)The continuing members of the advisory committee
if not less than two may act notwithstanding any vacancy in the said
committee.(3)Where the creditors or contributors as the case may be fail to
fill the vacancy for whatever reason the Company Liquidator shall forthwith
report such failure to the Tribunal and Tribunal may by order fill such
vacancy.

### 39. Company Liquidator and members of advisory committee dealing with
company's assets.

\- Neither the Company Liquidator nor any member of the advisory committee
shall while acting as such liquidator or member of such committee in any
winding up either directly or indirectly by himself or through his employer
partner clerk agent servant or relative become purchaser of any part of the
company's assets except by leave of the Tribunal and any such purchase made
contrary to the provisions of this rule may be set aside by the Tribunal on
the application of the said liquidator or of a creditor or contributory as the
case may be and the Tribunal may make such order as to costs as it may think
fit.

### 40. Advisory committee not to make profit.

\- No member of the advisory committee shall except under the order of the
Tribunal directly or indirectly by himself or through his employer partner
clerk agent servant or relative be entitled to derive any profit from any
transaction arising out of the winding up or to receive out of the assets any
payment for services rendered by him in connection with the administration of
the assets or for any goods supplied by him to the Company Liquidator for or
on account of the company and where any profit or payment has been made
contrary to the provisions of this rule such payment shall be disallowed or
the profit shall be recovered as the case may be on the audit of the such
liquidator's accounts or otherwise.

### 41. Cost of obtaining order of Tribunal.

\- In any case in which an order of the Tribunal is obtained under rule 39 or
rule 40 the costs of obtaining such order shall be borne by the person in
whose interest such order is obtained and shall not be payable out of the
companies' assets.

### 42. Order sanctioning payment to advisory committee.

\- Where the order of the Tribunal to a payment to a member of the advisory
committee for services rendered by him in connection with the administration
of the company's assets is obtained the order of the Tribunal shall specify
the nature of the services and such order shall only be given where the
service performed is of a special nature and except by the express order of
the Tribunal no remuneration shall be paid to a member of the advisory
committee for services rendered by him in the discharge of the duties attached
to his office as a member of such committee.

### 43. Meetings of advisory committee.

(1)The advisory committee shall meet at such times as it may from time to time
appoint and the Company Liquidator or one-third of the total number of members
of the said committee may also call a meeting of that committee as and when
they think necessary.(2)The quorum for a meeting of the advisory committee
shall be one-third of the total number of the members or two whichever is
higher.(3)The advisory committee may act by a majority of its members present
at a meeting but shall not act unless a quorum is present.(4)A member of the
advisory committee may resign by notice in writing signed by him and delivered
to the Company Liquidator.(5)If a member of the advisory committee is adjudged
as an insolvent or compounds or arranges with his creditors or is absent from
five consecutive meetings of the said committee without the leave of those
members who together with himself represent the creditors or contributors as
the case may be his office shall become vacant.(6)A member of the advisory
committee may be removed subject to the directions of the Tribunal at a
meeting of creditors if he represents creditors or at a meeting of
contributors if he represents contributors by an ordinary resolution of which
seven days' notice has been given stating the object of the meeting.Meetings
of Creditors and Contributors

### 44. Application of rules to meetings.

\- Subject to any directions given by the Tribunal rules as hereinafter set
out shall apply to meetings of creditors and contributors as may be convened
in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 287 and sub-section (3) of section
292.

### 45. Notice of meeting.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall summon meetings of creditors and contributors
by giving not less than fourteen days' notice by sending individually to every
creditor of the company a notice of the meeting of creditors and to every
contributory of the company a notice of the meeting of contributors by sending
notice by registered post or speed post or by electronic means so as to reach
such person in not less than fourteen days before the date fixed for the
meeting:Provided that where the number of creditors or contributors as the
case may be exceeds five hundred the Company Liquidator shall also give a
fourteen days' notice of the time and place appointed for the meeting by
advertisement in one daily newspaper in the English language and one daily
newspaper in the principal regional language circulating in the State or Union
territory concerned.(2)The notice to each creditor shall be sent to the
address given in his proof as referred to in rule 101 or if he has not so
proved to the address given in the statement of affairs or to the address
given in the books of the company or to such other address as may be known to
the person summoning the meeting and the notice to each contributory shall be
sent to the address mentioned in the books of the company as the address of
such contributory or to such other address as may be known to the person
summoning the meeting.(3)The notices shall be in Forms WIN 25 to 29 as may be
applicable.

### 46. Place and time of meeting.

\- Every meeting shall be held at such place and time as the Company
Liquidator considers convenient for the majority of the creditors or
contributors or both and different times or places or both may if thought fit
be appointed for the meeting of the creditors or contributors or both.

### 47. Notice of first or other meeting to officers of company.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall also give to each of the officers of the
company who in his opinion ought to attend the first or any other meeting of
creditors or contributors fourteen days' notice in Form WIN 30 of the time and
place appointed for such meeting and the notice may either be delivered by
hand or sent by registered post or speed post or by electronic means as may be
convenient and it shall be the duty of every officer who receives notice of
such meeting to attend if so required by the Company Liquidator and if any
such officer fails to attend the Liquidator may report such failure to the
Tribunal and the Tribunal may issue such directions to such person as it
thinks fit.(2)The Company Liquidator if he thinks fit may instead of requiring
any of the officers of the company to attend the meeting as aforesaid require
such officer to answer any interrogatories or to furnish in writing any
information that he may require for purposes of such meeting and if such
officer fails to answer the interrogatories or furnish such information the
liquidator shall report such failure to the Tribunal and the Tribunal may
issue such directions to such officer as it may think fit.

### 48. Proof of notice.

\- An affidavit by any person who sent the notice that such notice has been
duly sent shall be sufficient evidence of the notice having been sent to the
person to whom the same was addressed and the affidavit shall be filed in the
Tribunal in Form WIN 31.

### 49. Costs of meeting.

\- The cost of convening and conducting the meeting of the creditors or
contributors shall be met out of the assets of the company.

### 50. Chairman of meeting.

\- The Company Liquidator or some person nominated by him shall be the
Chairman of the meeting and the nomination shall be in Form WIN 32.

### 51. Resolution at creditors' meeting.

\- At a meeting of creditors a resolution shall be deemed to be passed when a
majority in value of the creditors present personally or by proxy and voting
on the resolution have voted in favour of the resolution and in a winding up
by the Tribunal the value of a creditor shall for the purposes of a first
meeting of the creditors meeting held under section 287 be deemed to be the
value as shown in the books of the company or the amount mentioned in his
proof as referred to rule 101 whichever is less and for the purposes of any
other meeting the value for which the creditor has proved his debt or claim.

### 52. Resolution of contributors' meeting.

\- At a meeting of the contributors a resolution shall be deemed to be passed
when a majority in value of the contributors present personally or by proxy
and voting on the resolution have voted in favour of the resolution and the
value of the contributors shall be determined according to the number of votes
to which each contributory is entitled as a member of the company under the
provisions of the Act or the articles of the company as the case may be.

### 53. Copies of resolution to be filed.

\- The Company Liquidator shall file in the Tribunal a copy certified by him
of every resolution passed at a meeting of the creditors or contributors and
the Registry shall keep in each case a file of such resolution.

### 54. Non-receipt of notice by creditor or contributory.

\- Where a meeting of creditors or contributors is summoned by notice the
proceedings and resolution at the meeting shall unless the Tribunal otherwise
orders be valid notwithstanding that some creditors or contributors may not
have received the notice sent to them.

### 55. Adjournments.

\- The chairman of the meeting may with the consent of the creditors or
contributors present in the meeting as the case may be adjourn it from time to
time but the adjourned meeting shall be held at the same place as the original
meeting unless in the resolution for adjournment another place is specified or
unless the Tribunal otherwise orders.

### 56. Quorum.

\- A meeting may not act for any purpose except for adjournment thereof unless
there are present or represented thereat in the case of a creditors' meeting
at least three creditors entitled to vote or in the case of a meeting of
contributors at least three contributors or all the creditors entitled to vote
or all the contributors if the number of creditors entitled to vote or the
number of contributors as the case may be does not exceed three.

### 57. Procedure in absence of quorum.

\- If within half an hour from the time appointed for the meeting a quorum of
creditors or contributors as the case may be is not present or represented the
meeting shall be adjourned to the same day in the following week at the same
time and place and if at such adjourned meeting the quorum is not present at
least two creditors or contributors present in person shall form the quorum
and may transact the business for which the meeting was convened:Provided that
if at the adjourned meeting also two creditors or contributors as the case may
be are not present the chairman of the meeting shall submit his report to the
Tribunal for such directions as the Tribunal may deem fit.

### 58. When creditor can vote.

\- In the case of a meeting of creditors held under section 287 or of any
adjournment thereof a person shall not be entitled to vote as a creditor
unless he has duly lodged with the Company Liquidator not later than the time
mentioned for that purpose in the notice convening the meeting a proof of the
debt which he claims to be due to him from the company and in the case of
other meeting of creditors a person shall not be entitled to vote as a
creditor unless he has lodged with the Company Liquidator a proof of the debt
which he claims to be due to him from the company and such proof has been
admitted wholly or in part before the date on which the meeting is
held:Provided that this rule and rules 59 to 62 shall not apply to a meeting
of creditors held prior to the meeting of creditors under section 287:Provided
further that this rules shall not apply to any creditors or class of creditors
who by virtue of these rules or any directions given thereunder are not
required to prove their debts.

### 59. Case in which creditors may not vote.

\- A creditor shall not vote in respect of any unliquidated or contingent debt
or any debt value of which is not ascertained nor shall a creditor vote in
respect of any debt secured by a current bill of exchange or promissory note
held by him unless he is willing to treat liability to him thereon of every
person who is liable thereon antecedent to the company and against whom no
order of adjudication has been made as a security in his hands and to estimate
the value thereof and for the purposes of voting but not for purposes of
dividend to deduct it from his proof mentioned above.

### 60. When secured creditor can vote.

\- For the purposes of voting at a meeting in a winding up by the Tribunal a
secured creditor shall unless he surrenders his security state in his
aforesaid proof the particulars of his security the date when it was given and
the value at which it is assessed by a registered valuer and shall be entitled
to vote only in respect of the balance due to him if any after deducting the
value of his security.

### 61. Effect of voting by a secured creditor.

\- If a secured creditor votes in respect of his whole debt he shall be deemed
to have surrendered his security unless the Tribunal on an application by such
creditor is satisfied that the omission to value the security was due to
inadvertence.

### 62. Procedure when secured creditor votes without surrendering security.

\- The liquidator may within fifteen days from the date of the meeting at
which a secured creditor voted on the basis of his valuation of the security
require him to give up the security for the benefit of the creditors generally
on payment of the value so estimated by him and may if necessary apply to the
Tribunal for an order to compel such creditor to give up the security:Provided
that the Tribunal may for good cause shown permit the said creditor to correct
his valuation before being required to give up the security upon such terms as
to costs as the Tribunal may consider just.

### 63. Admission or rejection of proof for purposes of voting.

\- The chairman of the meeting shall have power to admit or reject a proof for
the purposes of voting but his decision shall be subject to appeal to the
Tribunal and if he is in doubt whether a proof shall be admitted or rejected
he shall mark it as objected to and allow the creditor to vote subject to the
vote being declared invalid in the event of the objection being sustained.

### 64. Minutes of proceedings.

(1)The chairman of the meeting shall cause minutes of the proceedings at the
meeting to be drawn up and fairly entered in the Minute Book within 30 days
and the minutes shall be signed by him or by the chairman of the next
meeting.(2)A list of creditors and contributors present at every meeting shall
be made and kept in Form WIN 33.

### 65. Report to Tribunal.

\- The Company Liquidator shall within seven days of the conclusion of the
meeting report the result thereof to the Tribunal in Form No. WIN 34.Proxies
In Relation To Meetings of Creditors And Contributors

### 66. Voting by proxies.

\- A creditor or contributory may vote either in person or by proxy and where
a person is authorised in the manner provided by section 113 to represent a
body corporate at any meeting of creditors or contributors such person shall
produce to the Company Liquidator or and chairman of the meeting as the case
may be a copy of the resolution so authorising him and such copy must be
certified to be a true copy by a director manager secretary or other officer
of the company duly authorised in that behalf who shall certify that he is so
authorised.

### 67. Form of proxies.

\- A creditor or contributory may give a general proxy or a special proxy to
any person and a general proxy shall be in Form WIN 35 and a special proxy in
Form WIN 36.

### 68. Proxies to Company Liquidator or chairman of meeting.

\- A creditor or contributory in a winding up by the Tribunal may appoint the
Company Liquidator or if there is no such liquidator the chairman of the
meeting to act as his general or special proxy.

### 69. Use of proxies by deputy.

\- Where a Company Liquidator who holds any proxies cannot attend the meeting
for which they are given he may in writing depute some person under his
official control to use the proxies on his behalf and in such manner as he may
direct.

### 70. Forms to be sent with notice.

\- Forms of proxies shall be sent to the creditors and contributors with the
notice summoning the meeting and no name shall be inserted or printed in the
form before it is sent.

### 71. Proxies to be lodged.

\- A proxy shall be lodged not later than 48 hours before the meeting at which
it is to be used with the Company Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal.

### 72. Holder of proxy not to vote on matter in which he is financially
interested.

\- No person acting either under a general or special proxy shall vote in
favour of any resolution which would directly or indirectly place himself his
partner or employer in a position to receive any remuneration out of the
assets of the company otherwise than as a creditor rat ably with the other
creditors of the company.

### 73. Minor not to be appointed proxy.

\- No person shall be appointed as a general or special proxy who is a minor.

### 74. Filling in proxy where creditor or contributory is blind or incapable.

\- The proxy of a creditor or a contributory who is blind or incapable of
writing may be accepted if such creditor or contributory has attached his
signature or mark thereto in the presence of a witness who shall add to his
signature his description and address:Provided that all insertions in the
proxy shall be in the handwriting of the witness and such witness shall have
certified at the foot of the proxy that all such insertions have been made by
him at the request and in the presence of the creditor or contributory before
he attached his signature or mark.

### 75. Proxy of person not acquainted with English.

\- The proxy of a creditor or contributory who does not know English may be
accepted if it is executed in the manner provided in rule 74 and the witness
certifies that it was explained to the creditor or contributory in the
language known to him and gives the creditor's or contributors name in English
below the signature.

### 76. Submission of periodical reports to the tribunal.

\- The Company Liquidator shall make quarterly reports referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 288 to the Tribunal in Form WIN 37 with respect to the
progress of winding up of the company.

### 77. Employment of additional or special staff by Official Liquidator.

\- Where the Official Liquidator is of the opinion that the employment of any
special or additional staff is necessary in any liquidation he shall apply to
the Tribunal for sanction and the Tribunal may sanction such staff as it
thinks fit on such salaries and allowances as the Tribunal may deem
appropriate.

### 78. Declaration by professional.

\- The professional referred to in section 291 appointed by the Company
Liquidator with the sanction of the Tribunal shall file a declaration in Form
WIN 38 disclosing any conflict of interest or lack of independence in respect
of his appointment with the Tribunal forthwith.Registers And Books of Account
To Be Maintained By Company Liquidator

### 79. Record book to be maintained by Company Liquidator.

\- The Company Liquidator shall maintain a record book for each company in
which shall be entered minutes of all the proceedings and resolutions passed
at any meeting of the creditors or contributors or of the advisory committee
the substance of all orders passed by the Tribunal in the liquidation
proceedings and all such matters other than matters of account as may be
necessary to furnish a correct view of the administration of the company's
affairs.

### 80. Registers and books to be maintained by Company Liquidator.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall maintain the following books of accounts so
far as may be applicable in respect of the company under winding
up:(a)Register of Liquidations in Form WIN 38 A;(b)Central Cash Book in Form
WIN 38 B;(c)Company's Cash Book in Form WIN 38 C;(d)General Ledger in Form WIN
38 D;(e)Cashier's Cash Book in Form WIN 38 E;(f)Bank Ledger in Form WIN 38
F;(g)Register of Assets in Form WIN 38 G;(h)Securities and Investment Register
in Form WIN 38 H;(i)Register of Book Debts and Out standing's in Form WIN 38
-I;(j)Tenants Ledger in Form WIN 38 J;(k)Suits Register in Form WIN 38
K;(l)Decree Register in Form WIN 38 L;(m)Sales Register in Form WIN 38
M;(n)Register of Claims and Dividends in Form WIN 38 N;(o)Contributors Ledger
in Form WIN 38-O;(p)Dividends Paid Register in Form WIN 38 P;(q)Suspense
Register in Form WIN 38 Q;(r)Documents Register in Form WIN 38 R;(s)Books
Register in Form WIN 38 S;(t)Register of unclaimed dividends and undistributed
assets deposited into the companies liquidation account in the Bank in Form
WIN 38 T, and in maintaining the registers and books mentioned above the
Company Liquidator shall follow the instructions contained in the respective
forms provided for the said books and registers.(2)The Company Liquidator
shall in addition to the registers and books referred to in sub-rule (1)
maintain such other books as may be necessary for the proper and efficient
working of his office such as petty cash register correspondence register
despatch register daily register of money orders and cheques received for
accounting of transactions entered into by him in relation to the
company.(3)Where the accounts of the company are incomplete the Company
Liquidator shall with all convenient speed as soon as the order for winding up
is made have them completed and brought up-to-date.(4)(a)Where the Company
Liquidator is authorised to carry on the business of the company he shall keep
separate books of account in respect of such business and such books shall as
far as possible be in conformity with the books already kept by the company in
the course of its business and the Company Liquidator shall incorporate in the
winding up cash book and in the company's cash book the total weekly amounts
of the receipts and payments on such trading account.(b)The trading account
shall from time to time not less than once in every month be verified by
affidavit and the Company Liquidator shall thereupon submit such account to
the advisory committee (if any) or such member thereof as may be appointed by
the said committee for that purpose who shall examine and certify the
same.(5)The Company Liquidator shall keep proper vouchers for all payments
made or expenses incurred by him and the vouchers shall be serially
numbered.Banking Account of Company Liquidator

### 81. All money to be paid into special bank account in a scheduled bank.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall deposit into a special bank account in his
official name opened in any scheduled bank or any other bank as may be
permitted by the Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the bank) all moneys
including cheques and demand drafts received by him as the Company Liquidator
of the company and the realisations of each day shall be deposited in the bank
without deduction not later than the next working day of the bank and the
Company Liquidator may maintain a petty cash of five thousand rupees or such
higher amount as may be permitted by the Tribunal to meet day to day expenses
and all payments out of the aforesaid account by the Company Liquidator above
two thousand rupees shall be made by cheque drawn against the said
account.(2)The Company Liquidator shall make quarterly reports to the Tribunal
regarding the funds including filing the bank statements of the special bank
account.

### 82. Bills cheques etc. to be deposited with bank.

\- All bills cheques hundies notes and other securities payable to the company
or to the Company Liquidator thereof shall as soon as they come into the hands
of the Company Liquidator be deposited by him with the bank for the purpose of
being presented for acceptance and payment or for payment only as the case may
be and the proceeds when realised shall be credited by the bank to the special
bank account.

### 83. Payments into Bank.

\- Where the Tribunal makes an order directing any person to pay any money due
to the company into the special bank account maintained by the Company
Liquidator the person so directed shall at the time of making the payment
produce to the bank a certified copy of the order or a payment in challan
endorsed by the Company Liquidator under his signature and the person making
the payment shall give notice thereof to the Company Liquidator and produce
before him the bank receipt relating thereto.

### 84. Company Liquidator's Dividend Account.

\- The Company Liquidator shall also open a separate dividend account for the
company under liquidation with the sanction of the Tribunal in any scheduled
bank under the name 'the Dividend Account of.............. (name of the
company) in liquidation' into which account he shall upon a declaration of
dividend being made in the winding up of the company deposit by transfer from
special bank account the total amount of the dividend payable upon such
declaration and there shall be a separate such account in respect of each
declaration of dividend and all payments of dividend shall be made from the
said Company Liquidator's dividend account and any unpaid balance in the said
account shall be transferred to the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account referred to in sub-section (1) of section 352,
and all payments of dividends shall be made by cheques or through Electronic
Clearing System drawn against the said account.

### 85. Where the company has no available assets.

(1)Where a company against which a winding up order has been made has no
available assets the Company Liquidator may with the leave of the Tribunal
incur any necessary expenses in connection with the winding up out of any
permanent advance or other fund provided by the Central Government and the
expenses so incurred shall be recouped out of the assets of the company in
priority to the debts of the company:Provided that where any money has been
advanced to the Company Liquidator by the petitioner or other creditor or
contributory for meeting any preliminary expenses in connection with the
winding up the Company Liquidator may incur any necessary expenses out of such
amount and the money so advanced shall be paid out of the assets of the
company in priority to the debts of the company:Provided further that if the
Official Liquidator maintains any Common Pool Fund or Establishment Fund under
order of the court prior to the date of the commencement of these rules he
shall continue to use such fund for the purpose for which the fund was
originally created.(2)The Official Liquidator shall reimburse the amount
availed out of the said Common Pool Fund or Establishment Fund for the purpose
of meeting the expenditure of the company in liquidation which does not have
sufficient funds to its credit from the amounts of the company in liquidation
on priority basis as and when any amount comes to its credit.Investment of
Surplus Funds

### 86. Investment of surplus funds.

(1)All such money for the time being standing to the credit of the Company
Liquidator at the bank as is not immediately required for the purposes of
winding up shall be invested in Government securities or in interest bearing
deposits in any scheduled bank in the name of the company in liquidation or
provisional liquidation represented by Company Liquidator of the company to
which the funds belong and such funds so invested shall be monitored regularly
by the Company Liquidator and the returns also containing the details of fixed
deposit receipts shall be submitted to the Tribunal.(2)Where the fixed deposit
has matured it shall not be automatically renewed but the Company Liquidator
shall carry out the due diligence to assess whether a higher rate of interest
is available in any other scheduled bank and the said Liquidator shall report
the conclusion of such due diligence to the Tribunal and in the event a higher
rate of interest is available in any other scheduled bank the said Liquidator
shall apply for the leave of the Tribunal to invest the surplus funds in such
other scheduled bank offering higher rate of interest.

### 87. Company Liquidator to examine accounts for purposes of investment.

\- The Company Liquidator shall at the end of every month examine account of
liquidation to ascertain what moneys are available for investment and shall
make an entry at the end of every month in the record book relating to the
company of his having examined the account for the purpose and of the decision
taken by him regarding the investment and in case he decides not to invest any
surplus funds the reasons for such decision.

### 88. Investments to be made by Bank.

\- All investments shall be made by the bank upon the written request of the
Company Liquidator but the securities shall be retained in the bank in the
name and on behalf of the Company Liquidator and shall not be sold except by
the bank and under the written instructions of the Company Liquidator and when
the securities are sold the proceeds shall be credited by the bank to the
account of the Company Liquidator.

### 89. Dividend and interest to be credited.

\- All dividends and interest accruing from any securities or investments
shall from time to time be received by the bank and placed to the credit of
the account of the Company Liquidator and intimation thereof shall be given to
the Company Liquidator who shall thereupon credit such dividend or interest in
his account to the company to which the security or the investment relating
thereto belongs.

### 90. Refunds of taxes.

\- The Company Liquidator shall claim such refunds of income-tax or other
taxes as may be due.Filing And Audit of Company Liquidator's Account

### 91. Half-yearly accounts to be filed.

\- For the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 294 unless otherwise ordered
by the Tribunal the Company Liquidator shall file his accounts to Tribunal
twice a year and such accounts shall be made up to the 31st of March and 30th
of September every year the account for the period ending 31st March being
filed not later than the 30th of June following and account for the period
ending 30th September not later than the 31st of December following:Provided
that the final accounts of the Company Liquidator shall be filed as soon as
the affairs of the company have been fully wound up irrespective of the period
specified above:Provided further that the Tribunal may permit the Company
Liquidator to straight away forward completed accounts of the company in
liquidation in respect of relevant period to the auditor for the purpose of
audit in Form WIN 42 requesting that the accounts may be audited and the
certificate of audit shall be submitted to the Tribunal not later than one
month from the date of receipt of the copy of the accounts as required under
subsection (3) of section 294:Provided also that the accounts need not be got
audited where the transaction during the period is for ten thousand rupees or
less.

### 92. Form of account.

\- The account shall be a statement of receipts and payments in Form WIN 39
and shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions contained in the
said form and three copies thereof shall be filed and the account shall be
verified by an affidavit of the Company Liquidator in Form WIN 40 and the
final account shall be in Form WIN 41.

### 93. Nil account.

\- Where the Company Liquidator has not during the period of account received
or paid any sum of money on account of the assets of the company he shall file
an affidavit of no receipts or payments on the date on which he shall have to
file his accounts for the period.

### 94. Registry to send copy of account to auditor.

\- As soon as the accounts are filed the Registry shall forward to the auditor
one copy thereof for purposes of audit with a requisition in Form WIN 42
requesting that the accounts may be audited and a certificate of audit be
submitted to the Tribunal not later than one month from the date of receipt of
the copy of the account as required under sub-section (3) of section
294:Provided that the accounts need not be got audited where the total
transaction during the period is for ten thousand rupees or less.

### 95. Audit of Company Liquidator's accounts.

\- The accounts shall be preferably audited by one or more Chartered
Accountants appointed by the Tribunal from out of the panel to be maintained
by the Tribunal the audit shall be a complete check of the accounts of the
Company Liquidator and the Company Liquidator shall produce before the auditor
all his books and vouchers for the purposes of the audit and shall give the
auditor all such explanations information and assistance as may be required of
him in respect of the accounts.

### 96. Audit certificate to be filed.

\- After the audit of the accounts of the Company Liquidator filed in Tribunal
the auditor shall forward to the Registry a certificate of audit relating to
the account with his observations and comments if any on the account together
with a copy thereof and shall forward another copy to the Company Liquidator
and the Company Liquidator shall file copy of the audit certificate together
with a copy of audited accounts with the Registrar of Companies and the
Registry shall file the original audit certificate with the records of the
Tribunal.

### 97. Audit fees.

\- The audit fees shall be fixed by the Tribunal from time to time having
regard to the nature and complexity of the case .

### 98. Inspection of account and certificate of audit.

\- Any creditor or contributory shall be entitled to inspect the accounts and
the auditor's certificate in the office of the Tribunal on payment of fees of
one hundred rupees and to obtain a copy thereof on payment of the charges at
the rate of five rupees per page.

### 99. Account and auditor's report to be placed before Tribunal.

\- Upon the audit of the account the Registry shall place the statement of
account and the auditor's certificate before the Tribunal for its
consideration and orders.

## Part III – Winding Up By Tribunal (Other Than Summary Winding Up) Debts And
Claims Against Company

### 100. Notice for proving debts.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act and directions of the Tribunal the
Company Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal shall within a period of
thirty days from the date of order of winding up fix a certain day and give a
notice of fourteen days thereof -(i)by advertisement in Form No. WIN 43 in one
issue of a daily newspaper in the English language and one issue of a daily
newspaper in the regional language widely circulating in the State or Union
territory where the registered office is situated concerned to the creditors
of the company to prove their debts or claims and to establish any title they
may have to priority under section 326 or327 or to be excluded from the
benefit of any distribution made before such debts or claims are proved or as
the case may be from objecting to such distribution;(ii)by such mode of
communication as is permitted under section 20 to every person mentioned in
the statement of affairs as a creditor who has not proved his debt and to
every person mentioned in the statement of affairs as a preferential creditor
whose claim to be a preferential creditor has not been established or is not
admitted or where there is no statement of affairs to the creditors as
ascertained from the books of the company and to each person who to the
knowledge of the Company Liquidator claims to be a creditor or preferential
creditor of the company and whose claim has not been admitted to the last
known address or place of residence of such person.(2)All the rules
hereinafter set out as to the admission or rejection of proofs shall apply
with necessary variations to any claim to priority as a preferential creditor.

### 101. Proof of debt.

(1)In a winding up by the Tribunal every creditor shall subject as hereinafter
provided prove his debt unless the Tribunal in any particular case directs
that any creditors or class of creditors shall be admitted without
proof.(2)Formal proof of the debts mentioned in clause (d) of sub-section (1)
of section 327 shall not be required unless the Company Liquidator in any
special case otherwise directs.

### 102. Mode of proof and verification thereof.

\- A debt may be proved by delivering or sending to the Company Liquidator by
such mode as set out in section 20 an affidavit verifying the debt made by the
creditor or by some person authorised by him and if the affidavit is made by a
person authorised by the creditor it shall state the authority and means of
knowledge of the deponent and a creditor need not attend upon the examination
unless required so to do by the Company Liquidator.

### 103. Contents of proof.

\- An affidavit proving a debt shall contain or refer to a statement of
account showing the particulars of the debt and shall specify the vouchers if
any by which the same can be substantiated and the affidavit shall state
whether the creditor is a secured creditor or a preferential creditor and if
so shall set out the particulars of the security or of the preferential claims
and the affidavit shall be in Form WIN 44.

### 104. Workman's dues.

\- In any case where there are numerous claims for wages or any accrued
remuneration by workmen and others employed by the company it shall be
sufficient if one proof in Form WIN 45 for all such claims is made either by a
foreman or some other person on behalf of all such creditors and such proof
shall be annexed thereto as forming part thereof setting forth the names of
the workmen and others and the amounts severally due to them in the schedule
in the said form and any proof made in compliance with this rule shall have
the same effect as if separate proofs had been made by each of the said
workmen and others.

### 105. Production of bills of exchange and promissory notes.

\- Where a creditor seeks to prove in respect of a bill of exchange promissory
note or other negotiable instrument or security of a like nature on which the
company is liable such bill of exchange note instrument or security shall be
produced before the Company Liquidator and be marked by him before the proof
is admitted.

### 106. Value of debts.

\- The value of all debts and claims against the company shall as far as is
possible be estimated according to the value thereof at the date of the
appointment of the Provisional Liquidator or the order of the winding up of
the company whichever is earlier:Provided that where before the presentation
of the petition for winding up a resolution has been passed by the company for
winding up the date for estimation of debts and claims shall be the date of
the passing of such resolution.

### 107. Discount.

\- A creditor proving his debt shall deduct therefrom all trade discounts if
any.

### 108. Interest.

\- On any debt or certain sum payable at a certain time or otherwise whereon
interest is not reserved or agreed for and which is overdue at the date of the
winding up order or the resolution as the case may be the creditor may prove
for interest at a rate not exceeding six per cent. per annum or as decided by
the Tribunal up to that date from the time when the debt or sum was payable if
the debt or sum is payable by virtue of a written instrument at a certain time
and if payable otherwise then from the time when a demand in writing has been
made giving notice that interest will be claimed from the date of demand until
the time of payment.

### 109. Periodical payments.

\- When any rent or other payment falls due at the time referred to in rule
108 and the order or resolution to wind up is made at any time other than one
of those times mentioned in rule 108 the persons shall be entitled to the rent
or payments for a proportionate part thereof up to the date of winding up
order or resolution accrued due from day to day:Provided that where the
Company Liquidator remains in occupation of the premises demised to a company
which is being wound up nothing in this rule shall prejudice or affect the
right of the landlord of such premises to claim payment by the company or the
liquidator of rent during the period of the company's or liquidator's
occupation.

### 110. Proof of debt payable at future time.

\- A creditor may prove for a debt not payable at the date of the winding up
order as if it were payable presently and may receive dividends equally with
the other creditors deducting only thereat a rebate of interest at the rate of
six per cent. per annum computed from the date of declaration of the dividend
to the time when the debt would have become payable according to the terms on
which it was contracted.

### 111. Examination of proof.

\- The Company Liquidator shall as soon as possible but not later than thirty
days or within such time as may be allowed by the Tribunal on an application
by the liquidator examine every proof of debt lodged with him and the grounds
of the debt and he may call for the production of the documentary proof if any
referred to in the affidavit of proof or require further evidence in support
of the debt and if he requires further evidence or requires that the creditor
should attend the investigation in person he shall fix a day and time at which
the creditor is required to attend or to produce further evidence and send a
notice to such creditor in Form WIN 46 by pre-paid registered post or speed
post so as to reach him not later than seven days before the date fixed.

### 112. Company Liquidator's right to call any person in connection with
investigation.

\- The Company Liquidator may call upon any person whom he may deem capable of
giving information respecting the debts to be proved in liquidation and may
require such person to produce any documents in his custody or power relating
to such debts and shall tender with the call such sum as appears to the
Company Liquidator sufficient to defray the travelling and other expenses of
the person called for attendance and where the person so called fails without
lawful excuse to attend or produce any documents in compliance with the call
or avoids or evades service the Company Liquidator may report the same to the
Tribunal and apply for appropriate orders and the Tribunal may pass any order
as it may think fit.

### 113. Affidavit.

\- For the purpose of his duties in relation to the admission of proof of
debts where applicable the Company Liquidator may take affidavits and the
Company Liquidator may at his discretion dispense with this requirement and he
may also permit the taking of an affidavit or undertaking in lieu of an oath.

### 114. Costs of proof.

\- Unless otherwise ordered by the Tribunal a creditor shall bear the costs of
proving his debt.

### 115. Acceptance or rejection of proof to be communicated.

\- As soon as possible but not later than fourteen days from the date of
conclusion of the examination referred to in rule 111 the Company Liquidator
shall in writing admit or reject the proof in whole or in part every decision
of the liquidator accepting or rejecting a proof either wholly or in part
shall be communicated to the creditor concerned by means permitted under
section 20 when the proof is accepted or rejected provided that it shall not
be necessary to give notice of the admission of a claim to a creditor who has
appeared before the liquidator and the acceptance of whose claim has been
communicated to him or his agent in writing at the time of acceptance and
where the liquidator rejects a proof wholly or in part he shall state the
grounds of the rejection to the creditor in Form WIN 47 and notice of
admission of proof shall be in Form WIN 48.

### 116. Appeal by creditor.

(1)If a creditor is dissatisfied with the decision of the Company Liquidator
in respect of his proof the creditor may not later than twenty-one days from
the date of service of the notice upon him of the decision of the liquidator
appeal to the Tribunal against the decision.(2)The appeal shall be made in
Form WIN 49 supported by an affidavit which shall set out the grounds of such
appeal and notice of the appeal shall be given to the Company Liquidator and
on such appeal the Tribunal shall have all the powers of an appellate court
under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (5 of 1908).

### 117. Procedure where creditor appeals.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall upon receiving notice of the appeal against a
decision rejecting a proof wholly or in part file with the Registry such proof
with the order containing the grounds of rejection.(2)It shall be open to any
creditor or contributory to apply to the Tribunal for leave to intervene in
the appeal and the Tribunal may if it thinks fit grant the leave subject to
such terms and conditions as may be just and where such leave has been granted
notice of the hearing of the appeal shall be given to such creditor or
contributory.

### 118. Company Liquidator not to be personally liable for costs.

\- The Company Liquidator shall in no case be personally liable for costs in
relation to an appeal from his decision rejecting any proof wholly or in part.

### 119. Proofs and list of creditors to be filed in Tribunal.

\- The Company Liquidator shall within thirty days from the date fixed for the
submission of proofs under rule 100 or such further time as the Tribunal may
allow file in the Tribunal a list of the creditors in Form WIN 50 who
submitted to him proofs of their claims in pursuance of the advertisement and
the notice referred to in rule 100 mentioning the amounts of debt for which
they claimed to be creditors distinguishing in such list the proofs admitted
wholly the proofs admitted or rejected in part and the proofs wholly rejected
and the proofs with the memorandum of admission or rejection of the same in
whole or in part as the case may be endorsed thereon shall be filed in
Tribunal along with the certificate.

### 120. List of creditors not to be varied.

\- The list of creditors filed in Tribunal shall be the list of the creditors
of the company and shall not be added to or varied except under the order of
the Tribunal and in accordance with such orders and where an order is made
adding to or varying the list of creditors the Company Liquidator shall amend
the list in accordance with such order.

### 121. Notice of filing list and inspection of same.

\- Upon the filing of the list of creditors as settled by the Company
Liquidator the Registry shall notify the filing thereof on the Tribunal's
notice board and on the website of the Tribunal and the list of creditors as
settled and the proofs relating thereto shall be open to the inspection of
every creditor or contributory on payment of fee of one thousand rupees.

### 122. Expunging of proof.

(1)If after the admission of a proof the Company Liquidator has reason to
believe that the proof has been improperly admitted or admitted by a mistake
he may immediately apply to the Tribunal upon notice to the creditor who made
the proof to expunge the proof or reduce its amount as the case may be.(2)Any
creditor or contributory may within ten days of the admission of the proof
also apply to the Tribunal to expunge the proof or reduce the amount thereof
if the Company Liquidator declines to move in the matter and on such
application the Tribunal may pass such order as it may think just.

### 123. Procedure on failure to prove debt within time fixed.

\- If any creditor fails to file proof of his debt with the Company Liquidator
within the time specified in the advertisement referred to in rule 100 such
creditor may apply to the Tribunal for relief within fifteen days from the
time specified in such advertisement and the Tribunal may thereupon adjudicate
upon the debt or direct the liquidator to do so.

### 124. Right of creditor who has not proved debt before declaration of
dividend.

\- Any creditor who has not proved his debt before the declaration of any
dividend or dividends shall be entitled to be paid out of any money for the
time being in the hands of the Company Liquidator available for distribution
of dividend any dividend or dividends which such creditor may have failed to
receive before that money is applied to the payment of any future dividend or
dividends but he shall not be entitled to disturb the distribution of any
dividend declared before his debt was proved by reason that he has not
participated therein.

### 125. Payment of subsequent interest.

\- In the event of there being a surplus after payment in full of all the
claims admitted to proof creditors whose proofs have been admitted shall be
paid interest from the date of the winding up order or of the resolution as
the case may be up to the date of the declaration of the final dividend at a
rate not exceeding six per cent. per annum or such other rate as may be
decided by the Tribunal on the admitted amount of the claim after adjusting
against the said amount the dividends declared as on the date of the
declaration of each dividend.Attendance and Appearance of Creditors and
Contributors

### 126. Attendance at proceedings.

(1)Save as otherwise provided by these rules or by an order of the Tribunal
every person for the time being on the list of contributors of the company and
every creditor whose debt has been admitted by the Company Liquidator wholly
or in part shall be at liberty at his own expense to attend the proceedings
before the Tribunal or before the Company Liquidator and shall be entitled
upon payment of the costs occasioned thereby to have notice of all such
proceedings as he shall by request in writing addressed to the Company
Liquidator desire to have notice of; but if the Tribunal shall be of opinion
that the attendance of any such person has occasioned any additional costs
which ought not to be borne by the funds of the company it may direct such
costs or a gross sum in lieu thereof to be paid by such person and such person
shall not be entitled to attend any further proceedings until he had paid the
same.(2)No contributory or creditor shall be entitled to attend any
proceedings before the Tribunal unless and until he or an authorised
representative on his behalf has filed an appearance with the Registry and the
Registry shall keep an "Appearance Book" in which all such appearances shall
be entered.

### 127. Representation of creditors and contributors before Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal may if it thinks fit appoint from time to time any one or more
of the creditors or contributors to represent before the Tribunal at the
expense of the company all or any class of creditors or contributors upon any
question or in relation to any proceedings before the Tribunal and may remove
any person so appointed if more than one person is appointed under this rule
to represent one class and the persons so appointed shall employ the same
authorised representative to represent them and where they fail to agree as to
the authorised representative to be employed the Tribunal may nominate an
authorised representative for them.Collection And Distribution of Assets In
Winding Up By Tribunal

### 128. Powers of Company Liquidator.

\- The duties imposed by sub-section (1) of section 290 with regard to the
collection of the assets of the company and the application of the assets in
discharge of the company's liabilities shall be discharged by the Company
Liquidator subject to the control of the Tribunal.

### 129. Company Liquidator to be in position of receiver.

\- For the discharge by the Company Liquidator of the duties imposed by sub-
section (1) of section 290 the Company Liquidator shall for the purpose of
acquiring and retaining possession of the property of the company be in the
same position as if he were a Receiver of the property appointed by the
Tribunal and the Tribunal may on his application enforce such acquisition or
retention accordingly.

### 130. Company's property to be surrendered to Company Liquidator on
requisition.

\- Any contributory for the time being on the list of contributors trustee
receiver banker agent officer or other employee of a company which is being
wound up under order of the Tribunal shall on notice from the Company
Liquidator and within such time as he shall by notice require pay deliver
convey surrender or transfer to or into the hands of the Company Liquidator
any money property or books and papers in his custody or under his control to
which the company is or appears to be entitled and where the person so
required fails to comply with the notice the Company Liquidator may apply to
the Tribunal for appropriate orders and the notice shall be in Form WIN
51.Calls In Winding Up By Tribunal

### 131. Calls by Company Liquidator.

\- Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) of section 465 the Tribunal
may by order grant leave to the Company Liquidator to make calls referred to
in section 296.

### 132. Company Liquidator to realise uncalled capital.

\- Notwithstanding any charge or encumbrance on the uncalled capital of the
company the Company Liquidator shall be entitled to call and realise the
uncalled capital of the company and to collect the arrears if any due on calls
made prior to the winding up but shall hold all moneys so realised subject to
the rights if any of the holder of any such charge or encumbrance.

### 133. Application for leave to make call.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall not make any call without obtaining the leave
of the Tribunal for the purpose.(2)Within seven days of the settlement of the
list of contributors the Company Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal for
leave to make a call on the contributors and the application shall state the
proposed amount of such call and shall be in Form WIN 52which shall be
supported by the affidavit of the Company Liquidator which shall be in Form
WIN 53.

### 134. Notice of application.

(1)Notice of an application for leave to make a call shall be served on every
contributory proposed to be included in such call by post under certificate of
posting so as to reach such contributory in the ordinary course of post not
less than seven clear days before the date appointed for the hearing thereof
or if the Tribunal so directs notice of the application may be given by
advertisement in Form WIN 54 in newspapers as the Tribunal may direct not less
than seven clear days before the date appointed for the hearing without a
separate notice to each contributory.(2)The affidavit of service relating to
the dispatch of notice to each contributory or to the advertisement as the
case may be shall be filed in the Tribunal three days before the date fixed
for the hearing.

### 135. Order granting leave to make call and document making call.

\- The order granting leave to make a call shall be in Form WIN 55 and shall
contain directions as to the time within which such calls shall be paid and
when an order has been made granting leave to make a call the Company
Liquidator shall file in Tribunal document making the call in Form WIN 56 with
such variations as circumstances may require.

### 136. Service of notice of call.

\- Immediately after filing the document making the call as referred to in
rule 135, the Company Liquidator shall serve by registered post or speed post
or in electronic mode a copy of the order granting leave to make the call upon
each of the contributors included in such call together with a notice in Form
WIN 57 specifying the amount or balance due from such contributory in respect
of such call and the order granting leave to make a call need not be
advertised unless the Tribunal otherwise orders for any special reason.

### 137. Order for payment of call.

\- The Company Liquidator may apply to the Tribunal for an order against any
contributory or contributors for payment of moneys due on the calls made by
him and the application shall be made in Form WIN 58 supported by an affidavit
in Form WIN 59 and notice of the application together with a copy of the
affidavit shall be served on the contributory by registered post or speed post
not less than seven days before the date fixed for the hearing of the
application and the order for payment shall be in Form WIN 60.

### 138. Other moneys due by contributors.

\- When any money is due to the company from a contributory or from the estate
of the person whom he represents other than moneys due on calls made
subsequent to the winding up but including moneys due on calls made prior to
the winding up the Company Liquidator may make an application to the Tribunal
supported by an affidavit for an order against such contributory for the
payment of such moneys and the notice of the application shall be given to
such contributory by registered post or speed post not less than seven days
prior to the date fixed for the hearing of the application.Examination Under
Sections 299 And 300

### 139. Application for examination under section 299.

(1)An application for the examination of a person under section 299 may be
made ex-parte provided that where the application is made by any person other
than the Company Liquidator notice of the application shall be given to the
Company Liquidator.(2)The application referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be in
Form WIN 61 and where the application is by the Company Liquidator it shall be
accompanied by a statement signed by him setting forth the facts on which the
application is based and where the application is made by a person other than
the Company Liquidator the application shall be supported by an affidavit of
the applicant setting forth the matters in respect of which the examination is
sought and the grounds relied on in support of the application.

### 140. Directions at hearing of application.

\- Upon the hearing of the application referred to in rule 139 the Tribunal
may if satisfied that there are grounds for making the order make an order
directing the issue of summons against the person named in the order for his
examination or for the production of documents or both and unless the Tribunal
otherwise directs the examination of such person shall be held in Chambers and
the order shall be in Form WIN 62.

### 141. Service of summons.

\- The summons issued in pursuance of the order of the Tribunal shall be in
Form WIN 63 and shall be served in the mode as referred to in section 20 on
the person to be examined not less than seven days before the date fixed for
the examination and when the summons are served in person there shall be paid
or tendered to the person summoned along with the summons a reasonable sum for
his expenses to be fixed by the Tribunal or Registry with due regard to the
scale of fees in force in the Tribunal and when the summons are served by
registered post such sum shall be sent to such person by postal money order.

### 142. Conduct of examination.

(1)The Company Liquidator shall have the conduct of an examination under
section 299 provided that the Tribunal may if for any reasons it thinks fit so
to do entrust the conduct of the examination to any contributory or creditors
and where the conduct of the examination is entrusted to any person other than
the Company Liquidator the Company Liquidator shall nevertheless be entitled
to be present at the examination in person or by authorised representative and
may take notes of the examination for his own use and put such questions to
the person examined as the Tribunal may allow.(2)Save as provided in sub-rule
(1) no person shall be entitled to take part in an examination under section
299 except the Company Liquidator and his authorised representative but any
person examined shall be entitled to have the assistance of his authorised
representative who may re-examine the witness :Provided that the Tribunal may
permit if it thinks fit any creditor or contributory to attend the examination
subject to such conditions as it may impose.(3)Notes of the examination may be
permitted to be taken by the witness or any person on his behalf on his giving
an undertaking to the Tribunal that such notes shall be used only for the
purpose of the re-examination of the witness and on the conclusion of the
examination the notes shall unless otherwise directed by the Tribunal be
handed over to the Tribunal for destruction.

### 143. Notes of deposition.

(1)The notes of the deposition of a person examined under section 299 shall be
signed by such person and shall be lodged in the office of the Registry but
the notes shall not be open to the inspection of any creditor contributory or
other person except the Company Liquidator nor shall a copy thereof or extract
therefrom be supplied to any person other than the Company Liquidator save
upon orders of the Tribunal.(2)The Tribunal may from time to time give such
general or special directions as it shall think expedient as to the custody
and inspection of such notes and the furnishing of copies thereof or extracts
therefrom.

### 144. Order for examination under section 300.

(1)Where an order is made for the examination of any person or persons under
section 300 the examination shall be held before the Tribunal:Provided the
Tribunal may direct that the whole or any part of the examination of any such
person or persons be held before any person or authority as may be mentioned
in the order and where the date of the examination has not been fixed by the
order the Company Liquidator shall take an appointment from the Tribunal or
the person or authority before whom the examination is to be held as to the
date of the examination and the order directing examination shall be in Form
WIN 64.(2)The Tribunal may if it thinks fit either in the order for
examination or by any subsequent order give directions as to the specific
matters on which such person is to be examined.

### 145. Notice of examination.

\- Not less than seven clear days before the date fixed for the examination
the Company Liquidator shall give notice thereof to the creditors and
contributors of the company by advertisement in Form WIN 65 in such newspapers
as the Tribunal shall direct and shall within the same period serve either
personally or by registered post or by speed post on the person or persons to
be examined a notice in Form WIN 66 of the date and hour fixed for the
examination and the officer before whom it is to be held together with a copy
of the order directing the examination and where the examination is adjourned
it shall not be necessary to advertise the adjournment or serve notice thereof
unless otherwise ordered by the Tribunal.

### 146. Adjournment of examination for orders of Tribunal.

\- Where on an examination held before the person or authority appointed by
the Tribunal such person or authority is of the opinion that the examination
is being unduly or unnecessarily protracted or for any other sufficient cause
he is of the opinion that the examination should be held before the Tribunal
such person or authority may adjourn the examination of any person or any part
of the examination to be held before the Tribunal and submit his report to the
Tribunal and the Tribunal may thereupon hold the examination itself or pass
such orders as it may think fit.

### 147. Procedure for contumacy.

(1)If a person examined before the person or authority appointed by the
Tribunal refuses to answer to the satisfaction of such the person or authority
any question which he may put or allow to be put such the person or authority
shall forthwith report such refusal to the Tribunal and upon such report being
made the person in default shall be in the same position and be dealt with in
the same manner as if he had made default in answering before the
Tribunal.(2)The report shall be in writing and shall set forth the question or
questions put and the answer or answers given if any by the person examined
and the person or authority shall notify the person examined of the date when
he should attend before the Tribunal and the report shall be in Form WIN 67
and upon receiving the report the Tribunal may take such action thereon as it
may think fit.

### 148. Notes of examination.

\- The notes of every examination shall after being signed as required by sub-
section (7) of section 300 form part of the records of winding up and the
Company Liquidator the person examined or contributory of the company shall be
entitled to obtain a copy thereof from the Tribunal on payment of five rupees
per page.

### 149. Application under sub-section (5) of section 300.

\- An application under sub-section (5) of section 300 by any person ordered
to be examined to be exculpated from any charges made or suggested against him
shall be made upon notice to the Company Liquidator and to such other persons
as the Tribunal may direct.

### 150. Warrant of arrest of contributory.

(1)If the Tribunal is satisfied as referred to in section 301 and that notice
of the date and hour fixed for the examination was duly served on such
contributory the Tribunal may issue without any further notice a warrant in
Form WIN 68 for the arrest of the said contributory.(2)Every warrant of arrest
of the contributory issued under this rule shall remain in force until it is
cancelled by the Tribunal which issued it or by the Appellate Tribunal to
which appeals ordinarily lie from the decisions of such Tribunal or until it
is executed.

### 151. Prison to which contributory arrested on warrant is to be taken.

\- Where the Tribunal issues a warrant for the arrest of the contributory as
referred to in section 301 the prison in which such contributory shall be
detained shall unless the Tribunal otherwise orders be specified in the order
of the Tribunal in the exercise of its powers under the Act and the warrant
for keeping the said contributory in prison shall be in Form WIN 69 and the
order of releasing him on bail shall be in Form WIN 70.

### 152. Execution of warrant of arrest outside jurisdiction of Tribunal.

(1)Where a warrant has been issued by the Tribunal under these rules for the
arrest of a contributory who is or is believed to be outside the jurisdiction
of the Tribunal the Tribunal issuing the warrant may send the warrant of
arrest for execution to the District Court or to the Court of Small Causes at
Bombay Calcutta or Madras (if the warrant has to be executed in any of these
places) within the ordinary jurisdiction of which such contributory shall then
be or be believed to be with a requisition in Form WIN 71 annexed thereto
under the seal of the Tribunal requesting execution of the warrant by the
Court to which it is sent and the last mentioned Court shall seal the warrant
with its seal and shall cause the arrest to be made by its own officers or by
a Court subordinate to it and the concerned police officers shall aid and
assist within their respective jurisdiction in the execution of such
warrant.(2)The Court making the arrest shall send the contributory arrested in
proper custody to the Tribunal by which the warrant of arrest was originally
issued unless he furnishes the required security to the satisfaction of the
Court for his appearance before the Tribunal in which case the Court shall
release him on such security and inform the Tribunal by which the warrant of
arrest was originally issued.Application against delinquent directors,
promoters and officers of the company

### 153. Application under section 339 or section 340.

\- An application under sub-section (1) of section 339 or under sub-section
(1) of section 340 shall be made by a summons returnable in the first instance
in chambers and the summons shall state the nature of the declaration or order
for which the application is made and the grounds of the application and shall
be served on every person against whom an order is sought not less than seven
days before the day named in the summons for the hearing of the application
and it shall not be necessary to file any affidavit or report before the
return of the summons and the summons shall be in Form WIN 72 or Form WIN 73
with such variations as may be necessary.

### 154. Directions at preliminary hearing of summons.

\- On the return of the summons the Tribunal may give such directions as it
shall think fit as to whether points of claim and defence are to be delivered
as to the taking of evidence wholly or in part by affidavit or orally as to
the cross-examination on the hearing before the Tribunal or of any deponents
to affidavits in support of or in opposition to the application as to any
report the Tribunal may require the liquidator to make and generally as to the
procedure on the summons and for the hearing thereof and points of claim to be
delivered shall be in Form WIN 74 or Form WIN 75 with such variations as may
be necessary.

### 155. Liberty to apply for further directions.

\- Where the Tribunal has directed that points of claim and defence shall be
delivered it shall be open to either party who wishes to apply for any further
direction as to any interlocutory matter to apply by restoration of the
summons before the summons has been set down for trial for such direction upon
giving two clear days' notice in writing to the other party stating the
grounds of the application and a copy of the notice shall be filed with the
Registry two clear day's before the day fixed for the hearing of the
application.Disclaimer

### 156. Application for disclaimer.

(1)An application for leave to disclaim any part of the property of a company
pursuant to sub-section (1) of section 333 shall be made by an application
supported by an affidavit setting out the full facts relating to the property
the parties interested the nature of their interests and stating whether the
company is solvent and whether any notice has been served on the liquidator by
any person referred to in sub-section (4) of the said section requiring him to
elect whether or not he will disclaim.(2)The notice and application referred
to in sub-rule (1) shall be in Forms WIN 76 to 82 with such variations as may
be necessary.

### 157. Preliminary hearing of application.

\- The application referred to in rule 156 shall be posted before the Tribunal
ex-parte in the first instance for directions as to the persons on whom notice
of the application should be served and the Tribunal shall thereupon fix a
date for the hearing of the application and give such directions as may be
necessary as to the persons on whom notice of the application should be
served.

### 158. Claimant to furnish statement of his interest.

\- Where a person claims to be interested in any part of the property of the
company which the Company Liquidator wishes to disclaim such person shall if
so required by the liquidator furnish a statement of the interest claimed by
him.

### 159. Service of notice.

\- Notice of the date fixed for the hearing of the application referred to in
rule 156 shall be in Form WIN 83 and shall be served not less than seven days
before the date fixed for the hearing together with a copy of the application
and of the affidavit filed in support thereof and the notice shall require
that any affidavit-in-opposition to the application shall be filed in Tribunal
and a copy thereof served on the Company Liquidator not later than two days
before the date fixed for the hearing.

### 160. Order granting leave to disclaim.

\- On the hearing of the application referred to in rule 156 the Tribunal may
after hearing the Company Liquidator and such parties as may appear in
response to the notices issued and such other persons appearing and interested
as the Tribunal may think fit to hear grant leave to the liquidator and to
disclaim on such terms and conditions if any as to the Tribunal may deem just
and the order granting leave to disclaim shall be in Form WIN 84.

### 161. Disclaimer to be filed in Tribunal.

\- Every disclaimer shall be filed in Tribunal by the Company Liquidator and
shall not be operative until it is so filed and where the disclaimer is in
respect of a leasehold interest it shall be filed in Tribunal forthwith; the
notice of the filing of the disclaimer shall be given to the persons
interested in the property; the disclaimer shall contain particulars of the
interest disclaimed and a statement of the persons to whom notice of the
disclaimer has been given; a disclaimer shall be in Form WIN 85 and a notice
of disclaimer in Form WIN 86 and where a disclaimer has been filed in Tribunal
the Company Liquidator shall file a copy thereof with the Registrar of
Companies.

### 162. Vesting of disclaimed property.

(1)Where the disclaimed property is a leasehold interest and an application is
made under sub-section (6) of section 333 for an order vesting the property in
any person and it appears that there is an under- lessee or mortgagee or
holder of a charge by way of demise in respect of such property claiming under
the company the Tribunal may direct that notice shall be given to such under-
lessee mortgagee or holder of charge that if he does not elect to accept and
apply for a vesting order upon the terms required by the above mentioned sub-
section and such other terms as the Tribunal may think just within a time to
be fixed by the Tribunal and stated in the notice he will be excluded from all
interest in and security upon the property and the Tribunal may adjourn the
application for such notice to be given and for such under-lessee mortgagee or
holder of charge to be added as a party to and served with a copy of the
application and to make if he deem fit such election and application as is
mentioned in the notice and if at the expiration of the time so fixed by the
Tribunal such under-lessee mortgagee or holder of charge fails to make such
election and application the Tribunal may make an order vesting the property
in the applicant or other person who in the opinion of the Tribunal may be
entitled thereto and excluding such under-lessee mortgagee or holder of charge
from all interest in or security upon the property.(2)An order requiring
parties interested in a disclaimed lease to apply for a vesting order or to be
excluded from all interest in the lease shall be in Form WIN 87 and an order
vesting lease and excluding persons who have not elected to apply shall be in
Form WIN 88.Compromise Or Abandonment of Claims

### 163. No claim to be compromised or abandoned without sanction of Tribunal.

\- In a winding up by the Tribunal no claim by the company against any person
shall be compromised or abandoned by the Company Liquidator without the
sanction of the Tribunal upon notice to such person as the Tribunal may
direct.

### 164. Application for sanction of compromise.

\- Every application for sanction of a compromise or arrangement referred to
in clauses (ii) and (iii) of sub- section (1) of section 343 shall be
accompanied by a copy of the proposed compromise or arrangement and shall be
supported by an affidavit of the Company Liquidator along with final report of
the Advisory committee stating that for the reasons set out in the affidavit
he is satisfied that the proposed compromise or arrangement is beneficial to
the company.Sale By Company Liquidator

### 165. Sale to be subject to sanction and to confirmation by Tribunal.

\- Unless the Tribunal otherwise orders no property or asset belonging to
company which is being wound up by the Tribunal shall be sold by the Company
Liquidator without the previous sanction of the Tribunal and every sale shall
be subject to confirmation by the Tribunal.

### 166. Procedure at sale.

\- Every sale shall be held by the Company Liquidator or if the Tribunal shall
so direct by an agent or an auctioneer approved by the Tribunal and subject to
such terms and conditions if any as may be approved by the Tribunal and all
sales shall be made by public auction or by inviting sealed tenders or by
electronic bidding or in such manners as the Tribunal may direct.

### 167. Expenses of sale.

\- Where property forming part of a company's assets is sold by the Company
Liquidator through an auctioneer or other agent the gross proceeds of the sale
shall unless the Tribunal otherwise orders be paid over to the liquidator by
such auctioneer or agent and the charges and expenses connected with the sale
shall afterwards be paid to such auctioneer or agent in accordance with the
scales if any fixed by the Tribunal.Dividends And Returns of Capital In
Winding Up By Tribunal

### 168. Declaration of dividend or return of capital.

\- No dividend to creditors or return of capital to contributors shall be
declared by the Company Liquidator without the sanction of the Tribunal.

### 169. Notice of declaration.

\- The Company Liquidator shall give notice of the declaration of dividend not
less than fifteen days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof and
unless otherwise directed by the Tribunal such notice shall be given by
advertisement in such newspapers as the Tribunal shall direct and by sending
by registered or speed post and electronic mode if any a notice to every
person whose name appears in the list of creditors as on such date and the
advertisement shall be in Form WIN 89 and the notice to creditor in Form WIN
90.

### 170. Form of authority to pay dividend.

\- A person to whom dividend is payable may lodge with the Company Liquidator
an authority in writing to pay such dividend to another person named therein
and such authority shall be in Form WIN 91.

### 171. Transmission of dividends etc. by post.

\- Dividends and returns of capital may at the request and risk and cost of
the person to whom they are payable be transmitted to him by money order or to
his bank account through electronic means as may be appropriate.

### 172. Form of order directing return of capital.

\- Every order by which the Company Liquidator is authorised to make a return
to contributors of the company shall unless the Tribunal otherwise directs
contain or have appended thereto a schedule or list (which the Company
Liquidator shall prepare) setting out in a tabular form the full names and
addresses of the persons to whom the return is to be paid and the amount of
money payable to each person and particulars of the transfers of shares (if
any) which have been made or the variations in the list of contributors which
have arisen since the date of the settlement of the list and such other
information as may be necessary to enable the return to be made and the
schedule or list shall be in Form WIN 92 with such variations as circumstances
shall require and the Company Liquidator shall send a notice of return to each
contributory by registered or speed post and electronic mode if any in Form
WIN 93.

### 173. Payment of dividend or return of capital due to deceased creditor or
contributory.

\- Where a claim made in respect of a dividend due to a deceased creditor or a
return of capital due to a deceased contributory is one lakh rupees or less
the Company Liquidator may upon satisfying himself as to the claimant's right
and title to receive the dividend or the return as the case may be apply to
the Tribunal for sanctioning the payment of such dividend or return to the
claimant without the production of a succession certificate or like authority
however in respect of the claim mentioned above pertaining to a deceased
creditor or contributory where the claim amount is one lakh rupees or less in
lieu of succession certificate the claimant shall produce Family Member
Certificate issued by competent authority in the State Government or Union
territory as the case may be and where the Tribunal sanctions the payment the
Company Liquidator shall make the payment upon obtaining a personal indemnity
as well as an affidavit duly stamped from the payee.Termination of Winding Up

### 174. Company Liquidator to apply for dissolution.

\- After the affairs of the company have been fully wound up and final
accounts thereof are audited the Company Liquidator shall apply to the
Tribunal within ten days along with audited final accounts and auditors
certificate thereon for orders as to the dissolution of the company.

### 175. Dissolution of company.

\- Upon the hearing of the application the Tribunal may after hearing the
Company Liquidator and any other person to whom notice may have been ordered
by the Tribunal upon perusing the account as audited make such orders as it
may think fit as to the dissolution of the company the application subject to
the provisions of the Act of the balance in the hands of the Company
Liquidator or the payment thereof into the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account and the disposal of the books and papers of the
company and of the liquidator.

### 176. Liquidator to pay the balance into Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account.

\- Upon an order for dissolution being made the Company Liquidator shall
forthwith pay into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets
Account any unclaimed dividends payable to creditors or undistributed assets
refundable to contributors in his hands on the date of the order of
dissolution and such other balance in his hands as he has been directed by the
Tribunal to deposit into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed
Assets Account and every order of dissolution shall direct that the Company
Liquidator shall forward a certified copy of the order to the Registrar of
Companies not later than seven days from the date of the order and along with
the copy of the order shall be filed with the Registrar of Companies a
statement signed by the Company Liquidator that the directions of the Tribunal
regarding the application of the balance as per his final account have been
duly complied with.

### 177. Conclusion of winding up.

\- The winding up of a company shall for purposes of section 302 be deemed to
be concluded at the date on which the order dissolving the company has been
reported by the Company Liquidator to the Registrar of Companies unless any
fund or assets of the company remaining unclaimed or undistributed in the
hands or under the control of the Company Liquidator have been distributed or
paid into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account as
provided in section 352.

### 178. Application to declare dissolution void.

\- An application under section 356 shall be made upon notice to the Central
Government and the Registrar of Companies and where the Tribunal declares the
dissolution to have been void the order shall direct that the applicant shall
file a certified copy of the order with the Registrar of Companies not later
than twenty-one days from the date of the order.Payment of Unclaimed Dividends
Or Undistributed Assets Into The Company Liquidation Dividend And
Undistributed Assets Account In A Winding Up

### 179. Statement to accompany payment.

(1)The statement to be furnished under section sub-section (3) of 352 to the
Registrar of Companies by the liquidator when making any payment of unclaimed
dividends or undistributed assets into the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account in a scheduled bank under sub-sections (1) and
(2) of the said section shall be in Form WIN 94.(2)The liquidator shall
whenever called upon by the Registrar of Companies so to do certify whether a
person claiming payment from the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account under subsection (7) of section 352 is or is not
entitled to the whole or any part of the amount claimed.

### 180. Unclaimed dividends or undistributed assets under investment.

\- For purposes of payment of unclaimed dividends and undistributed assets
into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account money
invested or deposited at interest by the liquidator shall be deemed to be
money in his hand and when such money forms part of the unclaimed dividends or
undistributed assets of the company the liquidator shall realise the
investment or withdraw the deposit and shall pay the proceeds into the Company
Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account.

### 181. Application by person for payment of money paid into the Company
Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account.

\- An application under sub-section (6) of section 352 by any person claiming
to be entitled to any money paid into the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account for payment of such money shall state whether the
applicant had made an application to the Central Government for the payment
and if so the result of the application.

### 182. Cost and expenses payable out of the assets in a winding up by
Tribunal.

(1)The assets of a company in a winding up by the Tribunal remaining after
payment of the fees and expenses properly incurred in preserving realising or
getting in the assets shall subject to any order of the Tribunal and to the
rights of secured creditors if any be liable to the following payments which
shall be made in the following order of priority namely :-First- the taxed
costs of the petition including the taxed costs of any person appearing on the
petition whose costs are allowed by the Tribunal;Next-the costs and expenses
of any person who makes or concurs in making the company's statement of
affairs;Next-the necessary disbursements of the Company Liquidator other than
expenses properly incurred in preserving realising or getting in the
properties of the company;Next-the cost of any person properly employed by the
Company Liquidators;Next-the cost charges and expenses incurred by the
liquidator;Next-the actual out of pocket expenses necessarily incurred by the
members of the advisory committee and sanctioned by the Tribunal.(2)Save as
otherwise ordered by the Tribunal no payments in respect of bills of
authorised representatives shall be allowed out of the assets of the company
without proof that the same have been considered and allowed by the taxing
officer of the Tribunal and the taxing officer shall before passing the bills
or charges of an authorised representative satisfy himself that the
appointment of an authorised representative to assist the liquidator in the
performance of his duties has been duly sanctioned.(3)Nothing contained in
this rule shall apply to or affect costs which in the course of legal
proceedings by or against the company which is being wound up by the Tribunal
are ordered by the Tribunal in which such proceedings are pending to be paid
by the company or the liquidator or the rights of the person to whom such
costs are payable.

## Part IV – Costs Etc.

### 183. Costs in the discretion of Tribunal.

\- Costs shall be in the discretion of the Tribunal and no costs of or
incidental to a proceeding shall be allowed between party and party unless the
same are expressly awarded by an order of the Tribunal.

### 184. Bill of costs by authorised representative etc. employed by Company
Liquidator.

\- Every authorised representative accountant auctioneer or other person
employed by the Company Liquidator in a winding up by the Tribunal shall on
request by the Company Liquidator (to be made in sufficient time before the
declaration of a dividend) deliver his bill of costs or charges to the Company
Liquidator and if he fails to do so within four weeks of the receipt of the
request or such extended time as the Tribunal may allow the Company Liquidator
shall declare and distribute the dividend without regard to such person's
claim and the claim shall be forfeited :Provided that the Tribunal may at any
time before the declaration of the final dividend for good cause shown restore
the claim and order the bill to be received without prejudice to the
distribution of dividends declared prior to the making of the order and the
request by the Company Liquidator shall be in Form WIN 95 and shall be served
personally or by registered post or speed post.

### 185. Fees in misfeasance proceeding.

\- In a proceeding against the persons referred to in sections 339 or 340, the
fees to authorised representatives shall be allowed as decided by the Tribunal
having regard to the nature and complexity of the case.

### 186. Fees when proceeding is compromised.

\- Where a proceeding is compromised prior to its being set down for hearing
the fees to be allowed to authorised representatives of the parties shall be
as decided by the Tribunal having regard to the nature and complexity of the
case.

### 187. Costs of parties having common interest.

(1)Where two or more petitions or applications raise a common issue and are
heard together and decided by a common judgment unless the Tribunal otherwise
orders only one set of costs shall be allowed to all the parties together in
the said petitions or applications who have a common interest.(2)Where
different parties in the same proceeding have a common interest only one set
of fees shall be allowed to all of them together though they may be
represented by different authorised representatives unless the Tribunal
otherwise orders.

### 188. Tribunal's power to fix a fee.

(1)Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to prevent the Tribunal from fixing
a fee for any matter if in any particular case the Tribunal considers it
necessary to do so in the interest of justice.(2)In any case where the contest
has not been of a substantial nature the Tribunal may direct that the costs
shall be on the uncontested scale.

### 189. Allowance to witnesses.

\- The allowances to be made to witnesses shall be on the scales as determined
by the Tribunal.

## Part V – Summary Procedure For Liquidation

### 190. Powers and functions of Official Liquidator.

(1)The Official Liquidator shall exercise the powers and perform the duties as
specified in the Act and these rules.(2)For the purpose of clause (ii) of sub-
section (1) of section 361 the class of companies shall be as under based on
the latest audited Balance Sheet:-(a)the company which has taken deposit and
total outstanding deposits is not exceeding twenty five lakh rupees; or(b)the
company of which the total outstanding loan including secured loan does not
exceed fifty lakh rupees; or(c)the company of which turnover is upto fifty
crore rupees; or(d)the company of which paid up capital does not exceed one
crore rupees.(3)The Official Liquidator shall maintain the Registers and books
of accounts in the manner provided in rules 79 and 80.(4)For the purpose of
filing and audit of the Official Liquidator's accounts the procedure laid down
in the preceding rules 91 to 99 shall be followed with the modification that
wherever the word Tribunal is mentioned it shall be read as Central Government
and with further directions issued by the Central Government as may be
necessary from time to time.(5)The Official Liquidator shall dispose of all
the assets in the manner as described in preceding rules 165 to 167 with the
modification that wherever the word Tribunal is mentioned it shall be read as
Central Government and with further directions issued by the Central
Government as may be necessary from time to time.(6)The monies received by the
Official Liquidator as referred to in section 349 shall be paid by him into
the public account of India in the Reserve Bank of India as mentioned in that
section not later than the next working day of the said Bank.(7)For the
purposes of section 363 the creditors of the company shall prove their claim
in the manner as provided under rules 100 to 125 with the modification and
directions by Central Government as mentioned in sub-rule (4).(8)In the
absence of any rules under this Part on any subject for conduct of liquidation
proceeding by the Official Liquidator the relevant rules in the other Parts of
these rules shall be followed with necessary modifications as directed by the
Central Government.

## Part VI – Miscellaneous

### 191. Inspection of file.

(1)Every duly authorised officer of the Central Government and save as
otherwise provided by these rules every person who has been a director or
officer of a company which is being wound up shall be entitled free of charge
at all reasonable times to inspect the file of proceedings of the liquidation
and to take copies or extracts from any document therein on payment at the
rate of five rupees per page to be furnished with such copies or
extracts.(2)Save as otherwise provided by these rules every contributory and
every creditor whose claim or proof has been admitted shall be entitled at all
reasonable times to inspect the file of proceedings on payment of one hundred
rupees and to be furnished with copies and extracts from any document therein
at the rate of five rupees per page.

Form Win 1[See Rule 3(1)]Before The NationalCompany Law
TribunalBenchAt...............................In The Matter
of…..................... Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporatedunder Companies Act,_____)PetitionNo.............of
20...............................PetitionerPetition forwinding-upThe petition
of (full name description occupation and address ofpetitioner) showeth:-1\.
The address of the petitioner above named for the service ofall notices
processes etc. is that of his
representativeShri.......................at.....................................2\.
The company above named viz.,.............(hereinafterreferred to as 'the
company') was incorporated in the monthof..........19......./20..... under the
(Companies Act ______) asa public (private) company limited by shares/limited
byguarantee/as an unlimited company.3\. The registered office of the company
is situated at...........4\. The nominal capital of the company is
Rs.........dividedinto.........shares of Rs........each. The amount of capital
paidup or credited as paid-up is Rs..........(or as the case may be.)5\. The
objects for which the company was incorporated are (hereinset out the main
objects) and any matter considered necessary forfurtherance thereof set forth
in the memorandum of associationthereof.6,7,8 etc. [Here set out in numbered
paragraphs as may benecessary the facts on which the petitioner relies in
support ofthe petition. Where the petitioner is a contributory the
petitionshould state whether the conditions of sub-section (2) of section272
are satisfied. Where the petition is presented by theRegistrar of Companies or
by a person authorised by the CentralGovernment the order of sanction or
authorisation of the CentralGovernment should be annexed to the petition.
After setting outthe facts conclude as follows:-]PrayerThe petitioner
therefore prays as follows: -(1) That the.............Co. [Ltd.] be wound up
by the Tribunalunder the provisions of the Companies Act, _____ and(2) Such
other order may be made in the premises as shall bejust. Representative of
PetitionerPetitionerNote:It is intended to serve this petition
on........Enclosures-1\. Where the petition is presented by the Registrar of
Companiesor a person authorized by the Central Government the order ofsanction
or authorisation of the Central Government.2\. Statement of affairs in Form
Win4............in case windingup petition is being filed by the company.  
---  
  
Form Win 2[See Rule 3(1)]Before The NationalCompany Law
TribunalBenchAt...............................In The Matter
of.....................Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporatedunder Companies Act,______)PetitionNo...............of
20......................CompanyLimited - PetitionerPetition by companyThe
petitionof..............Co. Ltd. the petitioner herein showeth asfollows:
-(Paragraphs 1 to 5 asin Form Win1).6\. Where the companyis already being
wound-up voluntarily or by the Tribunal thefacts showing that the voluntary
winding-up or winding-up by theTribunal as the case may be cannot be continued
with due regardto the interests of the creditors or contributors or both
shouldbe set out.7\. By a specialresolution of the company duly passed in
accordance with section271 of the Companies Act, 2013 at a general meeting
thereof heldon the...................day of 20.... after due notice asprovided
in the Act it was resolved unanimously (or by a majorityof..........votes
against.........votes) as follows: -(Here set out theresolution)[Here set out
inparagraphs the facts relating to the financial position of thecompany and
the circumstances that have led to the passing of thespecial resolution.]8\.
The petitionertherefore prays as follows: -(1) That the...........Co. [Ltd.]
may be wound-up by the Tribunalunder the provisions of the Companies Act, ____
and(2) Such other order may be made in the premises as shall
bejust.Representative forthe PetitionerPetitionerEnclosures-1\. Copy of notice
calling the meeting in which resolution ispassed.2\. Copy of resolution
passed.3\. Copy of statement of affairs.  
---  
  
Form Win 3[See Rule 3(2)]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..................Ltd (Give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,..................)Petition No........of
20....................PetitionerAffidavit verifying petition

### 1\. I A.B. son of ......................... aged .......................
residing at ...................do hereby solemnly affirm and state as
follows:-

(Note. To be filled in by the petitioner other than a company)

### 1\. I am a director/secretary/...................................../ of
..................................................Ltd. the petitioner in the
above matter and am duly authorised by the said petitioner to make this
affidavit on its behalf.

(Note. - To be filled in cases where the petitioner is the company.)

### 2\. The statements made in paragraphs ............... of the petition
herein now shown to me and marked with letter 'A' are true to my knowledge and
the statements made in paragraphs ........................ are based on
information and I believe them to be true.

Solemnly affirmed at .......... on this ......day of
..........20.........Deponent

Form Win 4[SeeRule 4]Before The NationalCompany Law
TribunalBenchAt................In The Matter of…................Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporatedunder Companies Act,_____)Petition
No........of20.....................Petitioner  
---  
  
Statement of affairs under section 274(1)Statement of affairs of the above
named companyas on the ..............day of... 20 ....,  
---  
I/We ........................ of...................... do solemnly affirm and
say that thestatement made herein and the several lists hereunto annexedmarked
'A' to 'I' are to the best of my/our knowledge and beliefa full true and
complete statement as to the affairs of theabove-named company on the
......................... day of..........20 ..... and that the said company
carries/carried onthe following business:-  
[Here set out natureof company's business]Signature(s)Solemnly affirmed
at......... this............ day of ......... 20........Before me.Commissioner
for Oaths.  
The Commissioner is particularly requestedbefore swearing the affidavit to
ascertain that the full nameaddress and description of the deponent are stated
and to initialany crossing out or other alterations in the printed form.
Adeficiency in the affidavit in any of the above respects willentail its
refusal by the Tribunal and will necessitate its beingre'sworn.  
Note.- The several lists annexed are notexhibits to the affidavit.  
  
Statement of Affairs And Lists To Be Annexed  
---  
Statement as to the affairs of ............ Ltd. on the ...................
day of ...........................20............ showing assets at estimated
realisable values andliabilities expected to rank :-  
EstimatedRealisableValuesRs.  
Assets not specifically pledged (as per List'A ')  
Balance at bank | ….  
Cash in hand | ….  
Marketable Securities | ….  
Bills Receivable | ….  
Trade Debtors | ….  
Loans and Advances | ….  
Unpaid Calls | ….  
Stock in Trade | ….  
Work in progress | ….  
....................................................... |   
....................................................... |   
Freehold property Land & Buildings | ….  
Leasehold property | ….  
Plant & Machinery | ….  
Furniture Fittings Utensils etc. | ….  
Investments other than marketable securities | ….  
Livestock | ….  
Vehicle etc. | ….  
Other Property viz. | ….  
................................................. |   
................................................. |   
*Asset specifically pledged (as per list'B') | ___________________________________________  
| (a) | (b) | (c) | (d)  
| Estimated Realisable Values | Due to secured creditors | Deficiency ranking as unsecured | Surplus carried to last column  
| Rs | Rs | Rs | Rs  
Freehold property  
| _____________________________________  
Rs............ |   
| _____________________________________  
Estimated surplus from assets specificallypledged | ______________________  
Estimated total assets available forpreferential creditors debenture-holders secured by a floatingcharge and unsecured creditors (brought forward) |   
Summary of Gross Assets | Rs.  
| Rs.  
Gross realisable value of assets specificallypledged | …. |   
Other assets….  
| ____  
Gross Assets Rs. | .... |   
| ____  
*Note: All assets specificallymortgaged pledged or otherwise given as security should beincluded under this head. In the case of goods given as securitythose in possession of the company and those not in possessionshould be separately set out.  
| Rs.  
|  Estimated total assets available forpreferential creditors debenture holders secured by a floatingcharge and unsecured creditors (brought forward). |   
(e) |  |  |   
Gross Liabilities |  |  |   
Rs. | Liabilities |  |   
|  (to be deducted from surplus or added todeficiency as the case may be.) |   
|  Secured creditors (as per List 'B') to extentto which claims are estimated to be covered by assetsspecifically pledged [item (a) or (b) on preceding pagewhichever is the less] | _____________________  
| [Insert in 'Gross Liabilities' column only] |   
| Preferential creditors (as per List 'C')...... | _____________________  
|  Estimated balance of assets available fordebenture-holders secured by a floating charge and unsecuredcreditors Rs. | _____________________  
|  Debenture holders secured by a floating charge(as per list 'D')Estimated Surplus/Deficiency as regardsdebenture holders. Rs. | _____________________  
| Unsecured Creditors (as per List 'E') | .... |  |   
|  Estimated balance of claims of creditors*partly secured on specific assets brought from preceding page. |  |   
| (c)....................................................................... |   
|  Trade Accounts.................................... |   
|  Bills Payable.......................................... | _____________________  
|  Outstanding Expenses........................................ |   
|  Contingent liabilities (state nature)......................... |   
| ______ | Rs. |   
|  |  |   
______Rs.\--------- |  Estimated Surplus/Deficiency as regardscreditors being difference between Gross Assets brought frompreceding page (d)and Gross Liabilities as per column (e) |  | _____________________  
|  
______ |   
|  |  | Rs. |   
| Issued and Called up Capital: |  |  |   
|  ....................... Preference shares of........each |  |  |   
|  ....................... Called up (as per List'F') | …. |  |   
|  ....................... equity shares of.........each | …. |  | _____________________  
|  ....................... Called up (as per List'G') | …. |  |   
| ....................... | …. |  |   
| ....................... | …. | ______ |   
| Estimated Surplus/Deficiency as regards |  | Rs. |   
| Members (as per list 'H') |  |   
|  These figures must be read subject to thefollowing notes:- |   
|  (1) (f) there is no unpaid capital liable to becalled up or |   
|  (g) the nominal amount of unpaid capital liable to be called upis Rs....................estimated to produceRs..............which is/is not charged in favour of debentureholders [ strike out (f) or (g) ] |   
|  (2) The estimates are subject to costs of thewinding up and to any surplus or deficiency on trading pendingrealisation of assets. |   
List 'A' ' AssetsNot Specifically PledgedStatement of Affairs : List 'A'  
Full particulars of every description ofproperty not specifically pledged and
not included in any otherlist are to be set forth in this list.  
| Full statement and nature of property |  Book ValueRs. |  Estimated to produceRs.  
State name of bankers | Balance at Bank | …. |  |   
| Cash in hand | …. |  |   
| Marketable Securities. Viz............... | …. |  |   
| Bills Receivable (as per Schedule I) | …. |  |   
| Trade Debtors (as per Schedule II) | …. |  |   
| Loans & Advances (as per Schedule III) | …. |  |   
| Unpaid calls (as per Schedule IV) | …. |  |   
State nature | ......Stock in Trade (as per Schedule V) | …. |  |   
State nature | ......Work in Progress | …. |  |   
| Freehold property viz, | …. |  |   
| ................................................. | …. |  |   
| Leasehold property. viz |  |  |   
| ................................................. | …. |  |   
| Plant and Machinery viz. | …. |  |   
| ................................................. | …. |  |   
| Furniture Fittings Utensils etc. | …. |  |   
| Patents Trade Marks etc . viz. | …. |  |   
| ................................................. |  |  |   
| Investments other than Marketable viz. | Securities |   
| …. |  |   
| Live stock Vehicles etc. |  | …. |   
| Other Property viz. |  | …. |   
| ........................................................ |  |  |   
Signature: |  Dated ..........20.....  
  
## I

Bills of Exchange Promissory Notes Etc. On Hand Available As AssetsStatement
of Affairs: Schedule I to List 'A'The names to be arranged in alphabetical
order and numbered consecutively.

No. | Name of Acceptor of bill or note | Address,etc. | Amount of bill or note | Date when due Estimated to produce |  Particulars of any property held as security for payment ofbill or note  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Rs. |  | Rs.  
  
Signature:Dated ..........20 .....

## II

Trade DebtorsStatement of Affairs: Schedule II to List 'A'The names to be
arranged in alphabetical order and numbered consecutively.Note. - If the
debtor to the company is also a creditor but for a less amount than his
indebtedness the gross amount due to the company and the amount of the contra
account should be shown in the third column and the balance only be inserted
under the heading 'Amount of debt' thus :

|  | Rs.  
---|---|---  
| Due to the Company |   
| Less Contra Account |   
  
No such claim should be included in the List 'E'

No. | Name | Residence & Occupation | Amount of Debt |  Folio of ledger or other book whereparticulars to be found | When contracted | Estimated to produce | Particulars of an securities held for debt  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Good /Bad |  | Doubtful  
|  |  | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. |  | Month | Year |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Rs. |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature |  |  |  |  |  |  | Dated............20....  
  
## III

Loans And AdvancesStatement of Affairs: Schedule III to List 'A'

Serial No. | Date of advance | Name and Address of Person to whom advanced | Amount due | Estimated to realise | Particulars of security if any | Folio of ledger or other book where particulars to be found  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Rs |  |  |   
Signature: |  | Dated.............20.......  
  
## IV

Unpaid CallsStatement of Affairs: Schedule IV to List 'A'The names to be
arranged in alphabetical order and numbered consecutively.

Consecutive No. | No. in shares register | Name of shareholder | Address | No. of shares held | Amount of call per share unpaid | Total amount due | Estimated to realise  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature:. |  |  |  |  |  | Dated.........20....  
  
## V

Stock In TradeStatement of Affairs: Schedule V to List 'A'

Serial No. | Description | Quantity | Book Value | Estimated to realise  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Rs. | Rs.  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  | Dated.........20....  
  
## VI

Debts Due From Contributors(Other than unpaid calls)Statement of Affairs:
Schedule VI to List 'A'

Consecutive No. | No. in shares register | Name of shareholder | Address | Nature and particulars of debt | Amount due | Securities held if any for the debt |  Serial no. in Schedule I,II or III as the case may be where thedebt is included  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | Rs. |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  |  | Dated.........20....  
  
List B-Assets Specifically Pledged and Creditors Fully or Partly Secured(Not
including debentures-holders secured by a floating charge)The names of the
secured creditors are to be shown against the assets on which their claims are
secured numbered consecutively and arranged in alphabetical order as far as
possible.Statement of Affairs: List 'B'

Particulars of assets specifically pledged | Date when security given | Estimated value of security | No. | Name of creditors | Address and occupation  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Rs. |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Amount of Debt | Date when contracted | Consideration | Balance of debt unsecured carried to list "E" | Esimated surplus from security.  
---|---|---|---|---  
Rs |  |  | Rs | Rs  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  | Dated ..........20 . .  
  
*All assets specifically mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise given as security should be set out: goods given as security but inpossession of the company and goods not in possession should be separately set out.List 'C' - Preferential Creditors For Rates Taxes Salaries Wages And OtherwiseThe NamesTo Be Arranged In Alphabetical Order And Numbered ConsecutivelyStatement of Affairs: List 'C'

No | Name of creditor | Address and occupation | Nature of claim | Period during which claim accrued due | Date when due | Amount of claim | Amount payable in full | Amount payable as overriding preferential payments | Balance not preferential carried to list 'E'  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  | Rs. | Rs. |  | Rs.  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  |  |  |  | Dated .......... 20.....  
  
List 'D' - List of Debenture Holders Secured By A Floating ChargeThe names to
be arranged in alphabetical order and numbered consecutivelySeparate Lists
must be furnished of holders of each issue of Debentures should more than one
issue have been made.Statement of Affairs: List 'D'

No. | Name of holder | Address | Amount | Description of assets |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | Over which security extends  
|  |  | Rs. |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  
|  |  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  | Dated .......... 20 .......  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
List 'E' - Unsecured CreditorsThe names to be arranged in alphabetical order
and numbered consecutivelyStatement of Affairs: List 'E'Note. - (1) When there
is a contra account against the creditor less than his claim against the
company the amount of the creditor's claim and the amount of the contra
account should be shown in the third column and the balance only inserted
under the heading 'Amount of Debt' thus :-

|  | Rs.  
---|---|---  
Total amount of claim | ..... |   
Less: Contra account. | …. |   
  
No such set off should be included in Schedule I attached to List 'A'(2)The
particulars of any Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes held by a creditor
should be inserted immediately below the name and address of such creditor.

No. | Name | Address & Occupation | Amount of debt | Date when contacted |  Folio of ledger or other books whereparticulars to be found | Consideration  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Rs. | Month | Year |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
Unsecured balance of creditors partlysecured  
\- Brought from List 'B' |   
Balance not preferential of preferentialcreditor  
\- Brought from List 'C'  
Signature: |  |  |  | Dated .......... 20.....  
  
List 'F' - List of Preference ShareholdersThe name to be arranged in
alphabetical order and numbered consecutivelyStatement of Affairs: List 'F'

Consecutive no. | Register No. | Name of Shareholder | Address | Nominal amount of share | No. of shares held | Amount per share called up | Total amount called up  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  | Rs | Rs  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  |  | Dated. ........ 20......  
  
List 'G' - List of Equity ShareholdersThe names to be arranged in alphabetical
order and numbered consecutivelyStatement of Affairs: List 'G'

Consecutiveno. | Register No. | Name of Shareholder | Address | Nominal amount of share | No. of shares held | Amount per share called up | Total amount called up  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  | Rs | Rs  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Signature: |  |  |  |  |  | Dated............20......  
  
List 'H' - Deficiency Or Surplus AccountStatement of Affairs: List 'H'

The period covered by this Account must commenceon a date not less than 3
years of the date of presentation ofthe winding up petition or, if the company
has not beenincorporated for the whole period, the date of formation of
thecompany, unless the Tribunal otherwise agrees.  
---  
Items contributing to deficiency (or reducingsurplus):-  
. | Rs  
1\. Excess (if any) of Capital and Liabilitiesover Assets on the........... |  |   
20 ...... as shown by balance-sheet (copyannexed) |  |   
2\. Net dividends and bonuses declared during theperiod from ......... | ….. |   
20......to the date of the statement. |  |   
3\. Net trading losses(after charging items shownin note below) for the same period. | ….. |   
4\. Losses other than trading losses written offor for which provision has been made in the books during the sameperiod (giveparticulars or annex schedule) | ….. |   
5\. Estimated losses now written off or for whichprovisions have been made for the purpose of preparing thestatement (give particulars or annex schedule). | ….. |   
6\. Other items contributing to Deficiency orreducing Surplus. |  |   
................................................................................ | ….. |   
|  | Rs.______  
  
Items reducing Deficiency (or Contributing to Surplus):- |  |   
---|---|---  
7\. Excess(if any) of assets over capital and liabilities on the | ....... |   
20.....asshown on the Balance Sheet (copy annexed) |  | Rs.  
8\. Nettrading profits (after charging items shown in note below) forthe period from the.......20....to the date of statement. |  | Rs.  
9\. Profitsand income other than trading profits during the same period(give particulars or annex schedule). | .... | Rs.  
10\. Otheritems reducing Deficiency or contributing to Surplus:- |  | Rs.  
  
Deficiency/Surplusas shown by statement. |  |   
---|---|---  
Note as to Net Trading Profits and losses:- |  |   
Particulars are to be inserted here (so far asapplicable) of the items mentioned below, which are to be takeninto account in arriving at the amount of net trading profits orlosses shown in this account:- |  |   
Provision for depreciation, renewals, ordiminution in value of fixed assets. |  |   
Charges for Income-tax and other taxation onprofits. |  |   
Interest on debentures and other fixed loans. |  |   
Payment to directors made by the company andrequired by law to be disclosed in the accounts. |  |   
Exceptional or non-recurring expenditure: |  |   
| ........... | Rs.  
Less Exceptional or non -recurring receipts: |  |   
| ........... | Rs.  
Balance, being other trading profits or losses |  | Rs._________  
Net trading profits or losses as shown inDeficiency or Surplus Account above |  | Rs._________  
Signature: |  | Dated........20......  
  
List 'I'Statement of Affairs: List 'I'In substitution for such of the Lists
'A' to 'H' as will have to be returned blank

|  |  |   
---|---|---|---  
List | Particulars | Remarks  
|  |  Where no entries are made on anyone or more oflist 'A' to 'H' the word 'Nil' should be inserted in this columnopposite to the list or lists thus left blank.  
A. | Assets not specifically pledged. | …. |   
B. |  Assets specifically pledged and creditors fullyor partly secured (not including debenture holders secured by afloating charge). |  |   
C. |  Preferential creditors for Rates Taxes SalariesWage and overriding preferential payments and otherwise. | …. |   
D. | Debenture-holders secured by Floating Charge. | …. |   
E. | Unsecured creditors. | …. |   
F. | Preferential shareholders. | …. |   
G. | Equity shareholders. | …. |   
H. | Deficiency or Surplus Account. | …. |   
|  |  |   
Signature: | Dated.................20........  
|  |   
  
Form Win 5  
---  
[Seerule 4]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of …..........-Ltd (give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,..................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Affidavit of concurrence in statement ofaffairs  
I/We,..........[name(s) description(s) etc.] dosolemnly affirm and say as
follows : -  
That I/we have perused the statement of affairslodged herein by.....and that
to the best of my/our informationknowledge and belief such statement contains
a full and accurateaccount of the company's affairs [except as stated below].  
[Here state if necessary in what respects if anythe statement of affairs is
not concurred in.]  
Solemnly affirmed etc.  
Signature of deponent  
Commissioner for Oaths  
..............................................  
Form Win 6  
[See Rule 7]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter Of-----Ltd (give the name of thecompany)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,....................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Advertisement of petition  
Notice is hereby given that a petition for thewinding up of the above named
company by the Tribunalat.............. was on the day of... 20 presented to
the saidTribunal by the said company [or. where the petition was notpresented
by the company state the name and address of thepetitioner and the capacity in
which he presents the petitione.g. contributory etc.] and that the said
petition is directed tobe heard before the Tribunal on the day of .....
20......... Anycontributory or other person desirous of supporting or
opposingthe making of an order on the said petition should send to
thepetitioner or his representative notice of his intention signedby him or
his representative with his name and address so as toreach the petitioner or
his representative not later than fivedays before the date fixed for the
hearing of the petition andappear at the hearing for the purpose in person or
by hisrepresentative. A copy of the petition shall be furnished by
theundersigned to any creditor or contributory on payment of theprescribed
charges for the same. Any affidavit intended to beused in opposition to the
petition should be filed in Tribunaland a copy served on the petitioner or his
representative notless than five days before the date fixed for the hearing.  
Representative for Petitioner  
Form Win 7  
[Seerule 14(1)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of …........Ltd (give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,..............)  
Company Petition No................of20..........  
............................... - Petitioner  
Company Application No...............of 20....  
............................................Applicant.  
Before the Hon'ble Member of the Bench.........  
Dated............  
Notice of the application for appointment ofprovisional liquidator  
To  
...........................................  
Take notice that the application for appointmentof provisional liquidator of
the company pending final orders onthe winding up petition in pursuance of
section 273(1)(c) waspresented by..............(here mention whether it is
acontributory or contributors the Registrar of Companies orperson authorised
by the Central Government or the CentralGovernment or the State Government and
admitted on the.............day of 20............... and that the
saidapplication is fixed for hearing before the Tribunal onthe.....day
of.....20.............  
If you desire to support or oppose theapplication at the hearing the notice
thereof in writing shouldreach the Tribunal not later than..........days
before the datefixed for the hearing of the application and appear at
thehearing in person or by your representative. If you wish tooppose the
application the grounds of opposition or a copy ofaffidavit should be
furnished with the notice. A copy of theapplication is enclosed herewith*  
Name  
Dated............. (Sd)..................  
(Representative for applicant)  
..................................................  
[This notice should be served on or beforethe..........day of..........20...]  
Form Win 8  
[Seerule 14(2)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of ….............LTD (givethe name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,...............................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
........................Petitioner  
Company Application No ....... 20 .......  
......................... Applicant.  
Before the Hon'ble Mr. .....................  
Dated .......  
Order appointing provisional liquidator  
Upon the application of...............and uponhearing Shri...........
representative for the applicant andShri ...................(name designation
postal address emailid land line phone number or mobile phone number)
,representative for the company and upon reading the petition andaffidavit
filed the day of... 20........ and the affidavit ofthe applicant herein filed
the ....day of... .20 .......  
This Tribunal doth appoint the Shri ____________resident of __________to be
provisional liquidator of theabove'named company;  
And the Tribunal doth hereby limit and restrictthe powers of the said
provisional liquidator to the followingacts that is to say:-  
[Here describe the acts which the provisionalliquidator is authorised to do.]  
And the Tribunal doth order that the provisionalliquidator do forthwith take
charge of all the property andeffects of the company';  
And that the costs of this application shall becosts in the petition.  
(By the Tribunal)  
Registrar  
Note:It will be the duty of such of thepersons as are liable to submit the
books of account of companycompleted and audited upto the date of order to
liquidator undersection 274(3) to attend on the provisional liquidator at
suchtime and place as he may appoint and to give him all informationhe may
require.  
*Where the Tribunal directs that the provisionalliquidator is to take possession of any specific properties theclause should be suitably modified and the particulars of suchproperties should be set out in a schedule to the order.  
  
Form Win 9  
---  
[See Rule 14(4)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At......................  
In The Matter of ….............Ltd (givethe name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,....................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Company Petition No ....... 0/ 20 .  
Application No ......... 0/20 .  
............ Petitioner (Applicant)  
Notice of appointment of provisionalliquidator  
To  
The provisional liquidator  
...................(Address)  
Order pronounced this day by the Hon'ble Mr._____________________for
appointment of the provisionalliquidator of the under'mentioned company:  
1\. Name of company:  
2\. Registered office of the company:  
3\. Petitioner's representative:  
4\. Date of presentation of petition:  
A copy each of the petition and the affidavit filed in support isherewith
enclosed.  
Dated......  
Tribunal..................  
Note.- It will be the duty of such ofthe persons as are liable to submit the
books of account ofcompany completed and audited upto the date of order
toliquidator under section 274(3) to attend on the provisionalliquidator at
such time and place as he may appoint and to givehim all information he may
require.  
Copy to Registrar of Companies.  
Form Win 10  
[SeeRules 14(5) And 21]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of …............Ltd (givethe name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,_______)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Disclosure of interest or lack of independenceby provisional liquidator or by
Company Liquidator  
To  
........................  
Registrar/Deputy Registrar  
Disclosure is hereby given
thatI,................................................appointed asthe
provisional liquidator or company liquidator of the abovementioned company by
an order dated the..............................day of
..............20.................. have no interest in the above named
companyand am in no way so concerned with the company to affect myindependence
in the discharge of my duties as provisionalliquidator or Company Liquidator
of the said company.  
[I have the following interests in the abovenamed company which may affect my
independence in discharge of myduties as the provisional liquidator or Company
Liquidator of thesaid company (set out the interest)]  
Dated this.............day of .........20  
(Sd.)Provisional Liquidator or Company Liquidator  
  
Form Win 11  
---  
[See rule 17(1)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of...............................Ltd (Give The Name of The
Company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,.................)  
Company Petition No..... / 20 ........  
............... 'Petitioner  
Before the Hon'ble Mr. ____________  
Dated ..........  
Winding up Order  
Upon the petitionof.......................presented on the ...............
dayof......... 20....... upon hearing Shri ..............representative for
the petitioner Shri...................representative for the creditors (or
contributors) supporting thepetition Shri ....... representative for the
creditors (orcontributors) opposing the petition and Shri
..........representative for the company upon reading the said petition
theaffidavit of A.B. filed the ............ day of........... 20....verifying
the said petition the affidavit of x.y. filed the.............day of
............20........ the (state or unionterritory) paper publication of the
advertisement of the saidpetition this Tribunal doth order:  
*(1) That the said company be wound up by thisTribunal under the provisions of the Companies Act 2013; and  
(2) That the provisional liquidator or CompanyLiquidator as the case may be as
liquidator of the companyaforesaid forthwith take charge of all the property
effectsactionable claims and books and papers of the said company;  
**(3) That the provisional liquidator or CompanyLiquidator shall cause a
sealed copy of this order to be servedon the company by pre'paid registered
post;  
(4) That the petitioner do advertise withinfourteen days from this date a
notice in the prescribed form ofthe making of this order in one issue (each)
of... (here enterthe newspaper or newspapers in which the order is to
beadvertised);  
(5) That the said petitioner do serve acertified copy of this order on the
Registrar of Companies notlater than one month from this date; and  
(6) That the cost of the said petition shall bepaid out of the assets of the
said company.  
Dated this …........day ....20 .  
(By the Tribunal)  
Registrar  
*Where the company ordered to be wound up is aBanking Company or an Insurance Company add at the end of clause(1) "and the Banking Companies Act 1949' or 'and theInsurance Act 1938" as the case may be.  
** To be inserted only where the company is notthe petitioner.  
Note:  
1\. It will be the duty of such of the persons asare liable to submit the
books of account of company completedand audited up to the date of order under
section 274(3) toattend on the Company Liquidator at such time and place as he
mayappoint and to give him all information he may require.  
2\. It will be the duty of every person who is inpossession of any property
books or paper cash or any otherassets of the company including the benefits
derived therefromsuch person shall forth with surrender such property books
papersetc.  
Form Win 12  
[SeeRule 17(1)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of...............................Ltd (give the name of the
company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,...................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Notice to Company Liquidator of winding uporder  
To  
The Company Liquidator,  
..................................Name  
.............................(Address)  
Order pronounced this day by the Hon'ble
Mr................................................... for winding upthe
under'mentioned company under the Companies Act,2013  
1\. Name of company:  
2\. Registered office of the company:  
3\. Petitioner's representative:  
4\. Date of presentation of petition:  
* A copy each of the petition and the affidavitfiled in support is herewith enclosed.  
Dated...... | Tribunal....................  
*Strike out where copies of the petition and theaffidavit have been sent to the Company Liquidator along withnotice of an order appointing provisional liquidation if any.  
Note:It will be the duty of such of thepersons as are liable to submit the
books of accounts of companycompleted and audited upto the date of order of
liquidator undersection 274(3) to attend on the Company Liquidator at such
timeand place as he may appoint and to give him all information hemay require.  
Form Win 13  
[SeeRule 17(1)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of...............................Ltd (Give the name of the
company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,..................)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Notice to Registrar of Companies Winding uporder  
To  
The Registrar of Companies,  
.....................................(Address)  
Order pronounced this day by the Hon'ble
Mr................................................... for winding upthe
under'mentioned company under the Companies Act 2013  
1\. Name of company:  
2\. Registered office of the company:  
3\. Petitioner's representative:  
4\. Date of presentation of petition:  
* A copy each of the petition and the affidavitfiled in support is herewith enclosed.  
Dated............ | Tribunal.........................  
*Strike out where copies of the petition and theaffidavit have been sent to the Registrar of Companies along withnotice of an order appointing provisional liquidator if any.  
Note:  
1 It will be the duty of such of the persons as are liable tosubmit the books
of accounts of company completed and auditedupto the date of order of
liquidation under section 274(3) toattend on the Company Liquidator at such
time and place as he mayappoint and to give him all information he may
require.  
2 In case of a listed company the Registrar shall send intimationof such order
to the Stock Exchange where the Securities of thecompany are listed.  
Form Win 14  
[See Rule 20]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of...............................Ltd (give the name of the
company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,........)  
Petition No............of 20.....  
................Petitioner Company Petition No..... 20  
............................ 'Petitioner  
Notice of winding up order  
By an order made by the Tribunal in the abovematter dated the ....... day of
...... .20 .....it was orderedthat the above'named company be wound'up under
the provisions ofthe Companies Act 2013.  
Dated.................... | Representative for the Petitioner  
Form Win 15  
[SeeRule 24]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of...............................Ltd (give the name of the
company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,........)  
Company Petition No.........of 20.....  
Application No.........of 20.....  
.................. Applicant  
Application for leave to commence or continueany suit or proceeding under
section 279(1) of the Companies Act2013  
The application of (full name descriptionoccupation and address of applicant)
showeth:-  
1\. The address of the applicant/his representative for theservice of all
notices processes etc.
isShri.......................at.....................................  
2\. The company named viz.,.............(hereinafter referred toas 'the
company') was incorporated in the monthof..........19......./20..... under the
(Companies Act ______) asa public (private) company limited by shares/limited
byguarantee/as an unlimited company.  
3\. The registered office of the company is situated at...........  
4\. The nominal capital of the company is
Rs.........dividedinto.........shares of Rs........each. The amount of capital
paidup or credited as paid-up is Rs..........(or as the case may be.)  
5\. The order for the winding up the company or for appointment ofprovisional
liquidator dated ..................has been passed bythe Tribunal.  
6\. The applicant hereby applies for the leave to commence [orcontinue] the
suit [or proceeding] under section 279(1) of theCompanies Act 2013 the details
of which are as mentioned below:  
Dated this.........day of..........20....  
Applicant  
  
Form Win 16  
---  
[See rule 25(1)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At......................  
In The Matter of .............................Ltd(Give the name of the
company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,..............)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
............................Petitioner  
Report of the Company Liquidator under section281(1)  
The Company Liquidator in pursuance of section281(1) of the Companies Act 2013
hereby submits his Report to theTribunal as follows :'  
1\. Capital:The nominal capital of thecompany is Rs............ divided into
....shares of Rs .....each.  
The number of shares issued is..................... and comprises
................ sharesallotted as fully paid and  
...................shares subscribed for cashand fully called up (or onwhich
Rs .... per share hasbeen called up.) The unpaid calls amount to
Rs....................  
2\. Assets:The assets of the companylocated at.................... are
estimated by the registeredvaluer (oras the case may be) to be of the value of
Rs....... and they comprise the following :'  
Assets not specifically pledged:  
(1) Cash on hand | Rs......  
Cash at Bank | Rs......  
Negotiable Securities | Rs......  
(2) Debts due from contributors Rs. | Rs.......  
(3) Debts due to the company: (name addresses and occupation ofperson from
whom they are due and the amount likely to berealised on account thereof)  
(a) Secured | Rs......  
Securities available:  
(give particulars of the properties given as security whethersecurity given by
company or an officer ,their value and dates onwhich they were given)  
(b) Unsecured | Rs......  
(4) Guarantee if any extended by company | Rs......  
(5) Movable & Immovable properties:  
(a) Movable properties: | Rs......  
  
(i) Stock in trade | Rs. ….....  
---|---  
(ii) Other movables (give particulars) | Rs. ….....  
(b) Immovable properties: (give particulars) | Rs. ….....  
(6) Unpaid Calls | Rs. ….....  
(7) List of contributors and dues if any payable by them | Rs. ….....  
(8) Details of Trade Marks and intellectual property if any ownedby the
company  
(9) Other assets  
Assets specifically pledged: | Rs. ….....  
(1) Assets held by fully secured creditors (give particulars) | Rs. ….....  
(2) Assets held by partly secured creditors (give particulars) | Rs. ….....  
3\. Liabilities :The liabilities of thecompany are returned as amounting to
Rs. _____ and include thefollowing :'  
(1) Fully secured creditors | Rs. ….....  
(2) Partly secured creditors | Rs. ….....  
(3) Preferential creditors | Rs. ….....  
(4) Debenture holders | Rs. ….....  
(5) Unsecured creditors | Rs. ….....  
4\. Details of subsisting contracts joint ventureand collaboration if any.  
5\. Details of holding and subsidiary companiesif any.  
6\. Details of legal cases filed by or againstthe company if any.  
7\. Causes of failure: The company was formed tocarry on the business of
...................  
The failure of the company is in the opinion of the companyLiquidator due to
..............................  
8\. Any other information which Tribunal maydirect or Company Liquidator may
consider necessary to include.  
9\. The manner in which the company was promotedor formed and the Company
Liquidator is of the opinion that fraudhas been/has not been committed by any
person in its promotion orformation.  
  
Dated this …....day of ….......20..... |   
---|---  
| Company Liquidator  
  
Form Win 17[See rule 28(2)]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of .................... Ltd
(give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,...................)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerProvisional list of contributorsThe following
is a list of members of the above named company liable to be placed on the
list of contributors of the said company made out by me from the books and
papers of the said company together with their respective addresses and the
number of shares [or extent of interest] to be attributed to each and the
amount called up and the amount paid up in respect of such shares [or
interest] so far as I have been able to make out or ascertain the same.In the
first part of the list are set forth the persons who are contributors in their
own right.In the second part of the list are set forth persons who are
contributors as being representatives of or liable for the debts of
others.First Part Contributors in their own right

Sl. No. | Name & Description | Address | No. of shares or extent of interest |  Amount called up at date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up at date of commencement of windingup  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Second Part Contributors as being representatives of or liable for the debt of
others

Sl. No. | Name and Description | Address | In what character included | No. of shares or extent of interest |  Amount called up at date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up at date of commencement of windingup  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Sd/-Company LiquidatorForm Win 18[See Rule 29(1)]Before The National Company
Law TribunalBench At..........In The Matter of ...............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,........)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice to
contributory of date fixed to settle list of
contributorsTo..........................................................Take
notice that I......... the Company Liquidator of the above company have fixed
.....day the ..... day of.. .. 20 ... at... ..o'clock in the ..... noon at my
office to settle the list of contributors of the above named company which has
been made out by me pursuant to the Companies Act 2013 and the rules made
thereunder and that you are included in such list. The character and the
number of shares [or extent of interest] in and for which you are included and
the amount called up and the amount paid up in respect of such shares [or
interest] are stated below. If no sufficient cause is shown by you to the
contrary at the time and place aforesaid the list will be settled including
you therein as set forth in the said list.

No. of list | Name & Description | Address | In what character included | No. of shares or extent of interest |  Amount called up at date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up list at date of commencement ofwinding up  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Dated this............day of ............20....(Sd.)Company LiquidatorNotes. -
1. Contributors are under no obligation to attend before the Company
Liquidator if they are satisfied that the particulars contained in the notice
are correct.

### 2\. A shareholder's name cannot be omitted from the list of contributors
on account of his inability to pay calls; this question will be dealt with
when application is made for payment of the calls.

### 3\. A change of address may be notified by giving notice by post before
the date fixed for the settlement of the list.

Form Win 19  
---  
[SeeRule 29(2)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of …..............Ltd (GiveThe name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,............)  
Petition No........of 20.....  
................Petitioner  
Affidavit as to the posting of notices fixinga date for the settlement of the
list of contributories  
I ..... (name and description) do solemnlyaffirm and say as follows:'  
1\. That I did on the .......... day of... 20..................send to each
contributory mentioned in the provisional list ofcontributors made out by the
Company Liquidator on the ...... dayof... .. 20 and now on the file of
proceedings of theabove'named company at the address appearing in such list
anotice of the time and place fixed to settle the list ofcontributors in the
form hereunto annexed marked 'A' except thatin the tabular form at the foot of
such copies respectively Iinserted the number name and description address in
whatcharacter included the number of shares (or extent of interest)the amount
called up and the amount paid up in respect of theshares (or interest) of the
person to whom such copy of the saidnotice was issued.  
2\. That I sent the notices by putting the same prepaid into thepost office/by
speed post at... before the hour of ..... o'clockin the ..... noon on the said
day and I obtained from the postoffice the certificate of posting relating
thereto which isherewith annexed*.  
Solemnly affirmed etc.  
Deponent  
*To be annexed  
  
Form Win 20[See Rule 30]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of .................Ltd (give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerDated
: ................... .List of contributors as settled by TribunalThe result
of the settlement of the list of contributors of the above company made out
and filed in Tribunal by the Company Liquidator of the said company on the
................ day of 20....... ,so far as the said list has been settled up
to the date of this certificate is as follows :'

### 1\. The several persons whose names are set forth in the second column of
the First Schedule hereto have been included in the said list of contributors
as contributors of the said company in respect of the number of shares [or
extent of interest] set opposite the names of such contributors respectively
in the said Schedule.

### 2\. In the first part of the said Schedule are set forth such of the said
several persons as are contributors in their own right.

### 3\. In the second part of the said Schedule are set forth such of the said
several persons as are contributors as being representatives of or liable for
the debts of others.

### 4\. The several persons whose names are set forth in the second column of
Second Schedule hereto were included in the provisional list of contributors
and have been excluded from the said list of contributors.

### 5\. In the fifth column of the first part and the sixth column of the
second part of the First Schedule and in the sixth column of the Second
Schedule are set forth opposite the name of each of the several persons
respectively the date when such person was included in or excluded from the
said list of contributors.

### 6\. In the sixth and seventh columns of the first part and the seventh and
eighth columns of the second part of the First Schedule are set forth opposite
the names of each of the said persons respectively the amount called up at the
date of the commencement of the winding up and the amount paid up at such date
in respect of their shares [ or interest].

The First Schedule Above Referred ToFirst Part Contributors in their own right

Sl. No. | Name and Description | Address | No. of shares or extent of interest | Date when included in the list |  Amount called up the date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up at date of commencement of windingup  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Second Part Contributors as being representatives of or liable for the debts
of others

Sl. No. | Name and Description | Address | In what character included | No. of shares or extent of interest | Date when included in the list |  Amount called up the date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up at date of commencement of windingup  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
The Second Schedule Above Referred To

Sl. No. | Names and Description | Address | In what character proposed to be included | No of shares or extent of interest | Date when excluded from the list  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Dated the .................. day of...................
20.............Registrar National Company Law TribunalForm Win 21[See Rule
31(1)]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ...............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,.........................)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice to contributory of final settlement of
list of contributors and that his name is
includedTo...................................................Take notice that
I ............ the Company Liquidator of the above named company have by
certificate dated the ..... day of... ... .20 ...... under my hand finally
settled the list of contributors of the said company and that you are included
in such list. The character and number of shares [or extent of interest] in
and for which you are included and the amount called up and the amount paid up
in respect of such share [or interest] are stated below.Any application by you
to vary the said list of contributors or that your name may be excluded
therefrom must be made by you to the Tribunal within fifteen days from the
date of service on you of this notice. Any application made after the expiry
of the said period will not be entertained.The said list may be inspected by
you at the office of the Registrar of the National Company Law Tribunal,
.............................. on any day during office hours.Dated this
................... day of .................... 20........(Sd.)Company
Liquidator

No. List | Name and Description | Address | In what character included | No. of shares or extent of interest |  Amount called up at date of commencement ofwinding up |  Amount paid up at date of commencement of windingup  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Company LiquidatorForm Win 22[See Rule 31(2)]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
.....................Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated
under Companies Act,...............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerAffidavit of service of notice on
contributoryI ........ (name and description of deponent). of.. solemnly
affirm and say as follows :'

### 1\. I did on the .. day of.. 20 in the manner hereinafter mentioned serve
a true copy of the notice now produced and shown to me and marked 'A' upon
each of the respective persons whose names descriptions and addresses appear
in the second and third columns of the First Schedule to the list of
contributors of the said company settled by the Company Liquidator of the said
company on the..................... day of.............20................ and
now on the file of the proceedings of the said company. In the tabular form at
the foot of such copies respectively I inserted the number on list name
description address in what character included. the number of shares [or
extent of interest] and the amount called up and the amount paid up in respect
of the shares [or interest] of the person on whom such copy of the said notice
was served in the same words and figures as the same particulars are set forth
in the said Schedule.

### 2\. I served that said respective copies of the said notice duly addressed
to such persons respectively according to their respective names and addresses
appearing in the said Schedule by registered post/speed post on ... at the
post office at.. and the postal receipts and acknowledgements received from
the said post office in respect thereof are annexed hereto. In the following
cases either the notices were returned unserved or the notices have not been
returned nor the acknowledgements received:'

Number on list | Name of Person |  Whether notice was returned unserved. Whethernotices not returned for acknowledgement received  
---|---|---  
|  |   
|  |   
  
Solemnly affirmed etc.DeponentForm Win 23[See Rule 37(1)]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
...............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,..................)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerReport of result of meeting of creditors and
contributors under section 287(3)I ............ (name) Company Liquidator of
the Tribunal and Chairman of the meetings of the creditors and contributors
held under section 287(3) do hereby report the result of the said meetings :'

### 1\. A meeting of the creditors of the above named company was summoned by
advertisement in (here enter the newspaper or newspapers) of the date(s)
.......... 20............ and was held on the day of....... 20
......,at........ I was the chairman of the said meeting.

### 2\. The said meeting was attended either personally or by proxy by ....
creditors whose proofs of debt against the said company were admitted for
voting purposes amounting in the whole to the value of Rs .....

### 3\. The question submitted to the said meeting of creditors was they
wished that a advisory committee shall be appointed to act with the Company
Liquidator and so who are to be the members of the advisory committee.

### 4\. At the said meeting it was resolved unanimously (or as a result of the
voting set out below) that there should be advisory committee consisting of
following members:'

(Here set out the names of members)[or the result of the voting on the said
proposition was as set out below]

### 5\. A meeting of the contributors of the above named company was summoned
by advertisement in (here enter the newspaper or newspapers) of the date(s)
........................... .20 and was held on the
......................................................................... day
of .... 20 at... .for the purpose of considering the aforesaid decision of the
creditors' meeting and to express the views of the contributors as to who are
to be members of advisory committee . I was the Chairman of the said meeting.

### 6\. The said meeting was attended either personally or by proxy by
contributors holding in the whole ..................shares of the said company
and entitled to................... votes.

### 7\. At the said meeting it was resolved unanimously (or as a result of the
voting as set out below) as follows:'

[Here set out the resolution or resolutions.]Result of Voting

Resolutions | Voting on resolutions  
---|---  
| For |  | Against  
No. | Amount | No. | Amount  
State the substanceof any resolutions and give names of members of Committee (ifany) and amount of their proofs if creditors or shares,(ifcontributors)Creditors:...........Contributors ........... | . |  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
No. | Shares/vote | No. | Shares/votes  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
Sd/-......................................Company Liquidator and Chairman

Form Win 24  
---  
Form of Advertisement  
[SeeRule 37(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of …................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,.................)  
Company Petition No.......of 20....  
Application No. ......20....  
Notice to creditors and contributors  
Whereas the meeting of the contributors of theabove company held under section
287(3) has not accepted thedecision of the meeting of the creditors held
regarding thecomposition of a advisory committee notice is hereby given thatan
application has been made to the Tribunal by the CompanyLiquidator for
directions of the Tribunal under section 287(3) asto who shall be the members
thereof and that the said applicationwill be heard by the Tribunal
on.........day the......dayof..........20...... at.....o'clock in the.........
noon when anycreditor or contributory of the above-named company who wishes
tobe heard may appear and make such representations to the Tribunalas he
wished to make in the said matter.  
Dated this.....day of......20......  
........................................  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 25  
Form of Advertisement  
[SeeRule 45(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............  
In The Matter of ….................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,............)  
Company Petition No ..... of 20 ...  
Notice of meetings of creditors andcontributors under section 287(3)  
Notice is hereby given that -  
(1) A meeting of the creditors of the abovenamed company will be held at.. ...
(place) on ..... day the..... day of... . .20 ... at.. ... o'clock in the
..... noon todetermine as to who are to be the members of the
advisorycommittee.  
Note :To entitle a creditor to vote atthe meeting of creditors aforesaid his
proof must be lodged withthe Company Liquidator not later than ..... o'clock
in the .....noon. on the ..... day of... .. 20 ...  
(2) A meeting of the contributors of the abovenamed company will be held at...
.. (place) on ..... day the..... day of... .. 20· ... at.. ... o'clock in the
.....noon to consider the decision of the said meeting of creditorsand to
express the views of the contributors as to who are to bethe members of the
advisory committee.  
Forms of proof and of general and specialproxies can be had at the office of
the Company Liquidator.Proxies should be lodged with the Company Liquidator
not laterthan ..... o'clock on the ..... day of... .. 20 ...  
Dated this ..... day of ..... 20 ...  
Company Liquidator  
[The company's statement of affairs has not beenlodged (or has been lodged and
may be inspected at the office ofthe Company Liquidator during office hours on
payment of theprescribed fee.)]  
*The date fixed should be within fourteen daysof the creditors' meeting.  
  
Form Win 26  
---  
Form of Individual Notice To Creditors  
[SeeRule 45(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of ...............Ltd (give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,...................)  
Company Petition No ........ of............20 ...  
Notice of creditors' meeting under section287(5) of the Companies Act 2013  
To  
____________  
____________  
____________  
Take notice that a meeting of the creditors ofthe above named company will be
held at. ........... (place) on..... day the ..... day of... .. 20 ... at...
.. o'clock in the..... noon for the purpose mentioned below:  
Agenda  
To determine as to who are to be the members ofthe advisory committee.  
To entitle you to vote thereat your proof mustbe lodged with the Company
Liquidator not later than ........o'clock in the ..... noon on the day of.. ..
.20 ...  
The company's statement of affairs has not beenlodged [or has been lodged and
may be inspected at the office ofthe Company Liquidator during office hours on
payment of theprescribed fee].  
Forms of proof and of general and specialproxies are enclosed herewith.
Proxies to be used at the meetingmust be lodged with the Company Liquidator
not later than .....o'clock in the ..... .......noon on the day
of..................... .20 .  
Dated this day of ..... 20 ...  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 27  
Individual Notice To Contributors  
[See Rule 45(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,........)  
Company Petition No ..... of...... 20 ...  
Notice of contributors' meeting under section287(5) of the Companies Act 2013  
To  
______  
______  
______  
Take notice that a meeting of the contributorsof the above named company will
be held at.. ... (place) on .....  
day the ..... day of.. .. .20 ... at... ..o'clock in the ..... noon. for the
purpose mentioned below:  
Agenda  
To consider the decision to be taken at ameeting of the creditors of the said
company to be held on the..... day of ..... 20 ...,for determining as to who
are to be themembers of the advisory committee and to express the views of
thecontributors on the said matters.  
The Company's statement of affairs has not beenlodged [or has been lodged and
may be inspected at the office ofthe Company Liquidator during the office
hours on payment of theprescribed fee].  
Forms of general and special proxies areenclosed herewith. Proxies to be used
at the meeting must belodged with the Company Liquidator at his office not
later than..... o'clock in the ..... noon on the ..... day of.. 20 ...  
Dated this .. day of ... 20 .  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 28  
Form of Individual Notice  
[SeeRule 45(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(Give The Name of The Company)  
(Company Incorporated Under CompaniesAct,........)  
Company Petition No ..... of 20 ...  
Notice of Meeting (General Form)  
To  
.................... creditor (or contributory)  
.......................... of the said company  
Take notice that a meeting of creditors [orcontributors] in the above matter
will be held at... .. (place)on the..... day of... . .20 ... at... .. o'clock
in the .....noon.  
Agenda  
[Here insert the purpose for which the meetingis called].  
Forms of general and special proxies areenclosed herewith. Proxies to be used
at the meeting must belodged with the Company Liquidator not later than .....
o'clockin the ..... noon on the ..... day of... .. 20 ...  
Dated this .. day of ... 20 .  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 29  
Form of Advertisement  
[SeeRule 45(3)]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(Give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under Companies Act............)  
Company Petition No ..... of 20 ...  
Notice of meeting (General Form)  
Notice is hereby given that a meeting ofcreditors [or contributors] in the
above matter will be heldat... ..  
(place) on the ..... day of... .. 19 ... at..... o'clock in the ..... noon.  
Agenda  
[Here insert the purpose for which the meetingis called].  
Forms of general and special proxies can be hadat the office of the Company
Liquidator. Proxies to be used atthe meeting must be lodged with the Company
Liquidator not laterthan ..... o'clock in the ... noon on the ..... day of...
. .20...  
Dated this ....... day of ........ 20 ... .  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 30  
[Seerule 47]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,.......)  
Company Petition No............. of 20...........  
Notice to officers of company to attendmeeting of creditors or contributors  
To  
..................................................  
..................................................  
Take notice that a [the first] meeting ofcreditors [or contributors] will be
held on the.....dayof.....20..., at.....o'clock in the.....noon at (here
insert theplace where the meeting is to be held) and that you are requiredto
attend thereat and give such information as the meeting mayrequire.  
Dated this.....day of.....20...  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 31  
[Seerule 48]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,............)  
Company Petition No ..... of 20......  
Affidavit as to the posting of notices ofmeeting  
I ,.......... (name and description) of etc.solemnly affirm and say as
follows:'  
1\. That I did on the ..... day of .... .20 ... send to eachcreditor mentioned
in the company's statement of affairs [and toeach contributory mentioned in
the Register of Members of thecompany) a notice of the time and place of the
(respective)meeting(s) of creditors (and contributors) in the form(s)
annexedhereto and marked 'A' *(and 'B').  
2\. That the notices for creditors were addressed to the saidcreditors
respectively according to their respective names andaddresses appearing either
in their proofs or in the statement ofaffairs or in the books of the company
or to the last knownaddresses of such creditors [and that the notices
forcontributors were addressed of the contributors respectivelyaccording to
their respective names and addresses appearing inthe Register of the company
or to their last known addresses.]  
3\. That I further sent to each of the officers of the companymentioned below
at their respective addresses a notice of thetime and place of the
(respective) meeting(s) of creditors (andcontributors) in the Form annexed
hereto and marked 'C'**  
4\. That I sent the notices by putting the same prepaid into thepost office
at... .. before the hour of.. ... o'clock in the..... noon on the said day.  
5\. [ That the notice was also advertised in (here set out thenewspapers)
dated ..... and copies of the said newspaperscontaining the advertisement are
herewith annexed.]  
.....................................  
Deponent  
Solemnly affirmed etc.  
*Form of the notice(s) sent to be annexed.  
Omit what is not required.  
**Form Win. 32.  
To be inserted where the notice of meeting wasadvertised.  
Form Win 32  
[SeeRule 50]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .........................Ltd(give the name of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,............)  
Company Petition No ..... of 20 ...  
Nomination of Chairman by Company Liquidator  
I ..... the Company Liquidator of the abovenamed company do hereby nominate
..... (name and description)of... .. to be chairman of the meeting of
creditors (orcontributors) in the above matter appointed to be held at... ..on
the ..... day of... . .20 ... and I depute him to attend suchmeeting and use
on my behalf any proxy or proxies held by me inthis matter.  
Dated this ..... day of ..... 20 ...  
Company Liquidator  
  
Form Win 33[See Rule 64(2)]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ...............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,........)Company
Petition No ..... of 20 ...List of creditors (or contributors) present at a
meetingMeeting held at.......this ..... day of..........20....

ConsecutiveNumber |  Name of creditor (or contributory present orrepresented |  Amount of proof (for number of shares and votesheld by each contributory)  
---|---|---  
1 |  | In person | By proxies  
2 |  |  |   
3 |  |  |   
4 |  |  |   
5 |  |  |   
6 |  |  |   
7 |  |  |   
|  Total number of creditors (or contributors)present or represented. |  |   
  
Company LiquidatorForm Win 34[See Rule 65]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Company Petition No ..... of .........20 ...Report of
result of meeting(s) of creditors/ contributors held under order of Tribunal
dated ..... 20 ...I ..... name Company Liquidator of the Tribunal and Chairman
of the meeting(s) of the creditors/ contributors held in pursuance of the
order of the Tribunal dated ..... 20 ... do hereby report the result of the
said meeting(s):

### 1\. In pursuance of the order of the Tribunal dated 20 .... a meeting of
the creditors/ contributors of the above company was summoned by advertisement
in (here enter the newspaper or newspapers) of the date(s) . .20 ....,and was
held on the day of.. ... 20 ......... at.. o'clock in the ..... noon at.. ..
.I was the Chairman of the said meeting.

### 2\. The said meeting was attended either personally or by proxy by .....
creditors of the said company whose proofs of debts against the company were
admitted (or admitted for voting purposes) amounting in the whole (as
admitted) to the value of Rs ... [or by contributors of the said company
holding in the whole ........... shares of the said company] and entitled to
..........votes.

### 3\. The question(s) submitted to the said meeting was (were):

[Here set out the question(s) submitted to the meeting].

### 4\. At the said meeting it was resolved unanimously [or as a result of the
voting as set out below] as follows:-

[Here set out the resolution(s) passed at the meeting].

Resolutions | Voting on resolutions  
---|---  
| For |  | Against  
No. | Amount | No. | Amount  
State the substanceof any resolution passed...........Creditors:...........Contributors ........... | . |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
No. | Shares | vote | No. | Shares | votes  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Date this ....day of.....20.....Company liquidator

Form Win 35  
---  
[See Rule 67]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .................Ltd (Give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,.......)  
Company Petition No ....... of20.................  
Form of general proxy  
I/We ............ of... a creditor [orcontributory] of the above named company
hereby appoint.. .......of.. ................... as my/our general proxy to
vote forme/us and on my/our behalf at the meeting of creditors
[orcontributors] of the said company summoned to be held in theabove matter on
the ......... day of ...................20 ....,and at any adjournment
thereof.  
Dated this .. day of ........ 20 …....  
Sd/-. A.B.  
Notes:  
1\. It is open to a creditor or contributory to appoint theCompany Liquidator
or if there is no liquidator the Chairman ofthe meeting to act as his proxy.  
2\. If the proxy is given by a firm sign the farm's trading nameand add by
A.B.. a partner in the said firm. If the proxy isgiven by a corporation then
the form of the proxy must be underits common seal or under the hand of some
officer duly authorisedin that behalf and the fact that the officer is so
authorisedmust be stated.  
3\. The proxy form when signed must be lodged with the CompanyLiquidator
within the time mentioned in the notice convening themeeting at which it is to
be used.  
Form Win 36  
[SeeRule 67]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .................Ltd (give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,.......)  
Company Petition No........of 20.....  
Form of special proxy  
I/We ...................of...............acreditor [or contributory] hereby
appoint......as my/our proxy atthe meeting of creditors [orcontributors] to be
held onthe ..........day of ........20.... or at any adjournment thereofto
vote.  
[Here insert the word 'for' or the word'against' as the case may require and
specify the particularresolution]  
the resolution numbered.......in the noticeconvening the meeting.  
Dated this........day of...........20...  
Sd/- A.B.  
Notes :  
1\. It is open to a creditor or contributory to appoint theCompany Liquidator
or if there is no liquidator the chairman ofthe meeting to act as his special
proxy.  
2\. If the proxy is given by a firm sign the farm's trading nameand add 'by
A.B. a partner in the said firm. If the proxy isgiven by a corporation then
the form of proxy must be under itscommon seal or under the hand of some
officer duly authorised inthat behalf and the fact that he is so authorised
must be stated.  
3\. The proxy form when signed must be lodged with the CompanyLiquidator
within the time mentioned in the notice convening themeeting at which it is to
be used.  
4\. Where the person giving proxy wishes to give instructionsregarding voting
on any amendments that may be moved or as thecase may be such instructions may
be noted in the proxy if sodesired.  
Form Win 37  
[Seerule 76]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .................Ltd (give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,..............)  
Company Petition No................of20..........  
Dated............  
Quarterly Report with respect to progress ofwinding up under section 288(1) of
the Companies Act 2013  
I ..............(name) Company Liquidator of theabove named company in
accordance with section 288(1) of theCompanies Act 2013 do hereby report the
progress of winding upduring this quarter: -  
1\. Details of meetings held during the quarter:-  
(a) Number of meetings:  
(b) Dates:  
(c) Contributory/creditors/members meeting  
(d) Agenda  
2\. Decision taken at the meetings  
3\. Steps taken by the company liquidator forproceeding to winding up  
4\. Pending actions for winding up  
5\. Any other important information needs toreported  
(Sd.)  
Company Liquidator  
Form Win 38  
[SeeRule 78]  
Before The National Company Law Tribunal  
Bench At...............................  
In The Matter of .................Ltd (Give thename of the company)  
(Company incorporated under CompaniesAct,........)  
Company Petition No. ..........of 20........  
Name of Company:...........Limited  
Presented by:............... (Professionalappointed to assist company
liquidator)  
Declaration disclosing conflict of interest orlack of independence under
section 291 of the Companies Act 2013  
I,............s/o,....................r/o,..............................
havebeen appointed by the Company Liquidator vide letter dated..............
to assist him in the performance of his duties andfunctions under Companies
Act 2013.  
I solemnly affirm and declare that I am nothaving any conflict of interest /
lack of independence in respectof my appointment as assistant to Company
Liquidator of the abovenamed company.  
Or  
I solemnly affirm and declare that I have thefollowing interest in the above
named company which may affect myindependence in respect of my duties.  
And I make this solemn declaration believing thesame to be true.  
Solemnly affirmed and declaredat...............the........day
of............20.... before me.  
Professional appointed  
  
Form Win 38 A[See rule 80]Register of Liquidations Company Petition
No.............of 20......Name of the Company....................(in
liquidation)Name of Petitioner..........................By representative
Shri.............................

Date ofpresentation of petition for winding up |  Date of order if any appointing ProvisionalLiquidator | Date of Winding up order |  Date of communication to Company Liquidator of orders incolumns 2 & 3 |  Dates of taking possession of the books and papers and assetsof the company  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
Date when notice if any was issued to officers of the companyfor submission of statement of affairs | Date of submission of statement of affairs |  Date of filing report by Company Liquidator under section 281(1) |  Date of applications for directions under Rule 38(3) and dateof order on Application  
---|---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
If Advisory Committee is appointed,date of appointment |  Date of filing of further report(s)by Company Liquidator undersection 281(4) if any | Date of examination if any |  Date of misfeasance Summons against promoters and officers ofcompany if any | Date fixed for filing proofs of claims against the company  
---|---|---|---|---  
(10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14)  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
Date of settlement of list of creditors | Date of filing provisional list of contributors | Date of settlement of final list of contributors | Dates and rates of calls made if any Date Rate  
---|---|---|---  
(15) | (16) | (17) | (18)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
Dates of filingCompany Liquidator accounts into Tribunal |  Dates and Rates of dividends (mention whetherpreferential or ordinary) | Dates and Rates of return of share capital |  Dates of deposit of unclaimed dividends orundistributed assets under section 352(1) | Date of order for dissolution of the company |  Date of filing the order of dissolution with theRegistrar of companies |  Date of deposit into the Scheduled Bank ofunclaimed dividends or undistributed assets of the company undersection 352(2) |  Date and manner of disposal of the books andpapers of the company | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(19) | (20) | (21) | (22) | (23) | (24) | (25) | (26) | (27)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
AssetsA. 1. Cash on hand....................

### 2\. Balance with banks....................

### 3\. Investments :

(a)Government Securities....................(b)Other
investments....................

B. Immovable Properties |  |   
---|---|---  
*Serial number | Description of property | Estimated value  
1 | 2 | 3  
|  |   
C. Other property |  |   
*Serial number | Description of property | Estimated value  
1 | 2 | 3  
  
D. Approximate amount of debts and out-standings to be realised -
Rs.............................Approximate amount of debts and liabilities to
be paid - Rs..............................

E. Amount of debts and out-standings realised(give progressive total) |   
---|---  
After 6 months | After 12 months | After 18 months | After 24 months  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
F. Costs and expenses in liquidation |   
After 6 months | After 12 months | After 18 months | After 24 months  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
  
G. Remarks :*Note : Where the properties are too many to be entered here give
reference to the Register of Assets and mention the number of items and the
total estimated value of the properties.Form Win 38 B[See Rule 80]Central Cash
Book(Cash Book of the Company Liquidator)

Receipts | Payments  
---|---  
| Amount |  | Amount |   
Date | Name of company | Particulars | Number of receipt | Cash | Bank | Date | Name of Company | Particulars | Number of voucher or challan | Cash | Bank | Number of cheques  
| Rs.P | Rs.P |  | Rs.P | Rs.P |   
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13  
|  
  
Instructions:

### 1\. This register is common to all the liquidations administered by the
Company Liquidator and the day to day transactions of the Company Liquidator
should be entered in this Register chronologically. Sufficient details should
be entered under the column 'particulars' to show clearly the nature of the
transaction the person by whom or to whom the payment was made and on what
account it was made.

### 2\. All cash and cheques received by the Company Liquidator should upon
their receipt be entered on the Receipts Side Under 'Cash' and 'Bank'
respectively. When the cash collections are paid into the Bank by the Company
Liquidator an entry against cash on the Payments Side should be made and a
corresponding entry made under Bank on the Receipts Side. Where money is
withdrawn from the Bank by cheque the amount should be entered as a Payment
under 'Bank' on the Payments Side and entered as a receipt under 'Cash' on the
Receipts Side.

### 3\. Where a cheque paid into the Bank is returned dishonoured the entries
previously made in the account in regard to it should be reversed by
appropriate reverse entries.

### 4\. Cash and cheques should be remitted into Bank under separate challans
and remittances in respect of each company should be made under a separate
challan.

### 5\. Vouchers for payments made by the Company Liquidator should be
obtained at the time of making payment and they should be numbered
consecutively in a separate series for each half year. Receipts for payments
made to the Company Liquidator should be issued out of a counterfoil receipt
book the leaves of which are machine numbered consecutively.

### 6\. Where the Liquidator carries on a business only the weekly totals of
the Receipts and Payments on the trading account should be brought into the
Central Cash Book and the Company's Cash Book from the books of the trading
account.

### 7\. Where dividends are paid to creditors only the total amounts of the
dividends paid each day must be entered in the Central Cash Book and the
Company's Cash Book and the details of individual payments made should be
entered in the Dividends Paid Register.

### 8\. Cash Books should have their pages machine numbered. As far as
possible no lines should be left blank but if any space on a page of the Cash
Book has to be left blank a diagonal line should be drawn to cancel the blank
space so that it may not be possible to make any subsequent entries therein.
Interpolation of entries should be avoided but when it becomes necessary to
make any entries between two ruled lines or to make any additions to or
interpolation between entries already made such addition or interpolation
should invariably be attested and dated by the Liquidator under his initials.

### 9\. The Cash Book should be balanced at the end of each day and the Cash
and Bank Balances carried over to the following day. The Cash on hand should
be verified daily by some responsible officer and at least once a month by the
Company Liquidator personally. A certificate of verification of Cash by actual
count should be recorded in the Cash Book by the Officer verifying the Cash.
The Cash Book should be closed monthly under the personal attestation of the
Company Liquidator. The Bank balances should be reconciled with the Bank
Statement at the end of each month after taking into account factors arising
out of cheques drawn but not cashed or remittances made but adjusted in the
Bank's Books in the accounts of a different month.

### 10\. The total of the Cash and Bank Balances of all the companies should
be tallied with the balances in the Central Cash Book once every month and a
certificate should be recorded in the Register that the total of the balances
in the individual companies' accounts agrees with the consolidated balance in
the Central Cash Book.

Form Win 38 C[See rule 80]Company's Cash BookCompany Petition
No..................of 20.............Name of Company..........(In
liquidation)

|  |  |  | Receipt |  |  | Payments |  | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Date | Particulars | Ledger Folio | Receipts number | Cash | Bank | Total | Voucher number | Cash | Bank | Total | Cash | Bank | Total  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:

### 1\. There should be a separate Cash Book for each Company.

### 2\. The entries in the Cash Book should be posted from the receipts and
vouchers relating to the company and checked with the corresponding entries in
the Central Cash Book.

### 3\. Under 'particulars' the head of account to which the entry relates
should be indicated so that the entry may be posted under the proper head in
the General Ledger.

### 4\. The instructions regarding the filling up of Bank and Cash columns in
the Central Cash Book apply in the case of this Cash Book also.

### 5\. The total of the Cash and Bank balances of all the companies should be
tallied with the balances in the Central Cash Book once every month.

Form Win 38 D[See rule 80]General LedgerCompany Petition No...............of
.......20...Name of Company ....................(in
liquidation)................................(Head of account)

Date | Particulars | Dr. | Cr. | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Rs. P. | R s. P. | Rs. P.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :

### 1\. A General Ledger should be maintained for each company with such heads
of account as the Company Liquidator may think necessary and appropriate. The
following heads of account may be found suitable: -

(1)Property account(2)Investments account(3)Book Debts & Out-standings
account(4)Calls(5)Rents Collected(6)Interest on Securities and
Deposits(7)Advances received(8)Miscellaneous receipts
payments(9)Establishment(10)Legal charges(11)Rents Rates and Taxes(12)Fees and
Commission account(13)Other expenses(14)Suspense account(15)Secured creditors
and Preferential(16)Dividend account.

### 2\. The entries in the General Ledger should be posted from the Company's
Cash Book.

### 3\. The total of the debit balances and the total of the credit balances
of the several heads of account in the General Ledger should agree after
taking into consideration the cash and bank balances as shown in the Company's
Cash Book. The totals should be tallied once a month.

Form Win 38 E[See rule 80]Cashier's Cash Book

Date | Particulars | Amount received | Amount paid | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
Opening Balance |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
Closing Balance |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:

### 1\. The opening and closing balances should be struck for each day.

### 2\. Under 'particulars' it should be shown by whom or to whom and on what
account the payment is made.

### 3\. The number of the challan or receipt should also be given.

Form Win 38 F[See rule 80]Bank LedgerCompany Liquidator's account with the
Scheduled Bank

Date | Particulars | Deposits |  | Withdrawals |  | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Challan Number |  | Cheque Number |  |   
|  |  | Rs.P |  | Rs.P | Rs. P  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form Win 38 G[See Rule 80]Register of assetsCompany Petition
No..............of 20...Name of Company..............(in liquidation)

Serial number | Description of assets | Date of taking possession | Serial number of Sales Register | Date of sale | Date of realisation | Amount | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions:All the property of the company except the Liquidator's
investments in securities and out-standings to be realised should be entered
in this Register.Form Win 38 H[See rule 80]Securities and Investment Register

Serial number |  Company petition number and name of thecompany | Date of investment |  Nature and particulars of security in whichinvestment is made | Amount invested |  Dividend or interest received with date ofreceipt | Date of disposal | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form Win 38 I[See rule 80]Register of book-debts and out-standings(Debtors'
Ledger)Company Petition No........of 20....Name of
Company....................................(in liquidation)

Serial number | Name and address of debtor | Particulars of debt | Amount due | Date of bar by limitation | Action taken | Amount realised | Date of realisation | Reference to Suits Register | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :All debts due to the company both secured and unsecured
including amounts due for arrears of calls made prior to the winding-up should
be entered in this Register.Form Win 38 J[See rule 80]Tenants LedgerCompany
Petition No...............of 20.......Name of Company.............. (in
liquidation)

### 1\. Description of property :

### 2\. Name and address of tenant :

### 3\. Date of tenancy :

### 4\. Period of tenancy :

### 5\. Rent (monthly or annual) :

### 6\. Special terms if any :

### 7\. Arrears on date of taking charge of property :

### 8\. Advance received if any :

19/20..... | Demand | Realisation |  | Balance | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Month | Amount | Date | Amount | Amount |   
| Rs. P. |  | Rs. P. | Rs. P. |   
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
January February etc. |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form Win 38 K[See rule 80]Suits RegisterCompany Petition No...............of
20..................Name of Company.............. (in liquidation)

Serial number | Number of suit or appeal and court |  Name and address of plaintiff/appellant andhis advocate |  Name and address of defendant/respondent andhis advocate | Amount of claim | Date of filing | Dates of hearing  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of decree or final order | Nature of relief granted | Amount decreed | Costs decreed | Reference to Decree Register | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :

### 1\. A single register may be maintained for all the companies in
liquidation but the register should be maintained company-wise sufficient
number of pages being allotted to each company.

### 2\. Applications made by or against the company which are in the nature of
suits should also be entered in this Register.

Form Win 38 L[See rule 80]Decree Register

Company petition number and name of company | Number of suit or appeal and court | Name and address of judgment debtor | Amount decreed | Date of decree | Action taken | Amount realised | Date of realisation | Reference to Suits Register  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :

### 1\. This Register is common to all the liquidations the purpose of the
Register being to enable the Official Liquidator to keep watch on the progress
of the realisation of decrees in favour of the companies in his charge.

### 2\. Every decree or order for payment of money or delivery of property in
favour of the company including an order for payment of costs whether made in
a suit appeal or application should be entered in this Register.

Form Win 38 M[See rule 80]Sales Register

Serial No. | Company Petition number and name of company | Serial number of Assets Register | Description of property | Estimated value | Date of sale | Method of sale public or private) | Name and address of purchaser | Highest bid | Sale price & date of confirmation  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Advance received with date | Interest realised if any |  Balance realised\-------------Date Rs. P. |  Cost of sale\-------------------Nature of expenditure Rs.P |  Amount paid or adjusted against mortgage ifany | Date of payment or adjustment | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instruction : This Register is common to all the liquidations administered by
the Company Liquidator and entries in this Register should be made as and when
sales of property are held.Form Win 38 N[See rule 80]Register of Claims and
DividendsPetition No..............of 20....Name of Company.............. (in
liquidation)

Claims  
---  
Serial Number | Name and Address of creditor | Amount claimed | Nature of claim | Amount admitted | Whether ordinary or preferential  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
  
Dividends declared and paid | Remarks  
---|---  
Date | Amount | Date and Mode of Payment | Rate | Amount | Date and mode of payment | Rate | Amount | Date and mode of payment  
7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16  
  
Instructions :

### 1\. Only claims admitted either wholly or in part should be entered in
this Register.

### 2\. The page on the left side should be reserved for claims and the page
on the right side for Dividends.

Form Win 38 O[See rule 80]Contributors' LedgerPetition No. ............of
20....Name of Company..... (in liquidation)

Serial Number | Name and address of contributory |  Number of shares or extent of interest held andamount paid thereon | Calls | Remarks | Returns of share capital | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
First call | 2nd call/3rd call | Rate of return | Date of Payment | Amount paid  
Date of call and amount called | Amount paid and date of payment | (Repeat columns as under first call)  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 to 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instruction : Only contributors settled on the list should be entered in this
Register and they should be entered in the same order as in the list.Form Win
38 P[See rule 80]Dividends paid registerPetition No............... of
20.....Name of company.............. (in liquidation)Date on which dividend is
payable :Total dividend payable in respect of the declaration

Date | Number on list of creditor | Particulars | Receipts | Payments  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :

### 1\. Separate pages should be set apart for preferential and ordinary
dividends.

### 2\. The payments should be entered as and when they are made. Any amount
which is returned unpaid should be re-entered in the account under 'Receipts'.

### 3\. The number in column 2 should be the number of the creditor in the
list of creditors as finally settled.

### 4\. The total amount of unclaimed dividends payable into the Reserve Bank
of India and the amount paid into the Bank with the date of payment should be
shown at the end of the account.

### 5\. An account on similar lines should if necessary be maintained in
respect of share capital returned to contributors.

Form Win 38 Q[See Rule 80]Suspense RegisterCompany Petition No.
..............of 20....Name of company..............(in liquidation)

Date | Particulars | Debit | Credit | Balance  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Instructions :

### 1\. This Register should be kept company-wise.

### 2\. Advances made by the Official Liquidator to any person or made to the
Company Liquidator by any person should be entered in this Register.

### 3\. There should be a separate opening for each person.

Form Win 38 R[See rule 80]Documents RegisterCompany Petition No.
..............of 20...Name of company..............(in liquidation)

Sl. No | Description of document | Date of receipt | From whom received |  Reference number of shelf in which document iskept | How disposed of | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instruction : All documents of title like title-deeds shares promissory notes
etc. should be entered in this Register.Form Win 38 S[See rule 80]Books
RegisterPetition No. ..............of 20....Name of company..............(in
liquidation)

Date | From whom received | Serial Number | Description of books including files | Shelf number | How disposed of | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instruction : In this register should be entered all books and files of the
company which come into the hands of the liquidator.Form Win 38 T[See rule
80]Register of Unclaimed Dividends & Undistributed Assets Deposited into the
Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account in the Scheduled
Bank by the Company LiquidatorName of company...........Date of winding up
order.........

Sl. No. | Name of person entitled to the dividend or return | Whether Creditor or Contributory | Number on list of creditors or contributors | Date of declaration of dividend or return | Rate of dividend or return | Total amount payable Rs. P. | Last date when payable  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of payment into the Companies LiquidationDividend and Undistributed Assets Account in the Scheduled Bank |  Amount paid into BankRs. P. |  Person by whom claim if any for the amount ismade under section 352(6) |  Date and nature of order made on the claim ,ifany | If refunded person to whom money is refunded |  Amount refundedRs. P. | Security taken ,if any | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form Win 39[See rule 92]Instructions regarding the preparation of the
Statement of AccountThe following general instructions shall be observed in
preparing the statements of account to be filed in Tribunal : -

### 1\. The statement should be a detailed account of all the Liquidator's
realisations and disbursements in respect of the company. Under realisations
should be entered all receipts derived from assets existing at the
commencement of the winding-up and subsequently realised including balance in
Bank Book Debts and Calls collected Property sold etc. and under disbursements
should be entered all payments for costs and charges or to creditors and
contributors. Where property has been realised the gross proceeds of sale must
be entered under realisations and the necessary payments incidental to sales
must be entered as disbursements. The statement should not contain payments
into or out of the Bank (which should be shown by the Bank pass book), nor the
temporary investments by the Liquidator or the proceeds of such investments
when realised which should be shown separately by a separate detailed
statement of moneys invested by the Liquidator and the investments realised.

Interest allowed or charged by the Bank Bank Commission etc. and profit or
loss upon the realisation of temporary investments should however be inserted
in the accounts of realisations or disbursements as the case may be. Each
receipt and payment must be entered in the account in such a manner as
sufficiently to explain its nature. The receipts and payments must severally
be added up at the foot of each sheet and the totals carried forward from one
account to another without any intermediate balance so that the gross totals
shall represent the total amounts received and paid by the Liquidator
respectively.

### 2\. Where the Liquidator carries on a business a Trading Account must be
furnished as a distinct account and only the totals of receipts and payments
on the Trading Account must be brought into the statement.

### 3\. When dividends or instalments of composition are paid to creditors or
a return of surplus assets is made to contributors the total amount of each
dividend or instalment of composition or return to contributors actually paid
must be entered in the statement of disbursements as one sum; and the
Liquidator must furnish separate accounts showing in lists the amount of the
claim of each creditor and the amount of dividend or composition payable to
each creditor and of surplus assets payable to each contributory
distinguishing in each list the dividends and instalments of composition and
shares of surplus assets actually paid and those remaining unpaid.

### 4\. When unclaimed dividends instalments of composition or return of
surplus assets are paid into the Company Liquidation Dividend and
Undistributed Assets Account the total amount so paid should be entered in the
statement of disbursements as one sum.

Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ...............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,.......)Petition
No........of 20.....................PetitionerExhibit 'A' referred to in the
affidavit of ............Solemnly affirmed this........day of ............. 20
.....Before me CommissionerCompany Liquidator's Statement of Account(To be
filed under section 294(2) of the Companies Act 2013)

### 1\. Name of company :

### 2\. Date of winding up order:

### 3\. Date of commencement of winding up:

### 4\. Period of account :

Realisations | Disbursements |   
---|---|---  
Date | Of whom received | Nature of assets realised | Receipt No. | Amount Rs. nP. | Date | To whom paid | Nature of disbursement | Voucher No. | Amount Rs. nP.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
Brought forward Carried forward | Brought forward Carried forward  
  
Notes. - 1. The statement should be made out in accordance with Instructions 1
to 4 herein.

### 2\. No balance should be shown on this account but only the total
realisations and disbursements which should be carried forward to the next
statement of account.

### 3\. Only the total amount of dividends paid to creditors or capital
returned to contributors should be included under disbursements and the
details should be given in the Annexure below.

Analysis of Balance

Total realisations Rs P. |   
---|---  
Total disbursements Balance The balance is madeup as follows : - | Rs. | P.  
1\. Cash in hands of the Company Liquidator |   
2\. Total payments into Bank including balance atdate of commencement of winding-up as per Bank Book |  |   
Total withdrawals from Bank |  |   
Balance at Bank | Rs. | P.  
*3. Amounts invested by Company Liquidator |   
Less |   
Amounts received by realisation of investment |   
Deduct profit oraddloss on realisationof investment |   
(carried into account) |   
Balance under investment |   
Total balance as shown above |   
  
*Note. - Full details of investments made and realisations thereof should be given in a separate statement.Annexure to the Account

I. Calls made by the Company Liquidator :  
---  
Date ofcall:  
Rate ofcall:  
Total amountof call:  
Total amountrealised on the call:  
II. Dividends declared:  
1\. Date ofdeclaration :  
2\. Rate ofdividend:  
3\. If notdeclared state reasons and when declaration may probably be made:  
(Wheredividends have been declared and paid the following accountshould be
furnished)  
  
Number on list | Name of creditor | Amount of proof | Amount of dividend (or composition)  
---|---|---|---  
PaidRs. nP |  UnclaimedRs. nP  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  | Total |  |   
  
III. List of amounts paid and payable to contributors during the period of
account

Number on list | Name of contributory | Number of shares | Amount returnable on shares  
---|---|---|---  
Rs. | Paid | nP. | Rs. | Unclaimed | nP.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 |  |  |  | 5 |   
|  |  | Total |  |  |  |  |   
  
If any actions or other proceedings are delaying the close of the liquidation
state shortly the nature and probable duration thereof. State also any other
circumstances tending to delay the winding up of the company or affecting the
realised value of the property or the costs of realisation.IV. Legal
proceedings authorised

Date of order | Name of representative | Nature of work | Limit of costs if  
---|---|---|---  
authorising |  | authorised to be | any  
employment of |  | done |   
representative |  |  |   
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
  
V. Liquidator's Trading Account*

The Company Liquidator in account with the estate  
---  
Dr. | Receipts |  |  |  | Payments |  | Cr. |   
Date | Particulars Total | Rs. | nP. | Date | Particulars Total | Rs. |  | nP.  
|  |  |   
  
Date ...........(Sd.)Company Liquidator*To be furnished where the Company
Liquidator carries on business.Form Win 40[See Rule 92]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
.............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerAffidavit verifying accountI .............
the Company Liquidator of the above-named company solemnly affirm and say :
-That the account hereunto annexed and marked 'A' contains a full and true
account of my receipts and payments in the winding-up of the above-named
company from the ........ day of ...... 20 ...... to the ....... day of .....
20 ...., inclusive and that I have not nor has any other person by my order or
for my use during such period received or paid any moneys on account of the
said company other than and except the items mentioned and specified in the
said account.I further say that the particulars in the annexed account marked
'A' with respect to the proceedings in and position of the liquidation are
true to the best of my knowledge and belief.Solemnly affirmed by the Company
Liquidator at ........ this ........ day of ....... 20 .....Before
me.Commissioner.Company LiquidatorForm Win 41[See Rule 92]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
.................Ltd (Give The Name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,.......)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerCompany Liquidator's Final Account

### 1\. Name of company:

### 2\. Date of winding-up order:

### 3\. Date of commencement of winding-up:

### 4\. Period of account:

Realisations | Disbursements  
---|---  
Date | Of whom received | Nature of assets | Receipt number |  AmountRs. P. | Date | To whom paid | Nature of disbursement | Voucher number |  AmountRs. P.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
| Brought forward Total |  |  | Brought forward Total |  |   
  
Note. - The statement should be made out in accordance with the directions
contained in the Form relating to the half-yearly statements.Analysis of
Balance

Rs. | P.  
---|---  
Total realisations  
Total disbursements  
| Balance |   
The balance is made up as follows: - |  |   
1\. Cash in hands of the Company Liquidator | Rs. | P. |   
2\. Total payments into Bank (including balanceat date of commencement of winding-up) |   
Total withdrawals from Bank |   
Balance at Bank |   
Total balance as shown above |   
(Trading account for the period if any to beattached)  
  
Subject to the directions of the Tribunal it is proposed to pay the balance
shown as above into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets
Account in the Scheduled Bank under section 352(2) of the Companies Act
2013.Company Liquidator's report to accompany account

### 1\. (i) Assets realised :

*As perstatement of affairs or where their is no statement of affairsaccording to the Liquidator's estimate | Assets at commencement of winding-up |  *Estimated valueRs. P. |  Total realised fromthe assetsRs. P. | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
1.2.3.4.5. |  Property (as perregister of Assets)Book Debts &OutstandingSurplus fromsecuritiesUnpaid calls (priorto winding-up)Capital called up Total |  |  |   
|  |   
  
(ii)Assets which are unrealisable and should be written off: (Give particulars
and state reasons why they could not be realised)

Assets at the commencement of winding-up | Estimated value |  Reasons why they could not be realised and should be writtenoff  
---|---|---  
  
1. | Property (as per Register of Assets) |  |   
---|---|---|---  
2. | Book Debts & Out standings |  |   
3. | Unpaid calls prior to winding- up |  |   
4. | Capital not realised |  |   
  
### 2\. Liabilities :

|  Amount dueRs. P. |  Total amount paid byway of dividend or otherwiseRs. P.  
---|---|---  
1\. Secured creditors2.Preferential creditors3.Debenture holders (secured by a floating charge)4.Unsecured creditors5.Return of capital to contributors |  |   
  
### 3\. Expenses of winding-up

Rs. ....................

### 4\. Statement of unclaimed dividends and undistributed assets paid and
payable into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account
in the Scheduled bank.

Rs. nP.(a)Total amount of unclaimed dividends and undistributed assets paid
into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account as per
previous account. Amount of unclaimed dividends and undistributed assets paid
into the said account during the period of this accountTotal(b)Unclaimed
dividends and undistributed assets pending payment into the Company
Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account in the Scheduled Bank.

### 5\. Particulars of unclaimed dividends and undistributed assets paid into
the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account in Scheduled
Bank during the period of account:

Number on list ofcreditors or contributors | Name and address of creditor or contributory | Amount of dividend or asset payable |  Date of payment into Company Liquidation Dividendand Undistributed Assets Account | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
  
### 6\. Particulars of unclaimed dividends or undistributed assets pending
payment into the said account

Number on list of creditors or contributors | Name and address of creditor or contributory | Amount of dividend or asset payable | Date when payable to creditor or contributory | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
  
Dated............Company LiquidatorForm Win 42[See Rule 94]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
.................Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act ........)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerRequisition for audit of
accountTo..............................................Sir,I am to enclose
herewith a copy of the statement of account filed by the Company Liquidator
relating to the above company in liquidation for the period
from.............to.......... and to request that the said account may be
audited with reference to the books and vouchers kept by the Company
Liquidator under the Companies (Winding Up) Rules 2020 and the orders of this
Tribunal and that upon such audit a certificate of audit may be issued in
regard to the said account and forwarded to this Tribunal with your
observations thereon if any in duplicate within one month from this date. A
copy of the certificates of audit may also be forwarded to the Company
Liquidator of this Tribunal for his reference.Yours faithfullyRegistrarCompany
LiquidatorForm Win 43[See Rule 100]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
...............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,.......)Petition No........of 20.....Advertisement of notice to
creditors to prove their claimNotice is hereby given to the creditors of the
above-named company that they are required to submit to the Company Liquidator
proofs of their respective debts or claims against the above-named company by
delivering at the office of the Company Liquidator on or before
the...............day of...........20........ or sending by post to the
Company Liquidator so as to reach him not later than the said date an
affidavit proving the debt or claim in FORM WIN44 with their respective names
addresses and particulars of debt or claim and any title to priority under
section 326/327. Any creditor who fails to submit his affidavit of proof
within the time limited as aforesaid will be excluded from the benefit of any
distribution of dividend before his debt is proved or as the case may be from
objecting to such distribution.Any creditor who has sent in his proof if so
required by notice in writing from the Company Liquidator shall either in
person or by his representative attend the investigation of such debt or claim
at such time and place as shall be specified in such notice and shall produce
such further evidence of his debt or claim as may be required.Dated
this............day of.........20...................................Company
LiquidatorForm Win 44[See Rule 103]Before The National Company Law Tribunal
BenchAt...............................In The Matter Of ........... Ltd (give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act
......)Petition No........of 20.....Affidavit of proof of debtI ..............
of etc. (full name address and occupation of deponent to be given) do solemnly
affirm and state as follows : -

### 1\. The above-named company was at the date of the order winding-up the
same* viz. the..............day of..............20.... and still is justly and
truly indebted to me [or to me and C.D. and E.F. my copartners in trade or as
the case may be,] in the sum of Rs...............for [here state consideration
e.g. goods sold and delivered by me/my firm to the said company between the
dates of..............or monies advanced by me/my firm in respect of the
under-mentioned bill of exchange or as the case may be] as shown by the
account in the schedule below.

### 2\. In respect of the said sum or any part thereof I say I have not nor
have my partners or any of them nor has any person by my/our order to my/our
knowledge or belief for my/our use had or received any manner of satisfaction
or security whatsoever save and except the following : -

[Here state the particulars of all securities held and where the securities
are on the property of the company assess the value of the same and if any
bills or other negotiable securities be held specify them in the schedule.][If
the claim is made as a preferential claim say so and set out the grounds on
which the preference is claimed.]

## Schedule 7

Bills of Exchange

Date | Drawer | Acceptor |  AmountRs. P. | Due Date  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
Particulars of account referred to(Credit should be given for contra accounts)

Date | Consideration |  AmountRs. P. |  RemarksThe vouchers (if any) by which the account can besubstantiated should be set out here  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
Solemnly affirmed at.........................on................day
the....................day of.................20........Before
me.Commissioner.Deponents signatureNotes. - 1. Bills of exchange or negotiable
securities must be produced before the proof can be admitted.

### 2\. The proof cannot be admitted for voting at the first meeting unless it
is properly completed and lodged with the Company Liquidator before the time
named in the notice convening the meeting.

### 3\. Where the affidavit is not by the creditor but by some person
authorised by him the deponent should state in a separate paragraph his
authority for making the affidavit and the means of his knowledge and suitable
alterations should be made in paragraphs 1 and 2 above and the name address
and description of the creditor should be set out in paragraph 1.

*Where before the presentation of the petition for winding-up a resolution has been passed by the company for winding-up the date of the said resolution must be substituted for the date of the winding-up order.Form Win 45[See Rule 104]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter Of .............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act .......)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerProof of debt of workmenI,.....of etc. (fill in full name address and occupation of deponent) on behalf of the workmen and others employed by the above-named company solemnly affirm and say: -That the above-named company was on the.....day of.....20... and still is justly and truly indebted to the several persons whose names addresses and descriptions appear in the Schedule below in sums severally set against their names in column 7 of the said Schedule for wages due to them respectively as employees or others in the employees of the company in respect of services rendered by them respectively to the company during such periods as are set out against their respective names in column 5 of the said Schedule and for the accrued holiday remuneration so due to them in respect of such periods as are so set out in column 6 of the aforesaid Schedule for which said sums or any part thereof I say that they have not nor has any of them had or received any manner of satisfaction or security whatsoever....................Deponent

## Schedule 8

Sl. No. | Full name of workmen | Address | Description | Period over which wages due |  Period over which accrued holiday remunerationdue | Amount due  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  | Rs. P.  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Solemnly affirmed etc................................................Deponents
signatureForm Win 46[See Rule 111]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter Of-----Ltd (give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,.......)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice to a
creditor to attend the investigation or produce further
evidenceTo................................................................................Take
notice that pursuant to rule 111 of the Companies (Winding Up) Rules 2020 you
are hereby required to attend before the Company Liquidator at his office in
person or by representative on.....day the.....day of.....20.......
at.....o'clock in the.....noon for the investigation of your debt or claim
against the above-named company and furnish further evidence in support of
your proof against the above-named company.The further evidence required is as
follows: -**** **And take further notice that unless the above evidence is
produced to the Company Liquidator on or before the said date your said proof
is liable to be rejected.Dated this..............day
of..............20.................................................Company
LiquidatorForm Win 47[See Rule 115]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter Of-----Ltd (give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,1956/2013
having CIN----)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice
of rejection of proof of debtTo....................................Take notice
that as the Company Liquidator of the above-named company I have this day
rejected your claim against the company [or to the extent of Rs. ..........].
on the following grounds: -**** **And take further notice that subject to the
power of the Tribunal to extend the time no application to reverse or vary my
decision in rejecting your proof will be entertained after the expiration of
twenty-one days from the date of the service of this notice.Dated
this.................day
of.............20...............................................Company
LiquidatorForm Win 48[See Rule 115]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter Of-----Ltd (give
the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act
.......)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice of
admission of
proofTo................................................................................You
are hereby informed that your claim against the above-named company has been
allowed at the sum of
Rs......Sd/-......................................Company liquidatorForm Win
49[See rule 116]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,......)Company
Petition No. ..........of 20...Appeal No. .............of 20...Creditor -
ApplicantAppeal by creditorThe appeal of (full name description occupation and
address of applicant) showeth :-

### 1\. The address of the appellant for the service of all notices processes
etc. is Shri.......................at.....................................

### 2\. The company named viz.,.............(hereinafter referred to as 'the
company') was incorporated in the month of..........19......../20..... under
the (Companies Act ..................) as a public (private) company limited
by shares/limited by guarantee/as an unlimited company.

### 3\. The registered office of the company is situated at...........

### 4\. The nominal capital of the company is Rs.........divided
into.........shares of Rs.......each. The amount of capital paid up or
credited as paid-up is Rs..........(or as the case may be.)

### 5\. The order for the winding up the company has been passed on
............................... The order for appointment of Company
Liquidator has been passed by the Tribunal on ..............

### 6\. The Company Liquidator has settled the list of creditors and the
amount of debts or claims after following the due procedure of calling all the
creditors to prove their claims.

### 7\. The decision of the liquidator accepting or rejecting the proof in
whole or in part has been communicated to the concerned creditors.

### 8\. The appellant has also received the decision in which the whole/ part
of the claim has been rejected by the Liquidator.

### 9\. The appellant therefore prays that for the reasons
..................(state the reasons) the records be called for this appeal be
allowed the decision about the appellant's debt's under the list settled by
the liquidator be set aside and quashed and orders deemed just and proper be
kindly passed.

Dated this.........day of..........20....AppellantForm Win 50[See rule
119]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,........)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerCertified
list of proofs tendered to and admitted or rejected by the Company
LiquidatorI,.......... Company Liquidator of the above-named company hereby
certify that the following is a correct list of all creditors who submitted
their proofs of debts or claims against the said company pursuant to
advertisement dated the.....day of.....20... and the notices issued
individually to the creditors. I further certify that in the first part of the
said list are set out debts and claims admitted by me in full or in part and
the amounts admitted altogether amount to Rs..... In the second part are set
out the claims which have been wholly rejected by me.First PartDebts And
Claims Admitted Wholly Or In Part

Serial No. | Name address and description of creditor | Particulars of debt or claim | Amount claimed | Amount admitted | Whether admitted as preferential  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Second Part {||-| Serial No.| Name address & description of creditor|
Particulars of debt of claim| Amount of
claim|-|||||}Sd/......................................Company LiquidatorForm
Win 51[See Rule 130]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice
by Company Liquidator requiring payment of money or delivery of property books
etc. to the Company LiquidatorI the undersigned the Company Liquidator of the
above-named company hereby require you the undermentioned................(name
of person to whom notice is addressed) to pay to me (or deliver convey
surrender transfer to or into my hands) at my office the sum of Rs.
.......being the amount appearing to be due from you on your account with the
said company [or any money property* books or papers] now in your hands and to
which the said company is entitled [or otherwise as the case may be].Dated
this...................day of.................20...Sd./Company
LiquidatorTo.......................(Name and address of the person to whom the
notice is addressed)*Property to be specifically described.Form Win 52[See
Rule 133]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,........)Application No. .........of 20....Company Liquidator -
Applicantleave to make a callLet the several persons whose names and addresses
are set forth in the second column of the Schedule hereto being contributors
of the above-named company as shown in the third column of the said Schedule
attend the Tribunal on the .............day of................20...
at..........o'clock in the.....noon on the hearing of an application by the
Company Liquidator of the above-named company for leave of the Tribunal to
make a call to the amount of Rs. .........per share on all the contributors
[or as the case may be] of the said company [and that notice of this may be
given by advertisement without separate notice to each contributory].Dated
this.........day of..........20...Company LiquidatorRegistrar

## Schedule 9

No. on list | Name and address | In what character included  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
[Note : Where a copy of this has to be served on any contributory only the
particulars relating to such contributory need be set out in the Schedule to
the copy to be served on him.]Form Win 53[See Rule 133]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,............)Application No. ......................of
.....20...Affidavit in support of application for leave to make a callI, A. B.
the Company Liquidator of the above-named company solemnly affirm and say as
follows : -

### 1\. The above-named company was by the order of the Tribunal dated.
..........day of .....20.... ordered to be wound up by the Tribunal.

### 2\. The list of contributors of the said company was settled on.....day of
........20.... and.....persons have been settled on the list in respect of the
total number of..........shares.

### 3\. I have in the Schedule hereunder set forth a statement showing the
amount due in respect of the debts proved and admitted against the said
company and the estimated amount of the costs charges and expenses of and
incidental to the winding up of the affairs thereof which several amounts form
in the aggregate the sum of Rs. ........or thereabouts.

### 4\. I have also in the said Schedule set forth a statement of assets in
hand belonging to the said company amounting to the sum of Rs.
.................and no more out of which I have realised the sum of Rs.
.......I estimate that the assets still remaining to be collected will realise
approximately Rs. ....

There are no other assets belonging to the said company except the amounts due
from certain of the contributors of the said company and to the best of my
information and belief it will be impossible to realise in respect of the said
amounts more than the sum of Rs. ....... or thereabouts.

### 5\. For the purpose of satisfying the several debts and liabilities of the
said company and of paying the costs charges and expenses of and incidental to
the winding up of the affairs thereof. I believe the sum of Rs. .......will be
required in addition to the amount I have now on hand and the amount still to
be collected by realisation of the outstanding assets.

### 6\. In order to provide the said sum of Rs. ...... it is necessary to make
a call upon the several persons who have been settled on the list of
contributors as before mentioned and having regard to the probability that
some of such contributors will partly or wholly fail to pay the amount of such
call I believe that for the purpose of realising the amount required as before
mentioned it is necessary that a call of Rs. ...............per share should
be made.

## Schedule 10

Solemnly affirmed etc.Company LiquidatorForm Win 54[See Rule 134]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,............)Application No. .............of
20...Advertisement of application for leave to make a callNotice is hereby
given that the Tribunal has appointed.....day the......day of.......20....
at......o'clock in the .....noon for the hearing of an application by the
Company Liquidator of the said company for leave to make a call to the amount
of Rs. .....per share on the contributors of the said company [or as the case
may be]. All persons interested may attend the Tribunal at the said day and
hour and offer objections to the making of the said call.Dated
this.........day of.........20...Company LiquidatorForm Win 55[See Rule
135]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act
..............)Application No. .............of 20...Company Liquidator -
ApplicantBefore the Hon'ble Member of the Bench......Dated
:...............Order giving leave to make a callUpon the application of the
Company Liquidator of the above-named company and upon reading the order to
wind up the above-named company the list of contributors of the said company
and the Company Liquidator's (or the Tribunals) certificate of the final
settlement of the same filed on the day ....of ..20.... the affidavit of the
said Company Liquidator filed on the.......day of........20.... and upon
hearing etc.IT IS Ordered that leave be given to the Company Liquidator to
make a call of Rs. ................per share on all the contributors of the
said company (or as the case may be);And it is ordered that each contributory
do on or before the ..........day of..............20.... pay to the Company
Liquidator at his office or into the scheduled bank to the credit of the
special bank account of the said company the amount due from such contributory
in respect of such call.Dated this .................day
of..........................20........(By the Tribunal)RegistrarForm Win
56[See Rule 135]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,........)Application No. .............of 20...Document making a callI A.B.
the Company Liquidator of the above-named company in pursuance of the order of
Tribunal made herein dated the.........day of............20... hereby make a
call of Rs. ..............per share on all the contributors of the company
which sum is to be paid at the office of the Company Liquidator [or in the
scheduled bank to the credit of the special bank account of the said company]
on or before the ..................day of...............20....Dated
this...........day of...............20...Company LiquidatorForm Win 57[See
Rule 136]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,.......)Application No. ....... of 20..Notice to be served with order
sanctioning callTo..........X......Y......................................Take
notice that the amount due from you X Y in respect of the call made pursuant
to the leave given by the order of the Tribunal dated..........20... a copy of
which is attached hereto is the sum of Rs. ..... and that you should on or
before the ...........day of..............20... pay the said sum to the
Company Liquidator at his office or into the Scheduled bank to the credit of
the special bank account of the said company. If you wish to make the payment
into the scheduled bank you must produce this notice and the copy of the order
hereto attached at the Bank to enable the Bank to receive payment and after
making the payment you should give forthwith notice thereof to the Company
Liquidator enclosing with such notice the voucher obtained from the said bank
in respect of the payment in default whereof proceedings will be taken against
you to enforce the order.Dated this...............day
of...............20...Company LiquidatorForm Win 58[See Rule 137]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter Of-----LTD (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act ........)Application No. .............of 20...Company Liquidator
- ApplicantApplication to enforce callLet all parties concerned attend the
Tribunal on the.....day of................20.... at......o'clock in the
.........noon on the hearing of an application made by the Company Liquidator
of the above named company for an order that the several persons named in the
column 2 of the Schedule to this application being respectively contributors
of the above company be ordered to pay to the said Company Liquidator at his
office or into the scheduled bank to the credit of the special bank account of
the said company the several sums set opposite their respective names in the
column 6 of the said Schedule hereto such sums being the amounts due from the
said several persons respectively in respect of the call of Rs.......per share
made by the applicant with interest thereon at six per cent per annum from the
date of the order and that the said several persons may be ordered to pay to
the applicant the costs of and incidental to this application.

## Schedule 11

No. | Name and description | Address | In what character included | Amount of call | Amount due  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
  
Dated this......day of.....20Company LiquidatorRegistrarForm Win 59[See Rule
137]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,..............)Application No. .............of 20...Company Liquidator -
ApplicantAffidavit in support of application for payment of callI A.B. Company
Liquidator of the above-named company solemnly affirm and say as follows : -

### 1\. The contributors of the said company whose names are set forth in the
Schedule to FORM WIN58 herein marked 'A' have not paid the sums set opposite
their respective names in the said Schedule which sums are the amounts now due
from them respectively under the call of Rs....... per share duly made under
the Companies Act 2013 pursuant to the order of this Tribunal
dated......20.... granting leave to make a call.

### 2\. A copy of the said order dated.......20.... and a notice in Form Win57
Specifying the amount due from each of the said contributors were duly served
by registered post(or speed post as the case may be) on such contributors
respectively.

### 3\. The respective amounts set opposite the names of such contributors
respectively in the column 6 of the aforesaid Schedule are the true amounts
now due and owing by them respectively in respect of the said call.

Solemnly affirmed etc.Company LiquidatorForm Win 60[See Rule 137]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,.......)Application No. .............of
20.....Company Liquidator - ApplicantBefore the Hon'ble Member of the
Bench...........Dated:.............Order for payment of call amount due from
contributoryUpon the application of the Company Liquidator of the above-named
company and upon reading the order dated........20... granting leave to make a
call the affidavit of.....filed the .....day of....20... and the affidavit of
the Company Liquidator filed the ..............day of..............20... it is
ordered :That C.D. of etc. (or E.F. the legal representative of L.M. late
of.......etc. deceased) one of the contributors of the said company [or if
against several contributors. That the several persons named in column 2 of
the Schedule to this order being respectively contributors of the said
company] do on or before the .....................day of.........20... pay to
the Company Liquidator of the said company at his office or into the Scheduled
Bank to the credit of the special bank account of the said company the sum of
Rs. ..........(If against the legal representative add out of the assets of
the said L.M. deceased in his hands as such legal representative as aforesaid)
[or if against several contributors the several sums of money set opposite to
their respective names in column 5 of the said Schedule ] being the amount(s)
due from the said C.D. [or L.M. or the said several persons respectively] in
respect of the call of Rs. ........per share duly made pursuant to the said
order of this Tribunal .And it is further ordered that said C.D. [or L.M. or
the said several persons] do also pay interest at the rate of six per cent.
per annum on the said amount(s) specified in column 5 of the aforesaid
Schedule from this date to the date of payment.

## Schedule 12

(To be included where there are two or more contributors)

No. on list | Name and Description | Address | In what character included | Amount due  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
  
Dated this...............day of.................20........(By the
Tribunal)Registrar.Note : The copy for service of the above order must bear
the following endorsement : -"If you A B neglect to obey this order by the
time mentioned therein you will be liable to process of execution for the
purpose of compelling you to obey the same.'Form Win 61[See Rule 139]Before
The National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,........)Application No. .......of
20.....Company Liquidator (or as the case may be) - ApplicantApplication for
leave to examine person(s) under section 299Let all parties concerned attend
the Tribunal on....day the ......day of.......20.... on the hearing of an
application of the Company Liquidator of the above company for an order
...........[Here insert the name(s) of the person(s) to be examined] be
examined by the Tribunal respecting [the property (or books and papers) of the
company in his (their) possession or his (their) indebtedness to the company
or the promotion formation trade dealings property books or papers or affairs
of the company] [and/or for the production of all books papers writings and
documents in his (their) custody or power relating to the said company] and
that a date be fixed for such examination and summons(es) be issued to the
said person(s) for his (their) appearance on the date fixed and that all
necessary directions may be given in the said matter.(Omit what is not
required).Dated this...........day of..........20......Company
LiquidatorRegistrar.Annexure. - In case application filed by Company
Liquidator a statement signed by him setting forth the facts on which the
application is based.In case application is made by a person other than
Company Liquidator affidavit of applicant setting forth the matters in respect
of which the examination is sought and grounds relied on in support of
application.Form Win 62[See Rule 140]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Application No............of 20....Company Liquidator -
ApplicantBefore the Hon'ble Member of the
Bench...................Dated....................Order for examination under
section 299Upon the application dated..........20.... of the Company
Liquidator (or of X Y a contributory) of the above named company and upon
hearing etc. and upon reading the order to wind up the said company (or the
order appointing a Provisional Liquidator) dated..............20..... and the
statement of the Company Liquidator (or the affidavit of the said X. Y.)
filed...............20......,It is ordered :

### 1\. That.....................(name and description)* be summoned to attend
the Tribunal on the........day of ..........20....., at.........o'clock in
the........noon for the purpose of being examined under section 299 concerning
[the property (or books or papers) of the company in his possession or his
indebtedness to the company or the promotion formation trade dealings property
books or papers or affairs of the company ] [and the said..........be required
to bring with him and produce at the said time and place the documents
mentioned in the Schedule hereto and all other books papers deeds writings and
other documents in his custody or power in any way relating to the above-named
company];

### 2\. That the Company Liquidator do have the conduct of the examination of
the said person(s);

### 3\. That the examination shall be in Tribunal (or as directed by the
Tribunal);

**[4. That...........(name) being a creditor (or contributory) of the said
company be at liberty to attend (and take part in) the said examination.]

## Schedule 13

(Of persons to be examined and/or of documents to be produced as the case may
be)Dated this.................day of...................20..........(By the
Tribunal)Registrar.*Where more than one person is to be examined say 'That the
persons mentioned in the afore Schedule be summoned and give the names and
addresses in the said Schedule to the order'.**Omit what is not required. To
be included where necessary.Form Win 63[See Rule 141]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter
of..........LTD (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Application No............of 20....Company Liquidator -
ApplicantSummons to witness for examination under section
299To....................................................................................Whereas
by an order of the Tribunal dated the.......day of......20.... made herein it
was ordered that you........(name and description) be examined under the
provisions of section 299 touching the affairs of the above-named company (or
as the case may be) you are hereby required to attend the Tribunal on
the.........day of......20....at.......o'clock in the.........noon to be
examined as aforesaid; And you the said.............. are hereby required to
bring with you and produce at the time and place aforesaid the (here give the
description of the property or document etc.) and other documents in your
custody or power in any way relating (or belonging) to the company.If you fail
to attend at the said place and time having no lawful impediment to be then
made known to the Tribunal and allowed by it the Tribunal may impose
appropriate cost.A sum of Rs.............is herewith tendered (or sent
separately by postal money order) for your expenses in connection with the
aforesaid examination.Dated this............day of............20....Company
Liquidator.RegistrarForm Win 64[See rule 144]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,............Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerBefore the Hon'ble Member of the
Bench...............Order directing examinationUpon reading the further report
of the Company Liquidator in the above matter dated the...........day
of..........20.... made under section 281(4) etc. of the Companies Act 2013 It
Is Ordered :

### 1\. That the several persons whose names and addresses are set forth in
the Schedule hereto do attend before the Tribunal on the day and hour to be
appointed for the purpose and be examined as to the promotion or formation or
the conduct of the business of the company or as to their conduct and dealings
as officers of the company.

### 2\. That notice of the date fixed for the examination be advertised in one
issue (each) of (here set out the newspaper or newspapers in which the
advertisement is to be inserted) and such notice be served on the persons to
be examined not less than seven days before the date of the examination.

### 3\. That the examination shall be held before (here name the officer* and
follow up with any further directions that may be given relating to the
conduct of the examination or the matter on which the persons are to be
examined).

## Schedule 14

Sl. No. | Name | Address | Connection with the company  
---|---|---|---  
  
Dated this......................day of.....................20.....(By the
Tribunal)Registrar.Form Win 65[See Rule 145]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
.............LTD (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,..............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice of examinationNotice is hereby given
that a examination under section 300 will be held in Tribunal on
the..........day of........20.... at.........o'clock in the.........noon
before........ of......... a director (or other officer) of the above named
company.Company LiquidatorForm Win 66[See Rule 145]Before The National Company
Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice to attend examinationsWhereas by an
order of this Tribunal made on the........day of.....20.... it was ordered
that you the undermentioned X.Y. should attend before the Tribunal and be
examined as to the promotion or formation of the company and/or as to the
conduct of the business of the company and/or as to your conduct and dealings
as (here insert director or officer as the case may be);And whereas it has
been directed that the said examination be held before the Tribunal [or the
Tribunal has directed that the said examination be held before (here mention
the officer) before whom the examination has been directed to be held] and
whereas the........day of........20.... at.........o'clock in the.......noon
has been fixed as the time for holding the said examination;Notice is hereby
given that you are required to attend at the said time and place and at any
adjournments of the examination which may be ordered and to bring with you and
produce all books papers and writings and other documents in your custody or
power in any way relating to the above-named company.And take further notice
that if you fail without reasonable excuse to attend at the said time and
place and at any adjournments of the said public examination a warrant for
your arrest will issue and you will be liable to be committed to prison
without further notice.Note. - A copy of the report of the Company Liquidator
on which the order for examination was made will be furnished to you on
payment of the prescribed charges for the same.Dated this..........day
of..........20....Company
Liquidator.ToX.Y.,..............................(Name)...............................(Description
and address)...............................Form Win 67[See Rule 147]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerReport to the Tribunal where person examined
refuses to answer to satisfaction of the person or authority referred to in
rule 147At the examination of...........(name and description of the person
examined) held before me this..........day of.........20..... the following
question(s) was (were) put by me (or allowed to be put by me) to the said
person (hereinafter referred to as 'the witness').Q. [Here state the
question(s).]The witness refused to answer the said question(s) (or) the
witness answered the said question(s) as follows: -[Here insert the answer(s)
if any.]I thereupon intimated the witness that I was reporting his refusal to
answer [or his answer(s)] to the Tribunal and that he should attend the
Tribunal on the.......day of.......20.... at.........o'clock in
the..........noon when the report will be considered by the Tribunal.Person/
Authority holding the examinationForm Win 68[See rule 150]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerWarrant against contributory who fails to
attend examinationToX.Y. the Officer of this Tribunal.(or as the case may
be).Whereas by order of this Tribunal dated.......20..... A.B. (name of the
contributory required to attend) was ordered to attend before the Tribunal (or
the person or authority authorised by the Tribunal as the case may be), for
the purpose of being examined under section 301 on a day and at a time to be
appointed; andWhereas the........day of.........20.... at.........o'clock in
the...........noon was fixed for the said examination before the Tribunal (or
officer etc.); andWhereas by evidence taken upon oath (or by affidavit
of...........solemnly affirmed) it has been made to appear to the satisfaction
of the Tribunal that notice of the said order and of the said time and place
so appointed was duly served upon the said A. B.; andWhereas the said A.B. did
without good cause fail to attend on the said........day of.........20.....
for the purpose of being examined according to the requirements of the said
order of the Tribunal made on the.........day of.......20..... directing him
to attend [or and that the said A.B. has absconded (or that there is reason to
believe that the said A.B. is about to abscond) with a view to avoiding the
said examination];This is to command you to arrest and take the said A.B. into
your custody and bring him before the Tribunal with all convenient speed.You
are further ordered to return this warrant on or before.......20.... with an
endorsement certifying the day on which and the manner in which it has been
executed or the reason why it has not been executed.Given under my hand and
the seal of the Tribunal this.......day of.........20.....TribunalForm Win
69[See Rule 151]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerWarrant for keeping in prisonToThe Officer in
charge of the
Jail,......................Jail.................................................................Whereas
A.B. whose attendance is required before this Tribunal for being examined
under section 301 has been arrested and brought before the Tribunal in custody
and whereas the Tribunal called upon the said.....................to give
security for his appearance before the Tribunal for his being examined under
the said section and the said A.B. has failed to do so.This is to require you
to receive the said A.B. into your custody in the civil prison and produce him
before the Tribunal at.........o'clock in the...........noon on the........day
of........20.... and on such other day or days as may hereinafter be
ordered.Dated this..........day of........20.....TribunalForm Win 70[See Rule
151]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,..............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerOrder to release prisoner on bailUpon the
application dated.......20.... of A.B. now a prisoner in civil prison in the
Government Jail at........ who was arrested by warrant of this Tribunal
dated...........20..... pursuant to the order of this Tribunal
dated........20..... and upon hearing Shri.............. representative for
the applicant and the Company Liquidator of the above-named company and upon
reading the order to wind up etc. and the said A.B. by his counsel undertaking
to attend before the Tribunal (or officer etc.,) on the..........day
of.........20..... at......o'clock in the..........noon for being examined
pursuant to the said order dated...........20.....,and at any adjournments of
the said examination.It Is Ordered that upon payment into this Tribunal by the
said A.B. of Rs........ [or upon the said A.B., furnishing two sureties for
Rs.........each to the satisfaction (of the Registrar) of this Tribunal for
his due appearance before this Tribunal] the Officer in charge of the
Government Jail at............. do discharge the said A.B. out of his custody
under the said warrant dated........20.....Dated this....................day
of..................20...........(By the Tribunal)Tribunal or Registrar.Form
Win 71[See Rule 152]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,.......)Petition
No........of 20.....................PetitionerRequisition to ...... Court in
whose jurisdiction the contributory against whom a warrant of arrest has been
issued is believed to beWhereas the warrant of arrest hereto annexed has been
issued by this Tribunal against the contributory named therein
namely..........of....... under the provisions of the Companies Act 2013 and
the Companies (Winding Up) Rules 2020 andWhereas he is outside the
jurisdiction of this Tribunal and is believed to be within the jurisdiction of
the Court of................ (or the Court of Small Causes at Mumbai Kolkata
or Chennai as the case may be),These are to request you to cause the said
warrant to be executed .You are further requested to return this warrant on or
before.......20.... with an endorsement certifying the day on which and the
manner in which it has been executed or the reason why it has not been
executed.Should the said contributory on being produced before you furnish
security to your satisfaction in a sum of Rs........for his due appearance
before this Tribunal for examination under section 301 on such dates and such
times as may be intimated to him by this Tribunal the said person may be
released on such security.Dated this........day of.......20....Seal of the
Tribunal from which the warrant was originally issued.TribunalEnclosure :
Warrant.ToThe Court of........[or Chief Judge Court of Small Causes Mumbai
Kolkata or Chennai as the case may be]Form Win 72[See Rule 153]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,.............)Application No............of
20.....[Company] Liquidator of the company[or A.B. a creditor or contributory
as the case may be] - Applicantversus......................... -
RespondentsSummons under section 339(1) of the Companies Act 2013Let all
parties attend the Chambers on the........day of.........20....
at......o'clock in the..........noon on the hearing of an application under
section 339(1) of the Companies Act 2013 on the part of the [Company]
Liquidator of the company aforesaid [or A.B. of.........a
creditor/contributory of the said company] for the following declarations and
orders: -

### 1\. A declaration that the business of the said company was carried on
from the..........20..... to the.........20... (the date of the commencement
of the winding up of the company) with intent to defraud creditors and for
other fraudulent purposes by reason of the fact that [Here set out the facts
showing the fraudulent purposes e.g. that the company continued to trade and
to obtain goods on credit and to incur other liabilities without any means or
prospect of being able to pay or provide for payment thereof and further for
the purpose of increasing the amount of assets available for distribution
among the debenture holders including the respondent C.D. etc. or as the case
may be] and that the respondents as the..........of the company were knowingly
parties to the carrying on of the business of the said company in the manner
aforesaid.

### 2\. A declaration that the respondents......... (Names)........ shall be
personally responsible without any limitation of liability for all the debts
or other liabilities of the company.

### 3\. A declaration that the said respondents are jointly and severally
liable to pay to the [Company] Liquidator sums amounting to Rs........being
the amount of debts owing by the company in respect of goods supplied to or
services rendered to or other liabilities incurred by the said company during
the period aforesaid or such part of the said sums as to the Tribunal shall
seem fit after due inquiry.

### 4\. An order for payment to the [Company] Liquidator by the said
respondents of the said sum of Rs............or such other sum as to the
Tribunal shall seem fit.

### 5\. An order that for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing
declarations the liability of the respondent...........(name) shall constitute
a first charge on [Here set out the debt mortgage or interest of the
respondent on which the charge is created under section 339(2)(b)] [and that
the liability of the respondent

C.D. thereunder shall be and constitute a first charge on the debenture issued
by the said company to him and the money secured thereby].

### 6\. An order that the respondents do pay to the applicant costs of and
incidental to this application.

### 7\. Such other order in the premises as the Tribunal shall think fit to
make.

Dated this .............. day of .............. 20.....Registrar.This summons
was taken out by Shri .............. representative for the
applicant.To...............................................
(respondents)...............................................Note. - If you do
not attend either in person or by your representative at the time and place
above-mentioned such order will be made and proceedings taken as the Tribunal
may think just and expedient.Form Win 73[See Rule 153]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
....................LTD (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated
under Companies Act ............)Application No. .............. of 20...[in
Company Petition No. .............. of 20 ...][Company] Liquidator of the
company[or A.B. a creditor or contributory of the said Company] -
Applicantversus......................... - RespondentsSummons under section
340(1) of the Companies Act 2013Let all parties attend the sitting Judge in
Chambers on .............. day the .............. day of .............. 20...
at .............. o'clock in the .............. noon on the hearing of an
application under section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2013 on the part of the
[Company] Liquidator of the company aforesaid [or A.B. a creditor/contributory
of the above company] for -

### 1\. A declaration that the respondents the ............................
(promoters directors etc. as the case may be) of the above company had
misapplied retained or become liable or accountable for the money or property
of the company or were guilty of misfeasance and breach of trust in relation
to the said company in [here set out briefly the ground on which the
declaration is sought e.g. paying to the shareholders dividend out of capital
in respect of the financial year .............. or lending without
consideration and without taking any security Rs. .............. of the said
company to .............. on .............. 20.... whereby the same became
wholly lost to the said company on the adjudication of the said ..............
as insolvent on .............. 20... or as the case may be].

### 2\. An order that all necessary inquiries be made and accounts taken for
ascertaining what sums the respondents are liable to contribute to the assets
of the said company by way of compensation for such misfeasance and breach of
trust as aforesaid.

### 3\. An order that the respondents do jointly and severally contribute to
the assets of the said company and do pay to the [Company] Liquidator of the
said company all such sums as they may be found liable to contribute to such
assets together with interest on such sums at the rate of .............. per
cent per annum as from the several dates when the said sums were respectively
wrongfully paid away until the date of repayment.

### 4\. An order that the said respondents do pay the costs of and incidental
to this application.

### 5\. Such other order as in the premises the Tribunal shall think fit to
make.

Dated this .............. day of .............. 20...,Representative for
applicantRegistrar.[This summons was taken out by Shri ..............
representative for the applicant.]To..........................................
(respondents)..........................................Note. - If you do not
attend either in person or by your representative at the time and place above-
mentioned such order will be made and proceedings taken as the Tribunal may
think just and expedient.Form Win 74[See Rule 154]Before The National Company
Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act ........)Application No. .............. of 20...[Company
Petition No. .............. of 20 ...]............... -
Applicantversus............... - RespondentsPoints of claim under section
339(1) of the Companies Act 2013

### 1\. The above-named company [hereinafter called 'the company'] was
incorporated on the .............20.... with a capital of Rs. .............
divided into ............. shares of Rs. ............. each of which
............. shares were at all material times issued and fully paid.

### 2\. By an order made on the ............. 20......... the company was
ordered to be wound up by the Tribunal.

### 3\. The company is insolvent and the estimated deficiency according to
[the statement of affairs] is Rs. .............

### 4\. The respondent was a director/managing agent etc. of the said company
(state the position occupied by the respondent in the company and the period
during which he occupied such position and the salary paid to him).

### 5\. Etc. [Set out in separate paragraphs as may be necessary the nature of
the business of the company the way in which it was carried on and the facts
showing that the business was conducted fraudulently and that the respondent
was knowingly a party to the same.]

The Company Liquidator/Liquidator/A.B. the applicant claims : -(1)A
declaration that the respondent is liable without any limitation of liability
for all the debts of the company amounting to the sum of Rs.
...............(2)If necessary an amount of the debts of the
company.(3)Payment by the respondent of the said sum of Rs. ............... or
other sum for which he may be found responsible on the taking of
accounts.(4)Costs.(5)Further or other relief.ApplicantDelivered the .... day
of .... 20... by ....Representative for the Applicant.Form Win 75[See Rule
154]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
Name of The Company)(Company Incorporated Under Companies
Act,..............)Application No. .............. of 20...[in Company Petition
No. .............. of 20 ...]...................... -
Applicantversus.................... - RespondentsPoints of claim under section
340(1) of the Companies Act 2013

### 1\. The above-named company (hereinafter called 'the company') was
incorporated on the ...............20... with a capital of Rs. ...............
divided into ............... shares of Rs. ............... each of which
............... shares were at all material times issued and stood credited in
the books of the company as fully paid.

### 2\. By an order dated the ............... 20... the company was ordered to
be wound-up by the Tribunal.

### 3\. The respondents were at all material times [state the position
occupied by each of them e.g. promoter past or present director managing agent
secretaries and treasurers manager liquidator or officer of the company].

### 4\. Etc. [Set out in separate paragraphs as may be necessary the main
facts showing the misfeasance or breach of trust committed by each of the
respondents and the amounts which they are jointly and severally liable to
make good to the company in consequence of such misfeasance or breach of
trust].

And the Company Liquidator/Liquidator/A.B. the applicant claims : -(1)A
declaration that the respondents and each of them as past (or present)
directors [or as the case may be] as aforesaid have been guilty of misfeasance
and breach of trust in relation to the company as aforesaid.(2)An order that
the respondents and each of them do repay to the (Company) Liquidator of the
said company the said sums together with interest at the rate of
............... per cent per annum from ............... 20... down to the date
of payment.(3)Costs.(4)Further or other relief.Applicant.Delivered the
............... day of ............... 20.. by...............Form Win 76[See
Rule 156]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,........)Company
Petition No. ............... of 20...,Notice to Liquidator to elect whether he
will disclaimI the undersigned give you notice that the above-named company
was at the time of the making of the winding up order herein [or at the time
of the passing of the resolution for winding up] the lessee of the property
described in the Schedule hereto [or as the case may be] and I as lessor of
the said property [or as the case may be] hereby require you pursuant to the
provisions of section 333(4) of the Companies Act 2013 within twenty eight
days after the receipt of this notice to decide whether you will disclaim the
said lease [or as the case may be] and if you decide to disclaim as aforesaid
to give me notice within the said twenty-eight days of your intention to apply
to the Tribunal for leave to disclaim accordingly**.Dated this ...............
day of..............20 ...(Signature)Address :(Lessor or representative for
the lessor or as the case may be)ToThe (Company) Liquidator of...............
Co. Ltd. (in liquidation)

## Schedule 15

Here set out particulars of the property lease contract etc.**In the case of a
contract add at the end 'and also disclaim the contract within the said
period'.Form Win 77[See Rule 156]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
Name of The Company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice
by Liquidator of intention to apply to Tribunal for leave to disclaimTake
notice that I intend to apply to the Tribunal for leave to disclaim [here
specify the property lease contract etc. with short particulars and the
interest of the company therein sought to be disclaimed] referred to in the
notice given by you to me as the Liquidator of the above-named
company.(Signature)(Company)Liquidator of the said
companyTo..................................................................................Form
Win 78[See Rule 156]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,........)Application No. ............... of 20 ...,(Company)Liquidator of
the said company - ApplicantSummons for extension of time for giving notice of
intention to apply for leave to disclaimLet all parties concerned attend the
Tribunal on the ............... day of ............... 20... on the hearing of
an application by the applicant herein for an order that the applicant as the
(Company) Liquidator of the above named company may be at liberty within
............... days of the order to be made herein to given notice to
............... of ............... of his intention to apply to the Tribunal
for leave to disclaim [here specify the property lease or contract etc. and
the interest of the company therein to be disclaimed with short particulars
thereof].Dated this ............... day of ............... 20
...,(Company)LiquidatorRegistrarThis summons as taken out by the (Company)
Liquidator of the above-named company.To(Insert names of persons to be served
if any)Form Win 79[See Rule 156]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............LTD (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,...................)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerOrder extending time for disclaimerUpon the
application of etc.It Is Ordered that the applicant as such Liquidator be and
is hereby allowed a further period of ............... days from the
............... 20... within which he may give notice to ............... of
his intention to apply to the Tribunal for leave to disclaim the [here specify
the property lease contract etc. with short particulars and the interest of
the company therein which is to be disclaimed].Dated this ............... day
of ....................... 20 ..........,(By the Tribunal)RegistrarForm Win
80[See Rule 156]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerNotice
of interest in property sought to be disclaimedToThe (Company) Liquidator
etcTake notice that I the undersigned claim to be interested in [specify the
property lease contract etc. with short particulars] which is sought to be
disclaimed by you and that the nature of my interest therein is as
follows:-**** **(Signature)AddressForm Win 81[See Rule 156]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,..............)Application No. ............... of
20...,(Company)Liquidator of the said company - ApplicantApplication for leave
to disclaimLet all parties concerned attend the Tribunal on the
............... day of ............... 20 ... at ............... o'clock in
the ............... noon on the hearing of an application of the (Company)
Liquidator of the above-named company for an order pursuant to section 333 of
the Companies Act 2013 that the said Liquidator [notwithstanding that the time
limited thereof by the said section has expired*] may be at liberty to
disclaim [here specify property lease contract etc. with short particulars and
the interest of the company therein sought to be disclaimed] and that the
costs of the application may be provided for.Dated this ............... day of
............ 20 ...,Liquidator of the said company.RegistrarNote. - On the
hearing the summons will be adjourned for notice to interested parties.*To be
included where the time has expired.Form Win 82[See Rule 156]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,........)Application No. ............... of
20...,(Company)Liquidator of the said company - ApplicantAffidavit in support
of summons for leave to disclaim a leaseI the (Company) Liquidator of the said
company do solemnly affirm and say as follows: -

### 1\. The above-named company [hereinafter referred to as the company) was
ordered to be wound up by this Tribunal by order dated the ...............
20... and I was appointed Liquidator for the purpose of the winding up).

### 2\. By a lease dated the ............... day of ............... 20 ...
made between ............... of the one part and the company of the other part
the said ............... demised unto the company all that (specify shortly
the premises leased and the rent mentioning any special covenants). The said
lease* is now produced and shown to me marked 'A'.

### 3\. The premises so demised to the company were used by them for the
purposes of (specify what) but have not been occupied or used by the company
since the month of ............... 20 ... (etc. as the case may be) nor are
there any goods and chattels of the company thereon.

### 4\. I have/have not endeavoured to sell the said lease. Having regard to
the rent payable and the terms thereof the lease is not a profitable one. I
have/have not entered into possession of the premises thereby demised or
exercised any act of ownership in relation thereto (or as the case may be).

### 5\. The said lease is of no benefit to the company its creditors or
shareholders and to the best of my knowledge information and belief there are
no persons interested in the said lease except the company and ...............
the lessors as aforesaid (or as the case may be and state any advantages
sought to be attained by the disclaimer how it would affect other people
etc.).

### 6\. (If the 'disclaimer' is out of time facts in explanation on which the
Tribunal may be properly asked to extend the time should be stated).

### 7\. On the ............... 20 ... I received a notice from ...............
of ............... requiring me to say whether or not it was my intention to
disclaim the said contract. The notice is hereto annexed marked
............... on the ............... day of ............... 20 ... within
twenty-eight days of the receipt of the said notice (or if the Tribunal has
extended the time add by leave of the Tribunal notwithstanding that twenty-
eight days had elapsed since the receipt by me of the said notice) I gave
notice to the said ............... of my intention to make this application to
the Tribunal.

A copy of the said notice is hereto annexed and marked ...............

### 8\. The assets of the company are insufficient to meet the claims of the
creditors (or as the case may be).

### 9\. In these circumstances I ask for leave to disclaim the said lease and
the said ............... should be allowed to prove for the loss suffered by
reason of the said disclaimer along with the other creditors.

Solemnly affirmed etc.Liquidator.*Note. - The original or a certified copy of
the lease to be produced.Form Win 83[See Rule 159]Before The National Company
Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice to parties interested in the property
in respect of which the application to disclaim is madeNotice is hereby given
that on an application to the Tribunal by me as (Company) Liquidator of the
above named company for leave to disclaim a lease to the above-named company
dated the ............... 20... etc. (or as the case may be) the Tribunal
adjourned the matter until the ............... day of ............... 20 ...
for notice to be given to you.If you desire to be heard on the said
application you should attend the adjourned hearing before the Tribunal on
............... day the ............... day of ............... 20 ... at
............... o'clock in the ............... noon either in person or by
representative.Any affidavit that you intend to use in opposition should be
filed in Tribunal and a copy thereof served on me not later than two days
before the date of the adjourned hearing.A copy of the summons and a copy of
my affidavit filed in support thereof are sent
herewith.(Signature)........................Liquidator.To............................................................Form
Win 84[See Rule 160]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,.......)Application No. ............... of 20 ...,(Company)Liquidator of
the said company - ApplicantOrder giving leave to disclaimUpon the application
by summons dated ............... 20... of the (Company) Liquidator of the
above named company and upon hearing the applicant in person (or Shri
............... representative for the applicant [and the representative for
............... (party interested) or no one appearing for or on behalf of
............... a party interested although he has been duly served with
notice of the said application pursuant to the directions of the Tribunal as
appears by the affidavit of ............... filed on ...............
20.......,] and upon reading the order to wind up the s aid company dated the
............... 20 ... the affidavit of ............... filed the
............... 20 ... and the affidavit of ............... filed the
............... 20 ... and the exhibits in the said affidavits respectively
referred to [Exhibit ............... to the first mentioned affidavit being
the contract or lease or as the case may be].*It Is Ordered that the (Company)
Liquidator of the said company the applicant be at liberty on or before
............... 20 ... to disclaim the contract (or the lease or the shares or
other property as the case may be) dated the............... 20 ... made
between ............... of the one part and the said company of the other part
whereby (set out in brief the nature of the contract or the lease or the
shares or other property as the case may be) particulars of which are set out
in the Schedule hereto upon the following terms namely:-[Here set out the
terms and conditions if any subject to which leave to disclaim has been
granted.]

## Schedule 16

[Here set out the particulars of the property disclaimed e.g. contract or
lease dated ............... 20 ......... made between etc. or shares of the
face value of Rs. ......... in ............... of which Rs. ...............
are paid up etc. (or as the case may be)].Dated this ............... day of
............... 20 ...(By the Tribunal)Registrar.*Note : Where the Tribunal
has made an order extending the time that order should also be mentioned in
the preamble to this order.Form Win 85[See Rule 161]Before The National
Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,........)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerDisclaimer of lease*Pursuant to an order of
the Tribunal dated the ............... day of............... 20 ... I the
undersigned the Company Liquidator of the above-named company hereby disclaim
all interest in the lease dated the............... 20........, whereby the
premises (here insert description of the property disclaimed) were demised to
............... at a rent of Rs. ............... per annum (or per mensem) for
a term of ............... years.Notice of this disclaimer has been given to
...............Dated this ............... day of ............... 20 ...Company
Liquidator.*The form to be suitably altered in the case of property other than
lease.Form Win 86[See Rule 161]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of .........LTD (give the name
of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,..............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice of disclaimer of lease*Take notice
that pursuant to an order of the Tribunal dated the....................day
of.................... 20....... I the undersigned the Company Liquidator of
the above-named company by writing under my hand bearing date
the....................day of....................20..... disclaimed all
interest in the lease dated the....................day of
....................20........ whereby the premises (here insert description
of property disclaimed) were demised to....................at a rent of
Rs.....................per annum (or per mensem) for a term
of....................years. The above-mentioned disclaimer was filed in
Tribunal on the....................day of....................20........Dated
this....................day of....................20........Company
Liquidator.*Form to be suitably altered in the case of property other than
lease.Form Win 87[See Rule162]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act
..................)Application No.....................of 20.........A.B. -
ApplicantC.D. - RespondentOrder requiring parties interested in disclaimed
lease to apply for vesting order or to be excluded from all interest in the
leasehold premises

### 1\. Whereas it appears by the affidavit of....................and the
affidavit of....................filed respectively in the above matter on
the.................... 20.......... and the.................... 20.......
that : -

(a)By a lease dated the.................... 20...... and made between A.B. the
applicant herein of the one part and the above-named company (hereinafter
called 'the company') of the other part the premises
comprising....................(give particulars) were demised unto the company
for a term of....................years from the....................
20......... at a rental of Rs.....................per annum (or per
mensem);(b)By a sub-lease dated the.................... 20....... made between
the company of the one part and C.D. the respondent of the other part in
consideration of the payment therein made and the covenants and conditions
therein named the company demised (part* of) the said premises to the said
C.D. [or By a mortgage or charge dated the.................... 20....... and
duly registered with the Registrar of Companies the company charged the said
premises to secure the repayment of a sum of Rs.....................together
with interest at....................per cent. per annum in favour of the said
C.D.].

### 2\. And whereas on the.................... 20....... an order was made for
the winding-up of the company by Tribunal and Shri....................was
appointed liquidator for purposes of winding up;

### 3\. And whereas the Company Liquidator of the said company was by order
dated the.................... 20.....,. given leave to disclaim the said
lease;

### 4\. And whereas the said Company Liquidator of the above-named company on
the.................... 20..... gave notice of his intention to disclaim the
said lease and by writing under his hand dated the ....................
20......, disclaimed the said lease and filed such disclaimer in these
proceedings on the.................... 20..... and served notice thereof on or
about the .................... 20..... on the said A.B. the applicant;

Now upon the application by summons dated the.................... 20..... of
the said A.B. of....................for an order that the respondent C.D. do
elect whether he will or will not take a vesting order of the disclaimed
property comprised in the said lease being....................(give
particulars of the property);This Tribunal doth order that unless the said
respondent C.D. within fourteen days after the service of this order on him
applies for a vesting order of the said lease subject to the same liabilities
and obligations as those to which the company was subject under the lease in
respect of the property on the .................... 20..... the date of the
commencement of the winding up (or subject to the same liabilities and
obligations as if the said lease had been assigned to him on
the.................... 20..... the date of the commencement of the winding up
of the said company) the said C.D. be excluded from all interest in and
security upon the said premises.That this summons do stand adjourned for
further orders to the.................... 20...... for service of this order
on the said C.D.Dated this....................day of....................
20......(By the Tribunal)Registrar.*If different parts have been sub-leased to
different persons repeat the provision to cover all such sub-leases.Form Win
88[See Rule 162]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No. ........of 20....................PetitionerA.B.
- ApplicantC.D. - RespondentDated.................................Order
vesting lease and excluding persons who have not electedParagraphs 1 to 4 as
in Form Win 87

### 5\. And whereas upon the hearing of this application by summons of the
said A.B. for an order that the respondent C.D. do elect whether or not he
will take a vesting order of the disclaimed property comprised in the said
lease the Tribunal on the.................... 20..... ordered that unless the
said respondent C.D. within fourteen days after the service of the said order
on him applied for a vesting order of the said lease subject to the conditions
mentioned in the said order the said C.D. be excluded from all interest in and
security upon the said premises.

### 6\. And whereas the said order was duly served on the said C.D. as appears
from the affidavit of.................... filed....................20......

### 7\. And whereas the said C.D. has not applied or intimated his intention
to apply for a vesting order within the time limited by the said order [*or
the said C.D. has applied for a vesting order of the said lease.]

Upon hearing etc. and upon reading etc. this Tribunal doth order :That the
said C.D. be and is hereby excluded from all interest in and security upon the
premises aforesaid [and that the property do vest in....................].[or
That the company's interest in the premises..............................more
particularly described in the lease deed dated
the............................... 20..... do vest in C.D. the respondent
herein for the residue of the term of..................................years
demised by the said lease subject to the same liabilities and obligations as
those to which the company was subject under the lease in respect of the
property at the commencement of the winding up (or subject only to the same
liabilities and obligations as if the lease had been assigned to that person
on the.................... 20.......... the date of the commencement of the
winding up]Dated this....................day of....................
20.......(By the Tribunal)Registrar.*Where such an application for a vesting
order is made the application should be included in the cause-title.Form Win
89[See Rule 169]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At......................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of
the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,........)Petition
No........of 20.....................PetitionerAdvertisement as to declaration
of dividendNotice is hereby given that a*....................dividend
of.................... (in the rupee) has been declared and that the same will
be payable on the....................day of.................... 20..... and on
the subsequent working days upto the.........day of.........,20.........at the
office of the Company Liquidator.Every person entitled to participate in this
dividend will receive a notice to that effect and no payment will be made
except upon production of such notice.Company Liquidator.*Insert here 'first'
or 'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Form Win 90[See Rule 169]Before The
National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (Give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice of dividend(Please bring this dividend
notice with you)Dividend of.................... (in the
rupee)To...........................(Name).........................(Address)Take
notice that a*....................dividend of....................(in the
rupee) has been declared. The amount payable to you is Rs....................
and the same will be payable at my office on the....................day
of.................... 20......, and on the subsequent working days up to
the....................day of.................... 20..... between the hours
of....................Upon applying for payment this notice must be produced
entire with any bills of exchange promissory notes or any other negotiable
securities held by you. If you desire the dividend to be paid to some other
person you may sign and lodge with the Company Liquidator an authority in FORM
WIN 91. If you do not attend personally you must fill up and sign the enclosed
forms of Receipt and Authority.Dated
at....................this....................day of....................
20...........Company LiquidatorNotes. - 1. The receipt and authority should in
the case of a firm be signed in the farm's name and in the case of a limited
company by an officer of the company so described.

### 2\. If you do not claim the dividend declared and payable as above within
six months after the date when it became payable the Company Liquidator shall
pay the said amount into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed
Assets Account in the Scheduled Bank under section 352(2) of the Companies Act
2013.

*Insert here 'first' or 'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Enclosures:ReceiptBefore The National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,.............)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerAddress :Date :Received From the Company Liquidator of the above company the sum of Rs..................... being the amount payable to me/us in respect of the....................dividend of .................... in the rupee. Rs.............../Payee's signature*Authority for deliveryBefore The National Company Law TribunalBench At.............In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,..................)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerAddress :Date :SirPlease deliver to the bearer.............(name of bearer) [or send to me by cheque by post or by postal money order at my expense and risk] the ................dividend of Rs............payable to me. Rs...................... /Payee's signatureToThe Company Liquidator of..............(company),:.................*Note : This is an authority only to deliver the dividend (the cheque or the amount as the case may be) and not to make it payable to another person for which Form Win 91 should be used.Insert here 'first' or 'second' or 'final' as the case may be.Form Win 91[See Rule 170]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies Act,...................)Petition No........of 20.....................PetitionerAuthority to Company Liquidator to pay dividend to another personAddress :Date :Sir,I hereby authorise and request you to pay the dividend referred to in the enclosed noticeto....................of....................(a specimen of whose signature is given below) whose receipt shall be a sufficient discharge.SignatureWitnesses to the signature of..............................

### 1\. ..............................(signature)

..............................(occupation)..............................(address

### 2\. ..............................(signature)

..............................(occupation)..............................(address)Specimen
signature of person appointed as above
.............................(specimen)Witness to specimen signature
:..............................(signature)..............................(occupation)..............................(address)Dated
the....................day of.................... 20......Form Win 92[See Rule
172]Before The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ............LTD (give the
name of the company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of 20.....................Petitioner

## of contributors to whom return is to be paid

Number as in settled list | Name of contributory as in settled list | Address | Number of shares held as per settled list |  Total amount called upRs. |  Total amount paid upRs. |  Arrears of calls atdate of returnRs.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Previous return ofcapital appropriated by Liquidator for arrears of callsRs. |  Amount of returnpayable at per shareRs. |  Net return payableRs. |  Date and particulars of transfer of interest orother variation in list | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---  
8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12  
|  |  |  |   
  
Note. - Where the articles of the association of the company provide that the
amount divisible among the members or any class of members shall be divisible
in proportion to the amount paid up or which ought to have been paid up at the
date of winding up or contain any other provision which will necessitate
further information before a return can be made columns should be added
showing the amount called up and the amount paid up at such date in respect of
shares then held by such members or class or members or such other facts as
may be requisite.Form Win 93[See Rule 172]Before The National Company Law
TribunalBench At...............................In The Matter of
..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company incorporated under
Companies Act,..............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerNotice of return to
contributorsTo..................................................Notice is
hereby given that a first/second/final return of....................per share
has been declared. The amount payable to you is Rs.....................and the
same will be payable at my office on the....................day
of.................... 20..... and the subsequent working days up to
the....................day of .............,20...... between the hours
of....................Upon applying for payment this notice must be produced
entire together with the share certificate. If you do not attend personally
you must forward the share certificate and fill up and sign the enclosed forms
of receipt and authority for delivery.Dated....................Company
LiquidatorNote : The receipt should be signed by the contributory personally
or in the case of joint contributors by each of them and in the case of a
limited company by an officer of the company so described.Enclosures
:(1)ReceiptBefore The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
Name of The Company)(Company incorporated under Companies
Act,............)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerReceived from the Company Liquidator of the
above company the sum of Rs. ....................being the amount payable to
me/us in respect of the first/second/final return of....................per
share held by me/us in the above
company.Rs................................................Dated....................(Signature/Signatures).............................................AddressAuthority
For DeliveryBefore The National Company Law TribunalBench
At...............................In The Matter of ..............Ltd (Give The
Name of The Company)(Company Incorporated Under Companies Act,.......)Petition
No........of
20.....................PetitionerAddress.........................Date.........................SirPlease
deliver to the bearer....................(name of bearer) [or send to me/us by
cheque by post or by postal money order at my/our expense and risk] the
first/second/final return of Rs.....................payable to
me/us.Rs...........................Payee's signatureToThe Company Liquidator
of..................(company)Note: This is an authority only to deliver and
not to make the return payable to another person.Form Win 94[See rule
179]State the number of the petition and the date of the order.Statement of
unclaimed dividends or undistributed assets paid under section 352 (1) and (2)
into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account.Name of
the companyNature of the proceeding*Date of commencement of winding upDate of
payment into the Company Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets
AccountI. Particulars of the unclaimed dividends paid into the Companies
Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account in the Scheduled Bank.

Number on list of creditors | Name of the creditor to whom the dividend is due | Last known address of creditor | Date of declaration and rate of dividend | Total amount of dividend payable | Last date when payable |  Amount paid into Companies Liquidation Dividendand Undistributed Assets Account | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Date | rate  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
II. Particulars of undistributed assets paid into the Company Liquidation
Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account.

Number on list of contributories | Name of contributory | Last known address of contributory |  Date of declarationand rate of return | Total amount of return payable | Last date when payable |  Amount paid into Companies Liquidation Dividendand Undistributed Assets Account | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Date | rate  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
| Total Rs P  
---|---  
  
Total amount of unclaimed dividends paid into the Companies Liquidation
Dividend and Undistributed Assets Account RsTotal amount of undistributed
assets paid into the Companies Liquidation Dividend and Undistributed Assets
AccountTotal amount paid under both headsDated the..........day
of..................(Sd/-)Company Liquidator(s)Form Win 95[See Rule 184]Before
The National Company Law TribunalBench At...............................In The
Matter of ..............Ltd (give the name of the company)(Company
incorporated under Companies Act,...................)Petition No........of
20.....................PetitionerRequest to deliver billI hereby request that
you will within four weeks of the receipt hereof or such further time as the
Tribunal may allow deliver to me your bill of cost (or charges) as
.....................................failing which I shall in pursuance of
Companies Act 2013 and the rules made thereunder proceed to declare and
distribute a dividend without regard to any claim which you may have against
the assets of the company and your claim against the assets of the company
will be liable to be forfeited.Dated this ............. day of
.............20..................Company LiquidatorI here state the nature of
the employment e.g. advocate auctioneer etc.

