## Union of India - Act

## Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2024

## Regulation L-3-4-REG-L-P-2023-24 of 2024

  * Published on 20 February 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 February 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section (1) and clauses (ga), (gb)
and (gc) of sub-section (2) of section 64, read with section 46 and clause (b)
of section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003), the Competition
Commission of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: -

### 1. Short Title and Commencement.

(1) These regulations may be called the Competition Commission of India
(Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2024.(2) They shall come into force on the date
of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a) _"Act"_
means the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003) as amended from time to time;(b)
_"admission"_ means statement or submission by a party that it has indulged in
the alleged violation of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act;(c)
_"applicant"_ means an enterprise, as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of
the Act, who is or was a member of a cartel and includes an individual who has
been involved in the cartel on behalf of an enterprise; and further includes
an enterprise or association of enterprises or a person or association of
persons, though not engaged in identical or similar trade if it participates
or intends to participate in furtherance of such cartel and submits an
application for lesser penalty and/or lesser penalty plus to the
Commission;(d) _"cartel"_ means a cartel as defined in clause (c) of section 2
of the Act;(e) _"Commission"_ means the Competition Commission of India
established under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act;(f) _"designated
authority"_ means an officer of the Commission who is authorized by the
Chairperson to function as such, for the purpose of these regulations;(g)
_"Director General"_ means the Director General as defined in clause (g) of
section 2 of the Act;(h) _"newly disclosed cartel"_ means a cartel as
determined by the Commission having regard to the disclosures provided by the
applicant in Schedule I and Schedule II of these regulations, including the
material available with the Commission or the Director General, which enables
the Commission to form a prima facie opinion under sub section (1) of section
26 of the Act;(i) _"party"_ includes an enterprise or person defined in
clauses (h) and (l) of section 2 of the Act, respectively, against whom
inquiry or proceeding is instituted and shall include the Central Government,
any State Government or any statutory authority and shall also include any
person permitted to join the proceedings;(j) _"priority status"_ means the
position of the applicant marked for giving the benefit of lesser penalty or
lesser penalty plus in the queue of the applicants;(k) _"vital disclosure"_
means full and true disclosure of information or evidence by the applicant to
the Commission, which is sufficient to enable the Commission to form a prima
facie opinion about the existence of a cartel or which helps to establish the
contravention of the provisions of section 3 of the Act.(2) Words and
expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the same
meanings respectively as assigned to them in the Act or the rules or
regulations framed thereunder or in the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).

### 3. Conditions For Lesser Penalty Or Lesser Penalty Plus.

(1) An applicant, seeking the benefit of lesser penalty or lesser penalty plus
under section 46 of the Act, shall-(a) cease to have further participation in
the cartel from the time of its disclosure unless otherwise directed by the
Commission;(b) provide vital disclosure in respect of alleged contravention of
the provisions of section 3 of the Act;(c) provide all relevant information,
documents and evidence as may be required by the Commission;(d) co-operate
genuinely, fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the investigation
and other proceedings before the Commission;(e) not conceal, destroy,
manipulate or remove the relevant documents in any manner that may contribute
to the establishment of a cartel; and(f) not give any false evidence or omit
to submit any material information knowing it to be material.(2) The applicant
shall provide the names of the individuals who have been involved in the
cartel on its behalf and for whom lesser penalty or lesser penalty plus, as
the case may be, is sought by the applicant.(3) Where an applicant or its
authorized representative, at the time of filing of application for lesser
penalty or lesser penalty plus, as the case may be, fails to provide full and
true disclosure of the information and evidence as referred and described in
Schedule I or Schedule II or both or as required by the Commission from time
to time, the Commission may reject its application.(4) Without prejudice to
sub-regulation (1), the Commission may subject the applicant to further
restrictions or conditions, as it may deem fit, after considering the facts
and circumstances of the case.(5) Where an applicant or its authorized
representative fails to comply with the conditions mentioned in sub-
regulations (1) and (4), either before the Director General or before the
Commission after receipt of the investigation report, the Commission may
reject its application.(6) Before rejecting the lesser penalty or lesser
penalty plus application of the applicant under this regulation, the
Commission shall provide an opportunity of being heard to such applicant.(7)
Notwithstanding rejection of application in terms of sub-regulations (3) or
(5) above, the Commission or the Director General shall be free to use the
information, documents and evidence submitted by the applicant, in the ongoing
matter, in accordance with the provisions of section 46 of the Act.(8) Upon
rejection of application in terms of sub-regulations (3) or (5) above, the
applicant may be subjected to inquiry for the contravention.(9) The discretion
of the Commission, in regard to reduction in monetary penalty under these
regulations, shall be exercised having due regard to -(a) the stage at which
the applicant comes forward with the disclosure;(b) the evidence already in
possession of the Commission;(c) the quality of the information provided by
the applicant;(d) fulfilment of conditions specified in sub-regulation (1) and
(4) above; and(e) the entire facts and circumstances of the case.

### 4. Grant of Lesser Penalty.

Subject to the conditions laid down in regulation 3, the applicant and
individual(s) mentioned in sub-regulation 2 of regulation 3 shall be granted
benefit of lesser penalty on the amount leviable under clause (b) of section
27 and section 48 of the Act, as the Commission may decide, in the following
manner, namely:-(a) The applicant and individual(s) mentioned in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 3 may be granted benefit of reduction in penalty
upto or equal to one hundred percent, if the applicant is the first to make a
vital disclosure by submitting evidence of a cartel, enabling the Commission
to form a prima facie opinion regarding the existence of a cartel which is
alleged to have contravened the provisions of section 3 of the Act and the
Commission did not, at the time of application, have sufficient evidence to
form such an opinion:Provided that the Commission may also grant benefit of
reduction in penalty up to or equal to one hundred per cent, to the applicant
and individual(s) mentioned in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, if the
applicant is the first to make a vital disclosure by submitting such evidence
which establishes the contravention of the provisions of section 3 of the Act,
by a cartel, in a matter under investigation and the Commission, or the
Director General did not, at the time of application, have sufficient evidence
to establish such a contravention.(b) The applicant(s) and individual(s) who
are subsequent to the first applicant may also be granted benefit of reduction
in penalty on making a disclosure by submitting evidence, which in the opinion
of the Commission, provides significant added value to the evidence already in
possession of the Commission or the Director General, as the case may be, to
establish the existence of the cartel, which is alleged to have contravened
the provisions of section 3 of the Act._Explanation._ \- For the purposes of
these regulations, 'significant added value' means the extent to which the
evidence provided enhances the ability of the Commission or the Director
General, as the case may be, to establish the existence of a cartel, which is
alleged to have contravened the provisions of section 3 of the Act.(c) The
reduction in monetary penalty referred to in clause (b) shall be in the
following order-(i) the applicant and individual(s) mentioned in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 3 marked as second in the priority status may be
granted reduction of monetary penalty up to or equal to fifty percent of the
penalty imposed; and(ii) the applicant and individual(s) mentioned in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 3 marked as third or subsequent in the priority
status may be granted reduction of penalty up to or equal to thirty percent of
the penalty imposed.

### 5. Grant of Lesser Penalty Plus.

(1) In terms of sub-section (4) of section 46 of the Act and subject to the
conditions laid down in regulations 3 and 4, an applicant, who had earlier
made a full, true and vital disclosure in respect of alleged contravention of
provisions of section 3 of the Act under regulation 6 (first cartel), makes a
full, true and vital disclosure in respect of existence of another cartel
(second cartel) in which it is alleged to have violated section 3 of the Act,
which enables the Commission to form a prima facie opinion regarding the
existence of newly disclosed cartel under sub-section (1) of section 26 of the
Act, may be granted an additional reduction in monetary penalty up to or equal
to thirty per cent of the penalty imposed with regard to the first cartel
besides obtaining benefit of reduction in penalty up to or equal to one
hundred percent in respect of newly disclosed cartel in terms of sub-section
(1) of section 46 of the Act.**Illustration:**_In respect of Cartel A, X and Y
are lesser penalty applicants having first and second marker status with
reduction in penalty available of up to or equal to one hundred percent and
fifty percent, respectively. Y, being aware of Cartel B, reports about it
under regulation 7. Subject to fulfilment of requisite conditions, for
reporting Cartel B, Y shall be eligible for additional reduction in penalty of
up to or equal to thirty percent in respect of Cartel A, besides obtaining
first marker status in respect of Cartel B._ Provided that the individual(s)
of such applicant who were part of its lesser penalty application in the first
cartel may also be granted the benefit of lesser penalty plus as applicable to
the applicant, if such individual(s) are also a part of both the newly
disclosed cartel and the lesser penalty plus application filed in that
regard.(2) While determining the newly disclosed cartel in terms of sub-
section (4) of section 46 of the Act, the Commission may have due regard to
all relevant factors that distinguish the newly disclosed cartel from the
existing cartel.(3) The discretion of the Commission, in regard to reduction
in monetary penalty under regulation 5, shall be exercised having due regard
to-a) likelihood of the newly disclosed cartel being detected by the
Commission or the Director General without lesser penalty plus application,
andb) any other factor deemed relevant by the Commission.

### 6. Procedure For Grant of Lesser Penalty.

(1) For the purpose of grant of lesser penalty, the applicant or its
authorized representative may make an application containing all the material
information as specified in the Schedule I of these regulations, or may
intimate in writing either in person or through e-mail or fax, to the
designated authority, for furnishing the information and evidence relating to
the existence of a cartel. The designated authority shall, thereafter, within
ten working days, put up the matter before the Commission for its
consideration.Provided that an application under sub regulation (1) of
regulation 6 for grant of lesser penalty can be made at any time during
inquiry but not after the report of investigation directed under section 26 of
the Act has been received by the Commission.(2) The date and time of receipt
of the application by the Commission shall be the date and time as recorded by
the designated authority or as recorded on the server or the facsimile
transmission machine of the designated authority.(3) The Commission shall
thereupon mark the priority status of the applicant and the designated
authority shall convey to the applicant through post or e-mail or fax that the
'appropriate priority status has been marked', and that it shall not entitle
the applicant for grant of lesser penalty merely on that basis.(4) If only an
intimation is received under sub-regulation (1) for furnishing the information
and evidence relating to existence of a cartel, the Commission shall direct
the applicant to submit a written application containing all the material
information as specified in the Schedule I of these regulations within a
period not exceeding fifteen days.(5) Where the application, along with the
necessary documents, is not received within a period of fifteen days from the
date of communication of direction under sub-regulation (4) or during the
further period as may be extended by the Commission, the priority status of
the applicant and consequent benefit of grant of lesser penalty shall stand
forfeited.(6) Unless the evidence submitted by the first applicant has been
evaluated, the next applicant shall not be evaluated by the Commission.(7)
Where the benefit of the priority status is not granted to the first
applicant, the subsequent applicants shall move up in order of priority for
grant of priority status by the Commission and the procedure prescribed above,
as in the case of first applicant, shall apply mutatis mutandis.(8) The
decision of the Commission of granting or rejecting the application for lesser
penalty shall be communicated to the applicant.

### 7. Procedure For Grant of Lesser Penalty Plus.

(1) For the purpose of grant of lesser penalty plus, the applicant or its
authorized representative may make an application containing all the material
information as specified in the Schedule II to these regulations, or may
intimate in writing either in person or through e-mail or fax, to the
designated authority for furnishing the information and evidence relating to
the existence of a newly disclosed cartel. The designated authority shall,
thereafter, within ten working days, put up the matter before the Commission
for its consideration.Provided that an application under sub regulation (1) of
regulation 7 for grant of lesser penalty plus can be made at any time before
the receipt of investigation report of the Director General under section 26
of the Act in the first cartel by the Commission.Provided further that in case
of more than one applicant for lesser penalty plus in respect of a newly
disclosed cartel, the Commission shall not examine the application of the next
or subsequent applicant(s) for grant of the lesser penalty plus, unless the
application of the first lesser penalty plus applicant has been rejected by
the Commission.(2) The date and time of receipt of the application by the
Commission shall be the date and time as recorded by the designated authority
or as recorded on the server or the facsimile transmission machine of the
designated authority.(3) The Commission shall thereupon mark the priority
status of the applicant, for lesser penalty plus in respect of the first
cartel, and simultaneously for lesser penalty in respect of the newly
disclosed cartel, and the designated authority shall convey to the applicant
through post or e-mail or fax that the 'appropriate priority status has been
marked', and that it shall not entitle the applicant for grant of lesser
penalty plus and/or lesser penalty merely on that basis.(4) If only an
intimation is received under sub-regulation (1) for furnishing the information
and evidence relating to the existence of a newly disclosed cartel, the
Commission shall direct the applicant to submit a written application
containing all the material information as specified in the Schedule II to
these regulations within a period not exceeding fifteen days.(5) Where the
application, along with the necessary documents, is not received within a
period of fifteen days from the date of communication of direction under sub-
regulation (4) or during the further period as may be extended by the
Commission, the priority status of the applicant both for lesser penalty plus
in respect of the first cartel and for lesser penalty in respect of the newly
disclosed cartel along with their respective consequent benefits, shall stand
forfeited.(6) Where the benefit of the 'lesser penalty plus' is not granted to
the first applicant by the Commission, the subsequent applicant(s), if any,
shall be examined by the Commission in order of their priority status for
grant of 'lesser penalty plus' status in respect of the first cartel and the
procedure prescribed above, as in the case of first applicant, shall apply
mutatis mutandis.(7) The decision of the Commission of granting or rejecting
the application for lesser penalty plus shall be communicated to the
applicant.

### 8. Confidentiality.

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Competition Commission of India
(General) Regulations, 2009, the Commission or the Director General shall
treat as confidential,-(a) the identity of the applicant; and(b) the
information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant under
regulation 6 and/or regulation 7:Provided that the identity of the applicant
or such information or documents or evidence may be disclosed if,-(i) the
disclosure is required by law; or(ii) the applicant has agreed to such
disclosure in writing; or(iii) there has been a public disclosure by the
applicantProvided further that where the Director General deems it necessary
to disclose the information, documents and evidence furnished under regulation
6 or regulation 7, as the case may be, to any party for the purposes of
investigation and the applicant has not agreed to such disclosure, the
Director General may disclose such information, documents and evidence to such
party for reasons to be recorded in writing and after taking prior approval of
the Commission.(2) Except submissions made before the Commission under
regulations 6 and 7 above within a period of fifteen days or during the
further period as may be extended by the Commission, confidentiality of all
further submissions made by the lesser penalty and/ or lesser penalty plus
applicant before the Director General shall be governed in terms of provisions
of regulation 35 of Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations,
2009.

### 9. Inspection and Certified Copies of Documents.

(1) Notwithstanding the confidentiality under regulation 8, the provisions of
sub- regulations (1), (3) and (4) of regulation 37 and the provisions of
regulation 50 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations,
2009, to the extent it relates to inspection and grant of certified copies,
shall become applicable to the non-confidential version of the information,
documents and evidence furnished by the applicant under regulation 6, after
the Commission forwards a copy of the report containing the findings of the
Director General to the party concerned.(2) Notwithstanding the
confidentiality under regulation 8, the provisions of sub- regulations (1),
(3) and (4) of regulation 37 and the provisions of regulation 50 of the
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009, to the extent it
relates to inspection and grant of certified copies, shall become applicable
to the nonconfidential version of the information, documents and evidence
furnished by the applicant under regulation 7 in the second cartel, after the
Commission forwards a copy of the report containing the findings of the
Director General to the party concerned in the second cartel.(3) Any party
conducting inspection or obtaining certified copies under this regulation
shall not disclose such information, documents and evidence so obtained other
than for the proceedings under the Act.

### 10. Withdrawal.

(1) The applicant may withdraw the application under regulation 6 and/or
regulation 7, as the case may be, any time prior to the receipt of the report
of investigation, under section 26 of the Act in the concerned matter, by the
Commission.(2) Where the applicant withdraws application under regulation 6
and/or regulation 7, as the case may be, the Director General or the
Commission shall be at liberty to use for the purposes of the Act any
information or evidence or document submitted by the applicant except its
admission.

### 11. Removal of Difficulty.

In the matter of interpretation or implementation of the provisions of these
regulations, if any doubt or difficulty arises, the same shall be placed
before the Commission and the decision of the Commission thereon, shall be
binding.

### 12. Repeal and Savings.

(1) The Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2009,
stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal -(a) anything done or any action taken or
purported to have been done or taken, or any proceedings or decision, inquiry
or investigation commenced under the repealed regulations, prior to such
repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provisions of these regulations;(b) the operation of the repealed regulations
or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation
or liability acquired, accrued or incurred thereunder, or any investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy ensued thereunder, shall remain unaffected as if
the repealed regulations have never been repealed;(c) after the repeal of the
Competition Commission of India (Lesser Penalty) Regulations, 2009, any
reference thereto including in any regulations, direction or decision issued
by the Commission shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding
provisions of these regulations.Schedule I _Contents of The Application_
__[See sub-regulations (1) and (4) of regulation 6]__ The application for
lesser penalty shall, inter alia, include the following, namely: -(a) name,
email, contact number and address of the applicant or its authorized
representative as well as of all other enterprises in the cartel;(b) in case
the applicant is based outside India, the address of the applicant in India
for communication including the telephone numbers and the e- mail address,
etc.;(c) a detailed description of the alleged cartel arrangement, including
its aims and objectives and the details of activities and functions carried
out for securing such aims and objectives;(d) the role of the applicant in the
cartel and admission in terms of sub-regulation (1)(b) to regulation 2;(e) the
goods or services involved;(f) the geographic market covered;(g) the
commencement and duration of the cartel;(h) the estimated volume of business
affected in India by the alleged cartel;(i) the names, positions, office
locations and, wherever necessary, home addresses of all individuals who, in
the knowledge of the applicant, are or have been associated with the alleged
cartel, including those individuals which have been involved on behalf of the
applicant;(j) the details of other Competition Authorities, forums or courts,
if any, which have been approached or are intended to be approached in
relation to the alleged cartel;(k) details of any previous contravention of
the provisions of the Act by the applicant or any proceeding pending against
the applicant before the Commission for alleged violation of provisions of the
Act;(l) a descriptive list of evidence regarding the nature and content of
evidence provided in support of the application for lesser penalty; and(m) any
other material information as may be directed by the Commission.Schedule II
_Contents of The Application_ __[See sub-regulations (1) and (4) of regulation
7]__ The application for lesser penalty plus shall, inter alia, include the
following, namely:-(a) name, email, contact number and address of the
applicant or its authorized representative;(b) details of the ongoing matter
or case(s) in which the applicant has already obtained any priority status;(c)
disclosures pertaining to newly disclosed cartel as per the details sought in
Schedule I (two original copies);(d) whether there exists any similarity
between the conduct or product or service or parties or matter referred to in
(B) and (C) above, along with details thereof;(e) justification as to how the
newly disclosed cartel is new or separate cartel arrangement from the first
cartel in view of disclosure made in point (B) and (C) above; and(f) any other
material information.

