## International Treaty - Act

## Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against
Unauthorized Duplication of Their Phonograms

TREATY  
India

# Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against
Unauthorized Duplication of Their Phonograms

## WORLDINTELLECTUALPROPERTYORGANIZATION 1 of 1971

  * Published in World Intellectual Property Organization on 29 October 1971 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 October 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**Republic of India ratified this treaty on October 29, 1971** The Contracting
States,concerned at the widespread and increasing unauthorized duplication of
phonograms and the damage this is occasioning to the interests of authors,
performers and producers of phonograms;convinced that the protection of
producers of phonograms against such acts will also benefit the performers
whose performances, and the authors whose works, are recorded on the said
phonograms;recognizing the value of the work undertaken in this field by the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World
Intellectual Property Organization;anxious not to impair in any way
international agreements already in force and in particular in no way to
prejudice wider acceptance of the Rome Convention of October 26, 1961, which
affords protection to performers and to broadcasting organizations as well as
to producers of phonograms;have agreed as follows:

### Article 1Definitions{{^{{> 2}}}}

For the purposes of this Convention:(a) “phonogram” means any exclusively
aural fixation of sounds of a performance or of other sounds;(b) “producer of
phonograms” means the person who, or the legal entity which, first fixes the
sounds of a performance or other sounds;(c) “duplicate” means an article which
contains sounds taken directly or indirectly from a phonogram and which
embodies all or a substantial part of the sounds fixed in that phonogram;(d)
“distribution to the public” means any act by which duplicates of a phonogram
are offered, directly or indirectly, to the general public or any section
thereof.

### Article 2 Obligations of Contracting States; Whom they must protect and
against what

Each Contracting State shall protect producers of phonograms who are nationals
of other Contracting States against the making of duplicates without the
consent of the producer and against the importation of such duplicates,
provided that any such making or importation is for the purpose of
distribution to the public, and against the distribution of such duplicates to
the public.

### Article 3 Means of Implementation by Contracting States

The means by which this Convention is implemented shall be a matter for the
domestic law of each Contracting State and shall include one or more of the
following: protection by means of the grant of a copyright or other specific
right; protection by means of the law relating to unfair competition;
protection by means of penal sanctions.

### Article 4 Term of Protection

The duration of the protection given shall be a matter for the domestic law of
each Contracting State. However, if the domestic law prescribes a specific
duration for the protection, that duration shall not be less than twenty years
from the end either of the year in which the sounds embodied in the phonogram
were first fixed or of the year in which the phonogram was first published.

### Article 5 Formalities

If, as a condition of protecting the producers of phonograms, a Contracting
State, under its domestic law, requires compliance with formalities, these
shall be considered as fulfilled if all the authorized duplicates of the
phonogram distributed to the public or their containers bear a notice
consisting of the symbol (P), accompanied by the year date of the first
publication, placed in such manner as to give reasonable notice of claim of
protection; and, if the duplicates or their containers do not identify the
producer, his successor in title or the exclusive licensee (by carrying his
name, trademark or other appropriate designation), the notice shall also
include the name of the producer, his successor in title or the exclusive
licensee.

### Article 6 Limitations on Protection

Any Contracting State which affords protection by means of copyright or other
specific right, or protection by means of penal sanctions, may in its domestic
law provide, with regard to the protection of producers of phonograms, the
same kinds of limitations as are permitted with respect to the protection of
authors of literary and artistic works. However, no compulsory licenses may be
permitted unless all of the following conditions are met:(a) the duplication
is for use solely for the purpose of teaching or scientific research;(b) the
license shall be valid for duplication only within the territory of the
Contracting State whose competent authority has granted the license and shall
not extend to the export of duplicates;(c) the duplication made under the
license gives rise to an equitable remuneration fixed by the said authority
taking into account, inter alia, the number of duplicates which will be made.

### Article 7 Savings: 1. Safeguard of Copyright and Neighboring Rights; 2.
Protection for Performers; 3. Non-Retroactivity; 4. Substitution of the
Criterion of Fixation

(1) This Convention shall in no way be interpreted to limit or prejudice the
protection otherwise secured to authors, to performers, to producers of
phonograms or to broadcasting organizations under any domestic law or
international agreement.(2) It shall be a matter for the domestic law of each
Contracting State to determine the extent, if any, to which performers whose
performances are fixed in a phonogram are entitled to enjoy protection and the
conditions for enjoying any such protection.(3) No Contracting State shall be
required to apply the provisions of this Convention to any phonogram fixed
before this Convention entered into force with respect to that State.(4) Any
Contracting State which, on October 29, 1971, affords protection to producers
of phonograms solely on the basis of the place of first fixation may, by a
notification deposited with the Director General of the World Intellectual
Property Organization, declare that it will apply this criterion instead of
the criterion of the nationality of the producer.

### Article 8 Secretariat

(1) The International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization
shall assemble and publish information concerning the protection of
phonograms. Each Contracting State shall promptly communicate to the
International Bureau all new laws and official texts on this subject.(2) The
International Bureau shall, on request, furnish information to any Contracting
State on matters concerning this Convention, and shall conduct studies and
provide services designed to facilitate the protection provided for
therein.(3) The International Bureau shall exercise the functions enumerated
in paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) above in cooperation, for matters within
their respective competence, with the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization and the International Labour Office.

### Article 9 Joining the Convention: 1. Signature and Deposit; 2 and 3.
Ratification and Accession; 4. States’ Obligations as to their Domestic Law

(1) This Convention shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. It shall be open until April 30, 1972, for signature by any
State that is a member of the United Nations, any of the Specialized Agencies
brought into relationship with the United Nations, or the International Atomic
Energy Agency, or is a party to the Statute of the International Court of
Justice.(2) This Convention shall be subject to ratification or acceptance by
the signatory States. It shall be open for accession by any State referred to
in paragraph (1) of this Article.(3) Instruments of ratification, acceptance
or accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United
Nations.(4) It is understood that, at the time a State becomes bound by this
Convention, it will be in a position in accordance with its domestic law to
give effect to the provisions of the Convention.

### Article 10 Reservations

No reservations to this Convention are permitted.

### Article 11 Entry into Force and Applicability: 1 and 2. Entry into Force
of the Convention; 3 and 4. Applicability of the Convention to Certain
Territories

(1) This Convention shall enter into force three months after deposit of the
fifth instrument of ratification, acceptance or accession.(2) For each State
ratifying, accepting or acceding to this Convention after the deposit of the
fifth instrument of ratification, acceptance or accession, the Convention
shall enter into force three months after the date on which the Director
General of the World Intellectual Property Organization informs the States, in
accordance with Article 13, paragraph (4), of the deposit of its
instrument.(3) Any State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance or
accession or at any later date, declare by notification addressed to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations that this Convention shall apply to
all or any one of the territories for whose international affairs it is
responsible. This notification will take effect three months after the date on
which it is received.(4) However, the preceding paragraph may in no way be
understood as implying the recognition or tacit acceptance by a Contracting
State of the factual situation concerning a territory to which this Convention
is made applicable by another Contracting State by virtue of the said
paragraph.

### Article 12 Denunciation of the Convention

(1) Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention, on its own behalf or
on behalf of any of the territories referred to in Article 11, paragraph (3),
by written notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations.(2) Denunciation shall take effect twelve months after the date on
which the Secretary-General of the United Nations has received the
notification.

### Article 13 Languages and Notifications

(1) This Convention shall be signed in a single copy in English, French,
Russian and Spanish, the four texts being equally authentic.(2) Official texts
shall be established by the Director General of the World Intellectual
Property Organization, after consultation with the interested Governments, in
the Arabic, Dutch, German, Italian and Portuguese languages.(3) The Secretary-
General of the United Nations shall notify the Director General of the World
Intellectual Property Organization, the Director-General of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Director-General of
the International Labour Office of:(a) signatures to this Convention;(b) the
deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance or accession;(c) the date
of entry into force of this Convention;(d) any declaration notified pursuant
to Article 11, paragraph (3);(e) the receipt of notifications of
denunciation.(4) The Director General of the World Intellectual Property
Organization shall inform the States referred to in Article 9, paragraph (1),
of the notifications received pursuant to the preceding paragraph and of any
declarations made under Article 7, paragraph (4). He shall also notify the
Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and the Director-General of the International Labour Office of
such declarations.(5) The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall
transmit two certified copies of this Convention to the States referred to in
Article 9, paragraph (1).1 This Table of Contents is added for the convenience
of the reader. It does not appear in the original text of the Convention.2
Articles have been given titles to facilitate their identification. There are
no titles in the signed text.

