## United Nations Conventions

## Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women

UNITED NATIONS  
India

# Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women

## GENERALASSEMBLY 1 of 1981

  * Published in United Nations on 3 September 1981 
  * Commenced on 3 September 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 September 1981.] 

On 18 December 1979, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women was adopted by the United Nations General
Assembly. It entered into force as an international treaty on 3 September 1981
after the twentieth country had ratified it. By the tenth anniversary of the
Convention in 1989, almost one hundred nations have agreed to be bound by its
provisions.The Convention was the culmination of more than thirty years of
work by the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, a body
established in 1946 to monitor the situation of women and to promote women's
rights. The Commission's work has been instrumental in bringing to light all
the areas in which women are denied equality with men. These efforts for the
advancement of women have resulted in several declarations and conventions, of
which the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women is the central and most comprehensive document.Among the international
human rights treaties, the Convention takes an important place in bringing the
female half of humanity into the focus of human rights concerns. The spirit of
the Convention is rooted in the goals of the United Nations: to reaffirm faith
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity,v and worth of the human person,
in the equal rights of men and women. The present document spells out the
meaning of equality and how it can be achieved. In so doing, the Convention
establishes not only an international bill of rights for women, but also an
agenda for action by countries to guarantee the enjoyment of those rights.In
its preamble, the Convention explicitly acknowledges that "extensive
discrimination against women continues to exist", and emphasizes that such
discrimination "violates the principles of equality of rights and respect for
human dignity". As defined in article 1, discrimination is understood as "any
distinction, exclusion or restriction made o.1 the basis of sex...in the
political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field". The
Convention gives positive affirmation to the principle of equality by
requiring States parties to take "all appropriate measures, including
legislation, to ensure the full development and advancement of women, for the
purpose of guaranteeing them the exercise and enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms on a basis of equality with men"(article 3).The agenda
for equality is specified in fourteen subsequent articles. In its approach,
the Convention covers three dimensions of the situation of women. Civil rights
and the legal status of women are dealt with in great detail. In addition, and
unlike other human rights treaties, the Convention is also concerned with the
dimension of human reproduction as well as with the impact of cultural factors
on gender relations.The legal status of women receives the broadest attention.
Concern over the basic rights of political participation has not diminished
since the adoption of the Convention on the Political Rights of Women in 1952.
Its provisions, therefore, are restated in article 7 of the present document,
whereby women are guaranteed the rights to vote, to hold public office and to
exercise public functions. This includes equal rights for women to represent
their countries at the international level (article 8). The Convention on the
Nationality of Married Women - adopted in 1957 - is integrated under article 9
providing for the statehood of women, irrespective of their marital status.
The Convention, thereby, draws attention to the fact that often women's legal
status has been linked to marriage, making them dependent on their husband's
nationality rather than individuals in their own right. Articles 10, 11 and
13, respectively, affirm women's rights to non-discrimination in education,
employment and economic and social activities. These demands are given special
emphasis with regard to the situation of rural women, whose particular
struggles and vital economic contributions, as noted in article 14, warrant
more attention in policy planning. Article 15 asserts the full equality of
women in civil and business matters, demanding that all instruments directed
at restricting women's legal capacity ''shall be deemed null and void".
Finally, in article 16, the Convention returns to the issue of marriage and
family relations, asserting the equal rights and obligations of women and men
with regard to choice of spouse, parenthood, personal rights and command over
property.Aside from civil rights issues, the Convention also devotes major
attention to a most vital concern of women, namely their reproductive rights.
The preamble sets the tone by stating that "the role of women in procreation
should not be a basis for discrimination". The link between discrimination and
women's reproductive role is a matter of recurrent concern in the Convention.
For example, it advocates, in article 5, ''a proper understanding of maternity
as a social function", demanding fully shared responsibility for child-rearing
by both sexes. Accordingly, provisions for maternity protection and child-care
are proclaimed as essential rights and are incorporated into all areas of the
Convention, whether dealing with employment, family law, health core or
education. Society's obligation extends to offering social services,
especially child-care facilities, that allow individuals to combine family
responsibilities with work and participation in public life. Special measures
for maternity protection are recommended and "shall not be considered
discriminatory". (article 4). "The Convention also affirms women's right to
reproductive choice. Notably, it is the only human rights treaty to mention
family planning. States parties are obliged to include advice on family
planning in the education process (article l O.h) and to develop family codes
that guarantee women's rights "to decide freely and responsibly on the number
and spacing of their children and to hove access to the information, education
and means to enable them to exercise these rights" (article 16.e).The third
general thrust of the Convention aims at enlarging our understanding of the
concept of human rights, as it gives formal recognition to the influence of
culture and tradition on restricting women's enjoyment of their fundamental
rights. These forces take shape in stereotypes, customs and norms which give
rise to the multitude of legal, political and economic constraints on the
advancement of women. Noting this interrelationship, the preamble of the
Convention stresses "that a change in the traditional role of men as well as
the role of women in society and in the family is needed to achieve full
equality of men and women". States parties are therefore obliged to work
towards the modification of social and cultural patterns of individual conduct
in order to eliminate "prejudices and customary and all other practices which
are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the
sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women" (article 5). And Article
1O.c. mandates the revision of textbooks, school programmes and teaching
methods with a view to eliminating stereotyped concepts in the field of
education. Finally, cultural patterns which define the public realm as a man's
world and the domestic sphere as women's domain are strongly targeted in all
of the Convention's provisions that affirm the equal responsibilities of both
sexes in family life and their equal rights with regard to education and
employment. Altogether, the Convention provides a comprehensive framework for
challenging the various forces that have created and sustained discrimination
based upon sex.The implementation of the Convention is monitored by the
Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). The
Committee's mandate and the administration of the treaty are defined in the
Articles 17 to 30 of the Convention. The Committee is composed of 23 experts
nominated by their Governments and elected by the States parties as
individuals "of high moral standing and competence in the field covered by the
Convention".At least every four years, the States parties are expected to
submit a national report to the Committee, indicating the measures they have
adopted to give effect to the provisions of the Convention. During its annual
session, the Committee members discuss these reports with the Government
representatives and explore with them areas for further action by the specific
country. The Committee also makes general recommendations to the States
parties on matters concerning the elimination of discrimination against
women.The full text of the Convention is set out herein:

## Part I

## Article 1

For the purposes of the present Convention, the term "discrimination against
women" shall mean any distinction, exclusion or restriction made on the basis
of sex which has the effect or purpose of impairing or nullifying the
recognition, enjoyment or exercise by women, irrespective of their marital
status, on a basis of equality of men and women, of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or
any other field

## Article 2

States Parties condemn discrimination against women in all its forms, agree to
pursue by all appropriate means and without delay a policy of eliminating
discrimination against women and, to this end, undertake:(a)To embody the
principle of the equality of men and women in their national constitutions or
other appropriate legislation if not yet incorporated therein and to ensure,
through law and other appropriate means, the practical realization of this
principle;(b)To adopt appropriate legislative and other measures, including
sanctions where appropriate, prohibiting all discrimination against
women;(c)To establish legal protection of the rights of women on an equal
basis with men and to ensure through competent national tribunals and other
public institutions the effective protection of women against any act of
discrimination;(d)To refrain from engaging in any act or practice of
discrimination against women and to ensure that public authorities and
institutions shall act in conformity with this obligation;(e)To take all
appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women by any person,
organization or enterprise;(f)To take all appropriate measures, including
legislation, to modify or abolish existing laws, regulations, customs and
practices which constitute discrimination against women;(g)To repeal all
national penal provisions which constitute discrimination against women.

## Article 3

States Parties shall take in all fields, in particular in the political,
social, economic and cultural fields, all appropriate measures, including
legislation, to en sure the full development and advancement of women , for
the purpose of guaranteeing them the exercise and enjoyment of human rights
and fundamental freedoms on a basis of equality with men

## Article 4

1.Adoption by States Parties of temporary special measures aimed at
accelerating de facto equality between men and women shall not be considered
discrimination as defined in the present Convention, but shall in no way
entail as a consequence the maintenance of unequal or separate standards;
these measures shall be discontinued when the objectives of equality of
opportunity and treatment have been achieved.2.Adoption by States Parties of
special measures, including those measures contained in the present
Convention, aimed at protecting maternity shall not be considered
discriminatory.

## Article 5

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures:(a)To modify the social and
cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the
elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are
based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes
or on stereotyped roles for men and women;(b)To ensure that family education
includes a proper understanding of maternity as a social function and the
recognition of the common responsibility of men and women in the upbringing
and development of their children, it being understood that the interest of
the children is the primordial consideration in all cases.

## Article 6

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures, including legislation, to
suppress all forms of traffic in women and exploitation of prostitution of
women

## Part II

## Article 7

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination
against women in the political and public life of the country and, in
particular, shall ensure to women, on equal terms with men, the right:(a)To
vote in all elections and public referenda and to be eligible for election to
all publicly elected bodies;(b)To participate in the formulation of government
policy and the implementation thereof and to hold public office and perform
all public functions at all levels of government;(c)To participate in non-
governmental organizations and associations concerned with the public and
political life of the country.

## Article 8

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure to women, on
equal terms with men and without any discrimination, the opportunity to
represent their Governments at the international level and to participate in
the work of international organizations

## Article 9

1.States Parties shall grant women equal rights with men to acquire, change or
retain their nationality. They shall ensure in particular that neither
marriage to an alien nor change of nationality by the husband during marriage
shall automatically change the nationality of the wife, render her stateless
or force upon her the nationality of the husband. 2. States Parties shall
grant women equal rights with men with respect to the nationality of their
children.

## Part III

## Article 10

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination
against women in order to ensure to them equal rights with men in the field of
education and in particular to ensure, on a basis of equality of men and
women:(a)The same conditions for career and vocational guidance, for access to
studies and for the achievement of diplomas in educational establishments of
all categories in rural as well as in urban areas; this equality shall be
ensured in pre-school, general, technical, professional and higher technical
education, as well as in all types of vocational training;(b)Access to the
same curricula, the same examinations, teaching staff with qualifications of
the same standard and school premises and equipment of the same quality;(c)The
elimination of any stereotyped concept of the roles of men and women at all
levels and in all forms of education by encouraging coeducation and other
types of education which will help to achieve this aim and, in particular, by
the revision of textbooks and school programmes and the adaptation of teaching
methods;(d)The same opportunities to benefit from scholarships and other study
grants;(e)The same opportunities for access to programmes of continuing
education, including adult and functional literacy programmes, particulary
those aimed at reducing, at the earliest possible time, any gap in education
existing between men and women;(f)The reduction of female student drop-out
rates and the organization of programmes for girls and women who have left
school prematurely;(g)The same Opportunities to participate actively in sports
and physical education;(h)Access to specific educational information to help
to ensure the health and well-being of families, including information and
advice on family planning.

## Article 11

1.States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate
discrimination against women in the field of employment in order to ensure, on
a basis of equality of men and women, the same rights, in particular:(a)The
right to work as an inalienable right of all human beings;(b)The right to the
same employment opportunities, including the application of the same criteria
for selection in matters of employment;(c)The right to free choice of
profession and employment, the right to promotion, job security and all
benefits and conditions of service and the right to receive vocational
training and retraining, including apprenticeships, advanced vocational
training and recurrent training;(d)The right to equal remuneration, including
benefits, and to equal treatment in respect of work of equal value, as well as
equality of treatment in the evaluation of the quality of work;(e)The right to
social security, particularly in cases of retirement, unemployment, sickness,
invalidity and old age and other incapacity to work, as well as the right to
paid leave;(f)The right to protection of health and to safety in working
conditions, including the safeguarding of the function of reproduction.2.In
order to prevent discrimination against women on the grounds of marriage or
maternity and to ensure their effective right to work, States Parties shall
take appropriate measures:(a)To prohibit, subject to the imposition of
sanctions, dismissal on the grounds of pregnancy or of maternity leave and
discrimination in dismissals on the basis of marital status;(b)To introduce
maternity leave with pay or with comparable social benefits without loss of
former employment, seniority or social allowances;(c)To encourage the
provision of the necessary supporting social services to enable parents to
combine family obligations with work responsibilities and participation in
public life, in particular through promoting the establishment and development
of a network of child-care facilities;(d)To provide special protection to
women during pregnancy in types of work proved to be harmful to
them.3.Protective legislation relating to matters covered in this article
shall be reviewed periodically in the light of scientific and technological
knowledge and shall be revised, repealed or extended as necessary.

## Article 12

1.States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate
discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure,
on a basis of equality of men and women, access to health care services,
including those related to family planning.2.Notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraph I of this article, States Parties shall ensure to women appropriate
services in connection with pregnancy, confinement and the post-natal period,
granting free services where necessary, as well as adequate nutrition during
pregnancy and lactation.

## Article 13

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination
against women in other areas of economic and social life in order to ensure,
on a basis of equality of men and women, the same rights, in particular:(a)The
right to family benefits;(b)The right to bank loans, mortgages and other forms
of financial credit;(c)The right to participate in recreational activities,
sports and all aspects of cultural life.

## Article 14

1.States Parties shall take into account the particular problems faced by
rural women and the significant roles which rural women play in the economic
survival of their families, including their work in the non-monetized sectors
of the economy, and shall take all appropriate measures to ensure the
application of the provisions of the present Convention to women in rural
areas.2.States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate
discrimination against women in rural areas in order to ensure, on a basis of
equality of men and women, that they participate in and benefit from rural
development and, in particular, shall ensure to such women the right:(a)To
participate in the elaboration and implementation of development planning at
all levels;(b)To have access to adequate health care facilities, including
information, counselling and services in family planning;(c)To benefit
directly from social security programmes;(d)To obtain all types of training
and education, formal and non-formal, including that relating to functional
literacy, as well as, inter alia, the benefit of all community and extension
services, in order to increase their technical proficiency;(e)To organize
self-help groups and co-operatives in order to obtain equal access to economic
opportunities through employment or self employment;(f)To participate in all
community activities;(g)To have access to agricultural credit and loans,
marketing facilities, appropriate technology and equal treatment in land and
agrarian reform as well as in land resettlement schemes;(h)To enjoy adequate
living conditions, particularly in relation to housing, sanitation,
electricity and water supply, transport and communications.

## Part IV

## Article 15

### 1\. States Parties shall accord to women equality with men before the law

2.States Parties shall accord to women, in civil matters, a legal capacity
identical to that of men and the same opportunities to exercise that capacity.
In particular, they shall give women equal rights to conclude contracts and to
administer property and shall treat them equally in all stages of procedure in
courts and tribunals.3.States Parties agree that all contracts and all other
private instruments of any kind with a legal effect which is directed at
restricting the legal capacity of women shall be deemed null and void.4.States
Parties shall accord to men and women the same rights with regard to the law
relating to the movement of persons and the freedom to choose their residence
and domicile.

## Article 16

1.States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate
discrimination against women in all matters relating to marriage and family
relations and in particular shall ensure, on a basis of equality of men and
women:(a)The same right to enter into marriage;(b)The same right freely to
choose a spouse and to enter into marriage only with their free and full
consent;(c)The same rights and responsibilities during marriage and at its
dissolution;(d)The same rights and responsibilities as parents, irrespective
of their marital status, in matters relating to their children; in all cases
the interests of the children shall be paramount;(e)The same rights to decide
freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children and to have
access to the information, education and means to enable them to exercise
these rights;(f)The same rights and responsibilities with regard to
guardianship, wardship, trusteeship and adoption of children, or similar
institutions where these concepts exist in national legislation; in all cases
the interests of the children shall be paramount;(g)The same personal rights
as husband and wife, including the right to choose a family name, a profession
and an occupation;(h)The same rights for both spouses in respect of the
ownership, acquisition, management, administration, enjoyment and disposition
of property, whether free of charge or for a valuable consideration.2.The
betrothal and the marriage of a child shall have no legal effect, and all
necessary action, including legislation, shall be taken to specify a minimum
age for marriage and to make the registration of marriages in an official
registry compulsory.

## Part V

## Article 17

1.For the purpose of considering the progress made in the implementation of
the present Convention, there shall be established a Committee on the
Elimination of Discrimination against Women(hereinafter referred to as the
Committee) consisting, at the time of entry into force of the Convention, of
eighteen and, after ratification of or accession to the Convention by the
thirty-fifth State Party, of twenty-three experts of high moral standing and
competence in the field covered by the Convention.The experts shall be elected
by States Parties from among their nationals and shall serve in their personal
capacity, consideration being given to equitable geographical distribution and
to the representation of the different forms of civilization as well as the
principal legal systems.2.The members of the Committee shall be elected by
secret ballot from a list of persons nominated by States Parties. Each State
Party may nominate one person from among its own nationals.3.The initial
election shall be held six months after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention. At least three months before the date of each election
the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a letter to the
States Parties inviting them to submit their nominations within two months.
The Secretary-General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order of all
persons thus nominated, indicating the States Parties which have nominated
them, and shall submit it to the States Parties.4.Elections of the members of
the Committee shall be held at a meeting of States Parties convened by the
Secretary-General at United Nations Headquarters. At that meeting, for which
two thirds of the States Parties shall constitute a quorum, the persons
elected to the Committee shall be those nominees who obtain the largest number
of votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the representatives of
States Parties present and voting.5.The members of the Committee shall be
elected for a term of four years. However, the terms of nine of the members
elected at the first election shall expire at the end of two years;
immediately after the first election the names of these nine members shall be
chosen by lot by the Chairman of the Committee.6.The election of the five
additional members of the Committee shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this article, following the thirty-
fifth ratification or accession.The terms of two of the additional members
elected on this occasion shall expire at the end of two years, the names of
these two members having been chosen by lot by the Chairman of the
Committee.7.For the filling of casual vacancies, the State Party whose expert
has ceased to function as a member of the Committee shall appoint another
expert from among its nationals, subject to the approval of the
Committee.8.The members of the Committee shall, with the approval of the
General Assembly, receive emoluments from United Nations resources on such
terms and conditions as the Assembly may decide, having regard to the
importance of the Committee's responsibilities.9.The Secretary-General of the
United Nations shall provide the necessary staff and facilities for the
effective performance of the functions of the Committee under the present
Convention.

## Article 18

1.States Parties undertake to submit to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, for consideration by the Committee, a report on the legislative,
judicial, administrative or other measures which they have adopted to give
effect to the provisions of the present Convention and on the progress made in
this respect:(a)Within one year after the entry into force for the State
concerned;(b)Thereafter at least every four years and further whenever the
Committee so requests.2.Reports may indicate factors and difficulties
affecting the degree of fulfilment of obligations under the present
Convention.

## Article 19

1.The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 2. The Committee shall
elect its officers for a term of two years.

## Article 20

1.The Committee shall normally meet for a period of not more than two weeks
annually in order to consider the reports submitted in accordance with article
18 of the present Convention.2.The meetings of the Committee shall normally be
held at United Nations Headquarters or at any other convenient place as
determined by the Committee.

## Article 21

1.The Committee shall, through the Economic and Social Council, report
annually to the General Assembly of the United Nations on its activities and
may make suggestions and general recommendations based on the examination of
reports and information received from the States Parties. Such suggestions and
general recommendations shall be included in the report of the Committee
together with comments, if any, from States Parties.2.The Secretary-General of
the United Nations shall transmit the reports of the Committee to the
Commission on the Status of Women for its information.

## Article 22

The specialized agencies shall be entitled to be represented at the
consideration of the implementation of such provisions of the present
Convention as fall within the scope of their activities. The Committee may
invite the specialized agencies to submit reports on the implementation of the
Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities

## Part VI

## Article 23

Nothing in the present Convention shall affect any provisions that are more
conducive to the achievement of equality between men and women which may be
contained:(a)In the legislation of a State Party; or(b)In any other
international convention, treaty or agreement in force for that State.

## Article 24

States Parties undertake to adopt all necessary measures at the national level
aimed at achieving the full realization of the rights recognized in the
present Convention

## Article 25

### 1\.

The present Convention shall be open for signature by all States2.The
Secretary-General of the United Nations is designated as the depositary of the
present Convention.3.The present Convention is subject to ratification.
Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of
the United Nations.4.The present Convention shall be open to accession by all
States. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of
accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

## Article 26

1.A request for the revision of the present Convention may be made at any time
by any State Party by means of a notification in writing addressed to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.2.The General Assembly of the United
Nations shall decide upon the steps, if any, to be taken in respect of such a
request.

## Article 27

1.The present Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the
date of deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the
twentieth instrument of ratification or accession.2.For each State ratifying
the present Convention or acceding to it after the deposit of the twentieth
instrument of ratification or accession, the Convention shall enter into force
on the thirtieth day after the date of the deposit of its own instrument of
ratification or accession.

## Article 28

1.The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall receive and circulate to
all States the text of reservations made by States at the time of ratification
or accession.2.A reservation incompatible with the object and purpose of the
present Convention shall not be permitted.3.Reservations may be withdrawn at
any time by notification to this effect addressed to the Secretary- General of
the United Nations, who shall then inform all States thereof. Such
notification shall take effect on the date on which it is received.

## Article 29

1.Any dispute between two or more States Parties concerning the interpretation
or application of the present Convention which is not settled by negotiation
shall, at the request of one of them, be submitted to arbitration. If within
six months from the date of the request for arbitration the parties are unable
to agree on the organization of the arbitration, any one of those parties may
refer the dispute to the International Court of Justice by request in
conformity with the Statute of the Court.2.Each State Party may at the time of
signature or ratification of the present Convention or accession thereto
declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph I of this article.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by that paragraph with respect to
any State Party which has made such a reservation.3.Any State Party which has
made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article may at any
time withdraw that reservation by notification to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations.

## Article 30

The present Convention, the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts of which are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.

