## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Delegation of Powers Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Delegation of Powers Rules

## Act 708 of 1960

  * Published on 26 November 1960 
  * Commenced on 26 November 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 November 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Delegation of Powers RulesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 4850,
Revenue, dated 26th November 1960 - SRO No. A-708 of 1960Original rules
published in Part V, page 680 of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 21st
December 1960.G. O. Ms. No. 4850, Revenue, dated 26th November 1960 - SRO No.
A-708 of 1960. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 116 read with
sub-section (2) and section 13 and sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Tamil
Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of
1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1.

These rules may be called the Delegation of Powers Rules.

### 2.

Delegation of the Commissioner's powers and duties to a [Joint Commissioner or
a Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 200, C. T. & R. E., dated
the 30 the May 1996.] under section 13(2) or an Assistant Commissioner under
section 14(3) shall be made in writing.

### 3.

The Commissioner shall have power to vary or cancel an order of delegation and
such an order shall be made in writing.

### 4.

An order delegating the powers and duties of the Commissioner to a [Joint or a
Deputy Commissioner] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E., dated the 16th
July 1997.] or an Assistant Commissioner or modifying or cancelling the
delegation, shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and in the
District Gazette in the language or languages of the district or districts
concerned and by affixture on the notice boards of the offices of the
Commissioner, Joint or Deputy Commissioners and the Assistant Commissioners.

### 5.

The Commissioner, while delegating any of his powers shall expressly reserve
to himself the right of exercising the powers vested in him under sections 21
and 22 over the orders passed by a Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or
an Assistant Commissioner under the delegated powers.

