## Union of India - Act

## Diplomatic Privileges Act, 1964

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Diplomatic Privileges Act, 1964

## Rule DIPLOMATIC-PRIVILEGES-ACT-1964 of 1964

  * Published on 31 July 1964 
  * Commenced on 31 July 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Diplomatic Privileges Act, 1964

### 1964.

, C 81

### 1506.

[31st July, 1964]An Act to amend the law of diplomatic privileges and
immunities by giving effect to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations;
and for purposes connected therewith.

### 1. Replacement of existing law.-

The following provisions of this Act shall, with respect to the matters dealt
with therein, have effect in substitution for any previous enactment or rule
of law.

### 2. Application of Vienna Convention.-

(1)Subject to section 3 of this Act, the Articles set out in Schedule 1 to
this Act (being Articles of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
signed in 1961) shall have the force of law in the United Kingdom and shall
for that purpose be construed in accordance with the following provisions of
this section.(2)In those Articles,"agents of the receiving State" shall be
construed as including any constable and any person exercising a power of
entry to any premises under any enactment (including any enactment of the
Parliament of Northern Ireland);"national of the receiving State" shall be
construed as meaning citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies;"Ministry for
Foreign Affairs or such other ministry as may be agreed" shall be construed as
meaning the department of the Secretary of State concerned;and, in the
application of those Articles to Scotland, any reference to attachment or
execution shall be construed as a reference to the execution of diligence, and
any reference to the execution of a judgment as a reference to the enforcement
of a decree by diligence.(3)For the purposes of Article 32 a waiver by the
head of the mission of any State or any person for the time being performing
his functions shall be deemed to be a waiver by that State.(4)The exemption
granted by Article 33 with respect to any services shall be deemed to except
those services from any class of employment which is insurable employment, or
in respect of which contributions are required to be paid, under the National
Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Acts, 1946 to 1964, the National Insurance
Acts, 1946 to 1964, any enactment for the time being in force amending any of
those Acts, or any corresponding enactment of the Parliament of Northern
Ireland, but not so as to render any person liable to any contribution which
he would not be required to pay if those services were not so
excepted.(5)Articles 35, 36 and 40 shall be construed as granting any
privilege or immunity which they require to be granted.(6)The references in
Articles 37 and 38 to the extent to which any privileges and immunities are
admitted by the receiving State and to additional privileges and immunities
that may be granted by the receiving State shall be construed as referring
respectively to the extent to which any privileges and immunities may be
specified by Her Majesty by Order in Council and to any additional privileges
and immunities that may be so specified.

### 3. Restriction of privileges and immunities.-

(1)If it appears to Her Majesty that the privileges and immunities accorded to
a mission of Her Majesty in the territory of any State, or to persons
connected with that mission, are less than those conferred by this Act on the
mission of that State or on persons connected with that mission, Her Majesty
may by an Order in Council, withdraw such of the privileges and immunities so
conferred from the mission of that State or from such persons connected with
it as appears to Her Majesty to be proper.(2)An order in Council under this
section shall be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph (a) of the proviso
to section 4 of the British Nationality Act, 1948 (citizenship of children of
certain persons possessing diplomatic immunity).

### 4. Evidence.-

If in any proceedings any question arises whether or not any person is
entitled to any privilege or immunity under this Act, a certificate issued by
or under the authority of the Secretary of State stating any fact relating to
that question shall be conclusive evidence of that fact.

### 5. Consequential amendments.-

(1)In section 14(1) of the Aliens Restriction (Amend ment) Act, 1919 (saving
for diplomatic persons), for the words "head of a foreign diplomatic mission
or any member of his official staff or household", there shall be substituted
the words "member of a mission (within the meaning of the Diplomatic
Privileges Act, 1964) or any person who is a member of the family and forms
part of the household of such a member."(2)In para, (a) of the proviso to
section 4 of the British Nationality Act, 1948, for the words from "possess
such immunity" to "His Majesty", there shall be substituted the words "is a
person on whom any immunity from jurisdiction is conferred by or under the
Diplomatic Privileges Act, 1964, or on whom such immunity from jurisdiction as
is conferred by that Act on a diplomatic agent is conferred by or under any
other Act".

### 6. Order In Council.-

(1)No recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty in Council to make an Order
under section 2 of this Act unless a draft thereof has been laid before
Parliament and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament; and any
statutory instrument containing an Order under section 3 of this Act shall be
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.(2)Any power to make an Order conferred by the forgoing provisions
of this Act includes power to vary or revoke an Order by a subsequent order.

### 7. Saving for certain bilateral arrangements.-

(1)Where any special agreement or arrangement between the Government of any
State and the Government of the United Kingdom in force at the commencement of
this Act provides for extending(a)such immunity from jurisdiction and from
arrest or detention, and such inviolability of residence, as are conferred by
this Act on a diplomatic agent; or(b)such exemption from customs duties, taxes
and related charges as is conferred by this Act in respect of articles for the
personal use of a diplomatic agent;to any class of person, or to articles for
the personal use of any class of person, connected with the mission of that
State, that immunity and inviolability or exemption shall so extend, so long
as that agreement or arrangement continues in force.(2)The Secretary of State
shall publish in the London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes a notice
specifying the States with which and the classes of person with respect to
which such an agreement or arrangement as is mentioned in sub-section (1) of
this section is in force and whether its effect is as mentioned in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of that sub-section, and shall, whenever necessary, amend
the notice by a further such notice; and the notice shall be conclusive
evidence of the agreement or arrangement and the classes of person with
respect to which it is in force.

### 8. Short title, interpretation, commencement, repeal and saving.-

(1)This Act may be cited as the Diplomatic Privileges Act, 1964.(2)This Act
shall be construed as if Southern Rhodesia were a State.(3)This Act shall come
into force on such day as Her Majesty may by Order in Council appoint.(4)The
enactments mentioned in Schedule 2 to this Act are hereby repealed to the
extent specified in column 3 of that Schedule.(5)Any Order in Council under
the Diplomatic Immunities Restriction Act, 1955, which is in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall, so far as it could have been made
under section 3 of this Act, have effect as if so made.

## Schedule 1

[Section 2]ARTICLES OF VIENNA CONVENTION HAVING THE FORCE OF LAW IN TILE
UNITED KINGDOMArticle IFor the purpose of the present Convention, the
following expressions shall have the meanings hereunder assigned to them
:(a)the "head of the mission" is the person charged by the sending State with
the duty of acting in that capacity;(b)the "members of the mission" are the
head of the mission and the members of the staff of the mission;(c)the
"members of the staff of the mission" are the members of the diplomatic staff
of the administrative and technical staff and of the service staff of the
mission;(d)the "members of the diplomatic staff' are the members of the staff
of the mission having diplomatic rank;(e)a "diplomatic agent" is the head of
the mission or a member of the diplomatic staff of the mission;(f)the "members
of the administrative and technical staff" are the members of the staff of the
mission employed in the administrative and technical service of the
mission;(g)the "members of the service staff" are the members of the staff of
the mission in the domestic service of the mission:(h)a "private servant" is a
person who is in the domestic service of a member of the mission and who is
not an employee of the sending State;(i)the "premises of the mission" are the
buildings or parts of buildings and the land ancillary thereto, irrespective
of ownership, used for the purposes of the mission including the residence of
the head of the mission.Article 22

### 1\. The premises of the mission shall be inviolable. The agents of the
receiving State may not enter them, except with the consent of the head of the
mission.

### 2\. The receiving State is under a special duty to take all appropriate
steps to protect the premises of the mission against any intrusion or damage
and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the mission or impairment of
its dignity.

### 3\. The premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property
thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune from search,
requisition, attachment or execution.

Article 23

### 1\. The sending State and the head of the mission shall be exempt from all
national, regional or municipal dues and taxes in respect of the premises of
the mission, whether owned or leased, other than such as represent payment for
specific services rendered.

### 2\. The exemption from taxation referred to in this Article shall not
apply to such dues and taxes payable under the law of the receiving State by
person contracting with the sending State or the head of the mission.

Article 24The archives and documents of the mission shall be inviolable of any
time and wherever they may be.Article 27

### 1\. The receiving State shall permit and protect free communication on the
part of the mission for all official purposes. In communicating with the
Government and other missions and consulates of the sending State, wherever
situated, the mission may employ all appropriate means, including diplomatic
couriers and messages in code or cipher. However, the mission may install and
use a wireless transmitter only with the consent of the receiving State.

### 2\. The official correspondence of the mission shall be inviolable.
Official correspondence means all correspondence relating to the mission and
its functions.

### 3\. The diplomatic bag shall not be opened or detained.

### 4\. The packages constituting the diplomatic bag must bear visible
external marks of their character and may contain only diplomatic documents or
articles intended for official use.

### 5\. The diplomatic courier, who shall be provided with an official
document indicating his status and the number of packages constituting the
diplomatic bag, shall be protected by the receiving State in the performance
of his functions. He shall enjoy personal inviolability and shall not be
liable to any form of arrest or detention.

### 6\. The sending State or the mission may designate diplomatic couriers ad
hoc. In such cases the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Article shall also
apply, except that the immunities therein mentioned shall cease to apply when
such a courier has delivered to the consignee the diplomatic bag in his
charge.

### 7\. A diplomatic bag may be entrusted to the captain of a commercial
aircraft scheduled to land at an authorised port of entry. He shall be
provided with an official document indicating the number of packages
constituting the bag but he shall not be considered to be a diplomatic
courier. The mission may send one of its members to take possession of the
diplomatic bag directly and freely from the captain of the aircraft.

Article 28The fees and charges levied by the mission in the course of its
official duties shall be exempt from all dues and taxes.Article 29The person
of the diplomatic agent shall be inviolable. He shall not be liable to any
form of arrest or detention. The receiving State shall treat him with due
respect and shall take all appropriate steps to prevent any attack on his
person, freedom or dignity.Article 30

### 1\. The private residence of a diplomatic agent shall enjoy the same
inviolability and protection as the premises of the mission.

### 2\. His papers, correspondence and, except as provided in paragraph 3 of
Article 31, his property, shall likewise enjoy inviolability.

Article 31

### 1\. A diplomatic agent shall enjoy immunity from the criminal jurisdiction
of the receiving State. He shall also enjoy immunity from its civil and
administrative jurisdiction, except in the case of

(a)a real action relating to private immovable property situated in the
territory of the receiving State, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending
State for the purposes of the mission;(b)an action relating to succession in
which the diplomatic agent is involved as executor, administrator, heir or
legatee as a private person and not on behalf of the sending State;(c)an
action relating to any professional or commercial activity exercised by the
diplomatic agent in the receiving State outside his official functions.

### 2\. A diplomatic agent is not obliged to give evidence as a witness.

### 3\. No measures of execution may be taken in respect of a diplomatic agent
except in the cases coming under sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph
I of this Article, and provided that the measures concerned can be taken
without infringing the inviolability of his person or of his residence.

### 4\. The immunity of a diplomatic agent from the jurisdiction of the
receiving State does not exempt him from the jurisdiction of the sending
State.

Article 32

### 1\. The immunity from jurisdiction of diplomatic agents and of persons
enjoying immunity under Article 37 may be waived by the sending State.

### 2\. The waiver must always be express.

### 3\. The initiation of proceedings by a diplomatic agent or by a person
enjoying immunity from jurisdiction under Article 37 shall preclude him from
invoking immunity from jurisdiction in respect of any counterclaim directly
connected with the principal claim.

### 4\. Waiver of immunity from jurisdiction in respect of civil or
administrative proceedings shall not be held to imply waiver of immunity in
respect of the execution of the judgment, for which a separate waiver shall be
necessary.

Article 33

### 1\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of the Article, a diplomatic
agent shall with respect to services rendered for the sending State be exempt
from social security provisions which may be in force in the receiving State.

### 2\. The exemption provided for in paragraph I of this Article shall also
apply to private servants who are in the sole employ of a diplomatic agent, on
condition:

(a)that they are not nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving
State; and(b)that they are covered by the social security provisions which may
be in force in the sending State or a third State.

### 3\. A diplomatic agent who employs persons to whom the exemption provided
for in paragraph 2 of the Article does not apply shall observe the obligations
which the social security provisions of the receiving State impose upon
employees.

### 4\. The exemption provided for in paragraphs I and 2 of this Article shall
not preclude voluntary participation in the social security system of the
receiving State provided that such participation is permitted by that State.

### 5\. The provisions of the Article shall not affect bilateral or
multilateral agreements concerning social security concluded previously and
shall not prevent the conclusion of such agreements in the future.

Article 34A diplomatic agent shall be exempt from all dues and taxes, personal
or real, national, regional or municipal, except(a)indirect taxes of a kind
which are normally incorporated in the price of goods or services;(b)dues and
taxes on private immovable property situated in the territory of the receiving
State, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending State for the purposes of
mission;(c)estate, succession or inheritance duties levied by the receiving
State subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 39;(d)dues and taxes
on private income having its source in the receiving State and capital taxes
on invest ments made in commercial undertakings in the receiving
State;(e)charges levied for specific services rendered;(f)registration, court
or record fees, mortgage dues and stamp duty with respect to immovable
property, subject to the provisions of Article 23.Article 35The receiving
State shall exempt diplomatic agents from all personal services, from all
public service of any kind whatsoever, and from military obligations such as
those connected with requisitioning, military contributions and
billetting.Article 36

### 1\. The receiving State shall, in accordance with such law and regulations
as it may adopt, permit entry of and grant exemption from all customs duties,
taxes, and related charges other than charges for storage, cartage and similar
services, on :

(a)articles for the official use of the mission;(b)articles for the personal
use of a diplomatic agent or members of his family forming part of his
household, including articles intended for his establishment.

### 2\. The personal baggage of a diplomatic agent shall be exempt from
inspection, unless there are serious grounds for presuming that it contains
articles not covered by the exemptions mentioned in paragraph 1 of this
Article, or articles the import or export of which is prohibited by the law or
controlled by the quarantine regulations of the receiving State. Such
inspection shall be concluded only in the presence of the diplomatic agent or
of his authorised representative.

Article 37

### 1\. The members of the family of a diplomatic agent forming part of his
household shall, if they are not nationals of the receiving State, enjoy the
privileges and immunities specified in Articles 29 to 36.

### 2\. Members of the administrative and technical staff of the mission,
together with members of their families forming part of their respective
households, shall, if they are not nationals of or permanently resident in the
receiving State, enjoy the privileges and immunities specified in Articles 29
to 35, except that the immunity from civil and administrative jurisdiction of
the receiving State specified in paragraph I of Art. 31 shall not extend to
acts performed outside the course of their duties. They shall also enjoy the
privileges specified in Article 36, paragraph 1, in respect of articles
imported at the time of first installation.

### 3\. Members of the service staff of the mission who are not nationals of
or permanently resident in the receiving State shall enjoy immunity in respect
of acts performed in the course of their duties, exemption from dues and taxes
on the emoluments they receive by reason of their employment and the exemption
contained in Article 33.

### 4\. Private servants of members of the mission shall, if they are not
nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving State, be exempt from
dues and taxes on the emoluments they receive by reason of their employment.
In other respects, they may enjoy privileges and immunities only to the extent
admitted by the receiving State. However, the receiving State must exercise
its jurisdiction over those persons in such a manner as not to interfere
unduly with the performance of the functions of the mission.

Article 38

### 1\. Except in so far as additional privileges and immunities may be
granted by the receiving State, a diplomatic agent who is a national of or
permanently resident in that State shall enjoy only immunity from
jurisdiction, and inviolability in respect of official acts performed in the
exercise of his functions.

### 2\. Other members of the staff of the mission and private servants who are
nationals of or permanently resident in the receiving State shall enjoy
privileges and immunities only to the extent admitted by the receiving State.
However, the receiving State must exercise its jurisdiction over those persons
in such a manner as not to interfere unduly with the performance of the
functions of the mission.

Article 39

### 1\. Every person entitled to privileges and immunities shall enjoy them
from the moment he enters the territory of the receiving State on proceeding
to take up his post or, if already in its territory, from the moment when his
appointment is notified to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs or such other
ministry as may be agreed.

### 2\. When the functions of a person enjoying privileges and immunities have
come to an end, such privileges and immunities shall normally cease at the
moment when he leaves the country, or on expiry of a reasonable period in
which to do so, but shall subsist until that time, even in case of armed
conflict. However, with respect to acts performed by such a person in the
exercise of his functions as a member of the mission immunity shall continue
to subsist.

### 3\. In case of the death of member of the mission, the members of his
family shall continue to enjoy the privileges and immunities to which they are
entitled until the expiry of a reasonable period in which to leave the
country.

### 4\. In the event of the death of a member of the mission not a national of
or permanently resident in the receiving State or a member of his family
forming part of his household, the receiving State shall permit the withdrawal
of the movable property of the deceased, with the exception of any property
acquired in the country the export of which was prohibited at the time of his
death. Estate, succession and inheritance duties shall not be levied on
movable property the presence of which in the receiving State was due solely
to the presence there of the deceased as a member of the mission or as a
member of the family of a member of the mission.

Article 40

### 1\. If a diplomatic agent passes through or is in the territory of a third
State, which has granted him a passport visa if such visa was necessary, while
proceeding to take up or to return to his post, or when returning to his own
Country, the third State shall accord him inviolability and such other
immunities as may be required to ensure his transit or return. The same shall
apply in the case of any members of his family enjoying privileges or
immunities who are accompanying the diplomatic agent, or travelling separately
to join him or to return to their country.

### 2\. In circumstances similar to those specified in paragraph I of this
Article, third States shall not hinder the passage of members of the
administrative and technical or service staff of a mission, and of members of
their families, through their territories.

### 3\. Third States shall accord to official correspondence and other
official communications in transit, including messages in code or cipher, the
same freedom and protection as is accorded by the receiving State. They shall
accord to diplomatic couriers, who have been granted a passport visa if such
visa was necessary, and diplomatic bags in transit the same inviolability and
protection as the receiving State is bound to accord.

### 4\. The obligations of third States under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this
Article shall also apply to the persons mentioned respectively in those
paragraphs, and to official communications and diplomatic bags, whose presence
in the territory of the third State is due to force majeure.

