## Union of India - Act

## Dispute Resolution Scheme Rules, 2008

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Dispute Resolution Scheme Rules, 2008

## Rule DISPUTE-RESOLUTION-SCHEME-RULES-2008 of 2008

  * Published on 4 June 2008 
  * Commenced on 4 June 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 June 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Dispute Resolution Scheme Rules, 2008Published vide Notification Gazette of
India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 4.6.2008.

### 1685.

G.S.R. 427(E), dated 4.6.2008.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section
101 of the Finance Act, 2008 (18 of 2008), the Central Goverment hereby makes
the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.-

(1)These rules may be called the Dispute Resolution Scheme Rules, 2008.(2)They
shall come into force on the 1st day of July, 2008.

### 2. Definitions.-

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means
Chapter VI of the Finance Act, 2008;(b)"Scheme" means the Dispute Resolution
Scheme, 2008, specified in the Act;(c)"section" means a section of the
Act;(d)"Form" means the Forms annexed to these rules.(2)All other words and
expressions used in these rules but not defined in these rules and defined in
the Scheme shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in that
Scheme.

### 3. Form of declaration and the manner of verification thereof.-

(1)The declaration, under section 94, in respect of tax arrears and the amount
payable under the Scheme shall be made in Form 1.(2)The declaration under sub-
rule (1) shall be furnished in duplicate and shall be verified in the manner
laid down in the said Form 1 and shall be signed by the person making such
declaration or by any person authorised by him in this behalf.(3)The
designated authority on receipt of declaration shall issue, a receipt in
acknowledgement thereof.

### 4. Form of certificate.-

The certificate under sub-section (2) of section 96, stating full and final
settlement of tax arrears, shall be issued in Form 2;

### 5. Sum payable under the Scheme.-

Any sum payable under the Scheme shall be paid in cash.FORM 1[See sub-rule (1)
of Rule 3]Form Of Declaration Under Section 94 Of The Finance Act, 2008 In
Respect Of Dispute Resolution Scheme, 2008To,The Designated
Authority,Sir/Madam,I hereby make a declaration under Section 94 of the
Finance Act, 2008.

### 1\. Name of the declarant ................... (inblock letters)

### 2\. Address: .........Telephone No............

### 3\. STD Code ..............................

### 4\. Premises Code ...............................

### 5\. Details of the case and tax arrears proposed for settlement under the
Scheme :

TABLE

(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Show cause/demand notice No. and date of issue** | Nos. and date of order in original order/in appeals Court, if any passed in the matter, if any** | Amount of tax arrears involved (in Rs.) (See instruction 4) | Amount claimed as payable for the case under section 94 (in Rs.) | Details of writ petition/appeal reference filed before a High Court or Supreme Court. | Remarks  
|  | Service tax Education Cess (Primary) Secondary and higher education cess+ Interest+ Penalty |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
The Scheme does not apply to any order or notice issued under Section 73-A of
the Finance Act,1994VERIFICATIONI ................(name in block letters)
son/daughter of Shri ............. Solemnly declare that to the best of my
knowledge and belief-(a)the information given in this declaration and
statements and annexure accompanying it is correct and complete and amount of
tax arrears and other particulars shown therein are truly stated :(b)I am not
disqualified under provisions of Section 93 of Finance Act, 2008 from making a
declaration.I further declare that I am making this declaration in may
capacity as ........................(designation) (Please specify if you are
making a declaration on behalf of declaring) and that I am competent to make
this declaration and verify it.Name and Signature of Declarant :Place :Date
:Instructions :-

### 1\. This Form should be submitted to the Central Excise Officer notified
as designated authority under Section 92 (b) of the Finance Act, 2008.

### 2\. Wherever the entry is not relevant, the column shall be filled in as
"Not Applicable".

### 3\. In column (2), the details of order passed in original adjudication or
order passed in appeal by Commissioner (Appeals) or by Customs, Excise and
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal or a High Court should be clearly indicated and
relevant documentary evidence shall be enclosed.

### 4\. In column (3), the tax arrears may be declared in terms of the meaning
given to it in Section 94 of the Finance Act, 2008.

### 5\. Any other information relevant to the case may be briefly indicated
under Column 5.

FORM 2[See Rule 4]Certificate For Full And Final Settlement Of Tax Arrears
Under Section 96(2) Of The Finance Act, 2008 In Respect Of Dispute Resolution
Scheme, 2008Whereas ................ (hereinafter referred to as declarant)
has (Nameand address of the declarant) made a declaration under Section 94 of
the Finance Act, 2008;And whereas the designated authority by order dated
.................. determined the amount of ...............rupees payable by
the declarant in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme and granted a
certificate setting forth therein the particulars of the tax arrears and the
sum payable after such determination towards full and final settlement of tax
arrears as per details given below;And whereas the declarant has paid
..................rupees being the sum determined by the designated authority
;And whereas the declarant had declared in the declaration made under Section
94 that no writ petition or appeal or reference before any High Court or the
Supreme Court against any order in respect of the tax arrears has been filed
by such declarant (strike off if not applicable);orAnd whereas the declarant
had-filed a writ petition/appeal/reference (mention the name of the High
Court) High Court or the Supreme Court against any order in respect of the tax
arrears;And whereas the declarant has withdrawn the said writ petition/
petition/ appeal/ reference and furnished proof of such withdrawal in
accordance with the provisions contained in the provision to sub-section (4)
of Section 96 (Strike off if not applicable).Now, therefore, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 96 of the Finance Act,
2008, the designated authority hereby issues this certificate to the said
declarant :-(a)certifying the receipt of payment from the declarant towards
full and final settlement of tax arrears determined in the order dated
.....................on the declaration made by the aforesaid
declarant;(b)granting immunity, subject to the provisions of the Scheme, from
institution of any proceeding for imposition of penalty under the Finance Act,
1994, in the respect of matters covered in the aforesaid declaration made by
the delarant.Date...........Place :...........Name, Signature and Seal of
Designated AuthorityTo,(1)The Declarant(2)Assessing/ Adjudicating
Officer(3)Commissioner of Income Tax/Customs/Central Excise(4)Concerned
Appellate Authorities /bodies

