## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## District Committee Rules, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# District Committee Rules, 2019

## Rule DISTRICT-COMMITTEE-RULES-2019 of 2019

  * Published on 9 September 2019 
  * Commenced on 9 September 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 September 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

District Committee Rules, 2019Published vide Notification G.O. (Ms) No. 124,
Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments (RE4-2), Aavani 23, Vikari,
Thiruvalluvar Aandu-2050., dated 9th September 2019Last Updated 16th January,
2020Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments DepartmentNo. SRO A-29(c)/2019.
- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 116 read
with Section 7-A of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959) the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These Rules may be called the District Committee Rules, 2019.

### 2. Chairman of District Committee.

\- The Government shall nominate one of the members of the District Committee
constituted under section 7-A of the Act as the Chairman of the Committee
within-(a)thirty days from the date of its constitution; or(b)fifteen days
from the date on which the Office of the Chairman becomes vacant.

### 3. Place of meetings.

\- The District Committee shall hold its meetings in the Office of the
Assistant Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Administration Department of the district concerned for the transaction of
official business:Provided that no meeting shall be held on a day declared by
the State Government to be a public holiday.

### 4. Convenor of meeting.

\- The Assistant Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments
Administration Department of the District concerned, shall be the Convenor of
the meeting of the District Committee. He shall convene the meeting of the
District Committee in consultation with the Chairman of the District Committee
and assist in its deliberations. But he shall not be entitled to vote.

### 5. Procedure for holding meeting.

(1)The convenor shall be responsible for the issue of notice of meeting,
preparation of agenda and arrangements for the meeting.(2)Every notice,
calling for meeting of the District Committee shall,-(a)specify the place,
date and time of the meeting:(b)be served upon every member of the District
Committee not less than seven clear days before the day appointed for the
meeting:Provided that in case of urgency, with the consent of majority of the
members, the meeting may convened at a shorter notice.(3)The convenor of the
meeting shall prepare and circulate to the Chairman and other members along
with the notice of the meeting, an agenda for such meeting showing the
business to be transacted, by registered post to their usual place of
residence.(4)There shall be kept an Attendance Register, wherein all the
persons attending the meeting shall sign to record their attendance at the
meeting. The minutes of the proceedings of the meeting of the District
Committee shall be recorded in a book to be kept for the purpose and shall be
signed by the Chairman or the presiding member, as the case may be, and by all
the other members present at the meeting. Any minute of dissent shall also be
recorded, if required by the dissenting member. The minute book and other
records of the proceedings of the District Committee, shall be kept in the
safe custody of the Assistant Commissioner.(5)All papers relating to the
agenda shall be made available to the members for inspection at the time of or
before the meeting.

### 6. Chairman to preside over meeting.

(1)Every meeting of the District Committee shall be presided over by the
Chairman and in his absence, the members present shall choose one from among
themselves to preside over the meeting.(2)The Chairman or the presiding
member, as the case may be, may preserve order and shall decide all points of
order arising at the meeting and the decision of the Chairman or the presiding
member, as the case may be, on any point of order, shall be final.

### 7. The Quorum.

(1)The quorum for a meeting shall be three members personally present:Provided
that in the case of a District Committee having less than five persons, the
quorum shall be two.(2)If, within half-an-hour after the time appointed for
the meeting there is no quorum, the meeting shall stand adjourned, unless all
the members present agree to wait for a longer period.

### 8. Functions of District Committee.

\- The District Committee shall, from the applications received, prepare a
panel of qualified persons not exceeding ten in number for each religious
institution for being appointed as trustees.

### 9. Decision by majority of votes.

\- The issues which come before any meeting shall be decided by a majority of
the members present and when the votes are equally divided, the Chairman or
the presiding member, as the case may be, shall have and exercise a second and
casting vote.

### 10. Communication of proceedings of meeting.

\- The Assistant Commissioner being the Convenor shall forward to the
Commissioner and the Joint or Deputy Commissioner concerned, a copy of the
minutes of the proceedings of every meeting of the District Committee within
seven days from the date of the meeting. He shall bring to the notice of the
Commissioner and the Joint or Deputy Commissioner concerned, irregularity, if
any, in respect of any item of the proceedings of the District Committee and
suggest such action as he may consider necessary.

### 11. Ceasing to hold office.

\- The Chairman of the District Committee or any member thereof shall cease to
hold office, if he absents himself for three consecutive meetings of the
District Committee, without sufficient cause:Provided that when a person who
has ceased to be the Chairman or member by reason of such absence, applies for
restoration within one month from the date of the last three meetings, the
District Committee may, at the next meeting held after the receipt of such
application, restore him to his office of Chairman or member, as the case may
be, but such restoration shall not be more than once during his term of
office.

### 12. Resignation of Chairman or member.

\- The Chairman or any member of the District Committee may resign his office
by giving notice in writing to the Government and his resignation shall become
effective on its acceptance by the Government.

### 13. Filling up of Vacancy.

\- A casual vacancy caused by the resignation of Chairman or a member under
rule 12 or otherwise, shall be filled up by fresh appointment by the
Government. The term of office of such member shall be for the remainder of
the term of the member in whose place he is appointed.

### 14. Travelling Allowance to Chairman and member.

(1)The Chairman and members of the District Committee shall be paid travelling
allowance and daily allowance at the rates allowed to Members of the First
Class Government Committee.(2)The Assistant Commissioner of the district
concerned, shall be the countersigning and drawing officer for travelling
allowance bills of the Chairman and members of the District Committee.(3)In
the case of the members of the Committee who are also members of the
Legislature or the Parliament or from the Metropolitan Corporation concerned,
a non-drawal certificate shall be obtained from the Legislative Assembly
Secretariat or from the Secretariat of Parliament or from the Metropolitan
Corporation concerned, before countersignature by the Assistant Commissioner.

