## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.

TAMILNADU  
India

# DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.

## Act 5 of 2021

  * Published on 25 February 2021 
  * Commenced on 25 February 2021 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 February 2021.] 

Arrangement of Sections.

## Chapter I  
.

PRELIMINARY.

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

### 2. Definitions.

## Chapter II  
.

THE UNIVERSITY.

### 3. The University.

### 4. Objects and powers of University.

### 5. Colleges not to be affiliated to any other University and recognition
of institutions by University.

### 6. Admission to University.

### 7. Visitation.

## Chapter III  
.

OFFICERS OF UNIVERSITY.

### 8. Officers of University.

### 9. Chancellor.

### 10. Pro-Chancellor.

### 11. Vice-Chancellor.

### 12. Powers and duties of Vice-Chancellor.

### 13. Registrar.

### 14. Dean.

### 15. Finance Officer.

### 16. Controller of Examinations.

### 17. Librarian.

## Chapter IV  
.

AUTHORITIES OF UNIVERSITY.

### 18. Authorities of University.

### 19. Disqualification for membership.

### 20. Disqualification for election or nomination to Academic Council and
Syndicate in certain cases.

### 21. Syndicate.

### 22. Powers of Syndicate.

### 23. Meetings of Syndicate.

### 24. Academic Council.

### 25. Powers and functions of Academic Council.

### 26. Meetings of Academic Council.

### 27. Finance Committee.

### 28. Planning Board.

### 29. Boards of Studies.

### 30. Constitution and functions of faculties.

### 31. Constitution of other authorities.

## Chapter V  
.

STATUTES, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.

### 32. Statutes.

### 33. Statutes, how made.

### 34. Ordinances.

### 35. Ordinances, how made.

### 36. Regulations, how made.

## Chapter VI  
.

ADMISSION AND RESIDENCE OF STUDENTS.

### 37. Admission to University courses.

### 38. Admission to University examinations.

### 39. Attendance qualifying for University examinations.

### 40. Residence and hostels.

## Chapter VII  
.

UNIVERSITY FUNDS.

### 41. General Fund.

### 42. Other Funds.

### 43. Management of Funds.

### 44. Annual report.

### 45. Annual accounts.

## Chapter VIII  
.

CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.

### 46. Pension, gratuity, etc.

### 47. Conditions of service.

### 48. Selection Committees.

### 49. Terms and conditions of service of Heads of Departments.

### 50. Constitution of committees.

## Chapter IX  
.

TRANSFER OF COLLEGES.

### 51. Transfer of certain colleges to the University.

### 52. Transfer of service of certain employees of Thiruvalluvar University
to the University.

## Chapter X  
.

TRANSITORY PROVISIONS.

### 53. Appointment of first Vice-Chancellor.

### 54. Appointment of first Registrar.

### 55. Transitory powers of first Vice-Chancellor.

## Chapter XI  
.

MISCELLANEOUS.

### 56. Filling of casual vacancies.

### 57. Proceedings of the University, authority and bodies not invalidated by
vacancies.

### 58. Removal from membership of University.

### 59. Disputes as to constitution of University authorities and bodies.

### 60. Power to obtain information.

### 61. Transfer of accumulations in provident fund and other like funds.

### 62. Payment of certain amounts by Thiruvalluvar University.

### 63. Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 2002 not to apply.

### 64. Registration of graduates.

### 65. Special mode of appointment.

### 66. Report on affiliated colleges.

### 67. Power to remove difficulties.

### 68. Power of Government to issue directions.

### 69. Removal of doubts.

### 70. Amendment to 2002 Act.

“THE SCHEDULE.The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly
received the assent of the Governor on the 25th February 2021 and is hereby
published for general information:—ACT No. 5 OF 2021.An Act to provide for the
establishment and incorporation of a University at Villupuram. Be it enacted
by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in theSeventy-second
Year of the Republic of India as follows:—CHAPTER – I.PRELIMINARY.Tamil Nadu
Act of 2013.

### 1\.

(1)This Act may be called the Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University Act, 2021.(2)It
extends to the area comprising the districts of Villupuram and Kallakurichi
and the district of Cuddalore except the areas specified under sub- section
(2) of section 1 of the Annamalai University Act, 2013 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
2013) in the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies to all colleges and
institutions situate within the University area and maintained by, affiliated
to, or approved by, the University in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and the statutes, ordinances and regulations made thereunder and also to
all colleges and institutions deemed to be affiliated to, orapproved by, the
University under this Act.(4)It shall come into force on such date as the
Government may, bynotification, appoint.In this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires,— Definitions(a)“affiliated college” means any college or
institution situate within the University area and affiliated to the
University and providing courses of study foradmission to the examinations for
degrees of the University and includes a college or institution deemed to be
affiliated to the University under this Act and an autonomous
college;(b)“appointed date” means the date specified in the notification
issued under sub-section (4) of section 1;(c)“approved college” means any
college or institution situate within the University area and approved by the
University and providing courses of study for admission to the examinations
for titles and diplomas of the University and includes a college or
institution deemed to be approved by the University under this
Act;(d)“autonomous college” means any affiliated college designated as an
autonomous college by the statutes;(e)“college” means any college or
institution maintained or approved by, or affiliated to, the University and
providing courses of study for admission to the examinations for degrees,
diplomas or other academic distinctions of the University;(vi)the conduct of
examinations of the University and the conditions onwhich students shall be
admitted to such examinations;(vii)the manner in which exemption relating to
the admission of studentsto examinations may be given;(viii)the conditions and
mode of appointment and duties of examiningbodies and examiners;(ix)the
maintenance of discipline among the students of the University;(x)the fees to
be charged for courses of study, research, experiment andpractical training
and for admissions to the examinations for degrees, titles, diplomasand other
academic distinctions of the University;(xi)the qualifications and emoluments
of teachers of the University;(xii)the conditions subject to which persons who
may hereafter bepermanently employed or may be recognised as qualified to give
instruction inaffiliated colleges and approved colleges and hostels;
and(xiii)any other matter which by this Act or the statutes is required to be
ormay be prescribed by the ordinances.

### 35\.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this section, ordinances shall be madeby the
Academic Council.Ordinances,how made.(2)All ordinances made by the Academic
Council shall take effect fromsuch date as may be fixed by the Academic
Council, but every ordinance so madeshall be submitted as soon as may be after
it is made to the Syndicate and shall beconsidered by the Syndicate at its
next meeting.(3)The Syndicate shall have power by a resolution passed by a
majority ofnot less than two-thirds of the members present at such meeting, to
modify or cancelany such ordinance and such ordinance shall from the date of
such resolution haveeffect in such modified form or be of no such effect, as
the case may be.

### 36\.

(1)The Academic Council may make regulations consistent with this Act,the
statutes and the ordinances, to carry out the duties assigned to it
thereunder.Regulations,how made.(2)All such regulations shall have effect from
such date as the AcademicCouncil may direct, but such regulations so made
shall be submitted as soon as maybe to the Syndicate for its consideration at
its next meeting.CHAPTER-VI.ADMISSION AND RESIDENCE OF STUDENTS.

### 37\.

(1)No person shall be admitted to a course of study in the University
foradmission to the examinations for degrees, titles or diplomas of the
University unlesshe—Admission toUniversitycourses.(a)has passed the
examination prescribed therefor; and(b)fulfills such other academic conditions
as may be prescribed by theUniversity.(2)Every candidate for a University
examination shall, unless exemptedfrom the provisions of this sub-section by a
special order of the Syndicate madeon the recommendation of the Academic
Council, be enrolled as a member of aUniversity. Any such exemption may be
made subject to such conditions as theSyndicate may think fit.(3)Students
exempted from the provisions of sub-section (2) and studentsadmitted in
accordance with the conditions prescribed, to courses of study otherthan
courses of study for a degree shall be non-collegiate students of the
University.Admission toUniversityexaminations.

### 38\. No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless
he is

enrolled as a member of University college or laboratory or of an affiliated
college orapproved college and has satisfied the requirements as to the
attendance requiredunder the regulations for the same or unless he is exempted
from such requirementsof enrollment or attendance or both by an order of the
Syndicate passed on therecommendation of the Academic Council made under the
regulations prescribed.Exemptions granted under this section shall be subject
to such conditions as theSyndicate may think fit.Attendancequalifying
forUniversityexaminations.

### 39\. No attendance at instruction given in any college, other than that
established

and maintained by, affiliated to, or approved by, the University shall qualify
foradmission to any examination of the University.Residence andhostels.

### 40\. Every student of the University other than a non-collegiate student
shall be

required to reside in a hostel or under such other conditions as may be
prescribed.CHAPTER-VII.UNIVERSITY FUNDS.General Fund. 41. The University shall
have a General Fund to which shall be credited—(a)its income from fees,
grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any contribution or grant made by the
Central Government, any StateGovernment, University Grants Commission or like
authority, any local authority orany corporation owned or controlled by the
Government; and(c)endowments and other receipts.Other Funds. 42. The
University may have such funds as may be prescribed by the
statutes.Managementof Funds.

### 43\. The funds and all moneys of the University shall be managed in such

manner as may be prescribed.Annual report. 44. The annual report of the
University shall be prepared by the Syndicateand shall be submitted to the
Academic Council on or before such date asmay be prescribed and shall be
considered by the Academic Council at itsnext annual meeting. The Academic
Council may pass resolutions thereonand communicate the same to the Syndicate,
which shall take action inaccordance therewith. The Syndicate shall inform the
Academic Councilof the action taken by it. A copy of the annual report with a
copy of theresolutions thereon, if any, of the Academic Council shall be
submitted to theGovernment for information.Annualaccounts.

### 45\.

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be submitted to suchexamination
and audit as the Government may direct and a copy of the annualaccounts and
audit report shall be submitted to the Government.(2)The University shall
settle objections raised in such audit and carry outsuch instructions as may
be issued by the Government on the audit report.(3)The accounts, when audited,
shall be published by the Syndicate insuch manner as may be prescribed and
copies thereof shall be submitted to theAcademic Council at its next meeting
and to the Government within three months ofsuch publication.(4)The Government
shall cause the audited annual accounts and annualreport to be laid before the
Legislative Assembly together with their comments.CHAPTER-VIII.CONDITIONS OF
SERVICE.

### 46\.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers
andother persons employed by the University, such pension, gratuity, insurance
andprovident fund as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to such
conditions, asmay be prescribed.Pension,gratuity, etc.Central Act XIXof
1925.(2)Where the University as so instituted a provident fund undersub-
section (1), the Government may declare that the provisions of the
ProvidentFunds Act, 1925 shall apply to such funds as if the University where
a local authorityand the fund a Government Provident Fund.(3)The University
may, in consultation with the Finance Committee, investthe provident fund
amount in such manner as it may determine.

### 47\. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for

selection, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers,
teachersand other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.Conditions ofservice.Explanation.—For the purpose of this section,
the word “officers” shall notinclude the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.

### 48\.

(1)There shall be Selection Committees for making recommendationsto the
Syndicate for appointment to the posts of Assistant Professor,
AssociateProfessor, Professor, Librarian and other posts of teachers of the
University.SelectionCommittees.(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to
the posts specified insub-section (1) shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, a
nominee of the Chancellor, anominee of the Government and such other persons
as may be prescribed:Provided that selection of such appointments by the
Selection Committee shallbe made in accordance with the guidelines that may be
issued by the UGC or otheragencies concerned in relation to such
appointment.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall preside at the meetings of a
SelectionCommittee.(4)The meetings of a Selection Committee shall be convened
by theVice-Chancellor.(5)The procedure to be followed by a Selection Committee
in makingrecommendations shall be laid down in the ordinances.(6)If the
Syndicate is unable to accept the recommendations made by aSelection
Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the
Chancellorfor final orders.(7)Appointments to temporary posts shall be made in
the manner indicatedbelow:—(i)If the temporary vacancy is for a duration
longer than one academicsession, it shall be filled on the advice of the
Selection Committee in accordance withthe procedure indicated in the foregoing
provisions:Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in the
interestof work it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may be
made on atemporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in sub-
clause (ii) fora period not exceeding six months;(ii)If the temporary vacancy
is for a period less than a year,appointment to such vacancy shall be made on
the recommendation of a localSelection Committee consisting of the Dean of the
Faculty concerned, the Head ofthe Department and a nominee of the Vice-
Chancellor:Provided that if the same person holds the offices of the Dean and
theHead of the Department, the Selection Committee shall consist of two
nominees ofthe Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that in case of sudden casual
vacancies in teaching postscaused by death or any other reason, the Dean may,
in consultation with the Head ofthe Department concerned, make a temporary
appointment for a month and reportto the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar
about such appointment;(iii)No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if he is
not recommendedby a regular Selection Committee for appointment under this
Act, be continued inservice on such temporary employment unless he is
subsequently selected by alocal Selection Committee or a regular Selection
Committee, for a temporary or apermanent appointment, as the case may be.Terms
andconditionsof serviceof Heads ofDepartments.

### 49\.

(1)Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be aProfessor
or Director and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions
ofappointment shall be as prescribed by the ordinances:Provided that if there
are more than one Professor in any Department,the Head of the Department shall
be appointed in the manner prescribed by theordinances:Provided further that
in a department where there is no Professor, anAssociate Professor or
Assistant Professor may be appointed as the Head of theDepartment in the
manner prescribed by the ordinances.(2)It shall be open to a Professor, an
Associate Professor or AssistantProfessor to decline the offer of appointment
as the Head of a Department.(3)A person appointed as the Head of a Department
shall hold officeas such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
re-appointment.(4)The Head of a Department may resign his office at any time
during histenure of office.(5)The Head of a Department shall perform such
functions as may beprescribed by the ordinances.Constitution ofcommittees.

### 50\. All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute
or

reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deemfit. Such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of members
of theauthority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the authority
in each casemay deem fit.CHAPTER-IX.TRANSFER OF COLLEGES.Transfer
ofcertaincollegesto theUniversity.

### 51\.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Thiruvalluvar University Act,

### 2002. (hereinafter referred to as the 2002 Act), the statutes, ordinances,
regulations

and orders made thereunder, on and from the appointed date, the colleges in
theUniversity area shall be disaffiliated from the Thiruvalluvar University,
establishedunder the 2002 Act to which they were affiliated on the date
immediately precedingthe appointed date.Tamil Nadu Act

### 32\. of 2002.

(2)The Government may, at any time after the appointed date, transfer tothe
University any of their lands for its use on such terms and conditions as
theydeem proper.(3)The Government may, at any time after the appointed date,
transfer tothe University the control and management of any of their colleges
and institutionssituated within the University area on such terms and
conditions as they deemproper.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law relating to theestablishment of a University in the State or the
statutes, ordinances, regulations andorder made thereunder, on and from the
appointed date, the colleges or institutionsreferred to in sub-section (3)
shall be disaffiliated from the University to which theywere affiliated on the
date, immediately preceding the appointed date and shall beaffiliated to the
University.

### 52\.

(1)Every person, who immediately before the appointed date, was servingin
connection with the affairs of the Thiruvalluvar University in the University
Centreat Villupuram, shall from the said date, ceases to be an employee of the
ThiruvalluvarUniversity and becomes an employee of the University.Transfer
ofserviceof certainemployees ofThiruvalluvarUniversityto
theUniversity.(2)(a)As soon as may be, after the appointed date, the
Government may,after consulting the Vice-Chancellor of the Thiruvalluvar
University and the University,direct by general or special order that such of
the employees of the ThiruvalluvarUniversity as are specified in such order
shall stand allotted to serve in connectionwith the affairs of the University,
on and from such date as may be specified in suchorder:Provided that no such
direction shall be issued in respect of any suchperson without his consent for
such allotment.(b)With effect on and from the date specified in the order
underclause (a), the persons specified in such order shall become employees of
theUniversity and shall cease to be the employees of the Thiruvalluvar
University.(3)Every person referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
shallhold office under the University by the same tenure, at the same
remuneration andupon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights
and privileges as topension or gratuity, if any, and other matters as he would
have held the same on theappointed date or the date specified in the order
under sub-section (2), as the casemay be, as if this Act had not been
passed.(4)The liability to pay pension and gratuity to the persons referred to
insub-sections (1) and (2) shall be the liability of the
University.CHAPTER-X.TRANSITORY PROVISIONS.

### 53\. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 11,
within

three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
GovernmentGazette, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the
Government on asalary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three
years and on such otherconditions as they deem fit:Appointment offirst Vice-
Chancellor.Provided that a person appointed as the first Vice-Chancellor shall
retirefrom office if, during the term of his office, he completes the age of
seventy years.Appointmentof firstRegistrar.

### 54\. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 13,
within

three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
GovernmentGazette, the first Registrar shall be appointed by the Government on
a salary to befixed by them for a period not exceeding three years and on such
conditions as theythink fit:Provided that the person appointed as the first
Registrar shall retire from officeif, during the term of his office, he
completes the age of sixty years in case of aUniversity Professor and fifty
nine years in case of a Professor of a Governmentcollege.Transitorypowers
offirst Vice-Chancellor.

### 55\.

(1)It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements
forconstituting the Syndicate and the Academic Council and such other
authorities ofthe University within six months after the appointed date or
such longer period, notexceeding one year as the Government may, by
notification, direct.(2)The first Vice-Chancellor shall, in consultation with
the Government,make such rules as may be necessary for the functioning of the
University.(3)The authorities constituted under sub-section (1) shall commence
toexercise their functions on such date as the Government may, by
notification, specifyin this behalf.(4)It shall be the duty of the first Vice-
Chancellor to draft such statutes,ordinances and regulations as may be
necessary and submit them to therespective authorities competent to deal with
them for their disposal. Suchstatutes, ordinances and regulations, when
framed, shall be published in theTamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the statutes
anduntil such time an authority is duly constituted, the first Vice-Chancellor
may appointany officer or constitute any committee temporarily to exercise and
perform any ofthe powers and duties of such authority under this Act and the
statutes.CHAPTER-XI.MISCELLANEOUS.Filling of casualvacancies.

### 56\. All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio
members)

of any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as
convenientlymay be, by the person or body, who or which, nominated or elected
the memberwhose place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected to
a casualvacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the residue of
the term forwhich the person whose place he fills would have been a
member:Provided that vacancies arising by efflux of time among elected
membersof any authority or other body of the University may be filled at
elections which maybe fixed by the Vice-Chancellor to take place on such days
not earlier than twomonths from the date on which the vacancies arise, as he
thinks fit:Provided further that no casual vacancy shall be filled if such
vacancyoccurs within six months before the date of expiry of the term of the
members of anyauthority or other body of the University.Proceedingsof
University,authority andbodies notinvalidatedbyvacancies.

### 57\. No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University
shall

be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any
defector irregularity in the election or appointment of a member of any
authority or otherbody of the University or of any defect or irregularity in
such act or proceeding notaffecting the merits of the case or on the ground
that the authority or other body ofthe University did not meet at such
interval as required under this Act.

### 58\.

(1)The Syndicate may remove by an order in writing made in this behalf
anyperson from membership of any authority of the University by a resolution
passedby a majority of the total membership of the Syndicate and by a majority
of not lessthan two-thirds of the members of the Syndicate present and voting
at the meeting,if such person has been convicted by a criminal court for an
offence which in theopinion of the Syndicate involves moral turpitude or if he
has been guilty of grossmisconduct and for the same reason, the Syndicate may
withdraw any degree ordiploma conferred on or granted to that person by the
University.Removal frommembershipof University.(2)The Syndicate may also by an
order in writing made in this behalfremove any person from the membership of
any authority of the University if hebecomes of unsound mind or has applied to
be adjudicated or has been adjudicated,as an insolvent.(3)No action under this
section shall be taken against any person unlesshe has been given a reasonable
opportunity to show cause against the actionproposed to be taken.(4)A copy of
every order passed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),as the case may
be, shall, as soon as may be after it is so passed, be communicatedto the
person concerned in the manner prescribed by regulations.

### 59\. If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or

nominated as, or is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the
University orother body of the University, the question shall be referred to
the Chancellor whosedecision thereon shall be final.Disputes as
toconstitutionof Universityauthoritiesand bodies.

### 60\. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law
for the

time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
informationfrom the University or any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and theUniversity shall, if such information is available with it,
furnish the Government withsuch information within a reasonable period:Power
toobtaininformation.Provided that in the case of information which the
University considersconfidential, the University may place the same before the
Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor.

### 61\.

(1)The sums at the credit of the Provident Fund accounts of the
personsreferred to in sub-section (1) of section 52 as on the appointed date
and of thepersons referred to in sub-section (2) of section 52 as on the date
specified inthe order under clause (a) of the said sub-section (2) shall be
transferred to theUniversity and the liability in respect of the said
provident fund accounts shall beliability of the University.Transfer
ofaccumulationsin providentfund and otherlike funds.(2)There shall be paid to
the University out of the accumulationsin the superannuation fund and other
like funds, if any, of the ThiruvalluvarUniversity such amounts as have been
credited to the superannuationfund or other like funds, if any, on behalf of
the persons referred to insub-sections (1) and (2) of section 52. The amount
so paid shall form part ofsuperannuation fund or other like funds, if any,
that may be established by theUniversity for the benefit of its employees.

### 62\.

(1)The Thiruvalluvar University shall, out of its funds as on the
appointeddate, pay to the University such amount as the Government may, in
consultation withthe Thiruvalluvar University, specify.Payment
ofcertainamounts byThiruvalluvarUniversity.(2)The amount payable under sub-
section (1) shall be in addition to theamounts payable by the Thiruvalluvar
University to the University under section 52.

### 63\.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (8), the 2002 Act
shall,with effect on and from the appointed date, cease to apply in respect to
the areas towhich the provisions of this Act extend.Tamil Nadu Act

### 32\. of 2002

not to apply.(2)Such cessor shall not affect,—(a)the previous operation of the
2002 Act in respect of the areas towhich the provisions of this Act extend;
or(b)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of anyoffence
committed against the 2002 Act; or(c)any investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy in respect of suchpenalty, forfeiture or punishment, and any such
investigation, legal proceeding orremedy may be instituted, continued or
enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture orpunishment may be imposed as if
this Act had not been passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), all statutes,ordinances and regulations made under the 2002 Act
and in force on the appointeddate, shall in so far as they are not
inconsistent with this Act, continue to be inforce in the University area
until they are replaced by the statutes, ordinances andregulations made under
this Act.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the statutes,
ordinances andregulations continued in force under sub-section (3) or made
under this Act, everyperson who, immediately before the appointed date, was a
student of a collegewithin the University area affiliated to, or approved by,
the Thiruvalluvar Universityand of the Departments of the University or was
eligible for any of the examinationsof the Thiruvalluvar University shall be
permitted to complete his course of studyin the Thiruvalluvar University, and
this University shall make arrangements forthe instruction, teaching and
training for such students for such period and in suchmanner as may be
determined by the Thiruvalluvar University in accordance withthe course of
study in the Thiruvalluvar University and such students shall, duringsuch
period, be admitted to the examinations held or conducted by the
ThiruvalluvarUniversity and the corresponding degree, diploma or other
academic distinctions ofthe Thiruvalluvar University shall be conferred upon
the qualified students on theresult of such examinations, by the Thiruvalluvar
University.(5)All colleges within the University area which immediately before
theappointed date,—(a)continue to be affiliated to, or recognised by, the
ThiruvalluvarUniversity; and(b)provide courses of study for admission to the
examination for degreesof the Thiruvalluvar University;shall be deemed to be
the colleges affiliated to the University under this Act and theprovisions of
this Act shall, as far as may be, apply accordingly.(6)All colleges within the
University area which immediately before the appointeddate, continue to be
recognised by the Thiruvalluvar University as colleges providingcourses of
study for admission to the examinations of that University, for degreesand
diplomas, shall be deemed to the colleges approved by the University under
thisAct and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(7)All hostels within the University area which immediately before
the appointeddate, continue to be recognised by the Thiruvalluvar University,
shall be deemed tobe hostels recognised by the University under this Act and
the provisions of this Act,shall as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(8)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), but without
prejudice to theprovisions of sub-sections (3) to (6), anything done or any
action taken beforethe appointed date under any provisions of the 2002 Act in
respect of any areato which the provisions of this Act extend shall be deemed
to have been done ortaken under the corresponding provisions of this Act and
shall continue to have effectaccordingly unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken underthe corresponding provisions of this
Act.

### 64\.

(1)On and from the appointed date, every person ordinarily resident withinthe
University area, who—Registration ofgraduates.(a)has been for a period of not
less than three years a graduate ofany University in the territory of India;
or(b)is a registered graduate of any University in the territory of
India,shall be entitled to have his name entered in the register of graduates
maintainedunder this Act, for a period of five years on payment of such fee
and subject to suchconditions as may be prescribed by the statutes.(2)All
applications for registration under sub-section (1) shall be sent tothe
Registrar together with the prescribed fee and such proof of qualifications
asmay be prescribed by the statutes.(3)The Registrar shall, on receipt of an
application made under sub-section (2) and after making such enquiry as he
deems fit, enter in the register ofgraduates the name of the
applicant.(4)Every person whose name has been entered in the register of
graduatesunder sub-section (3) shall be entitled to have such entry renewed
every five yearson application made in that behalf to the Registrar within
such time, in such mannerand on payment of such fee as may be prescribed by
the statutes.

### 65\.

(1)The Syndicate may invite a person of high academic distinction
andprofessional attainments to accept a post of Professor in the University on
suchterms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do so,
appointhim to the post.Specialmode ofappointment.(2)The Syndicate may appoint
a teacher or any other member of theacademic staff working in any other
University or organisation for undertaking a jointproject in accordance with
the manner laid down in the ordinances.

### 66\. The Syndicate shall, at the end of every three years from the
appointed date,

submit a report to the Government on the condition of the affiliated and
approvedcolleges within the University area. The Government shall take such
action on it asthey deem fit.Report onaffiliatedcolleges.

### 67\.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or re-constitution of
anyauthority of the University after the appointed date or otherwise in giving
effect to theprovisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification, make
such provision, notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear
to them to be necessaryor expedient for removing the difficulty:Power
toremovedifficulties.Provided that no such notification shall be issued after
the expiry of threeyears from the date of establishment of the University
under section 3.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under
any otherprovisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is issued,
be placed on thetable of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry
of the session in which itis so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any suchnotification or the Assembly decides that the
notification should not be issued, thenotification shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,as the case may be, so
however, that any such modification or annulment shall bewithout prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that notification.Power
ofGovernmentto issuedirections.

### 68\. The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the

University, as they may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this
Act and itshall be the duty of the University, to comply with such
directions.Removal ofdoubts.

### 69\. For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that members of the

authorities of the Thiruvalluvar University elected or nominated or otherwise
as suchmembers under the 2002 Act, from the colleges deemed to have been
affiliated tothe University under sub-section (5) of section 63 of this Act
and holding office assuch members in any of the authorities of the
Thiruvalluvar University immediatelybefore the date of commencement of this
Act shall continue to be such members tillthe term of office expires.

### 70\.

(1)In section 1 of the 2002 Act, for sub-section (2), the followingsub-section
shall be substituted, namely:—Amendment to

### 2002\. Act.

“(2) It extends to the area comprising the districts of Vellore,
Tirupattur,Ranipet and Thiruvannamalai in the State of Tamil Nadu”.(2)For the
Schedule to the 2002 Act, the following Schedule shall besubstituted,
namely:—“THE SCHEDULE.[See sections 2(e) and 60-A.]

### 1\. Government Arts College, Thiruvannamalai.

### 2\. Aringar Anna Government Arts College, Cheyyar.

### 3\. Muthurangam Government Arts College, Vellore.

### 4\. Government Thirumagal Mills College, Gudiyatham.

### 5\. Aringar Anna Government Arts College for Women, Walajapet.”.

THE SCHEDULE.[See sections 2(f) and 2 (l).]

### 1\. Periyar Arts College, Cuddalore.

### 2\. Government Arts College, Chidambaram.

### 3\. Thirukolanjiappar Government Arts College, Virudhachalam.

### 4\. Aringar Anna Government Arts College, Villupuram.

### 5\. Thiru A.Govindasamy Government Arts College, Thindivanam.

(By order of the Governor)C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,Secretary to Government,Law
Department

