## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Affiliation of Pharmacy Colleges) Statutes

TAMILNADU  
India

# Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Affiliation of Pharmacy Colleges) Statutes

## Rule DR-M-G-R-MEDICAL-UNIVERSITY-AFFILIATION-OF-PHARMACY-COLLEGES-STATUTES
of 1990

  * Published on 10 March 1990 
  * Commenced on 10 March 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 March 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Affiliation of Pharmacy Colleges)
StatutesReceived the assent of the Chancellor, communicated in the D.O. Letter
No. 1903/U2/90, dated 10th March 1990 and dated 31st May 1990 of the Secretary
to the Governor of Tamil NaduIn exercise of the powers conferred by Section 42
of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 1987), the Governing Council Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai,
hereby makes the following Statutes:

### 1.

(i)These Statutes may be called the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Affiliation
of Pharmacy Colleges) Statutes.(ii)They shall come into force from the date of
assent of the Chancellor.

### 2.

The words and phrases used in these statutes shall, unless expressly explained
otherwise, have the same meaning as they have with reference to the Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University, Tamil Nadu, Act 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1987)
hereinafter called "the Act".

### 3.

It shall be necessary for the proposed Pharmacy College seeking affiliation to
Dr, M.G.R. Medical University for starling first year B.Pharm degree course to
apply for Certificate of Registration of their application with Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University, Tamil Nadu.

### 4.

The application for the Certificate of Registration shall be in writing and in
Form I addressed to the Registrar of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Tamil
Nadu. The application shall be submitted to the University between the 1st
July and the 31st October of the academic year preceding to which affiliation
is sought for.

### 5.

The application shall contain the following particulars :(a)Name of the
proposed Pharmacy College;(b)Address where the Pharmacy College is to be
located, with telephone number, if available;(c)The number of students
proposed to be admitted in the first year of the course;(d)The availability of
land, building and other physical infrastructure, facility of training
available to the students to be admitted;(e)Ready built area available for
accommodation of the academic complex;(f)Residential quarters for the staff of
the college;(g)Playground;(h)Hostel;(i)Name of the Trust or Promoting body;
and such other particulars as may be required by the Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Tamil Nadu, from time to time.

### 6.

The particulars shall also contain the particulars regarding the
pharmaceutical manufacturing unit where training in manufacture-and analysis
for the fourth year B. Pharm students is proposed.

### 7.

On receipt of the application, the University shall scrutinize the same and
verify whether the following conditions which are necessary for the issue of
the Certificate of Registration to the proposed pharmacy college, as
fulfilled:Conditions:(a)The proposed pharmacy college shall own a minimum of
20 acres (twenty acres) of land if it is to be located in an urban
agglomeration or 30 acres (thirty acres) if it is to be located in other
area.(b)The applicant college shall satisfy the University that the college
has clear title to the lands without any encumbrance and shall furnish the
original title deeds and such other documents as required by the University
from time to time in this regard.(c)The applicant college shall fulfil
necessary provisions of relevant Acts on the subject such as the Tamil Nadu
Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1978 [(Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1978)]
[This Act is repealed now.], the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act,
1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1971) as in force, etc., and shall also ensure the
evidence so produced in this regard is valid and binding on the applicant
college.(d)The applicant college shall satisfy the University that all the
infrastructural facilities of the college are in one campus and that the
residential quarters for staff, the playground and hostels are located in a
separate campus, if the extent of land is shown in two or more places.
However, the academic complex shall be located in a minimum of 5 acres for the
college proposed to be located in urban agglomeration and 10 acres when
proposed to be located in other area.(e)The applicant college shall be located
in the proximity of a medical college or a well-established general hospital
with which the management has an agreement to facilitate training of the
pharmacy students in the subjects of clinical pharmacy, hospital pharmacy,
hospital administration, etc., or in the alternative the pharmacy college
shall have a tie up with a general hospital with a minimum of 100 beds. The
medical college or a general hospital shall be within a radius of 10 K.M. from
the academic complex. In the case of tie up with a general hospital there
shall be a binding evidence to show that the said hospital shall oblige to
extend the necessary facilities to the pharmacy students in imparting the
training.(f)The pharmacy college shall submit an undertaking from a
pharmaceutical manufacturing unit to provide training for 15 days in
manufacture and for 15 days in analysis for the fourth year B. Pharm students
of the proposed college. A pharmacy college shall have a minimum ready built
area of 15,000 square feet necessary for the first year course of study to
accommodate the administrative office, laboratories, class rooms, library,
store-rooms, toilets for students and staff (separately for men and women),
with proper hygiene, adequate sanitation fatilities, safe drinking water,
adequate water supply.

### 8.

The University, after a preliminary inspection, if fully satisfied, that all
the conditions required to be fulfilled, by the applicant college are
fulfilled, shall issue a Certificate of Registration in Form II to the
applicant college to enable the college to make further arrangements to start
the course.

### 9.

The issue of the Certificate of Registration alone shall not confer any right
on the applicant college to start the B. Pharm Degree Course.

### 10.

The applicant college on receipt of the Certificate of Registration shall
fulfil the following conditions to enable the University to appoint and send
an inspection commission to the pharmacy college :(1)It shall obtain a
clearance from the Pharmacy Council of India and also the Government of Tamil
Nadu, if applicable and submit a copy of the same to the Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University while making the application for provisional affiliation in Form
III.(2)It shall produce evidence of qualified staff members for the
departments listed below who have consented to join the faculty of the
institution. It shall also furnish the consent letter/appointment order for
such staff members.(3)It shall appoint a qualified Principal before the
inspection commission is sent for the visit.(4)(a)It shall have the following
posts of staff members with the qualifications prescribed hereunder which are
essential for the first year B. Pharm degree course of study and such posts
shall be created by the pharmacy college management:

(i) |  Professor-cum-Principal in any speciality inPharmaceutical Sciences | 1 post.  
---|---|---  
(ii) | Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry | 2 posts.  
(iii) | Assistant Professor of Mathematics | 1 post.  
(iv) | Assistant Professor of Physiology. | 1 post.  
(v) | Assistant Professor of Anatomy. | 1 post.  
(vi) | Assistant Professor of Statistics | 1 post.  
(vii) | Tutors in Pharmacy (Pharmaceutical Chemistry) | 4 posts.  
(viii) | Assistant Librarian | 1 post.  
(ix) | Gas Mechanic | 1 post.  
(x) | Electrical Assistant | 1 post.  
(xi) | Other supporting staffLaboratory Technician -1Sweeper-1 | 2 post.  
  
(b)Qualifications for the post of Principal: (i) A Ph.D. degree in any branch
of Pharmacy;OR(i)A Post-Graduate degree in Pharmacy [M.Sc. (Phar.)/M. Pharra
in any speciality];(ii)A basic degree in Pharmacy (B. Pharm);(iii)Teaching
experience for a period of not less than ten years after obtaining P.G.
(M.Pharmacy) qualification in Pharmacy -Preferably with research and
administrative experience.(c)Qualifications for the post of Professors : (i) A
Ph.D. degree in Pharmacy in the respective speciality;OR(i)A Post-Graduate
degree in Pharmacy [M.Sc. (Pharmacy)] [M. Pharm] in that particular speciality
of any Indian University.(ii)A basic degree in Pharmacy (B.
Pharm).(iii)Teaching and research experience in that particular speciality for
a period of not less than 10 years of which four years should be after
obtaining the P.G. qualification.(d)Qualifications for the post of Assistant
Professor : (i) A Ph.D degree in Pharmacy in the respective speciality;ORM.
Pharm degree in the respective speciality;OR(i)M.Sc. (Pharmacy) degree with
basic degree in Pharmacy;(ii)Teaching/ Research experience of not less than
two years in that speciality after obtaining B. Pharm,
qualification.(e)Qualification for the post of Tutors : B. Pharm.
degree.(f)Qualifications for other non-professional posts, Laboratory
Supervisors : B.Sc. degree with Chemistry as major and Botany or Zoology as
ancillary; or Botany or Zoology as major with Chemistry or Physics as
ancillary.(5)It shall furnish a budget for each year of study and a separate
development budget which will cover the expenses for he fulfilment of the
requirements prescribed in the second, third and fourth year of the course of
study;

### 11.

The proposed pharmacy college shall be equipped as follows :(i)Facilities for
teaching pharmaceutical/Inorganic and Organic Chemistry, Physical Chemistry,
Anatomy, Physiology and Health Education, Mathematics and Bio-
statistics.(ii)Adequate chemicals, glassware's and necessary equipments as
applicable to the syllabus recommended.(iii)Pharmaceutical Chemistry
laboratory with a minimum space of 80 feet x 30 feet accommodating the
laboratory of 40 feet x 30 feet and the balance room, preparation room,
Laboratory, staff room, Fume cupboard, etc., in the remaining space.(iv)A
separate Physiology laboratory in a minimum space of 30 feet x 40 feet with
facilities for experimental Physiology, smoking and varnishing chamber, frog
tank and animal room.(v)All the laboratories aforementioned shall have a good
lighting, ventilation and sufficient number of doors for any
emergency.(vi)Each laboratory shall be fitted with work benches and furniture
required for 30 students in a batch as per the standard specification and the
pharmaceutical chemistry laboratory shall have all the equipments as essential
as per the syllabus.(vii)There shall be adequate number of exhaust fans and
fire extinguishers in each laboratory.(viii)There shall be an Anatomy Museum-
cum-demonstration hall in a minimum space of 30 feet x 40 feet.(ix)There shall
be a Central Library with at least 200 books for the use of
students.(x)(a)There shall be a store-room for chemical and glassware's in a
minimum space of 20 feet x 30 feet. '(b)A petrol gas plant shall also be
provided.(xi)There shall be one lecture hall of 30 feet x 40 feet with a
seating capacity for 60 students with adequate ventilation, lighting and
fans.(xii)There shall be staff rooms for all departments with a sectional
library.(xiii)There shall be a separate administrative office with a minimum
space of 30 feet x 60 feet.(xiv)All the said laboratories shall be functional
at the time of inspection.(xv)There shall be a minimum of 20 chemical,
balances, vacuum pump, 2 single pan analytical balances with associated
equipments and instruments, fully installed in the room adjacent to the
laboratory.(xvi)There shall be separate common halls for men and women
students with adequate toilet facilities.(xvii)There shall be space and
equipments for extra curricular activities for the students.

### 12.

The Inspection Commission shall inspect the above facilities and report to the
University as to the satisfactory fulfilment of the conditions.

### 13.

The Inspection Commission shall submit its report to the Registrar within 10
days after the inspection. The Commission shall point out in the report,
lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the conditions to be satisfied and
advise on the possibilities of rectification by the management within the
given time not exceeding three months in any case.

### 14.

The University shall satisfy itself on the possibility and capacity of the
management of the college to rectify the defects pointed out by the inspection
commission in its report.

### 15.

After a detailed examination of the report of inspection commission and if the
University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions for the
affiliation for the first year B. Pharm degree course of study, the University
shall direct the management of the proposed Pharmacy college to remit a sum of
Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the security deposit. The
security deposit shall be invested in a fixed deposit of a Nationalized Bank
jointly in the names of the Registrar of the University and the management of
the proposed pharmacy college. The fixed deposit receipt shall be kept in the
custody of the Registrar.

### 16.

On the remittance of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the
security deposit by the Management of the proposed college the University
shall grant provisional affiliation for the first year course of B.Pharm after
collecting a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) towards the fee for
the provisional affiliation for the first year B. Pharm course of study. It
shall be competent for the University to withdraw the provisional affiliation
granted herein by giving three months notice stating the reasons therefore, to
the management of the proposed college.

### 17.

The interest accrued on the security deposit shall be spent on the
maintenance, of the Pharmacy college. The management of the Pharmacy college
shall show evidence of a minimum of annual income of atleast Rs. 4,00,000
(Rupees four lakhs only) to facilitate the proper running of the Pharmacy
college. This is only a portion of the liability which the college is likely
to incur every year towards payment of salaries to the teaching staff and the
maintenance of the college.

### 18.

The Provisional affiliation granted by the University shall be only for the
first year of the B. Pharm degree course. On receipt of the intimation
regarding the grant of provisional affiliation for the first year B. Pharm
degree course the management of the Pharmacy College shall intimate the
University that all the staff mentioned in the statute above have been
appointed and are in a position to take up classes.

### 19.

The University shall on receipt of the above intimation from the Pharmacy
college, issue orders to the college to admit students for the first year and
shall nominate a member to represent the interest of the University in the
Governing Body of the Pharmacy College.

### 20.

(1)The member nominated by the University under statute 19 shall hold office
for a period of three years. Any change in the Governing Body of the college
shall be reported to the University immediately.(2)The Governing Body of the
College shall meet at least once in every three months to consider the budget
estimates and such other matters as may arise in its working. It shall meet in
May-June each year to consider the Annual Report, the audited statement of
accounts, changes in the staff, subjects or courses in which fresh affiliation
or approval is to be sought in the following year. A copy of the notice of
meeting shall be sent to the nominee of the University, with copy to the
Registrar, at least 15 clear days before the date of the meeting. A copy of
the minutes of the meeting shall also be sent to the nominee of the University
and the Registrar within 15 days of the meeting.(3)Every college shall have a
duly constituted Government Body with representatives of the teaching staff,
to advise the Principal in the internal affairs of the College. A record of
proceedings of the said governing body of the College shall be maintained by
the Principal.

### 21.

By the end of the first year B. Pharm degree course, the Pharmacy college
shall apply to the University for the provisional affiliation for the second
year B. Pharm degree course, after creating additional infrastructure as
indicated below:(a)A separate department of Pharmaceutical chemistry with a
laboratory of 30" x 40" with a standard chemistry laboratory work tables to
accommodate 30 students in a batch at a time with gas, water, drainage and
sufficient electrical connection on the table and in the laboratory for easy
operation of electrical equipments. There should also be a provision for
vacuum points and space for laboratory, staff preparation room and balance
room. There should also be a Professor's room.(b)A separate laboratory of 30"
x 40" for physical and preparative pharmacy with water, drainage, gas and
electrical connections in the table as well as at suitable points in the wall
and the preparation room.(c)(i)A multi-purpose hall with facilities for audio-
visual aids for use of seminars, symposia and for the conduct of the
examinations. The hall shall have a seating capacity of 120 students. All
equipments, glassware's and chemicals required for the use in the second year
of the course as per the syllabus shall be provided.(ii)All laboratories shall
be provided with-(a)Hot plates in adequate number.(b)Heating mantles in
adequate number.(c)Driers in adequate number.(d)Vacuum
pumps.(e)Deioniser.(f)Distilled water stills,(iii)The following additional
staff shall be appointed :

(a) | Professor of Pharmaceutical chemistry | 1 post.  
---|---|---  
(b) | Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics | 2 posts.  
(c) | Tutors in Pharmacy (Pharmaceutics) | 2 post.  
(d) |  Other supporting staff for eachdepartment/laboratory | 3 post.  
(i) | Laboratory Supervisor | 1 post.  
(ii) | Technician | 1 post.  
(iii) | Sweeper | 1 posts.  
  
### 22.

The University, if fully satisfied on an inspection as it deems necessary that
the conditions mentioned above are fulfilled by the Management, shall grant
provisional affiliation for the second year B. Pharm degree course of study
after collecting a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) towards the
fee for provisional affiliation granted herein by giving three months' stating
the reasons therefore to the management of the proposed college.Explanation. -
The Provisional affiliation granted under this statute is only for the second
year of the b.unarm degree course.

### 23.

It shall be the duly of the Management of the Pharmacy college to fulfil the
requirements for starting the third year of the B.Pharm degree course of study
by the time the students appear for the second year examinations.

### 24.

Tire following additional departments with necessary staff members, additional
laboratories and additional facilities have to be provided by the Management
of the Pharmacy college to become eligible for applying for provisional
affiliation for the third year B. Pharm degree course of study.Additional
departments:(a)Pharmacology department.(b)Pharmaceutics department.Additional
laboratories:(i)There shall be a Pharmacognosy laboratory of 30 feet x 40 feet
to accommodate not more than 30 students at a time with separate space for
preparation room, laboratory, staff room, etc., of 150 square feet each. They
shall be fitted with Biology Type of work tables with provision for gas,
water, drainage and electrical connections on the table with fixed lighting
for microscopic work. There shall be a provision for black draw curtains to
ail windows. Separate sinks for washing shall be provided in the preparation
room. A store room of 20 feet x 30 feet shall be provided in 40 feet shall be
set up with furniture for display of crude drugs. An aseptic room of 30 feet x
20 feet shall be provided with an A/c unit for Tissue culture work.(ii)There
shall be a garden of atleast half-an acre to grow medical plants.(iii)There
shall be Pharmacology department with a separate laboratory of 30' x 40' with
a provision for experimental pharmacology with adequate gas, water, drainage
and electrical connections. A preparation room, a laboratory, staff room and a
smoking and varnishing room of 150 square feet shall also be
provided.(iv)There shall be a department of Pharmaceutics with a separate
laboratory of 30' x 40' for dispensing, hospital and clinical pharmacy with
gas, water, drainage and electrical connections on the table. A preparation
room, a room for laboratory staff may be provided adjacent to the laboratory.
A machine room of 30' x 40' shall also be provided with electrical plug points
for fixing all the pharmaceutical machineries as required under the syllabus
and making it operational for the use of the students. Gas and water supply
with drainage shall also be provided at appropriate points. This machine room
shall be in continuity with the Pharmaceutics laboratory.(v)The Organic
Chemistry laboratory shall be utilized for the practicals in Chemistry of
Natural Products.

### 25.

The equipments, glassware's, chemicals, etc., for the laboratories and
connected departments must be in accordance with the syllabus recommended and
pharmacy regulations as prescribed if any of the Pharmacy Council of India in
adequate quantity and number.

### 26.

The Library facilities for the students shall be expanded to provide for 2,000
books covering all the subjects in the entire course and not less than 15
current journals in different specialities.

### 27.

The college shall have one more lecture hall to accommodate 60 students.

### 28.

There shall be a staff Research Laboratory with a minimum space of 30' x 40'
in the Department of Pharmaceutical chemistry, Pharmaceutics, Pharmacology and
Pharmacology.

### 29.

The permanent hostel buildings separately for men and women students shall be
completed before the end of the second year.

### 30.

The facilities for sports and extra-curricular activities for the students
shall be strengthened.

### 31.

The college shall be equipped with audio-visual teaching aids, Xerox copying
machine, other office equipments, and a photography section.

### 32.

Provision shall be made for giving the students training in Retail, Clinical
and Hospital Pharmacy for a period of 3 months as detailed below:-(a)Retail
Pharmacy-21 days(b)General O.P. Dispensary Counter-50 days(c)Ward
Dispensary-15 days(d)Medical Stores-7 days

### 33.

The following additional staff shall be appointed :-

(1) | Professor of Pharmacology | 1 post.  
---|---|---  
(2) | Professor of Pharmaceutics | 1 posts.  
(3) | Assistant Professor of Pharmacology | 1 post.  
(4) | Assistant Professor of Pharmacology | 1 post.  
(5) | Tutors is Pharmacy(One each for Pharmacology,Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology) | 3 post.  
(6) |  Other supporting staff for eachdepartmentlaboratory | 2 post.  
| (i) Technician | \- 1  
| (ii) Sweeper | \- 1  
  
### 34.

(1)The University, if fully satisfied on an inspection as it deems necessary
that the conditions prescribed above are fulfilled by the management, shall
grant the provisional affiliation for the Third Year B. Pharm degree course of
study after collecting a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) towards
the fee for provisional affiliation for the third year B.Pharmacy Degree
course of study. It shall-be competent for the University to withdraw the
provisional affiliation granted herein by giving three months notice stating
the reasons there fore to the management of the college.(2)The University
shall satisfy itself that the Management have taken adequate steps to fulfil
the requirements, for the fourth year B.Pharm course of study by the time the
students appear for the third year examinations.

### 35.

The Management shall, before starting the fourth year course of study in the
Pharmacy college, fulfil the following conditions by the time the students
appear for the third year examinations :(1)The departments shall be expanded
and additional facilities shall be provided as follows:(a)A degree laboratory
for Pharmaceutical Analysis under Pharmaceutical Chemistry may be started with
a separate room (30' x 20') with provision for A.C. for setting up of all
modern analytical equipments, like-(i)Colorimeter(ii)PH
Meter(iii)Spectrophotometer(iv)Flame Photometer(v)HPLC
equipments(vi)Chromatography equipments, etc.Explanation. - There shall be
adequate electrical connections with voltage stabilizers for the safety of the
sensitive analytical equipments. Separate sitting space shall be provided for
the Associate Professor and Assistant Professor incharge. Separate room
adjacent to the Instrument Laboratory shall be provided to prepare solutions
with heating arrangements, water and drainage facilities.(b)There shall be a
section for Pharmaceutical Biotechnology under Department of Pharmaceutics of
30' x 40' with Biology type of worktables with gas, water and drainage
facilities. This shall be used for Industrial and Formulative Pharmacy. A
small rooms of 20' x 15' with a laminar flow unit shall be provided with A.C.
for aseptic, dispensing and other microbiological works. This section can
manage both clinical and Hospital Pharmacy and Dispensing and Biological
Pharmacy. The Professor and other Assistant Professor shall be provided with
separate sitting space. Separate media-sterilisation rooms, preparation room,
room for laboratory staff for sitting, etc., shall be provided.(c)A separate
Department of Pharmacognosy shall be organized with separate space for the
Professor and other Assistant Professors.(d)All laboratories shall be provided
with fire extinguishers and adequate number of exhaust fans.(e)A separate
lecture hall shall be provided with facilities for audio visual aids to
accommodate 120 students.(f)A spacious animal house to accommodate
experimental animals necessary for teaching and research work shall be
provided.(2)The Pharmacy College shall be equipped with the analytical and
other laboratories with the latest standard equipments required as per the
syllabus recommended in addition to the equipments prescribed as
above.(3)Provision shall be made to give practical training for one month
(Manufacture-15 days and Analysis-15 days) in any one of the established
manufacturing units.(4)The college shall have a minimum of one bus for the
students.(5)The following pharmacy staff shall be appointed for the fourth
year-

(a) | Professor of Pharmacognosy | \- post.  
---|---|---  
(b) | Assistant Professor of Pharmacognosy | \- post  
(c) |  Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry(for Pharmaceutical analysis) | \- 1 post.  
(d) |  Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics (forPharmaceutical Biotechnology) | \- 1 post.  
(e) | Tutors in Pharmacy | \- 5 posts  
|  Pharmacy/Formulative and IndustrialPharmacy/Applied and Advanced
Pharmacognosy and Modem Methods ofAnalysis)  
(f) |  Other supporting staff for each of thelaboratories | \- 2 posts  
| (i) Technician | \- 1 post  
| (ii) Attender | \- 1 post  
(g) | Chief Librarian | \- 1 post  
(h) | Physical Education Director | \- 1 post  
(i) | Gas Mechanic | \- 1 post  
(j) | Mechanical Assistant | \- 2 posts  
(k) | Electrical Assistant | \- 1 post  
(l) | Library Attender | \- 1 post  
(m) | Physical Education - Marker | \- 1 post  
  
(6)The Management of the college shall also provide-(i)Auditorium;(ii)Faculty
Recreation Hall.

### 36.

The University if fully satisfied, on an inspection, as it deems necessary,
that the conditions mentioned above are fulfilled by the management, shall
grant provisional affiliation for fourth year B. Pharmacy degree course of
study after collecting a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupee five thousand only) towards
the fee for provisional affiliation for the fourth year B. Pharmacy course of
study. It shall be competent for the University to withdraw the provisional
affiliation granted herein by giving three months notice stating the reasons
therefore, to the management of the college.

### 37.

On the completion of the course of study by the first batch of students and on
their appearing for the university examinations the management of the college
may make an application to the University for grant of full affiliation of the
B.Pharmacy course of study. The University shall, after satisfying itself as
to the performance of the college during the previous four years and subject
to the statutes and procedures as in force from time to time grant full
affiliation to the B.Pharmacy degree course of study.M. Pharmacy

### 38.

It shall be necessary for the college seeking affiliation of the University
for starting of M. Pharm Degree Course to apply for Certificate of
Registration of their application with the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai.

### 39.

College which are conducting B.Pharmacy course of study and Post Graduate
department of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University only are eligible to apply for
affiliation for M. Pharmacy degree course of study.

### 40.

The application for the Certificate of Registration shall be in writing and in
Form I and addressed to the Registrar of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai. The application shall be submitted to the University between the 1st
July and 31st October of the academic year preceding to which affiliation is
sought for.

### 41.

The application shall contain the following particulars-(a)Name of the college
:(b)Address.(c)The number of students proposed to be admitted in the first
year of M. Pharmacy degree course.(d)Availability of land, building, facility
of training and other physical infrastructures available exclusively for the
student of M. Pharmacy degree course to be admitted.(e)Ready built area
available for the accommodation of the academic complex.(f)Residential
quarters for the staff of the college.(g)Playground,(h)Hostel, etc.(i)Name of
the promoting body.(j)Whether the college has fully complied with the
guidelines of the University with regard to the conducting of B. Pharmacy
degree course.(k)Whether the first batch of students of B. Pharm degree course
have passed out of the colleges; and(l)Whether full affiliation for B. Pharm
degree course has been granted to this college; and such other particulars as
may be required by the University from time to time.

### 42.

On receipt of the application for Certificate of Registration, the University
shall scrutinize the same and verify whether the following conditions, which
are necessary to start first year M. Pharmacy degree course are fulfilled by
the college-(a)the college shall possess suitable ready built area of not less
than 1,500 square feet exclusively for each speciality of M. Pharm degree
course proposed to be started.(b)The college shall satisfy the University that
the lacunae, if any, pointed out in the earlier inspections of the college
with regard to B. Pharmacy degree course have been already rectified and full
affiliation for B. Pharm degree course has* been granted to the college.(c)The
college shall satisfy the University that the first batch of students of B.
Pharmacy degree course of study have passed out of the college at the time of
application for affiliation of M. Pharmacy degree course is made.(d)It shall
furnish a budget for each year of study and a separate development budget
which will cover the expenses for the fulfilment of the course of study.

### 43.

The University, if satisfied that all the conditions required to be fulfilled
by the college for starting first year M. Pharmacy degree course arc fulfilled
by the college, shall issue a Certificate of Registration in Form II to the
college to enable it to make further arrangements to start the first M.
Pharmacy degree course of study.The issue of the Certificate of Registration
alone shall not confer any right on the applicant college to start the M.
Pharmacy degree course.

### 44.

The applicant college on receipt of Certificate of Registration shall fulfil
the following conditions to enable the University to appoint and send an
inspection commission to the college :(a)It shall obtain a clearance from the
Pharmacy Council of India and submit a copy of the same to the Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University while making the application for provisional affiliation in
Form III.(b)It shall produce evidence of qualified staff members for the
specialities who are either already in the staff with adequate free time to
handle the M. Pharmacy classes or the staff who have consented to join the
faculty of the college after starting the course and if so their consent
letters or appointment orders for such staff members shall be furnished to the
university.(c)It shall have the following posts of staff members with
qualifications prescribed hereunder which are essential for the first year of
M. Pharmacy degree course of study :(i)Senior Professor of Pharmaceutics
Pharmacology/ Pharmaceutical Chemistry/ Pharmacology of one post on each
branch for which affiliation is sought for.(ii)Such number of Assistant
Professor as per the norms prescribed from time to time with reference to the
number of students proposed to be admitted in the first M. Pharm degree
course.(d)The Professor and the other guides in each speciality shall possess
the following qualifications, namely:(i)A doctorate degree in pharmacy in the
speciality concerned with teaching and research experience of not less than
five years after obtaining the degree of M. Pharmacy;orM. Pharm degree in the
speciality concerned with teaching experience of not less than five years and
research experience of not less than two years after obtaining the degree of
M. Pharmacy; orM.Sc. degree in pharmacy with teaching experience of not less
than five years in the speciality concerned and guiding students in the thesis
work for not less than two years;(ii)A basic degree in pharmacy, i.e., B.
Pharmacy; provided that in speciality subject concerning inter disciplinary
and other border line areas, staff members with adequate-and experience in the
speciality may be considered for appointment. However for appointing such
candidates in such areas prior approval of the University shall be
necessary.(e)It shall provided one laboratory of 30' x 30' with a preparation
room, a sectional reference library and a sitting room for Laboratory staff
with adequate number of work tables with gas, electrical; water and drainage
connections. All laboratories shall also be provided with exhaust fans and
fire extinguishers and separate fume cupboards wherever necessary.(f)It shall
restrict the number of candidates to one students per guide in each speciality
subject to a maximum of two per speciality to start with the M. Pharm degree
course.(g)It shall provide a small captive power generator for the Post-
Graduate Laboratories for continuous operation of the different
equipments.(h)It shall provide atleast 10 Indian and International journals
with their back numbers and reference books in each speciality in the library,
(i) It shall provide all chemicals, glassware and equipment required in
respect of each speciality as per the syllabus recommended for the course.

### 45.

All the said laboratories shall be functional at the time of the inspection.

### 46.

The inspection commission shall inspect the college regarding the facilities
available and submit its report to the University.

### 47.

The inspection commission shall submit its report to the Registrar within 10
days after the inspection. The commission shall point out in the report
lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the conditions to be satisfied and also
advise on the possibilities of rectification by the management within a given
time not exceeding three months.

### 48.

The University, shall satisfy itself on the possibility and capacity of the
management of the college to rectify the defects pointed out by the inspection
commission in its report.

### 49.

After a detailed examination of the report of the inspection commission and if
the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions for
affiliation for the first year M. Pharm degree course of study, the University
shall direct the management of the college to remit a sum of Rs. 10,00,000
(Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the security deposit. The security deposit
shall be invested in a fixed deposit of a Nationalized Bank jointly in the
names of the Registrar of the University and the management of the College.
The fixed deposit receipt shall be kept in the custody of the Registrar.

### 50.

On the remittance of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the
security deposit by the management of the proposed college and subject to
statute 47 .herein the University shall grant provisional affiliation for the
first year course of M. Pharm. after collecting a sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees
ten thousand only) towards the fee for the provisional affiliation for the
first year course of study of M. Pharm. It shall be competent for the
University to withdraw the provisional affiliation granted herein by giving
three months notice stating the reasons therefore, to the management of the
proposed college.

### 51.

The interest accrued on the fixed deposit shall be spent on the expenses
connected with the conducting of the M. Pharm. Course. The management shall
show evidence of a minimum annual income of Rs. 4,00,000 (Rupees four lakhs
only) to facilitate the proper conduct of the Post Graduate course in Pharmacy
(M. Pharm) in the college. Such amount will be only a portion of the liability
which the college is likely to incur every year towards payment of salaries to
the" teaching staff and the maintenance of the Post-Graduate Departments.

### 52.

The provisional affiliation granted by the University shall be only for the
first year of the M. Pharm degree course. On receipt of the intimation
regarding the grant of provisional affiliation for the first year M. Pharm
degree course the management of the Pharmacy College shall intimate the
University that all the staff mentioned in these statutes above have been
appointed and are in a position to take up classes.

### 53.

The University shall, on receipt of the above intimation from the Pharmacy
College issue orders to the college to admit student for the first year M.
Pharm degree course for the corresponding academic year and shall nominate a
member to represent the interest of the University in the Governing body of
the Pharmacy college.

### 54.

After fulfilling all the conditions required to be fulfilled by the college
under these statutes the college, by the end of the first year M. Pharm degree
course of study, shall apply to the University for provisional affiliation for
the second year M. Pharm degree course of study.

### 55.

The University, if fully satisfied on an inspection as it deems necessary that
the conditions prescribed above are fulfilled by the management, shall grant
the provisional affiliation for the second year M. Pharm degree course of
study after collecting a sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) towards
the fee for provisional affiliation for the second year M. Pharmacy Degree
course of study. It shall be competent for the University to withdraw the
provisional affiliation granted herein by giving three months notice stating
the reasons therefore, to the management of the College.

### 56.

On the completion of the course of study by the first batch of M. Pharm.
students and on their appearing for the University examinations for the HM.
Pharm. the management of the College may make an application to the University
for grant of full affiliation of the M. Pharmacy course of study. The
University shall, after satisfying itself as to the performance of the College
during the previous two years and subject to the statutes and procedures as in
force in time to time grant full affiliation to the M. Pharmacy Degree course
of study.General

### 57.

A Provisional affiliation/full affiliation granted by the University inrespect
of each year of the B. Pharmacy Degree Course of study and in respect of each
year of the M. Pharmacy Degree Course of study is subject to the following
conditions namely:(a)an affiliated college of B. Pharmacy and M. Pharmacy as
the case may be shall strictly conduct the course of study in accordance with
the course contents framed by; the University and any modifications thereon
suggested by the Boards of Studies concerned and the Standing Academic Board
of the University from time to time.(b)It shall be competent for the
University to inspect the College by sending an Inspector of the University,
if the University so deems fit, after giving two weeks notice to the
management of the college concerned.(c)the Governing Council shall have the
power after due enquiry to withdraw full affiliation granted to a college,
provided that before coming to such a decision, the Governing Council shall
inform the governing body of the college concerned of its findings after
enquiry and shall allow it an opportunity of making such representations as it
may deem fit and shall record its opinion on the representation so made.

### 58.

The management of the affiliated College may apply to this University for the
increase in seats in Under Graduate Courses upto a maximum of one hundred
(100) seats only. Permission for increase in seats beyond one hundred will not
be granted.

### 59.

It shall be competent for the Governing Council to entertain or decline to
entertain for reasons to be recorded in writing the application received from
the applicant college for increase in the number of seats in the college
subject to the ceiling specified in Statute No. 57. The University will review
the clinical facilities provided by the institution and progress of clinical
performance of the hospitals vis-a-vis the population potential around the
hospital and public interest covered at large while entertaining the
application for increase of seats.

### 60.

No pharmacy college shall apply to the University for increase in seats until
the first batch of students has successfully completed the course and has left
the college and the B. Pharm/M. Pharm degree so obtained is recognized.

### 61.

The applicant college shall satisfy the University regarding the following
norms as prescribed by the University and the Pharmacy Council of India in
this regard from time to time while making application for increase in seats
in Form No. IV annexed with these statutes.(i)proportionate increase in the
staff pattern;(ii)proportionate increase in the equipment and laboratory
facilities;(iii)proportionate increase in the accommodation; and(iv)expansion
of library.

### 62.

On receipt of the application form the applicant college for increase in
seats, the University shall appoint on Inspection Commission to inspect the
suitability of the facilities provided by the college for such increase-in
seats.

### 63.

The Inspection Commission referred to in statute 61 shall report to the
University as to whether all the requirements specified in statute 60 have
been provided by the applicant college. The Inspection Commission shall also
point out in its report the lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the
requirements to be provided and also advise as to the capability of the
management of the college to rectify the lacunae within a period of two
months.

### 64.

The University shall satisfy itself on the possibility and capacity of the
management of the college to rectify the defects pointed out by the Inspection
Commission in its report.

### 65.

After the detailed examination of the report of the Inspection Commission and
if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions
for Increase of seats, the University shall communicate the grant of
permission.

### 66.

The permission granted to the applicant college by the University under
statute 64 is liable to be withdrawn if any of the norms prescribed in the
statute 60 is violated. In case of such withdrawals, the permission shall be
restored only when a satisfactory report is received by the University on an
inspection that the norms prescribed in statute 60 have been duly complied
with.......... ,

### 67.

No affiliated institution shall apply to the University for increase in seats
in under graduate courses as well as starting of post graduate courses
simultaneously. Such applications can be made only in different academic
years.Form I(See Statute 3 and 4)Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu,
Chennai - 600007Application for Certificate of Registration for Affiliation

### 1\. Name/Name(s) of the applicant(s)

### 2\. Name of the proposed College

### 3\. Details of the construction of the managing body of the proposed
College (in the case of trusts or Societies, copies of bye-laws/terms of the
trust, etc., to be enclosed of)

### 4\. Address to which communications are to be sent with telephone number
if available

### 5\. Address where the College is proposed to be located

### 6\. Previous application, if any, for affiliation or approval, in the same
subject and their disposal

### 7\. No. of candidates to be admitted in the First Year of the Course

### 8\. Details regarding availability of land, ready built area, etc. (copies
of title deeds and documents and latest encumbrance certificate, etc., to be
enclosed) (information regarding accommodation should be accompanied by
drawings-20 acres of landing urban agglomeration/30 acres in other areas)

### 9\. Particulars regarding arrangement of residential quarters for the
staff

### 10\. Details regarding availability of play grounds.

### 11\. Details regarding Hostels facilities proposed.

### 12\. Equipments available/proposed to be purchased.

### 13\. Details of earmarked assets and resources to be utilized for running
the proposed college (latest statement of assets and liabilities duly
certified by a Chartered Accountant to be enclosed)

### 14\. Particulars regarding pharmaceutical manufacturing unit where
training in manufacture and analysis for fourth year B. Pharm students is
proposed (Agreement to be produced)

### 15\. Whether the pharmacy College is having a tie up with a General
Hospital with a minimum of 100 beds, or with a Medical College within a radius
of 10 Kms. From the academic complex.

### 16\. Whether the Pharmacy College is having a minimum ready built area of
15,000 square feet for the first year course of study to accommodate
administrative office, laboratory, class rooms, library, toilets for students
and staff (separately for men and women)

Date : Place:Signature of the Applicant.Form II(See Statute 8 and
42)Certificate of RegistrationUnder statute ............. of the Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University (Affiliation of Pharmacy College) Statutes, it is hereby
certified that the application of...........college for starting of B.
Pharmacy/M. Pharmacy course of study has been registered with the Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University, Tamil Nadu. The issue of this Certificate of Registration,
alone shall not confer any right on the applicant college to start the B.
Pharm/M. Pharm Degree course.This certificate is valid for a period of one
year from the date of issue. (By order of the Governing Council)Signature of
the Registrar Chennai.SealDate:Form IIIApplication for Provisional Affiliation
by College to Start I/II/III/IV B.Pharmacy I/II M. Pharmacy Degree Course of
Study

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant

### 2\. Location of College with full address with telephone number if
available

### 3\. Does the College satisfy all the conditions stipulated in the Statutes
for the affiliation (with full details with evidences therefor)

### 4\. Does the College possess the Certificate of Registration issued by the
Dr. M.G.R. Medical University for starting I.E. Pharmacy II M. Pharmacy
College (copy of the Certificate of Registration to be enclosed)

### 5\. Whether the clearance and concurrence of the Pharmacy Council of
India, have been obtained by the College (Produce evidence)

### 6\. Whether the clearance of the Government of Tamil Nadu, have been
obtained by the college (Produce evidence)

Place:Date:Signature.Form IV(See Statute 60)Application for Increase in the
Number of Seats by College For B. Pharm/m. Pharm DegreesCourse of study.

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant

### 2\. Location of College with full address with telephone number, if
available

### 3\. Does the college satisfy all the conditions stipulated in the Statutes
of the University for increase in the No. of seats (full details with evidence
therefor).

### 4\. Has the college obtained provisional affiliation for all the four/two
years and full affiliation for the course (full details with University
provisional order No. and date/full affiliation order No. and date and copies
therefore to be enclosed)

### 5\. No. of students permitted for each year of course (full details year
wise to be furnished)

### 6\. Has the first batch of students completed the course of study,
appeared for the University examinations and Degree obtained by them has been
recognized by the Pharmacy Council of India

### 7\. Percentage of result during the previous years (year wise details)

### 8\. Whether the increase in seats now applied for is within the maximum
ceiling prescribed in the statutes

Signature of the applicant

