## Union of India - Act

## Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955

## Act 36 of 1955

  * Published on 14 October 1955 
  * Commenced on 14 October 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 October 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955Act No. 36 of 1955

### 1508.

Object and Reason.- (1) In 1949, the Government of India appointed a
Committee, under the Chairmanship of Mr. Justice Ghulam Hassan, the then Judge
of the Allahahad High Court, to report on the affairs of the Durgah Khawaja
Saheb, Ajmer, and to make recommendations for its efficient management in the
interests of the devotees. The present Bill seeks to implement the decisions
of Government on the recommendations of the Committee. The principal
provisions are as follows :(i) The administration, control and management of
the Durgah are to vest in a High Power Committee consisting of representative
Muslims to be appointed by the Central Government.(ii) A paid Nazim is to be
appointed a Member Secretaty of the Committee ahd to administer the
Durgah.(iii) An Advisory Committee is to be set up to advice the Nazim in the
discharge of his functions.(iv) The remuneration of the Sajjadanashin and the
manner of determining succession to that office are laid down.(v) The
soliciting or receiving of offerings on behalf of the Durgah is to be
prohibited except through the Nazim or a person authorised by him.(vi) A Board
of Arbitrtition is to be set up to settle disputes not relating to any
religious usage or custom or to the performance of any religious office. -
S.R.O., Gazette of India, 22-11-52, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 564.Act 20 of
1964.- (1) The Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955, was enacted to provide inter
alia for proper control and efficient management of the Durgah Endowments as
defined in the Act.2\. A large number of pilgrims who come to offer prayers at
the Durgah Khawaja Saheb, Ajmer, make offerings of nazars in the form of cash
or in kind, which are meant for the Durgah Khawaja Saheb and form part of the
Durgah Endowment. The Act expressly provides in sections 2(d) (v) and 14 that
only the Nazim or a person authorised by him is entitled to receive on behalf
of the Durgah narars and offerings given by the pilgrims. In contravention of
these express provisions of the Act some individuals have been collecting the
nazars and offerings made at the shrine and have been misappropriating them.
In the absence of a specific penal clause in the Act it has not been found
possible to take action against them in order to prevent them from doing so.
The acceptance of the offerings and nazars which are a source of substantial
income to the Durgah by unauthorised persons affects the interests of the
shrine. It is, therefore, considered necessary to make a specific provision
for penalising persons who solicit or receive nazars and offerings meant for
the Durgah in an unauthorised manner. The present Bill seeks to amend the
Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955, by providing for such a penal clause for this
purpose. - S.O.R., Gazette of India, 18-11-63, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p.
746.[14th October, 1955]An Act to make provision for the proper administration
of the Durgah and the Endowment of the Durgah of Khawaja Moin-ud-din Chishti,
generally known as Durgah Khawaja Saheb, Ajmer.BE it enacted by Parliament in
the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-

### 1. Short title and Commencement.-

(1)This Act may be called the Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1955.(2)It shall come
into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

1st March,1956, vide notification No. S.R.O. 482, dated 24-2-1956, Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, page 333.  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions.-

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Chief Commissioner"
means the Chief Commissioner of Ajmer, acting in his individual
capacity;(b)"Committee" means the Committee constituted under section
4;(c)"Durgah" means the institution known as the Durgah Khawaja Saheb, Ajmer,
and includes the premises called the Durgah Sharif with all buildings
contained therein, together with all additions thereto or all alterations
thereof which may hereafter be made from time to time;(d)"Durgah Endowment"
includes-(i)the Durgah Khawaja Saheb, Ajmer;(ii)all buildings and movable
property within the boundaries of the Durgah Sharif;(iii)Durgah Jagir,
including all land, houses and shops and all immovable property wherever
situated belonging to the Durgah Sharif;(iv)all other property and all income
derived from any source whatsoever dedicated to the Durgah or placed for any
religious, pious or charitable purposes under the Durgah Administration,
including the Jagirdari villages of Hokran and Kishanpur in Ajmer; and(v)all
such nazars or offerings as are received on behalf of the Durgah by the Nazim
or any person authorised by him;(e)"Nazim means the Nazim appointed under
section 9.

### 3. Act to override Act XX of 1863.-

This Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
contained in the Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (XX of 1863).

### 4. The Committee.-

(1)The administration, control and management of the Durgah Endowment shall be
vested in a Committee constituted in the manner hereinafter provided.(2)The
Committee shall, by the name of "The Durgah Committee, Ajmer", be a body
corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by
the said name sue and be sued through its president.

### 5. Composition of Committee.-

The Committee shall consist of not less than five and not more than nine
members all of whom shall be Hanafi Muslims and shall be appointed by the
Central Government.

### 6. Term of office and resignation and removal of members and casual
vacancies.-

(1)A member of the committee shall hold office for a period of five years from
the date of his appointment but may resign his office earlier by giving notice
in writing thereof to the Central Government and shall cease to be a member on
the resignation being accepted by that Government.(2)The Central Government
may remove from office any member of the Committee-(a)who is of unsound mind
and stands so declared by a competent court, or(b)who has applied for being
adjudged an insolvent, or is an under charged insolvent, or(c)who has been
convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude, or(d)who has absented
himself for a period of twelve consecutive months from the meetings of the
Committee, or(e)whose presence on the Committee would, in the opinion of the
Central Government, be prejudicial to the interests of the Durgah.(3)Casual
vacancies among members of the Committee shall be filled by appointment made
by the Central Government in consultation with the remaining members of the
Committee.(4)The term of office of a member appointed to fill a casual vacancy
shall be for so long only as the member whose place has been filled would have
been entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.

### 7. President and vice-president.-

(1)The Committee shall elect a president and a vice-president from among its
members.(2)When the office of the president is vacant or in the absence of the
president from any meeting, the vice-president shall perform the functions of
the president.(3)In the absence of the president and vice-president, a meeting
of the Committee may be presided over by a member elected by the majority of
the members present at the meeting.

### 8. Supersession of the Committee.-

If in the opinion of the Central Government the Committee is guilty of gross
mismanagement of the affairs of the Durgah or of neglect in the performance of
its functions, the Central Government may supersede the Committee and entrust
any person with full powers of the Committee until a new Committee is
constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 9. Power of Central Government to appoint Nazim.-

(1)The Central Government may, in consultation with the Committee, appoint a
person to be the Nazim of the Durgah and the Nazim shall in virtue of his
office be the secretary of the Committee:Provided that no such consultation
shall be necessary in the case of the appointment of the first Nazim.(2)The
Nazim shall be paid such salary and allowances as the Central Government may
fix out of the revenues of the Durgah Endowment.(3)The Committee shall
exercise its powers of administration, control and management of the Durgah
Endowment through the Nazim.

### 10. Advisory Committee to advise Nazim.-

For the purpose of advising the Nazim in the discharge of his functions under
this Act and also for such other purposes as may be specified in any bye-laws
of the Committee, the Central Government may, in consultation with the Chief
Commissioner, constitute an Advisory Committee consisting of such number of
persons, being Hanafi Muslims, not exceeding seven, as the Central Government
may think fit, such persons being chosen from among the residents of the State
of Ajmer or any of the neighbouring States.

### 11. Powers and duties of the Committee.-

The powers and duties of the Committee shall be-(a)to administer, control and
manage the Durgah Endowment;(b)to keep the buildings within the boundaries of
the Durgah Sharif and all buildings, houses and shops comprised in the Durgah
Endowment in proper order and in a state of good repair;(c)to receive all
moneys and other income of the Durgah Endowment;(d)to see that the Endowment
funds are spent in the manner desired by the donors;(e)to pay salaries,
allowances and perquisites and make all other payments due out of, or charged
on, the revenues or income of the Durgah Endowment;(f)to determine the
privileges of the Khadims and to regulate their presence in the Durgah by the
grant to them of licences in that behalf, if the Committee thinks it necessary
so to do;(g)to define the powers and duties of the Advisory Committee;(h)to
determine the functions and powers, if any, which the Sajjadanashin may
exercise in relation to the Durgah;(i)to appoint, suspend or dismiss servants
of the Durgah Endowment;(j)to make such provision for the education and
maintenance of the indigent descendants of Khawaja Moin-ud-din Chishti and
their families and the indigent Khadims and their families residing in India
as the Committee considers expedient consistently with the financial position
of the Durgah;(k)to delegate to the Nazim such powers and functions as the
Committee may think fit;(l)to do all other such things as may be incidental or
conducive to the efficient administration of the Durgah.

### 12. Remuneration of the Sajjadanashin.-

There shall be paid to the person for the time being holding the office of the
Sajjadanashin remuneration at the rate of rupees two hundred per mensem out of
the revenues of the Durgah Endowment.

### 13. Succession to the office of Sajjadanashin.-

(1)As soon as the office of the Sajjadanashin falls vacant, the Committee
shall, with the previous approval of the Chief Commissioner, make such interim
arrangements for the performance of the functions of the Sajjadanashin as it
may think fit, and immediately thereafter publish a notice in such form and
manner as may be determined by the Committee, inviting applications within one
month of such publication from persons claiming to succeed to that
office.(2)Where only one person claims to succeed to the office of the
Sajjadanashin and the Committee is satisfied as to his right to succeed, it
shall, with the previous approval of the Chief Commissioner, pass an order in
writing according recognition as Sajjadanashin to such person.(3)Where more
persons than one claim to succeed to the office of the Sajjadanashin, the
Committee shall, after consultation with the Chief Commissioner, refer the
dispute to the Judicial Commissioner of Ajmer for a decision regarding the
claim to succeed to that office, and the Judicial Commissioner, after taking
such evidence as he considers necessary and after giving an opportunity to the
claimants to be heard in respect of their claims, shall communicate his
decision to the Committee.(4)The Committee, on the receipt of the decision,
shall, with the previous approval of the Chief Commissioner, pass an order in
writing in accordance with such decision declaring the person found entitled
to succeed to the office of the Sajjadanashin and according recognition as
Sajjadanashin to such person.(5)An order passed by the Committee under sub-
section (2) or sub-section (4) shall be final and shall not be questioned in
any court.

### 14. Power to solicit or receive offerings on behalf of the Durgah.-

[(1)] [Section 41 renumbered as sub-section (1) by Act 20 of 1964, section 2]
It shall be lawful for the Nazim or any person authorised by him in this
behalf to solicit and receive on behalf of the Durgah any nazars or offerings
from any person, and notwithstanding anything contained in any rule of law or
decision to the contrary, no person other than the Nazim or any person
authorised by him in this behalf shall receive or be entitled to receive
nazars or offerings on behalf of the Durgah.(2)[ Whoever solicits or recieves
any nazars or offerings in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1),
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.(3)The
Nazim, the Sajjadanashin, the employees and servants of the Durgah Endowment
and all other persons authorised to do any act under this Act shall, while
acting or purporting to act in purpuance of any of the provisions made by or
under this Act, be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of Section
21 of the Indian Penal Code.] [Inserted by Act 20 of 1964, section 2]

### 15. Committee to observe Muslim Law and tenets of the Chishti Saint.-

Save as other wise provided under any enactment for the time being in force,
the Committee shall, in exercise of its powers and the discharge of its
duties, follow the rules of Muslim Law applicable to Hanafi Muslims in India,
and shall conduct and regulate the established rites and ceremonies in
accordance with the tenets of the Chishti Saint.

### 16. Board of Arbitration.-

(1)If any dispute arises between the Committee on the one part and the
Sajjadanashin, any Khadim, and any person claiming to be the servant of the
Durgah under some hereditary right or any one or more of them on the other
part and such dispute does not, in the opinion of the committee, relate to any
religious usage or custom or to the performance of any religious office, it
shall, at the request of either party to the dispute, be referred to a Board
of Arbitration consisting of-(i)a nominee of the Committee;(ii)a nominee of
the other party to the dispute; and(iii)a person who holds or has held the
office of, or is acting or has acted as, a district judge, to be appointed by
the Central Government, and the award of the Board shall be final and shall
not be questioned in any court.(2)No suit shall lie in any court in respect of
any matter which is required by sub-section (1) to be referred to a Board of
Arbitration.

### 17. Defect in the constitution of, or vacancy in the Committee not to
invalidate acts and proceedings.-

No act or proceeding of the Committee shall be invalidated merely by reason of
the existence of a vacancy among its members or a defect in the constitution
thereof.

### 18. Enforcement of final orders of Committee.-

Where in the exercise of its powers and performance of its duties the
Committee passes any final order against any person directing him to do, or to
abstain from doing, something, the person against whom the order is directed
shall be bound to comply with the order and in case of non-compliance with
such order any civil court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
person against whom the order has been passed, resides or carries on business
may execute the order in the same manner and by the same procedure as if it
were a decree or order passed by itself in a suit.

### 19. Audit of accounts and annual report.-

(1)The accounts of the Durgah shall be audited every year by such persons and
in such manner as the Central Government may direct.(2)The committee shall
every year prepare a report on the administration of the Durgah, which,
together with the accounts of the Durgah and the report of the auditor
thereon, shall be published in the Official Gazette.

### 20. Bylaws.-

(1)The Committee may make bye-laws to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such
bye-laws may provide for-(a)the division of duties among the president and the
members of the Committee;(b)the time and place of, the quorum for, and
procedure and conduct of business at, the meetings of the Committee;(c)the
security, if any, to be taken from the employees of the Committee;(d)the books
and accounts to be kept at the office of the Committee;(e)the custody and
investment of the property and the funds of the Durgah;(f)the details to be
included in or excluded from the budget of the Durgah;(g)the persons by whom
receipts may be granted for money paid to the Committee;(h)the maintenance of
peace and order within the Durgah compound and regulating the conduct of
persons within the precincts of the Durgah;(i)the duties and powers of the
employees of the Durgah;(j)the regulation of the cooking of degs and
distribution of the food so cooked, notwithstanding any judicial decision
relating to the right of any person or class of persons to participate in such
cooking or distribution;(k)the powers and functions of the Advisory committee
and the matters in which the advice of the Advisory Committee may be sought by
the Nazim;(l)the manner of entering into contracts by or on behalf of the
Committee.(3)Any power to make bye-laws conferred by this section is conferred
subject to the condition of the bye-laws being first published in draft for
objections by being hung up on the premises of the Durgah and of their not
taking effect until they have been approved and confirmed by the Central
Government and published in the Official Gazette.(4)The Central Government in
approving and confirming a bye-law may make any change therein which appears
to be necessary.(5)The Central Government may, after previous publication of
its intention, cancel any bye-law which it has approved and confirmed, and
there upon the bye-law shall cease to have effect.(6)[ Every bye-law made
under this section and every order made by the Central Government under sub-
section (5) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
the successive sessions aforeside, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the bye-law or order, or both Houses agree that the bye-law or
order should be made, the bye-law or order shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annualment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that bye-law or order.] [Inserted
by Act 20 of 1983, section 2]

### 21. Transitional provisions.-

The person holding the office of Sajjadanashin immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall, on and from such commencement, continue to
hold that office subject to the other provisions of this Act and to the final
decision in the suit relating to that office which is pending on such
commencement and to which the said person is a party.

### 22. Repeal.-

The Durgah Khawaja Saheb Act, 1936 (XXIII of 1936) and the Durgah Khawaja
Saheb (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1950 (XVII of 1950) are hereby repealed.

