## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Election of Members To The Committees of Panchayat Unions (Other Than
Appointment Committee) Rules, 1998

TAMILNADU  
India

# Election of Members To The Committees of Panchayat Unions (Other Than
Appointment Committee) Rules, 1998

## Rule ELECTION-OF-MEMBERS-TO-THE-COMMITTEES-OF-PANCHAYAT-UNIONS-OTHER-THAN-
APPOINTMENT-COMMITTEE-RULES-1998 of 1998

  * Published on 14 July 1998 
  * Commenced on 14 July 1998 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 July 1998.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Election of Members To The Committees of Panchayat Unions (Other Than
Appointment Committee) Rules, 1998Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No.
148, Rural Development (C-l), dated the 14th July 1998 - No. SRO
A/39(a-2)/98G.O. Ms. No. 148. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the Rules relating to Election of
Members to Committees of Panchayat Unions (other than Appointment Committee),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Election of Members to the Committees of
Panchayat Unions (other than Appointment Committee) Rules, 1998.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(b)"Committee"
means the Committee constituted under clause (c) of subsection (1) of section
96 of the Act;(c)"President" means the President of the meeting;(d)"Meeting"
means the meeting specially convened for the purpose of the election.

### 3. Holding of election of members.

\- The election of members, to each of the Committees, shall be held in the
offices of the Panchayat Union and shall be from among the elected members of
the Panchayat Union Council at a meeting.

### 4. Convening of meeting.

(a)The meeting shall be convened by the Chairman of the Panchayat Union
Council within thirty days of the occurrence of a vacancy:Provided that where
the Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council fails to convene the meeting, the
Inspector shall convene the same.(b)Notice of the day and hour of the meeting
shall be given to all the elected members and to the Inspector under
acknowledgement at least seven clear days previous to the date of the
meeting.(c)The Inspector shall depute an Observer not below the rank of an
Assistant Director of Rural Development or Revenue Divisional Officer to be
present at the meeting to ensure that the election is conducted in a free and
fair manner.

### 5. Nominations.

(a)Every candidate for election shall file a nomination in Form-I appended to
these rules and shall be proposed by a member. No proposer shall sign
nomination for more than the number of candidates to be elected.(b)The
President shall record the names of members so proposed in the minutes of the
meeting after ascertaining in writing their willingness to serve in the
Committee. He shall read out the names of candidates proposed to the members
present at the meeting.

### 6. Procedure in contested and uncontested election.

(a)If the number of contesting candidates is equal to the number of seats to
be elected, the President shall forthwith declare all such candidates to be
duly elected to the Committee.(b)If the number of contesting candidates is
more than the number of seats to be elected, a poll shall be taken.(c)If the
number of contesting candidates is less than the number of seats to be
elected, the President shall forthwith declare all the contesting candidates
to be duly elected and arrange for the conduct of election in respect of the
remaining seats.

### 7. Provision of voting compartment.

\- The President shall provide in the place where the meeting is held, a
voting compartment in which the members can record their votes screened from
observation. The President shall also place a ballot box for the receipt of
ballot papers in the view of the President and the members. The ballot box
shall be so constructed that the ballot papers can be introduced therein, but
cannot be withdrawn therefrom without the box being unlocked or opened.

### 8. Ballot box to be shown empty.

\- The President shall, immediately before the votes are taken, show the
ballot box empty to such members as may be present so that they may see that
it is empty and shall then lock it up and place a seal upon it in such a
manner as to prevent its being opened without breaking such seal.

### 9. Ballot paper.

\- Every member wishing to vote shall be supplied with a ballot paper of
uniform size and colour in the Form II in the Appendix to these rules on which
the names of all the candidates shall be legibly written or type-written or
cyclostyled in Tamil and signed by the President before being handed over to
the member.

### 10. Procedure for voting.

\- The member shall, on receiving the ballot paper, proceed to the voting
compartment for the purpose of recording his vote by putting a cross-mark on
the ballot paper against the name of the candidate or candidates for whom he
wishes to vote by using the seal supplied by the President. He shall, before
leaving the voting compartment, fold up the ballot paper so as to conceal the
cross-mark and put the ballot paper so folded up into the ballot box in the
presence of the President.

### 11. Voting by illiterate, blind, etc., persons.

(a)If owing to illiteracy or blindness or other physical infirmity, a member
is unable to read the ballot paper and make a cross-mark thereon and seeks
assistance for doing so, the President shall record the vote in the ballot
paper in accordance with the wishes of the member and fold it up so as to
conceal the vote.(b)The member shall then himself or with the assistance of
the President insert the ballot paper into the ballot box.(c)While acting
under this rule, the President shall observe as much secrecy as is feasible
and shall keep a brief record of each such instance, but shall not indicate
therein the manner in which any vote has been given.

### 12. Recording of votes.

\- After voting by members is over, the President shall open the ballot box in
the presence of members present, take out the ballot papers therefrom and,
record the number of votes obtained by each candidate in a statement.

### 13. Invalidation of ballot papers.

\- A ballot paper shall be treated as invalid on which -(a)there is no cross-
mark; or(b)if votes are given on it in favour of more candidates than the
number of candidates to be elected; or(c)a cross-mark and some other marks are
put opposite the name of the same candidate; or(d)any mark is made by which
the member may afterwards be identified; or(e)if it is uncertain to which
candidate the mark is intended to apply; or(f)the mark has been made by any
seal other than the one provided for this purpose.

### 14. Declaration of result of election.

\- When the counting of votes has been completed, the President shall
forthwith declare the candidate or candidates to whom the largest number of
valid votes has been given, to be elected.

### 15. Procedure in case of equality of votes.

\- If after the counting of the votes is completed, any candidates are found
to have secured equal number of votes and the addition of one vote will
entitle one of these candidates to be declared elected, the President shall
forthwith decide between these candidates by lot and proceed as if the
candidates on whom the lot falls had received an additional vote.

### 16. Reporting of the result of the election.

\- Immediately after the meeting, the President shall -(a)prepare a record of
the proceeding of the meeting in the minutes book, read out the minutes aloud,
sign it, attesting with his initials every correction made therein, and also
permit any member present at the meeting to affix his signature on such record
if he expresses his desire to do so;(b)send a report of the result of the
election to the Inspector and to such other officer or authority as may be
specified by the Government by general or special order;(c)publish on the
notice board of the office of the Panchayat Union, a notification signed by
him stating the name(s) of the person(s) elected as member(s) of the
Committee; and(d)the observer of the election shall separately send a detailed
report to the Inspector, within twenty-four hours as to whether the election
was conducted in a free and fair manner:Provided that where the Government is
satisfied, based on the report of the Inspector that the election has not been
conducted in a free and fair manner, the Government may cancel the result of
the election and order a fresh election.

### 17. Disposal of ballot papers.

(a)The President shall, then, make up the ballot papers into a separate
packet, seal up the packet and note thereon a description of its contents, the
election to which it relates and the date thereof.(b)These packets shall not
be opened and their contents shall not be inspected or produced except under
the order of a competent Court.(c)The packets shall be retained in safe
custody in the office of the Panchayat Union for a year and shall, then,
unless otherwise directed by the orders of a competent Court, be
destroyed.AppendixForm-I[See rule 5 (a)]Nomination Paper For Election of
Members of The CommitteesI, ................. an elected member from
.......... Ward of the Panchayat Union hereby nominate
Thiru/Tmt/Selvi......................................a member elected
from...............Ward of the .............. Panchayat Union as a candidate
for election as a member of the......................Committee.Signature of
the Proposer.Declaration of The CandidateI, .........,a member elected from
Ward of the ............Panchayat Union hereby give my consent to this
nomination.Signature of the candidate.Form II[See rule 9]Ballot PaperPanchayat
Union CouncilDate of Election:.............Names of the candidates duly
nominated for election as members of the Committee:
-(1)................(2)................(3)...............(4)................President.

