## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Seventh) Order, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Seventh) Order, 2005

## Rule ELECTRICITY-REMOVAL-OF-DIFFICULTIES-SEVENTH-ORDER-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 8 June 2005 
  * Commenced on 8 June 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 June 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Seventh) Order, 2005Published vide
Notification No. S.O. 796(E), dated 8th June, 2005Whereas the Electricity Act,
2003 (36 of 2003) (hereinafter referred to as the Act).came into force on
10.6.2003.And whereas sub-section (73) of Section 2 of Act defines a
transmission licensee as a licensee authorised to establish or operate
transmission lines;And whereas sub-section (72) of Section 2 of the Act
provides that "transmission lines" means all high pressure cables and overhead
lines (not being an essential part of the distribution system of a licensee)
transmitting electricity from a generating station to another generating
station or a sub-station, together with any step-up and step-down
transformers, switch-gear and other works necessary to and used for the
control of such cables or overhead lines, and such buildings or part thereof
as may be required to accommodate such transformers, switch-gear and other
works;And whereas supply of electricity to the housing colonies of the
operating staff of sub-stations located in the same premises is an integral
part of the activity of transmission of electricity by a transmission
licensee;And whereas housing the operating staff in the premises, where such
sub-station is located, is absolutely necessary in the interest of
satisfactory operation of such sub-station;And whereas difficulties have
arisen regarding the requirement of taking licence for supplying power to the
housing units of the operating staff of the sub-stations by transmission
licensees;Now, therefore, the Central Government in exercise of its powers
conferred by Section 183 of the Act hereby makes this order in respect of
supply of electricity to the housing colonies of the operating staff of sub-
station, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, to remove the
difficulties, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This order may be called the Electricity (Removal of Difficulties)
(Seventh) Order, 2005.(2)It shall come into force on the date of its
publication in the official gazette.

### 2. Supply of electricity to housing colony of sub-station.

\- The supply of electricity by a transmission licensee to the housing
colonies of the operating staff, located in the premises of that sub-station,
of sub-station will be deemed to be an integral part of the activity of
transmitting electricity and such licensee shall not be required to obtain
licence under this Act for such supply of electricity.

