## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Ninth) Order, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Ninth) Order, 2005

## Rule ELECTRICITY-REMOVAL-OF-DIFFICULTIES-NINTH-ORDER-2005 of 2005

  * Published on 9 June 2005 
  * Commenced on 9 June 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 June 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Ninth) Order, 2005Published vide
Notification No. S.O. 798(E), dated 9th June, 2005Whereas the Electricity Act,
2003 (36 of 2003) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) came into force on
10.6.2003.And whereas the sub-section (3) Section 181 of the Act requires that
the regulations made by the State Commissions shall be subject to the
conditions of previous publication;And whereas there is no specific provision
in the Act for such previous publication;And whereas some State Commissions
have made regulations without meeting the requirement of previous publication
under sub-section (3) of Section 181 of the Act and various actions have been
taken under such regulations;And whereas difficulties have arisen regarding
the validity of various actions taken under the regulations made by State
Government without meeting the requirement of previous publication;Now,
therefore, the Central Government in exercise of its powers conferred by
Section 183 of the Act hereby makes this order in respect of such regulations
and actions taken thereunder, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act,
to remove the difficulties, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This order may be called the Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Ninth)
Order, 2005.(2)It shall come into force on the date of their [publication in
the official gazette] [Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part
II, Section 3(ii), dated 9.6.2005.]

### 2. Previous publication of regulations made by the State Commissions.

\- Regulations made by the State Commissions, before the commencement of this
order without meeting the requirement of the previous publication under sub-
section (3) of Section 181 of the Act shall again the published as draft
regulations for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby for
inviting the objections or suggestions following the procedure prescribed
under the Electricity (Procedure for Previous Publication) Rules, 2005, and
shall be finalised after considering such objections or suggestions received.

### 3. Action taken under regulations.

\- Any action taken under the regulations made by the State Commission, before
the commencement of this order, without following the requirement of previous
publication shall not be deemed invalid merely on the ground of non-compliance
of previous publication of regulations.

