## Union of India - Act

## Employees Provident Funds Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Employees Provident Funds Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952

## Act 09 of 1952

  * Published in Gazette of India on 4 March 1952 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Employees' Provident Funds And Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1996 (Act 25 of 1996) on 1 January 1996] 

An Act to provide for the institution of provident funds, [pension fund] and
deposit linked insurance fund for employees in factories and other
establishmentBe it enacted by Parliament as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and application

### 2. [(1) This Act may be called the Employees' Provident Funds and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.]

(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)Subject to the provisions contained in section 16, it applies(a)to
every establishment which is a factory engaged in any industry specified in
Schedule I and in which 4[twenty] or more persons are employed, and(b)to any
other establishment employing [twenty] or more persons or class of such
establishments which the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf:PROVIDED that the Central Government
may, after giving not less than two months' notice of its intention so to do,
by notification in the Official Gazette, apply the provisions of this Act to
any establishment employing such number of persons less than [twenty] as may
be specified in the notification.](4)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (3) of this section or sub-section (1) of section 16, where it
appears to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, whether on an application
made to him in this behalf or otherwise, that the employer and the majority of
employees in relation to any establishment have agreed that the provisions of
this Act should be made applicable to the establishment, he may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, apply the provisions of this Act to that
establishment on and from the date of such agreement or from any subsequent
date specified in such agreement.](5)An establishment to which this Act
applies shall continue to be governed by this Act notwithstanding that the
number of persons employed therein at any time falls below twenty.]

### 2\. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)"appropriate government"
means-(i)in relation to an establishment belonging to, or under the control
of, the Central Government or in relation to an establishment connected with a
railway company, a major port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled industry,
or in relation to an establishment having departments or branches in more than
one State], the Central Government; and(ii)in relation to any other
establishment, the State Government;(aa)"authorized officer" means the Central
Provident Fund Commissioner, Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner,
Deputy Provident Fund Commissioner, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner or
such other officer as may be authorized by the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette];(b)"basic wages" means all emoluments
which are earned by an employee while on duty or on leave or on holidays with
wages in either case] in accordance with the terms of the contract of
employment and which are paid or payable in cash to him, but does not
include:(i)the cash value of any food concession;(ii)any dearness allowance
(that is to say, all cash payments by whatever name called paid to an employee
on account of a rise in the cost of living), house-rent allowance, overtime
allowance, bonus, commission or any other similar allowance payable to the
employee in respect of his employment or of work done in such
employment;(iii)any presents made by the employer;(c)"contribution" means a
contribution payable in respect of a member under a scheme [or the
contribution payable in respect of an employee to whom the Insurance Scheme
applies] ;(d)"controlled industry" means any industry the control of which by
the Union has been declared by a Central Act to be expedient in the public
interest;(e)"employer" means:(i)in relation to an establishment which is a
factory, the owner or occupier of the factory, including the agent of such
owner or occupier, the legal representative of a deceased owner or occupier
and, where a person has been named as a manager of the factory under clause
(f) of sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Factories Act, 1948, the person so
named; and(ii)in relation to any other establishment, the person who, or the
authority which, has the ultimate control over the affairs of the
establishment, and where the said affairs are entrusted to a manager, managing
director or managing agent, such manager, managing director or managing
agent];(f)"employee" means any person who is employed for wages in any kind of
work, manual or otherwise, in or in connection with the work of [an
establishment], and who gets his wages directly or indirectly from the
employer, [and includes any person(i)employed by or through a contractor in or
in connection with the work of the establishment;(ii)engaged as an apprentice,
not being an apprentice engaged under the Apprentices Act, 1961, or under the
standing orders of the establishment];(ff)"exempted employee" means an
employee to whom a Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be,] would,
but for the exemption granted under section 17, have applied;(fff)"exempted
[establishment]" means [an establishment] in respect of which an exemption has
been granted under section 17 from the operation of all [or any of the
provisions of any Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be], whether
such exemption has been granted to the 16[establishment] as such or to any
person or class of persons employed therein];(g)"factory" means any premises,
including the precincts thereof, in any part of which a manufacturing process
is being carried on or is ordinarily so carried on, whether with the aid of
power or without she aid of power;(gg)***(ggg)*** ](h)"Fund" means the
provident fund established under a Scheme;(i)"industry" means any industry
specified in Schedule I, and includes any other industry added to the Schedule
by notification under section 4;(ia)"Insurance Fund" means the Deposit-linked
Insurance Fund established under sub-section (2) of section 6C;(ib)"Insurance
Scheme" means the Employees' Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme framed under sub-
section (1) of section 6C];(ic)] "manufacture" or "manufacturing process"
means any process for making, altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing,
packing, oiling, washing, cleaning, breaking up, demolishing, or otherwise
treating or adapting any article or substance with a view to its use, sale,
transport, delivery or disposal] ;(j)"member" means a member of the
fund;(k)"occupier of a factory" means the person who has ultimate control over
the affairs of the factory, and, where the said affairs are entrusted to a
managing agent, such agent shall be deemed to be the occupier of the
factory;(kA)"Pension Fund" means the Employees' Pension Fund established under
sub-section (2) of section 6A;(kB)"Pension Scheme" means the Employees'
Pension Scheme framed under sub-section (1) of section 6A; ](ka)"prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(kb)"Recovery Officer" means any
officer of the Central Government, State Government or the Board of Trustees
constituted under section 5A, who may be authorized by the Central Government,
by notification in the Official Gazette, to exercise the powers of a Recovery
Officer under this Act] ;(l)"scheme" means the Employees' Provident Fund
Scheme framed under section 5];(ll)"superannuation", in relation to an
employee who is the member of the Pension Scheme, means the attainment, by the
said employee, of the age of fifty-eight years".](m)"Tribunal" means the
Employees' Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 7D].

### 2A. Establishment to include all departments and branches

For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where an establishment
consists of different departments or has branches, whether situate in the same
place or in different places, all such departments or branches shall be
treated as parts of the same establishment.]

### 3. Power to apply the Act to an establishment which has a common provident
fund with another establishment

Where immediately before this Act becomes applicable to an establishment there
is in existence a provident fund which is common to the employees employed in
that establishment and employees in any other establishment, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the
provisions of this Act shall also apply to such other establishment.]AIR 1971
SUPREME COURT 2577(V 58 C 555)(From: BOMBAY)*G.K. MITTER, C.A. VAIDIALINGAM
AND P. JAGANMOHAN REDDY, JJ.Union of India and another, Appellants v. Ogale
Glass Works Ltd.

### 4. Power to add to Schedule I

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to
Schedule I any other industry in respect of the employees whereof it is of
opinion that a provident fund scheme should be framed under this Act, and
thereupon the industry so added shall be deemed to be an industry specified in
Schedule I for the purposes of this Act.(2)All notifications under sub-section
(1) shall be laid before Parliament, as soon as may be, after they are issued.

### 5. Employees Provident Funds Scheme

(1)] The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
frame a Scheme to be called the Employees' Provident Funds Scheme for the
establishment of provident funds under this Act for employees or for any class
of employees and specify the [establishments] or class of [establishments] to
which the said Scheme shall apply [and there shall be established, as soon as
may be after the framing of the Scheme, a Fund in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the Scheme.](1A)The Fund shall vest in, and be
administered by, the Central Board constituted under section 5A.(1B)Subject to
the provisions of this Act, a Scheme framed under sub-section (1) may provide
for all or any of the matters specified in Sch. II. ][(2) A Scheme framed
under sub-section (1) may provide that any of its provisions shall take effect
either prospectively or retrospectively on such date as may be specified in
this behalf in the Scheme.

### 5A. Central Board

(1)The Central Government may, be notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a Board of
Trustees for the territories to which this Act extends (hereinafter in this
Act referred to as the Central Board) consisting of the following [persons as
members], namely:(a)a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman] to be appointed by the
Central Government;(aa)the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, ex
officio];(b)not more than five persons appointed by the Central Government
from amongst its officials;(c)not more than fifteen persons representing
Governments of such States as the Central Government may specify in this
behalf, appointed by the central Government;(d)[ten persons] representing
employers of the establishments to which the Scheme plies, appointed by the
Central Government after consultation with such organizations of employers as
may be recognized by the Central Government in this behalf; and(e)[ten
persons] representing employees in the establishments to which the Scheme
applies, appointed by the Central Government after consultation with such
organizations of employees as may be recognized by the Central Government in
this behalf.(2)The terms and conditions subject to which a member of the
Central Board may be appointed and the time, place and procedure of the
meetings of the Central Board shall be such as may be provided for in the
Scheme.(3)The Central Board shall, [subject to the provisions of section 6A]
[and section 6C], administer the fund vested in it in such manner as may be
specified in the Scheme.(4)The Central Board shall perform such other
functions as it may be required to perform by or under any provisions of the
Scheme, [Family Pension Scheme and the Insurance Scheme].(5)The Central Board
shall maintain proper accounts of its income and expenditure in such form and
in such manner as the Central Government may, after consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, specify in the Scheme.(6)The
accounts of the Central Board shall be audited annually by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India and any expenditure incurred by him in connection
with such audit shall be payable by the Central Board to the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India.(7)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and
any person appointed by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of
the Central Board shall have the same rights and privileges and authority in
connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General has, in
connection with the audit of Government accounts and, in particular, shall
have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected
vouchers, documents and papers and inspect any of the offices of the Central
Board.(8)The accounts of the Central Board as certified by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf
together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded to the Central Board
which shall forward the same to the Central Government along with its comments
on the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.(9)It shall be the duty
of the Central Board to submit also to the Central Government an annual report
of its work and activities and the Central Government shall cause a copy of
the annual report, the audited accounts together with the report of the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and the comments of the Central Board
thereon to be laid before each House of Parliament.]

### 5AA. Executive Committee

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified therein, an
Executive Committee to assist the Central Board in the performance of its
functions.(2)The Executive Committee shall consist of the following persons as
members, namely :(a)a Chairman appointed by the Central Government from
amongst the members of the Central Board;(b)two persons appointed by the
Central Government from amongst the persons referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 5A;(c)three persons appointed by the Central Government
from amongst the persons referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 5A;(d)three persons representing the employers elected by the Central
Board from amongst the persons referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (1) of
section 5A;(f)the Central Provident Fund Commissioner, ex officio.(3)The terms
and conditions subject to which a member of the Central Board may be appointed
or elected to the Executive Committee and the time, place and procedure of the
meetings of the Executive Committee shall be such as may be provided for in
the Scheme.]

### 5B. State Board

(1)The Central Government may, after consultation with the Government of any
State, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for that State a
Board of Trustees (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the State Board) in
such manner as may be provided for in the Scheme.(2)A State Board shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as the Central Government may
assign to it from time to time.(3)The terms and conditions subject to which a
member of a State Board may be appointed and the time, place and procedure of
the meetings of a State Board shall be such as may be provided for in the
Scheme.]

### 5C. Board of Trustees to be body corporate

Every Board of Trustees constituted under section 5A or section 5B shall be a
body corporate under the name specified in the notification constituting it,
having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall by the said name sue
and be sued.

### 5D. Appointment of officers

(1)The Central Government shall appoint a Central Provident Fund Commissioner
who shall be the chief executive officer of the Central Board and shall be
subject to the general control and superintendence of that Board.(2)The
Central Government may also appoint 32[a Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts
Officer] to assist the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the discharge of
his duties.(3)The Central Board may appoint, 26[subject to the maximum scale
of pay, as may be specified in the Scheme, as many Additional Central
Provident Fund Commissioners, Deputy Provident Fund Commissioners, Regional
Provident Fund Commissioners, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioners and such
other officers and employees as it may consider necessary for the efficient
administration of the Scheme, the 33[Pension] Scheme and the Insurance
Scheme.(4)No appointment to 34[the post of the Central Provident Fund
Commissioner or a Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer or any other
post under the Central Board carrying a scale of pay equivalent to the scale
of pay of any Group 'A' or Group 'B' post under the Central Government] shall
be made except after consultation with the Union Public Service
Commission:PROVIDED that no such consultation shall be necessary in regard to
any such appointment(a)for a period not exceeding one year, or(b)if the person
to be appointed is at the time of his appointment(i)a member of the Indian
Administrative Service, or(ii)in the service of the Central Government or a
State Government or the Central Board in a [Group 'A' or Group 'B' post.](5)A
State Board may, with the approval of the State Government concerned, appoint
such staff as it may consider necessary.(6)The method of recruitment, salary
and allowances, discipline and other conditions of service of the Central
Provident Fund Commissioner, 36[and the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts
Officer] shall be such as may be specified by the Central Government and such
salary and allowances shall be paid out of the Fund.(7)(a)The method of
recruitment, salary and allowances, discipline and other conditions of service
of the Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner, Deputy Provident Fund
Commissioner, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Assistant Provident Fund
Commissioner and other officers and employees of the Central Board shall be
such as may be specified by the Central Board in accordance with the rules and
orders applicable to the officers and employees of the Central Government
drawing corresponding scales of pay:PROVIDED that where the Central Board is
of the opinion that it is necessary to make a departure from the said rules or
orders in respect of any of the matters aforesaid, it shall obtain the prior
approval of the Central Government.(b)In determining the corresponding scales
of pay of officers and employees under cl.(a), the Central Board shall have
regard to the educational qualifications, method of recruitment, duties and
responsibilities of such officers and employees under the Central Government
and in case of any doubt, the Central Board shall refer the matter to the
Central Government whose decision thereon shall be final.](8)The method of
recruitment, salary and allowances, discipline and other conditions of
service37 of officers and employees of State Board shall be such as may be
specified by that Board, with the approval of the State Government concerned.

### 5DD. Acts and proceedings of the Central Board or its Executive Committee
or the State Board not to be invalidated on certain grounds

No act done or proceeding taken by the Central Board or the Executive
Committee constituted under section 5AA or the State Board shall be questioned
on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the
constitution of, the Central Board or the Executive Committee or the State
Board, as the case may be.]

### 5E. Delegation

The Central Board may delegate to the Executive Committee or to the Chairman
of the Board or to any of its officers and a State Board may delegate to its
Chairman or to any of its officers] subject to such conditions and
limitations, if any, as it may specify, such of its powers and functions under
this Act as it may deem necessary for the efficient administration of the
Scheme, the 33[Pension Scheme and the Insurance Scheme].]

### 6. Contributions and matters which may be provided for in the Scheme

The contribution which shall be paid by the employer to the Fund shall be [ten
per cent] of the basic wages, [dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if
any)], for the time being payable to each of the employees [(whether employed
by him directly or by or through a contractor)] and the employees'
contribution shall be equal to the contribution payable by the employer in
respect of him and may, [if any employee so desires be an amount not exceeding
[ten per cent] of his basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance
(if any), subject to the condition that the employer shall not be under an
obligation to pay any contribution over and above his contribution payable
under this section]:[PROVIDED that in its application to any establishment or
class of establishments which the Central Government, after making such
inquiry as it deems fit, may, by notification in the Official Gazette specify,
this section shall be subject to the modification that for the words [ten per
cent], at both the places where they occur, the words [twelve per cent] shall
be substituted]:[PROVIDED FURTHER that] where the amount of any contribution
payable under this Act involves a fraction of a rupee, the Scheme may provide
for the rounding off of such fraction to the nearest rupee, half of a rupee or
quarter of a rupee.Explanation [11: For the purposes of this [section],
dearness allowance shall be deemed to include also the cash value of any food
concession allowed to the employee.[Explanation 2: For the purposes of this
[section], "retaining allowance" means an allowance payable for the time being
to an employee of any factory or other establishment during any period in
which the establishment is not working, for retaining his services.]

### 6A. Employees' Pension Scheme

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, frame
a scheme to be called the Employees' Pension Scheme for the purpose of
providing for:(a)superannuation pension, retiring pension or permanent total
disablement pension to the employees of any establishment or class of
establishments to which this Act applies; and(b)widow or widower's pension,
children pension or orphan pension payable to the beneficiaries of such
employees.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, there shall be
established, as soon as may be after framing of the Pension Scheme, a Pension
Fund into which there shall be paid, from time to time, in respect of every
employee who is a member of the Pension Scheme:(a)such sums from the
employer's contribution under section 6, not exceeding eight and one-third per
cent of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance, if any,
of the concerned employees, as may be specified in the Pension Scheme;(b)such
sums as are payable by the employers of exempted establishments under sub-
section (6) of section 17;(c)the net assets of the Employees' Family Pension
Fund as on the date of the establishment of the Pension Fund;(d)such sums as
the Central Government may, after due appropriation by Parliament by law in
this behalf, specify.(3)On the establishment of the Pension Fund, the Family
Pension Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the ceased scheme) shall cease to
operate and all assets of the ceased scheme shall vest in and shall stand
transferred to, and all liabilities under the ceased scheme shall be
enforceable against, the Pension Fund and the beneficiaries under the ceased
scheme shall be entitled to draw the benefits, not less than the benefits,
they were entitled to under the ceased scheme, from the Pension Fund.(4)The
Pension Fund shall vest in and be administered by the Central Board in such
manner as may be specified in the Pension Scheme.(5)Subject to the provisions
of this Act, the Pension Scheme may provide for all or any of the matters
specified in Schedule III.(6)The Pension Scheme may provide that all or any of
its provisions shall take effect either prospectively or retrospectively on
such date as may be specified in that behalf in that Scheme.(7)A Pension
Scheme, framed under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it
is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree
in making any modification in the scheme or both Houses agree that the scheme
should not be made, the scheme shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that scheme.

### 6C. Employees' Deposit Linked insurance Scheme

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, frame
a Scheme to be called the Employees' Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme for the
purpose of providing life insurance benefits to the employees of any
establishment or class of establishments to which this Act applies.(2)There
shall be established, as soon as may be after the framing of the Insurance
Scheme, a Deposit-linked Insurance Fund into which shall be paid by the
employer from time to time in respect of every such employee in relation to
whom he is the employer, such amount, not being more than one per cent of the
aggregate of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if
any) for the time being payable in relation to such employee as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.Explanation:
For the purposes of this sub-section, the expressions "dearness allowance" and
"retaining allowance" have the same meanings as in section 6.(3)***](4)(a)The
employer shall pay in to the Insurance Fund such further sums of money, not
exceeding one-fourth of the contribution which he is required to make under
sub-section (2), as the Central Government may, from time to time, determine
to meet all the expenses in connection with administration of the Insurance
Scheme other than the expenses towards the cost of any benefits provided by or
under that Scheme.(b)[***](5)The Insurance Fund shall vest in the Central
Board and be administered by it in such manner as may be specified in the
Insurance Scheme.(6)The Insurance Scheme may provide for all or any of the
matters specified in Schedule IV.(7)The Insurance Scheme may provide that any
of its provisions shall take effect either prospectively or retrospectively on
such date as may be specified in this behalf in that Scheme.]

### 6D. Laying of Schemes before Parliament

Every Scheme framed under section 5, section 6A and Section 6C shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is framed, before each House of Parliament, while
it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any notification in the Scheme, or both
Houses agree that the scheme should not be framed, the Scheme shall thereafter
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under the Scheme.]

### 7. Modification of Scheme

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add
to, [amend or vary, either prospectively or retrospectively, the Scheme, the
[Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be.][(2) Every
notification issued under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is issued, before each House of Parliament while it is in session,
for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the notification, or both houses
agree that the notification should not be issued, the notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be ; so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification.]

### 7A. Determination of moneys due from employers

(1)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner, any Additional Central Provident
Fund Commissioner, any Deputy Provident Fund Commissioner, any Regional
Provident Fund Commissioner or any Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner may,
by order,(a)in a case where a dispute arises regarding the applicability of
this Act to an establishment, decide such dispute; and(b)determine the amount
due from any employer under any provision of this Act, the Scheme or the
33[Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme, as the case may be, and for any of
the aforesaid purposes may conduct such inquiry as he may deem
necessary.](2)The officer conducting the inquiry under sub-section (1) shall,
for the purposes of such inquiry, have the same powers as are vested in a
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, for trying a suit in respect of
the following matters, namely:(a)enforcing the attendance of any person or
examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of
documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit;(d)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses;and any such inquiry shall be deemed to be judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purpose of
section 196 of the Indian Penal Code.(3)No order shall be made under sub-
section (1), unless [the employer concerned] is given a reasonable opportunity
of representing his case.(3A)Where the employer, employee or any other person
required to attend the inquiry under sub-section (1) fails to attend such
inquiry without assigning any valid reason or fails to produce any document or
to file any report or return when called upon to do so, the officer conducting
the inquiry may decide the applicability of the Act or determine the amount
due from any employer, as the case may be, on the basis of the evidence
adduced during such enquiry and other documents available on record.](4)Where
an order under sub-section (1) is passed against an employer ex parte, he may,
within three months from the date of communication of such order, apply to the
officer for setting aside such order and if he satisfies the officer that the
show cause notice was not duly served or that he was prevented by any
sufficient cause from appearing when the inquiry was held, the officer shall
make an order setting aside his earlier order and shall appoint a date for
proceeding with the inquiry:PROVIDED that no such order shall be set aside
merely on the ground that there has been an irregularity in the service of the
show cause notice if the officer is satisfied that the employer had notice of
the date of hearing and had sufficient time to appear before the
officer.Explanation: Where an appeal has been preferred under this Act against
an order passed ex parte and such appeal has been disposed of otherwise than
on the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application
shall lie under this sub-section for setting aside the ex-pert order.(5)No
order passed under this section shall be set aside on any application under
sub-section (4) unless notice thereof has been served on the opposite party.]

### 7B. Review of orders passed under section 7A

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) of section 7A,
but from which no appeal has been preferred under this Act, and who, from the
discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of
due diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at
the time when the order was made, or on account of some mistake or error
apparent on the face of the record or for any other sufficient reason, desires
to obtain for a review of such order may apply for a review of that order to
the officer who passed the order:PROVIDED that such officer may also on his
own motion review his order if he is satisfied that it is necessary so to do
on any such ground.(2)Every application for review under sub-section (1) shall
be filed in such form and manner and within such time as may be specified in
the Scheme.(3)Where it appears to the officer receiving an application for
review that there is no sufficient ground for review, he shall reject the
application.(4)Where the officer is of the opinion that the application for
review should be granted, he shall grant the same:PROVIDED that,(a)no such
application shall be granted without previous notice to all the parties before
him to enable them to appear and be heard in support of the order in respect
of which a review is applied for, and(b)no such application shall be granted
on the ground of discovery of new matter or evidence which the applicant
alleges was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him when the
order was made, without proof of such allegation.(5)No appeal shall lie
against the order of the officer rejecting an application for review, but an
appeal under this Act shall lie against an order passed under review as if the
order passed under review were the original order passed by him under section
7A.

### 7C. Determination of escaped amount

Where an order determining the amount due from an employer under section 7A or
section 7B has been passed and if the officer who passed the order(a)has
reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the
employer to make any document or report available, or to disclose, fully and
truly, all material facts necessary for determining the correct amount due
from the employer, any amount so due from such employer for any period has
escaped his notice;(b)has, in consequence of information in his possession,
reason to believe that any amount to be determined under section 7A or section
7B has escaped from his determination for any period notwithstanding that
there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in cl. (a) on the part of
the employer, he may, within a period of five years from the date of
communication of the order passed under section 7A or section 7B, re-open the
case and pass appropriate orders re-determining the amount due from the
employer in accordance with the provisions of this Act:PROVIDED that no order
re-determining the amount due from the employer shall be passed under this
section unless the employer is given a reasonable opportunity of representing
his case.

### 7D. Employees' Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute one or more Appellate Tribunals to be known as the Employees'
Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal to exercise the powers and discharge the
functions conferred on such Tribunal by this Act and every such Tribunal shall
have jurisdiction in respect of establishments situated in such area as may be
specified in the notification constituting the Tribunal.(2)A Tribunal shall
consist of one person only to be appointed by the Central Government.(3)A
person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Presiding Officer of a
Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Presiding Officer) unless he is or
has been, or is qualified to be-(i)a Judge of a High Court; or(ii)a District
Judge.]

### 7E. Term of office

The Presiding Officer of a Tribunal shall hold office for a term of five years
from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he attains the age
of sixty-two years, whichever is earlier.

### 7F. Resignation

(1)The Presiding Officer may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to
the Central Government, resign his office:PROVIDED that the Presiding Officer
shall, unless he is permitted by the Central Government to relinquish his
office sooner, continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from
the date of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his
successor enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office,
whichever is the earliest.(2)The Presiding Officer shall not be removed from
his office except by an order made by the President on the ground of proved
misbehavior or incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the High Court
in which such Presiding Officer had been informed of the charges against him
and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those
charges.(3)The Central Government may, by rules, regulate the procedure for
the investigation of misbehavior or incapacity of the Presiding Officer.]

### 7G. Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Presiding Officer

The salary and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of
service (including pension, gratuity and other retirement benefits) of, the
Presiding Officer shall be such as may be prescribed:PROVIDED that neither the
salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions of service of the
Presiding Officer shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.

### 7H. Staff of Tribunal

(1)The Central Government shall determine the nature and categories of the
officers and other employees required to assist a Tribunal in the discharge of
its functions and provide the Tribunal with such officers and other employees
as it may think fit.(2)The officers and other employees of a Tribunal shall
discharge their functions under the general superintendence of the Presiding
Officer.(3)The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of a Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7\.

-I. Appeals to Tribunal(1)Any person aggrieved by a notification issued by the Central Government, or an order passed by the Central Government or any authority, under the proviso to sub-section (3), or sub-section (4), of section 1, or section 3, or sub-section (1) of section 7A, or section 7B [except an order rejecting an application for review referred to in sub-section (5) thereof], or section 7C, or section 14B, may prefer an appeal to a Tribunal against such notification or order.(2)Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed in such form and manner, within such time and be accompanied by such fees, as may be prescribed.

### 7J. Procedure of Tribunal

(1)A Tribunal shall have power to regulate its own procedure in all matters
arising out of the exercise of its powers or of the discharge of its functions
including the places at which the Tribunal shall have its sittings.(2)A
Tribunal shall, for the purpose of discharging its functions, have all the
powers which are vested in the officers referred to in section 7A and any
proceeding before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purpose of section 196
of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860), and the Tribunal shall be deemed
to be a Civil Court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 7K. Right of appellant to take assistance of legal practitioner and of
government, etc. to appoint presenting officers

(1)A person preferring an appeal to a Tribunal under this Act may either
appear in person or take the assistance of a legal practitioner of his choice
to present his case before the Tribunal.(2)The Central Government or a State
Government or any other authority under this Act may authorize one or more
legal practitioners or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and
every person so authorized may present the case with respect to any appeal
before a Tribunal.

### 7L. Orders of Tribunal

(1)A Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal an opportunity of
being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying
or annulling the order appealed against or may refer the case back to the
authority which passed such order with such directions as the Tribunal may
think fit, for a fresh adjudication or order, as the case may be, after taking
additional evidence, if necessary.(2)A Tribunal may, at any time within five
years from the date of its order, with a view to rectifying any mistake
apparent from the record, amend any order passed by it under sub-section (1)
and shall make such amendment in the order if the mistake is brought to its
notice by the parties to the appeal:PROVIDED that an amendment which has the
effect of enhancing the amount due from, or otherwise increasing the liability
of, the employer shall not be made under this sub-section, unless the Tribunal
has given notice to him of its intention to do so and has allowed him a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)A Tribunal shall send a copy of every
order passed under this section to the parties to the appeal.(4)Any order may
by a Tribunal finally disposing of an appeal shall not be questioned in any
Court of law.

### 7M. Filling up of vacancies

If, for any reason, a vacancy occurs in the office of the Presiding Officer,
the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be
continued before a Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is filled.

### 7N. Finality of orders constituting a Tribunal

No order of the Central Government appointing any person as the Presiding
Officer shall be called in question in any manner, and no act or proceeding
before a Tribunal shall be called in question in any manner on the ground
merely of any defect in the constitution of such Tribunal.

### 7\.

-O. Deposit of amount due, on filing appealNo appeal by the employer shall be entertained by a Tribunal unless he has deposited with it seventy-five per cent of the amount due from him as determined by an officer referred to in section 7A :PROVIDED that the Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the amount to be deposited under this section.

### 7P. Transfer of certain applications to Tribunal

All applications which are pending before the Central Government under section
19A before its repeal, shall stand transferred to a Tribunal exercising
jurisdiction in respect of establishments in relation to which such
applications had been made as if such applications were appeals preferred to
the Tribunal.

### 7Q. Interest payable by the employer

The employer shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of twelve per
cent per annum or at such higher rate as may be specified in the Scheme on any
amount due from him under this Act from the date on which the amount has
become so due till the date of its actual payment:PROVIDED that higher rate of
interest specified in the Scheme shall not exceed the lending rate of interest
charged by any scheduled bank.]

### 8. Mode of recovery of moneys due from employers

Any amount due:(a)from the employer in relation to [an establishment] to which
any [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] applies in respect of any contribution
payable to [the Fund or, as the case may be, the Insurance Fund], damages
recoverable under section 14B, accumulations required to be transferred under
sub-section (2) of section 15 [or under sub-section (5) of section 17] or any
charges payable by him under any other provision of this Act or of any
provision of the [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] ; or(b)from the employer in
relation to an exempted [establishment] in respect of any damages recoverable
under section 14B or any charges payable by him to the appropriate Government
under any provision of this Actor under any of the conditions specified
60[under section 17 or in respect of the contribution payable by him towards
the [Pension] [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] under the said section 17],
may, if the amount is in arrears, [be recovered [in the manner specified in
sections 8B to 8G.]

### 8A. Recovery of moneys by employers and contractors

(1)[The amount of contribution (that is to say, the employer's contribution as
well as the employee's contribution in pursuance of any Scheme and the
employer's contribution in pursuance of the Insurance Scheme)]; and any
charges for meeting the cost of administering the Fund paid or payable by an
employer in respect of an employee employed by or through a contractor may be
recovered by such employer from the contractor, either by deduction from any
amount payable to the contractor under any contract or as a debt payable by
the contractor.(2)A contractor from whom the amounts mentioned in sub-section
(1) may be recovered in respect of any employee employed by or through him,
may recover from such employee the employee's contribution [under any Scheme]
by deduction from the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance
(if any) payable to such employee.(3)Notwithstanding any contract to the
contrary, no contractor shall be entitled to deduct the employer's
contribution or the charges referred to in sub-section (1) from the basic
wages, dearness allowance, and retaining allowance (if any) payable to an
employee employed by or through him or otherwise to recover such contribution
or charges from such employee.Explanation: In this section, the expression
"dearness allowance" and "retaining allowance" shall have the same meanings as
in section 6.]

### 8B. Issue of certificate to the Recovery Officer

(1)Where any amount is in arrears under section 8, the authorized officer may
issue, to the Recovery Officer, a certificate under his signature specifying
the amount of arrears and the Recovery Officer, on receipt of such
certificate, shall proceed to recover the amount specified therein from the
establishment or, as the case may be, the employer by one or more of the modes
mentioned below:(a)attachment and sale of the movable or immovable property of
the establishment or, as the case may be, the employer;(b)arrest of the
employer and his detention in prison;(c)appointing a receiver for the
management of the movable or immovable properties of the establishment or, as
the case may be, the employer:PROVIDED that the attachment and sale of any
property under this section shall first be effected against the properties of
the establishment and where such attachment and sale is insufficient for
recovering the whole of the amount of arrears specified in the certificate,
the Recovery Officer may take such proceedings against the property of the
employer for recovery of the whole or any part of such arrears.(2)The
authorized officer may issue a certificate under sub-section (1), not
withstanding that proceedings for recovery of the arrears by any other mode
have been taken.

### 8C. Recovery Officer to whom certificate is to be forwarded

(1)The authorized officer may forward the certificate referred to in section
8B to the Recovery Officer within whose jurisdiction the employer(a)carries on
his business or profession or within whose jurisdiction the principal place of
his establishmentis situate; or(b)resides or any movable or immovable property
of the establishment or the employer is situate.(2)Where an establishment or
the employer has property within the jurisdiction of more than one Recovery
Officers and the Recovery Officer to whom a certificate is sent by the
authorized officer(a)is not able to recover to the entire amount by the sale
of the property, movable or immovable, within his jurisdiction; or(b)is of the
opinion that, for the purpose of expediting or securing the recovery of the
whole or any part of the amount, it is necessary so to do, he may send the
certificate or, where only a part of the amount is to be recovered, a copy of
the certificate certified in the prescribed manner and specifying the amount
to be recovered to the Recovery Officer within whose jurisdiction the
establishment or the employer has property or the employer resides, and
thereupon that Recovery Officer shall also proceed to recover the amount due
under this section as if the certificate or the copy thereof had been the
certificate sent to him by the authorized officer.

### 8D. Validity of certificate and amendment thereof

(1)When the authorized officer issues a certificate to Recovery Officer under
section 8B, it shall not be open to the employer to dispute before the
Recovery Officer the correctness of the amount, and no objection to the
certificate on any other ground shall also be entertained by the Recovery
Officer.(2)Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate to a Recovery Officer,
the authorized officer shall have power to withdraw the certificate or correct
any clerical or arithmetical mistake in the certificate by sending an
intimation to the Recovery Officer.(3)The authorized officer shall intimate to
the Recovery Officer any order withdrawing or canceling a certificate or any
correction made by him under sub-section (2) or any amendment made under sub-
section (4) of section 8E.

### 8E. Stay of proceedings under certificate and amendment or withdrawal
thereof

(1)Notwithstanding that a certificate has been issued to the Recovery Officer
for the recovery of any amount, the authorized officer may grant time for the
payment of the amount, and thereupon the Recovery Officer shall stay the
proceedings until the expiry of the time so granted.(2)Where a certificate for
the recovery of amount has been issued, the authorized officer shall keep the
Recovery Officer informed of any amount paid or time granted for payment,
subsequent to the issue of such certificate.(3)Where the order giving rise to
a demand of amount for which a certificate for recovery has been issued has
been modified in appeal or other proceeding under this Act, and, as a
consequence thereof, the demand is reduced but the order is the subject-matter
of a further proceeding under this Act, the authorized officer shall stay the
recovery of such part of the amount of the certificate as pertains to the said
reduction for the period for which the appeal or other proceeding remains
pending.(4)Where a certificate for the recovery of amount has been issued and
subsequently the amount of the outstanding demand is reduced as a result of an
appeal or other proceeding under this Act, the authorized officer shall, when
the order which was the subject-matter of such appeal or other proceeding has
become final and conclusive, amend the certificate or withdraw it, as the case
may be.

### 8F. Other modes of recovery

(1)Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate to the Recovery Officer under
section 8B, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or any other officer
authorized by the Central Board may recover the amount by any one or more of
the modes provided in this section.(2)If any amount is due from any person to
any employer who is in arrears, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or any
other officer authorized by the Central Board in this behalf may require such
person to deduct from the said amount the arrears due from such employer under
this Act, and such person shall comply with any such requisition and shall pay
the sum so deducted to the credit of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorized, as the case may be:PROVIDED that nothing in this
sub-section shall apply to any part of the amount exempt from attachment in
execution of a decree of a civil court under section 60 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908.(3)(i)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner or any other
officer authorized by the Central Board in this behalf may, at any time or
from time to time, by notice in writing, require any person from whom money is
due or may become due to the employer or, as the case may be, the
establishment or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on
account of the employer or as the case may be, the establishment, to pay to
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner either forthwith upon the money
becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice
(not being before the money becomes due or is held) so much of the money as is
sufficient to pay the amount due from the employer in respect of arrears or
the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount.(ii)A
notice under this sub-section may be issued to any person who holds or may
subsequently hold any money for or on account of the employer jointly with any
other person and for the purposes of this sub-section, the shares of the
joint-holders in such account shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved,
to be equal.(iii)A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the employer at
his last address known to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or, as the
case may be, the officer so authorized and in the case of a joint account to
all the joint-holders at their last addresses known to the Central Provident
Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorized.(iv)Save as otherwise provided
in this sub-section, every person to whom a notice is issued under this sub-
section shall be bound to comply with such notice, and, in particular, where
any such notice is issued to a post office, bank or an insurer, it shall not
be necessary for any pass book, deposit receipt, policy or any other document
to be produced for the purpose of any entry, endorsement or the like being
made before payment is made notwithstanding any rule, practice or requirement
to the contrary.(v)Any claim respecting any property in relation to which a
notice under this sub-section has been issued arising after the date of the
notice shall be void as against any demand contained in the notice.(vi)Where a
person to whom a notice under this sub-section is sent objects to it by a
statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the
employer or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the employer,
then, nothing contained in this sub-section shall be deemed to require such
person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, but if it is
discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, such
person shall be personally liable to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorized to the extent of his own liability to the
employer on the date of the notice, or to the extent of the employer's
liability for any sum due under this Act, whichever is less.(vii)The Central
Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorized may, at any time or
from time to time, amend or revoke any notice issued under this sub-section or
extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of such notice.(viii)The
Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorized shall grant a
receipt for any amount paid in compliance with a notice issued under this sub-
section, and the person so paying shall be fully discharged from his liability
to the employer to the extent of the amount so paid.(ix)Any person discharging
any liability to the employer after the receipt of a notice under this sub-
section shall be personally liable to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner
or the officer so authorized to the extent of his own liability to the
employer so discharged or to the extent of the employer's liability for any
sum due under this Act, whichever is less.(x)If the person to whom a notice
under this sub-section is sent fails to make payment in pursuance thereof to
the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer so authorized he shall
be deemed to be an employer in default in respect of the amount specified in
the notice and further proceedings may be taken against him for the
realization of the amount as if it were an arrear due from him, in the manner
provided in sections 8B to 8E and the notice shall have the same effect as an
attachment of a debt by the Recovery Officer in exercise of his powers under
section 8B.(4)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner or the officer
authorized by the Central Board in this behalf may apply to the court in whose
custody there is money belonging to the employer for payment to him of the
entire amount of such money, or if it is more than the amount due, an amount
sufficient to discharge the amount due.(5)The Central Provident Fund
Commissioner or any officer not below the rank of Assistant Provident Fund
Commissioner may, if so authorized by the Central Government by general or
special order, recover any arrears of amount due from an employer or, as the
case may be, from the establishment by distraint and sale of his or its
movable property in the manner laid down in the Third Schedule to the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).

### 8G. Application of certain provisions of Income Tax Act

The provisions of the Second and Third Schedules to the Income Tax Act, 1961
(43 of 1961), and the Income Tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in
force from time to time, shall apply with necessary modifications as if the
said provisions and the rules referred to the arrears of the amount mentioned
in section 8 of this Act instead of to the Income Tax:PROVIDED that any
reference in the said provisions and the rules to the "assessee" shall be
construed as a reference to an employer as defined in this Act.

### 9. Fund to be recognized under Act 11 of 1922

For the purposes of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, the Fund shall be deemed
to be a recognized provident fund within the meaning of Chapter IX-A of that
Act:[PROVIDED that nothing contained in the said Chapter shall operate to
render ineffective any provision of the Scheme (under which the Fund is
established) which is repugnant to any of the provisions of that Chapter or of
the rules made thereunder.]]

### 10. Protection against attachment

(1)The amount standing to the credit of any member in the Fund [or of any
exempted employee in a provident fund] shall not in any way be capable of
being assigned or charged and shall not be liable to attachment under any
decree or order of any Court in respect of any debt or liability incurred by
the member [or the exempted employee], and neither the official assignee
appointed under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909, nor any receiver
appointed under the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, shall be entitled to, or
have any claim on, any such amount.(2)Any amount standing to the credit of a
member in the Fund or of an exempted employee in a provident fund at the time
of his death and payable to his nominee under the Scheme or the rules of the
Provident Fund shall, subject to any deduction authorized by the said Scheme
or rules, vest in the nominee and shall be free from any debt or other
liability incurred by the deceased or the nominee before the death of the
member or of the exempted employee [and shall also not be liable to attachment
under any decree or order of any Court.](3)The provisions of sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the family
pension or any other amount payable under the 33[Pension] Scheme 11[and also
in relation to any amount payable under the Insurance Scheme] as they apply in
relation to any amount payable out of the Fund.]

### 11. Priority of payment of contributions over other debts

(1)Where any employer is adjudicated in solvent or, being a company, an order
for winding up is made, the amount due(a)from the employer in relation to [an
establishment] to which any [Scheme or the insurance Scheme] applies in
respect of any contribution payable to the Fund [or, as the case may be, the
Insurance Fund], damages recoverable under section 14B, accumulations required
to be transferred under sub-section (2) of section 15 or any charges payable
by him under any other provision of this Act or of any provision of the[Scheme
or the Insurance Scheme]; or(b)from the employer in relation to an exempted
[establishment] in respect of any contribution to the provident fund or any
insurance fund] (in so far as it relates to exempted employees), under the
rules of [the provident fund or any insurance fund] [any contribution payable
by him towards the [Pension] Fund under sub-section (6) of section 17,]
damages recoverable under section 14B or any charges payable by him to the
appropriate Government under any provision of this Act under any of the
conditions specified under section 17, shall where the liability therefor has
accrued before the order of adjudication or winding up is made, be deemed to
be included] among the debts which under section 49 of the Presidency Towns
Insolvency Act, 1909, or under section 61 of the Provincial Insolvency Act,
1920, or under [section 530 of the Companies Act, 1956], are to be paid in
priority to all other debts in the distribution of the property of the
insolvent or the assets of the company being wound up, as the case may
be.[Explanation: In this sub-section and in section 17, "insurance fund" means
any fund established by an employer under any Scheme for providing benefits in
the nature of life insurance to employees, whether linked to their deposits in
provident fund or not, without payment by the employees of any separate
contribution or premium in that behalf.][(2) Without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1), if any amount is due from an employer, [whether
in respect of the employee's contribution (deducted from the wages of the
employee) or the employer's contribution], the amount so due shall be deemed
to be the first charge on the assets of the establishment, and shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, be paid in priority to all other debts.]

### 12. Employer not to reduce wages, etc.

No employer in relation to [an establishment] to which any [Scheme or the
Insurance Scheme] applies shall, by reason only of his liability for the
payment of any contribution to [the Fund or the Insurance Fund] or any charges
under this Act or the [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme], reduce, whether
directly or indirectly, the wages of any employee to whom the [Scheme or the
Insurance Scheme] applies or the total quantum of benefits in the nature of
old age pension, gratuity 74[provident fund or life insurance] to which the
employee is entitled under the terms of his employment, express or implied.]

### 13. Inspectors

(1)The appropriate government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint such persons as it thinks fit to be Inspectors for the purposes of
this Act [, the Scheme [, the [Pension ] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme]], and
may define their jurisdiction.(2)Any Inspector appointed under sub-section (1)
may, for the purpose of inquiring into the correctness of any information
furnished in connection with this Act or with any [Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme] or for the purpose of ascertaining whether any of the provisions of
this Act or of any [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] have been complied with [
in respect of [an establishment] to which any [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme]
applies or for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act
or any [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] are applicable to any [establishment]
to which the [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] has not been applied or for the
purpose of determining whether the conditions subject to which exemption was
granted under section 17 are being complied with by the employer in relation
to an exempted [establishment].(a)require an employer [or any contractor from
whom any amount is recoverable under section 8A] to furnish such information
as he may consider necessary;(b)at any reasonable time [and with such
assistance, if any, as he may think fit, enter and search] any
[establishment], or any premises connected therewith and require any one found
in charge thereof to produce before him for examination any accounts, books,
registers and other documents relating to the employment of persons or the
payment of wages in the [establishment];(c)examine, with respect to any matter
relevant to any of the purposes aforesaid, the employer [or any contractor
from whom any amount is recoverable under sections 8A], his agent or servant
or any other person found in charge of the [establishment], or any premises
connected there with or whom the Inspector has reasonable cause to believe to
be or to have been, an employee in the [establishment];(d)makes copies of, or
take extracts from, any book, register or other document maintained in
relation to the establishment and, where he has reason to believe that any
offence under this Act has been committed by an employer, seize with such
assistance as he may think fit, such book, register or other document or
portions thereof as he may consider relevant in respect of that
offence;](e)exercise such other powers as the [Scheme or the Insurance Scheme]
may provide.(2A)Any Inspector appointed under sub-section (1) may, for the
purpose of inquiring into the correctness of any information furnished in
connection with the [Pension] Scheme or for the purpose of ascertaining
whether any of the provisions of this Act or of the [Pension] Scheme have been
complied with in respect of an establishments to which the [Pension] Scheme
applies, exercise all or any of the powers conferred on him under clause (a),
(b), (c) or (d) of sub-s. (2).](2B)The provisions of the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898], shall, so far as may be, apply to any search or seizure
under sub-section (2) [or under sub-section (2A), as the case may be,] as they
apply to any search and seizure made under the authority of a warrant issued
under [section 98] of the said Code.

### 14. Penalties

(1)Whoever, for the purpose of avoiding any payment to be made by himself
under this Act [the Scheme, ,the [Pension] Scheme] or the Insurance Scheme] or
of enabling any other person to avoid such payment knowingly makes or causes
to be made any false statement or false representation shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine of
five thousand rupees, or with both].(1A)An employer who contravenes, or makes
default in complying with, the provisions of section 6 or clause (a) of sub-
section (3) of section 17 in so far as it relates to the payment of inspection
charges, or para 38 of the Scheme insofar as it relates to the payment of
administrative charges, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to [three years] but(a)which shall not be less than [one year and
fine of ten thousand rupees] in case of default in payment of employees'
contribution which has been deducted by the employer from the employees'
wages;(b)which shall not be less than six months and fine of five thousand
rupees, in any other case:]PROVIDED that the court may, for any adequate and
special reasons to be recorded in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a lesser term(1B)An employer who contravenes, or makes
default in complying with, the provisions of section 6C, or clause (a) of sub-
section (3A) of section 17 in so far as it relates to payment of inspection
charges, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
[one year] but which shall not be less than [Six months] and shall also be
liable to fine which may extend to [five thousand rupees]:PROVIDED that the
court may, for any adequate and special reasons to be recorded in the
judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a lesser term ](2)[Subject to
the provisions of the Act, the Scheme,] the Pension Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme] may provide that any person who contravenes, or makes default in
complying with any of the provisions thereof shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to [one year, or with fine which may
extend to four thousand rupees, or with both].][(2A) Whoever contravenes or
makes default in complying with any provision of this Act or of any condition
subject to which exemption was granted under section 17 shall, if no other
penalty is elsewhere provided by or under this Act for such contravention or
non-compliance, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 146[six
months, but which shall not be less than one month, and shall also be liable
to fine which may extend to five thousand rupees].]

### 14A. Offences by companies

(1)If the person committing offence under this Act, the Scheme , the [Pension]
Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] is a company, every person, who at the time
the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the
company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the
company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:PROVIDED that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act , the Scheme, the [Pension] Scheme or the Insurance
Scheme]] has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has
been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any
neglect on the part of, any director or manager, secretary or other officer of
the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation: For the purposes of this
section(i)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm and other
association of individuals; and(ii)"director", in relation to a firm, means a
partner in the firm.]

### 14AA. Enhanced punishment in certain cases after previous conviction

Whoever, having been convicted by a court of an offence punishable under this
Act, the Scheme, , the [Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme], commits the
same offence shall be subject for every such subsequent offence to
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, but which shall not be
less than two years, and shall also be liable to a fine of twenty-five
thousand rupees.]

### 14AB. Certain offences to be cognizable

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898)], an offence relating to default in payment of contribution by the
employer punishable under this Act shall be cognizable.Employees Provident
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 Back

### 14AC. Cognizance and trial of offences

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
the Scheme or, the [Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme], except on a
report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made with the
previous sanction of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or such other
officer as may be authorized by the Central Government, by notification in the
Official Gazette, in this behalf, by an inspector appointed under section
13.(2)No court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of
the first class shall try any offence under this Act or the Scheme or , the
[Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme.]

### 14B. Power to recover damages

Where an employer makes default in the payment of any contribution to the Fund
[, the [Pension] Fund or the Insurance Fund] or in the transfer of
accumulations required to be transferred by him under sub-section (2) of
section 15 [or sub-section (5) of section 17] or in the payment of any charges
payable under any other provision of this Act or of [any Scheme or Insurance
Scheme] or under any of the conditions specified under section 17, [the
Central Provident Fund Commissioner or such other officer as may be authorized
by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, in this
behalf] may recover [from the employer by way of penalty such damages, not
exceeding the amount of arrears, as may be specified in the Scheme:]PROVIDED
that before levying and recovering such damages, the employer shall be given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard:]PROVIDED FURTHER that the Central Board
may reduce or waive the damages levied under this section in relation to an
establishment which is a sick industrial company and in respect of which
Scheme for rehabilitation has been sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and
Financial Reconstruction established under section 4 of the Sick Industrial
Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986), subject to such terms
and conditions as may be specified in the Scheme.]Comment: "Nor can it be
accepted that there are no guidelines provided for fixing the quantum of
damages. The power of the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner to impose
damages under Section 14-B is a quasi-judicial function. It must be exercised
after notice to the defaulter and after giving him a reasonable opportunity of
being heard. The discretion to award damages could be exercised within the
limits fixed by the Statute. Having regard to the punitive nature of the power
exercisable under Section 14-B and the consequences that ensue there from, an
order under Section 14-B must be a 'speaking order' containing the reasons in
support of it." AIR 1979 SUPREME COURT 1803, Organo Chemical Industries v.
Union of India.

### 14C. Power of court to make orders

(1)Where an employer is convicted of an offence of making default in the
payment of any contribution to the Fund , the [Pension] Fund or the Insurance
Fund] or in the transfer of accumulations required to be transferred by him
under sub-section (2) of section 15 or sub-section (5) of section 17, the
court may, in addition to awarding any punishment, by order in writing require
him within a period specified in the order (which the court may, if it thinks
fit and on application in that behalf, from time to time, extend), to pay the
amount of contribution or transfer the accumulations, as the case may be, in
respect of which the offence was committed.(2)Where an order is made under
sub-section (1), the employer shall not be liable under this Act in respect of
the continuation of the offence during the period or extended period, if any,
allowed by the court, but if, on the expiry of such period or extended period,
as the case may be, the order of the court has not been fully complied with,
the employer shall be deemed to have committed a further offence and shall be
punished with imprisonment in respect thereof under section 14 and shall also
be liable to pay fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day
after such expiry on which the order has not been complied with.

### 15. Special provisions relating to existing provident funds

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 17, every employee who is a subscriber
to any provident fund of [an establishment] to which this Act applies shall,
pending the application of a Scheme to] the [establishment] in which he is
employed, continue to be entitled to the benefits accruing to him under the
provident fund, and the provident fund shall continue to be maintained in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions as it would have been if this
Act had not been passed.(2)On the application of any Scheme to
[establishment], the accumulations in any provident fund of the
[establishment], standing to the credit of the employees who become members of
the fund established under the Scheme] shall, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in any law for the time being in force or in any deed or
other instrument establishing the provident fund but subject to the
provisions, if any, contained in the Scheme, be transferred to the Fund
established under the Scheme, and shall be credited to the accounts of the
employees entitled thereto in the Fund.

### 16. Act not to apply to certain establishments

(1)This Act shall not apply(a)to any establishment registered under the Co-
operative Societies Act, 1912, or under any other law for the time being in
force in any State relating to co-operative societies, employing less than
fifty persons and working without the aid of power, or(b)to any other
establishment belonging to or under the control of the Central Government or a
State Government and whose employees are entitled to the benefit of
Contributory provident fund or old age pension in accordance with any scheme
or rule framed by the Central Government or the State Government governing
such benefits, or(c)to any other establishment set up under any Central,
Provincial or State Act and whose employees are entitled to the benefits of
contributory provident fund or old age pension in accordance with any scheme
or rule framed under that Act governing such benefits.(2)If the Central
Government is of opinion that having regard to the financial position of any
class of 163[establishments] or other circumstances of the case, it is
necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the
notification, exempt , whether prospectively or retrospectively,] that class
of [establishments] from the operation of this Act or such period as may be
specified in the notification.]

### 16A. Authorizing certain employers to maintain provident fund accounts

(1)The Central Government may, on an application made to it in this behalf by
the employer and the majority of employees in relation to an establishment
employing one hundred or more persons, authorize the employer, by an order in
writing, to maintain a provident fund account in relation to the
establishment, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
Scheme:PROVIDED that no authorization shall be made under this sub-section if
the employer of such establishment had committed any default in the payment of
provident fund contribution or had committed any other offence under this Act
during the three years immediately preceding the date of such
authorization.(2)Where an establishment is authorized to maintain a provident
fund account under sub-section (1), the employer in relation to such
establishment shall maintain such account, submit such return, deposit the
contribution in such manner, provide for such facilities for inspection, pay
such administrative charges, and abide by such other terms and conditions, as
may be specified in the Scheme.(3)Any authorization made under this section
may be cancelled by the Central Government by order in writing if the employer
fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the authorization or
where he commits any offence under any provision of this Act:PROVIDED that
before canceling the authorization, the Central Government shall give the
employer a reasonable opportunity of being heard.]

### 17. Power to exempt

(1)The appropriate government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification,
165[exempt, whether prospectively or retrospectively, from the operation] of
all or any of the provisions of any Scheme:(a)any [establishment] to which
this Act applies if, in the opinion of the appropriate government, the rules
of its provident fund with respect to the rates of contribution are not less
favorable than those specified in section 6 and the employees are also in
enjoyment of other provident fund benefits which on the whole are not less
favorable to the employees than the benefits provided under this Act or any
Scheme in relation to the employees in any other 1establishment] of similar
character, or(b)any [establishment] if the employees of such [establishment]
are in enjoyment of benefits in the nature of provident fund, pension or
gratuity and the appropriate government is of opinion that such benefits,
separately or jointly, are on the whole not less favorable to such employees
than the benefits provided under this Act or any Scheme in relation the
employees in any other [establishment] of a similar character.[PROVIDED that
no such exemption shall be made except after consultation with the Central
Board which on such consultation shall forward its views on exemption to the
appropriate government within such time limit as may be specified in the
Scheme.](1A)Where an exemption has been granted to an establishment under
clause (a) of sub-section (1),(a)the provisions of sections 6, 7A, 8 and 14B
shall, so far as may be, apply to the employer of the exempted establishment
in addition to such other conditions as may be specified in the notification
granting such exemption, and where such employer contravenes, or makes default
in complying with any of the said provisions or conditions or any other
provision of this Act, he shall be punishable under section 14 as if the said
establishment had not been exempted under the said clause (a);(b)the employer
shall establish a Board of Trustees for the administration of the Provident
Fund consisting of such number of members as may be specified in the
Scheme;(c)the terms and conditions of service of members of the Board of
Trustees shall be such as may be specified in the Scheme;(d)the Board of
Trustees constituted under clause (b) shall-(i)maintain detailed accounts to
show the contributions credited, withdrawals made and interest accrued in
respect of each employee;(ii)submit such returns to the Regional Provident
Fund Commissioner or any other officer as the Central Government may direct
from time to time;(iii)invest the provident fund monies in accordance with the
directions issued by the Central Government from time to time;(iv)transfer,
where necessary, the provident fund account of any employee; and(v)perform
such other duties as may be specified in the Scheme.(1B)Where the Board of
Trustees established under clause (b) of sub-section (1A) contravenes, or
makes default in complying with, any provisions of clause (d) of that sub-
section, the Trustees of the said Board shall be deemed to have committed an
offence under sub-section (2A) of section 14 and shall be punishable with the
penalties provided in that sub-section.(1C)The appropriate government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to the condition on the
pattern of investment of pension fund and such other conditions as may be
specified therein, exempt any establishment or class of establishments from
the operation of the Pension Scheme if the employees of such establishment or
class of establishments are either members of any other pension scheme or
propose to be members of such pension scheme, where the pensionary benefits
are at par or more favorable than the Pension Scheme under this Act,](2)Any
Scheme may make provision for exemption of any person or class of persons
employed in any [establishment] to which the Scheme applies from the operation
of all or any of the provisions of the Scheme, if such person or class of
persons is entitled to benefits in the nature of provident fund, gratuity or
old age pension and such benefits, separately or jointly, are on the whole not
less favorable than the benefits provided under this Act or the
Scheme:PROVIDED that no such exemption shall be granted in respect of a class
of persons unless the appropriate government is of opinion that the majority
of persons constituting such class desire to continue to be entitled to such
benefits.(2A)The Central Provident Fund Commissioner may, if requested so to
do by the employer, by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to
such conditions as may be specified in the notification, exempt, whether
prospectively or retrospectively, any establishment from the operation of all
or any of the provisions of the Insurance Scheme, if he is satisfied] that the
employees of such establishment are, without making any separate contribution
or payment of premium, in enjoyment of benefits in the nature of life
insurance, whether linked to their deposits in provident fund or not, and such
benefits are more favorable to such employees than the benefits admissible
under the Insurance Scheme.(2B)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section (2A), the Insurance Scheme may provide for the exemption of any person
or class of persons employed in any establishment and covered by that Scheme
from the operation of all or any of the provisions thereof, if the benefits in
the nature of life insurance admissible to such person or class of persons are
more favorable than the benefits provided under the Insurance Scheme.](3)Where
in respect of any person or class of persons employed in an establishment an
exemption is granted under this section from the operation of all or any of
the provisions of any scheme (whether such exemption has been granted to the
establishment wherein such person or class of persons is employed or to the
person or class of persons as such), the employer in relation to such
establishment-(a)shall, in relation to the provident fund, pension and
gratuity to which any such person or class of persons is entitled, maintain
such accounts, submit such returns, make such investment, provide for such
facilities for inspection and pay such inspection charges, as the Central
Government may direct;(b)shall not, at any time after the exemption, without
the leave of the Central Government, reduce the total quantum of benefits in
the nature of pension, gratuity or provident fund to which any person or class
of persons was entitled at the time of the exemption; and(c)shall, where any
such person leaves his employment and obtains re-employment in another
establishment to which this Act applies, transfer within such time as may be
specified in this behalf by the Central Government, the amount of
accumulations, to the credit of that person in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him to the credit of that person's account in the
provident fund of the establishment in which he is re-employed or, as the case
may be, in the fund established under the Scheme applicable to the
establishment.](3A)Where, in respect of any person or class of persons
employed in any establishment, an exemption is granted under sub-section (2A)
or sub-section (2B) from the operation of all or any of the provisions of the
Insurance Scheme (whether such exemption is granted to the establishment
wherein such person or class of persons is employed or to the person or class
of persons as such), the employer in relation to such establishment:(a)shall,
in relation to the benefits in the nature of life insurance, to which any such
person or class of persons is entitled, or any insurance fund, maintain such
accounts, submit such returns, make such investments, provide for such
facilities for inspection and pay such inspection charges, as the Central
Government may direct;(b)shall not, at any time after the exemption without
the leave of the Central Government, reduce the total quantum of benefits in
the nature of life insurance to which any such person or class of persons was
entitled immediately before the date of the exemption;(4)any exemption granted
under this section may be cancelled by the authority which granted it, by
order in writing, if an employer fails to comply, -(a)in the case of an
exemption granted under sub-section (1), with any of the conditions imposed
under that sub-section or sub-section(1A)or with any of the provisions of the
sub-section (3);(aa)in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section
(1C), with any of the conditions imposed under that sub-section; and(b)in the
case of an exemption granted under sub-section (2), with any of the provisions
of sub-section (3);(c)in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section
(2A), with any of the conditions imposed under that sub-section or with any of
the provisions of sub-section (3A);(d)in the case of an exemption granted
under sub-section (2B), with any of the provisions of sub-section
(3A).](5)Where any exemption granted under sub-section (1), sub-section (1C),
sub-section (2), sub-section (2A) or sub-section (2B)] is cancelled, the
amount of accumulations to the credit of every employee to whom such exemption
applied, in the provident fund, [the [Pension] Fund or the Insurance Fund] of
the establishment in which he is employed together with any amount forfeited
from the employer's share of contribution to the credit of the employee who
leaves the employment before the completion of the full period of service]
shall be transferred within such time and in such manner as may be specified
in the Scheme or the [Pension] Scheme [or the Insurance Scheme] to the credit
of his account in the Fund or the [Pension] Fund [or the Insurance Fund], as
the case may be.](6)Subject to the provisions of sub-section [(1C)], the
employer of an exempted establishment to which the provisions of the [Pension]
Scheme apply, shall, notwithstanding any exemption granted under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), pay to the [Pension] Fund such portion of the
employers contribution to its provident fund within such time and in such
manner as may be specified in the [Pension] Scheme.]

### 17A. Transfer of accounts

(1)Where an employee employed in an establishment to which this Act applies
leaves his employment and obtains re-employment in another establishment to
which this Act does not apply, the amount of accumulations to the credit of
such employee in the Fund, or as the case may be, in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him shall be transferred, within such time as may be
specified by the Central Government in this behalf, to the credit of his
account in the provident fund of the establishment in which he is re-employed,
if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to that provident fund
permit such transfer.(2)Where an employee employed in an establishment to
which this Act does not apply leaves his employment and obtains re-employment
in another establishment to which this Act applies, the amount of
accumulations to the credit of such employee in the provident fund of the
establishment left by him may, if the employee so desires and the rules in
relation to such provident fund permit, be transferred to the credit of his
account in the Fund or as the case may be, in the provident fund of the
establishment in which he is re-employed.]

### 17AA. Act to have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Act 31 of
1956

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Life Insurance Act, 1956.]

### 17B. Liability in case of transfer of establishment

Where an employer, in relation to an establishment, transfers that
establishment in whole or in part, by sale, gift, lease or license or in any
other manner whatsoever, the employer and the person to whom the establishment
is so transferred shall jointly and severally be liable to pay the
contribution and other sums due from the employer under any provision of this
Act or the Scheme or the [Pension] Scheme, as the case may be, in respect of
the period up to the date of such transfer:PROVIDED that the liability of the
transferee shall be limited to the value of the assets obtained by him by such
transfer.]

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith

No suit, prosecution of other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, a State Government, the Presiding Officer of a Tribunal, any
authority referred to in section 7A, an Inspector or any other person for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act, the Scheme, the 127[Pension] or the Insurance Scheme.

### 18A. Presiding officer and other officers to be public servants

The Presiding Officer of a Tribunal, its officers and other employees, the
authorities referred to in section 7A and every Inspector shall be deemed to
be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).]

### 19. Delegation of powers

The appropriate government may direct that any power or authority or
jurisdiction exercisable by it under this Act, the Scheme 183[, the
127[Pension] Scheme or the Insurance Scheme] shall, in relation to such
matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
direction, be exercisable also:(a)where the appropriate government is the
Central Government, by such officer or authority subordinate to the Central
Government or by the State Government or by such officer or authority sub-
ordinate to the State Government, as may be specified in the notification;
and(b)where the appropriate government is a State Government, by such officer
or authority subordinate to the State Government as may be specified in the
notification.]

### 20. Power of Central Government to give directions

The Central Government may, from time to time, give such directions to the
Central Board as it may think fit for the efficient administration of this Act
and when, any such direction is given, the Central Board shall comply with
such direction.

### 21. Power to make rules

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:(a)the salary and allowances and other terms and
conditions of service of the Presiding Officer and the employees of a
Tribunal;(b)the form and the manner in which, and the time within which, an
appeal shall be filed before a Tribunal and the fees payable for filing such
appeal;(c)the manner of certifying the copy of the certificate, to be
forwarded to the Recovery Officer under sub-section (2) of section 8C;
and(d)any other matter, which has to be, or may be, prescribed by rules under
this Act.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.

### 22. Power to remove difficulties

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, as
amended by the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 1988, the Central Government may, by order published in the
Official Gazette, make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for the removal of
the difficulty:PROVIDED that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of three years from the date on which the said Amendment Act receives
the assent of the President.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as
soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of
Parliament.]Employee's Provident Funds Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952

## I

(See sections 2(i) and 4)Any industry engaged in the manufacture [***] of any
of the following, namely:Cement.Cigarettes.Electrical, mechanical or general
engineering products.Iron and steel.Paper.Textiles (made wholly or in part of
cotton or wool or jute or silk, whether natural or artificial).

### 1\. Matches.

### 2\. Edible oils and fats.

### 3\. Sugar.

### 4\. Rubber and rubber products.

### 5\. Electricity, including the generation, transmission and distribution
thereof.

### 6\. Tea.

### 7\. Printing [other than printing industry relating to newspaper
establishments as defined in the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service)
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955), including the process of
composing types for printing, printing by letter-press, lithography,
photogravure or other similar process or bookbinding.]

### 8\. Glass.

### 9\. Stone-ware pipes.

### 10\. Sanitary wares.

### 11\. Electrical porcelain insulators of high and low tension.

### 12\. Refractories.

### 13\. Tiles.]

### 1\. Heavy and fine chemicals, including:

(i)Fertilizers,(ii)Turpentine,(iii)Resin,(iv)Medical and pharmaceutical
preparations,(v)Toilet preparations,(vi)Soaps,(vii)Inks,(viii)Intermediates,
dyes, colour lacs and toners,(ix)Fatty acids, and(x)Oxygen, acetylene and
carbon-dioxide gases industry.]

### 2\. Indigo.

### 3\. Lac including shellac.

### 4\. Non-edible, vegetable and animal oils and fats.]

[Mineral oil refining industry.][(i) Industrial and power alcohol industry;
and(ii)Asbestos cement sheets industry.][Biscuit-making industry including
composite units making biscuits and products such as bread, confectionery and
milk and milk powder.][Mica industry.][Plywood industry.][Automobile repairing
and servicing industry.][1. Rice milling.

### 2\. Flour milling

### 3\. Dal milling.]

[Starch industry.][1. Petroleum or natural gas exploration, prospecting,
drilling or production.

### 2\. Petroleum or natural gas refining.]

[Leather and leather products industry.][1. Stone-ware jars.

### 2\. Crockery.]

[The fruit and vegetable preservation industry, that is to say, any industry
which is engaged in the preparation or production of any of the following
articles, namely:(i)canned and bottled fruits, juices and pulps,(ii)canned and
bottled vegetables,(iii)frozen fruits and vegetables,(iv)jams, jellies and
marmalades,(v)tomato products, ketchups and sauces,(vi)squashes, crushes,
cordials and ready-to-serve beverages or any other beverages containing fruit
juice or fruit pulp,(vii)preserved, canned and crystallized fruits and
peels,(viii)chutneys,(ix)any other unspecified item relating to the
preservation or canning of fruits and vegetables.][Cashewnut
industry.][Confectionery industry.][1. Buttons.

### 2\. Brushes.

### 3\. Plastic and plastic products.

### 4\. Stationery products.]

[The aerated water industry, that is to say, any industry engaged in the
manufacture of aerated water, soft drinks or carbonated water.][The distilling
and rectifying of spirits (not falling under industrial and power alcohol) and
blending of spirits industry.][The paint and varnish industry.][Bone crushing
industry.][Pickers industry.][Milk and milk products industry.][Non-ferrous
metals and alloys in the form of ingots industry.][Bread industry.][Stemming
or re-drying of tobacco leaf industry, that is to say, any industry engaged in
the stemming, re-drying, handling, sorting, grading or packing of tobacco
leaf.][Agarbattee (including dhoop and dhoopbattee) industry.][Coir (excluding
the spinning sector) industry.][Tobacco industry, that is to say, any industry
engaged in the manufacture of cigars, zarda, snuff, quivam and guraku from
tobacco.][Paper products industry.][Licensed salt industry, that is to say,
any industry engaged in the manufacture of salt for which a license is
necessary and which has land not less than 4.05 hectares.][Linoleum industry
and indoleum industry.][Explosive industry.][Jute bailing or pressing
industry.][Fire-works and percussion cap works industry.][Tent making
industry.][Ferro-manganese industry.][Ice or ice-cream industry.][Winding of
thread and yarn reeling industry.][Cotton ginning, baling and pressing
industry.][Katha making industry.][Beer manufacturing industry, that is to
say, any industry engaged in the manufacture of the product of alcoholic
fermentation of a mash in potable water of malted barley and hops, or of hops
concentrated with or without the addition of other malted or unmalted cereals
or other carbohydrate preparations.][Beedi industry, that is to say, any
industry engaged in manufacture of beedies.][Ferro-chrome industry.][Diamond
cutting industry.][Myrobalan extract powder, myrobalan extract solid and
vegetable tannin blended extract industries.][Brick industry.][All industries
based on asbestos as principal raw material.][Industries manufacturing iron
ore pellets.][Explanation:In this Schedule, without prejudice to the ordinary
meaning of the expressions used therein,:(a)the expression "Electrical,
mechanical or general engineering products" includes :(1)machinery and
equipment for the generation, transmission, distribution or measurement of
electrical energy and motors including cables and wires,(2)telephones,
telegraph and wireless communication apparatus,(3)electric lamps (not
including glass bulbs),(4)electric fans and electrical domestic
appliances,(5)storage and dry batteries,(6)radio receivers and sound
reproducing instruments,(7)machinery used in industry (including textile
machinery) other than electrical machinery and machine tools,(8)boilers and
prime movers, including internal combustion engines, marine engines and
locomotives,(9)machines tools, that is to say, metal and wood working
machinery,(10)grinding wheels,(11)ships(12)automobiles and tractors,(13)bolts,
nuts and rivets,(14)power-driven pumps,(15)bicycles,(16)hurricane
lanterns,(17)sewing and knitting machines,(18)mathematical and scientific
instruments,(19)products of metal rolling and re-rolling,(20)wires, pipes,
tubes and fittings,(21)ferrous and non-ferrous castings,(22)safes, vaults and
furniture made of iron and steel or steel alloys,(23)cutlery and surgical
instruments,(24)drums and containers,(25)parts and accessories of products
specified in items 1 to 24;(b)the expression 'iron and steel' includes pig
iron, ingots, blooms, billets and rolled or re-rolled products into basic
forms and tool and alloy steel;(c)the expression 'paper' includes pulp,
paperboard and straw-board;(d)the expression 'textiles' includes the products
of carding, spinning, weaving, finishing and dyeing yarn and fabrics,
printing, knitting and embroidering.]

## II : MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MAY BE MADE IN A SCHEME

[See section 5(1B)]

### 1\. The employees or class of employees who shall join the Fund, and the
conditions under which employees may be exempted from joining the Fund or from
making any contribution.

### 2\. The time and manner in which contribution shall be made to the Fund by
employers and by, or on behalf of, employees, [whether employed by him
directly or by or through contractor)], the contributions which an employee
may, if he so desires, make under section 6, and the manner in which such
contributions may be recovered.

### 2A. The manner in which employees' contribution may be recovered by
contractors from employees employed by or through such contractors.]

### 3\. The payment by the employer of such sums of money as may be necessary
to meet the cost of administering the Fund and the rate at which and the
manner in which the payment shall be made.

### 4\. The constitution of any committee for assisting any Board of Trustees.

### 5\. The opening of regional and other offices of any Board of Trustees.]

### 6\. The manner in which accounts shall be kept, the investment of moneys
belonging to the Fund in accordance with any directions issued or conditions
specified by the Central Government, the preparation of the budget, the audit
of accounts and the submission of reports to the Central Government or to any
specified State Government.

### 7\. The conditions under which withdrawals from the Fund may be permitted
and any deduction or forfeiture may be made and the maximum amount of such
deduction or forfeiture.

### 8\. The fixation by the Central Government in consultation with the board
of trustees concerned of the rate of interest payable to members.

### 9\. The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself
and his family whenever required.

### 10\. The nomination of a person to receive the amount standing to the
credit of a member after his death and the cancellation or variation of such
nomination.

### 11\. The registers and records to be maintained with respect to employees
and the returns to be furnished by employers 152[or contractors].

### 12\. The form or design of any identity card, token or disc for the
purpose of identifying any employee, and for the issue, custody and
replacement thereof.

### 13\. The fees to be levied for any of the purposes specified in this
Schedule.

### 14\. The contraventions or defaults which shall be punishable under sub-
section (2) of section 14.

### 15\. The further powers, if any, which may be exercised by Inspectors.

### 16\. The manner in which accumulations in any existing provident fund
shall be transferred to the Fund under section 15, and the mode of valuation
of any assets which may be transferred by the employers in this behalf.

### 17\. The conditions under which a member may be permitted to pay premia on
life insurance, from the Fund.

### 18\. Any other matter [which is to be provided for in the Scheme or ]
which may be necessary or proper for the purpose of implementing the Scheme.]

[SCHEDULE III : MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MAY BE MADE IN THE PENSION
SCHEME[See Section 6A(5)]

### 1\. The employees or class of employees to whom the Pension Scheme shall
apply.

### 2\. The time within which the employees who are not members of the
127[Pension] Scheme under section 6A as it stood before the commencement of
the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act,
1996 (hereinafter, in this Schedule, referred to as the amending Act) shall
opt for the Pension Scheme.

### 3\. The portion of employer's contribution to the Provident Fund which
shall be credited to the Pension Fund and the manner in which it is credited.

### 4\. The minimum qualifying service for being eligible for pension and the
manner in which the employees may be granted the benefits of their past
service under section 6A as it stood before the commencement of the amending
Act.

### 5\. The regulation of the manner in which and the period of service for
which no contribution is received.

### 6\. The manner in which employees' interest will be protected against
default in payment of contribution by the employer.

### 7\. The manner in which the accounts of the Pension Fund shall be kept and
investment of moneys belonging to Pension Fund to be made subject to such
pattern of investment as may be determined by the Central Government.

### 8\. The form in which an employees shall furnish particulars about himself
and the members of his family whenever required.

### 9\. The forms, registers and records to be maintained in respect of
employees, required for the administration of the Pension Scheme.

### 10\. The scale of pension and pensionary benefits and the conditions
relating to grant of such benefits to the employees.

### 11\. The manner in which the exempted establishments have to pay
contribution towards the Pension Scheme and the submission of returns relating
thereto.

### 12\. The mode of disbursement of pension and arrangements to be entered
into with such disbursing agencies as may be specified for the purpose.

### 13\. The manner in which the expenses for administering the Pension Scheme
will be met from the income of the Pension Fund.

### 14\. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Pension Scheme or
which may be necessary or proper for the purpose of implementation of the
Pension Scheme.]

[SCHEDULE IV: MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE EMPLOYEES' DEPOSIT LINKED
INSURANCE SCHEME[See section 6C]

### 1\. The employees or class of employees who shall be covered by the
Insurance Scheme.

### 2\. The manner in which the accounts of the Insurance Fund shall be kept
and the investment of moneys belonging to the Insurance Fund subject to such
pattern of investment as may be determined, by order, by the Central
Government.

### 3\. The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself
and the members of his family whenever required.

### 4\. The nomination of a person to receive the insurance amount due to the
employee after his death and the cancellation or variation of such nomination.

### 5\. The registers and records to be maintained in respect of employees,
the form or design of any identity card, token or disc for the purpose of
identifying any employee or his nominee or member of his family entitled to
receive the insurance amount.

### 6\. 240[The scales of insurance benefits and conditions relating to the
grant of such benefits to the employees.]

### 8\. The manner in which the amount due to the nominee or the member of the
family of the employee under the Scheme is to be paid including a provision
that the amount shall not be paid otherwise than in the form of a deposit in a
saving bank account, in the name of such nominee or member of family, in any
corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970).

### 9\. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Employees' Deposit
Linked Insurance Scheme or which may be necessary or proper for the purpose of
implementing that Scheme.]

EMPLOYEES' PROVIDENT FUNDS APPELLATE TRIBUNAL (PROCEDURE) RULES, 1997[Dated
2nd. June, 1997]In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of
section 21 of the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,
1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
namely: -

### 1\. Short title and commencement

(1)These rules may be called the Employees' Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal
(Procedure) Rules, 1997.(2)They shall come into force from the date of their
publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2\. Definitions

In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of
1952);(b)"agent" means a person duly authorized by a party to present an
appeal or a written reply on its behalf, before the Tribunal;(c)"appellant"
means a person or the establishment making an appeal to the Tribunal under
section 7-I;(d)"Form" means a form specified in Appendix;(e)"legal
practitioner" shall have the same meaning as is assigned to it in the
Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961);(f)"legal representative" means a person who
in law represents the estate of the deceased;(g)"Registrar" means the
Registrar appointed for the Tribunal and includes any officer to whom the
powers and functions of the Registrar may be delegated under these
rules;(h)"Registry" means the Registry of the Tribunal;(i)"Tribunal" means the
Employees' Provident Funds Appellate Tribunal established under sub-section
(1) of section 7(D) of the Act;(j)The words and expressions used and not
defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the same meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3\. Language of the Tribunal

The language of the Tribunal shall be English:PROVIDED that the parties to the
proceedings before the Tribunal may file documents drawn up in Hindi, if they
so desire:PROVIDED FURTHER that-(a)the Tribunal may in its discretion permit
the use of Hindi in the proceedings but the final order shall be in
English;(b)the Tribunal hearing the matter, may in its discretion, direct
English translation of pleadings and documents to be filed.

### 4\. Procedure for filing appeals

(1)An appeal to the Tribunal shall be presented in Form I by the appellant in
person or by an agent or by a duly authorized legal practitioner to the
Registrar or any other officer authorized in writing by the Registrar to
receive the same or be sent by registered post with acknowledgment due
addressed to the Registrar of the Tribunal.(2)The appeal under sub-rule (1)
shall be presented in triplicate in a paper-book form along with one unused
file size envelope bearing full address of the respondent.(3)Where the number
of respondents is more than one, as many extra copies of the appeal in paper-
book form as there are respondents together with unused file size envelopes
bearing the full address of each respondent shall be furnished by the
appellant:PROVIDED that where the number of respondents is more than five, the
Registrar may permit the appellant to file the extra copies of the appeal at
the time of issue of notice to the respondents.(4)The appellant may attach to
and present with his appeal a receipt slip in Form II which shall be signed by
the Registrar or the officer receiving the appeal on behalf of the Registrar
in acknowledgment of the receipt of the appeal.

### 5\. Presentation and scrutiny of appeals

(1)The Registrar, or the officer authorized by him under rule 4, shall endorse
on every appeal the date on which it is presented or deemed to have been
presented under that rule and shall sign the endorsement.(2)If, on scrutiny,
the appeal is found to be in order it shall be duly registered and given a
serial number.(3)If the appeal, on scrutiny, is found to be defective and the
defect noticed is formal in nature, the Registrar may allow the party to
rectify the same in his presence, and if the said defect is not formal in
nature, the Registrar may allow the appellant such time to rectify the defect
as he may deem fit.(4)If the appellant fails to rectify the defect within the
time allowed under sub-rule (3), the Registrar may, by order and for reasons
to be recorded in writing, decline to register the appeal and inform the
appellant accordingly.

### 6\. Place of filing appeals

The appeal shall ordinarily be filed by the appellant with the Registrar of
the Tribunal within whose jurisdiction:-(i)the appellant is residing for the
time being, or(ii)the cause of action has arisen, or(iii)the respondent or any
of the respondents against whom relief is sought, ordinarily resides.

### 7\. Fee, time for filing appeal, deposit of amount due on filing appeal

(1)Every appeal filed with the Registrar shall be accompanied by a fee of
rupees two hundred to be remitted either in the form of crossed demand draft
on a nationalized bank in favor of the Registrar of the Tribunal and payable
at the main branch of that bank at the station where the seat of the said
Tribunal is situated, or remitted through a crossed Indian Postal Order drawn
in favor of the Registrar of the Tribunal and payable at the post office of
the station where the said Tribunal is situate.(2)Any person aggrieved by a
notification issued by the Central Government or an order passed by the
Central Government or any other authority under the Act, may within 60 days
from the date of issue of the notification/ order, prefer an appeal to the
Tribunal:PROVIDED that the Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the appellant
was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal within the
prescribed period, extend the said period by a further period of 60
days:PROVIDED FURTHER that no appeal by the employer shall be entertained by a
Tribunal unless he has deposited with the Tribunal 75% of the amount due from
him as determined under section 7A:PROVIDED ALSO that the Tribunal may for
reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the amount to be deposited
under section 7-O.

### 8\. Content of the appeal

(1)Every appeal filed under rule 4 shall set forth concisely under distinct
heads the grounds for such appeal. Such grounds shall be numbered
consecutively. Every appeal, including any miscellaneous appeal shall be typed
in double space on one side on thick paper of good quality.

### 9\. Documents to accompany the appeal

(1)Every appeal shall be accompanied by a paper-book containing,-(i)an
attested true copy of the order against which the appeal is filed;(ii)copies
of the documents relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the
appeal;(iii)an index of the documents.(2)The documents referred to in sub-rule
(1) may be attested by a legal practitioner or by a gazetted officer and each
document shall be marked serially as Annexures Al, A2, A3 and so on(3)Where an
appeal is filed by an agent, document authorizing him to act as such agent
shall also be appended to the appeal:PROVIDED that where an appeal is filed by
a legal practitioner, it shall be accompanied by a duly executed
"Vakalatnama".

### 10\. Plural remedies

An appeal shall be based upon a single cause of action and may seek one or
more reliefs provided that they are consequential to one another.

### 11\. Service of notices and processes issued by the Tribunal

(1)Notices or processes to be issued by the Tribunal may be served by any of
the following modes directed by the Tribunal:-(i)service by the party
itself;(ii)by hand delivery (Dasti) through process server;(iii)by registered
post with acknowledgment due.(2)Where notice issued by the Tribunal is served
by the party himself by "hand delivery" (Dasti), he shall file with the
Registry of the Tribunal, the acknowledgment, together with an affidavit of
service.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) the Tribunal
may, taking into account the number of respondents and their places of
residence or work and other circumstances, direct that notice of the appeal
shall be served upon the respondents in any other manner including any manner
of substituted service, as it appears to the Tribunal just and
convenient.(4)Notwithstanding anything done under sub-rule (1), the Tribunal
may in its discretion, having regard to the nature and urgency of the case,
direct the service of the notice on the standing counsels appointed as such by
the Central Government or any State Government or any other authority under
the Act.(5)Every notice issued by the Tribunal shall, unless otherwise
ordered, be accompanied by a copy of the appeal along with a copy of the
paper-book.(6)Every appellant shall pay a fee for the service or execution of
processes in such manner as the Tribunal may direct under sub-rule (3) such a
sum, not exceeding the actual charges incurred in effecting the service, as
may be determined by the Tribunal.(7)The fee for the service or execution of
processes under sub-rule (3) shall be remitted in the manner prescribed in
rule 7 within one week of the date of the order determining the fee or within
such extended time as the Registrar may permit.(8)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-rules (1) to (4), if the Tribunal is satisfied that it is not
reasonably practicable to serve notice of appeal upon all the respondents, it
may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that the appeal shall be
heard notwithstanding that some of the respondents have not been served with
notice of the application; provided that no appeal shall be heard
unless,-(i)notice of the appeal has been served on the Central Government or
the State Government or the Central Board, if such government or Board is a
respondent;(ii)notice of the appeal has been served on the authority which
passed the order against which the appeal has been filed; and(iii)the Tribunal
is satisfied that the interests of the respondent on whom notice of the appeal
has not been served are adequately and sufficiently represented by the
respondents on whom notice of the appeal has been served.

### 12\. Filing of reply and other documents by the respondents

(1)Each respondent intending to contest the appeal, shall file in triplicate
the reply to the appeal and the documents relied upon in paper-book form with
the Registry within one month of the service of notice of the appeal on
him.(2)In the reply filed under sub-rule (1), the respondent shall
specifically admit, deny or explain the facts stated by the appellant in his
appeal and may also state such additional facts as may be found necessary for
the just decision of the case. It shall be signed and verified as a written
statement by the respondent or any other person duly authorized by him in
writing in the same manner as provided for in Order VI, rule 15 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).(3)The documents referred to in sub-rule (2)
shall also be filed along with the reply and the same shall be marked as Rl,
R2, R3 and so on.(4)The respondent shall also serve a copy of the reply along
with documents as mentioned in sub-rule (1) on the appellant or his legal
practitioner, if any, and file proof of such service in the Registry.(5)The
Tribunal may allow filing of the reply after the expiry of the prescribed
period.

### 13\. Date and place of hearing to be notified

The Tribunal shall notify to the parties the date and the place of hearing of
the appeal in such manner as the Presiding Officer may, by general or special
order direct.

### 14\. Calendar of cases

(1)The Tribunal shall draw up a calendar for the hearing of the cases and, as
far as possible, hear and decide cases according to the calendar.(2)Every
appeal shall be heard and decided, as far as possible, within six months from
the date of its registration.

