## Union of India - Act

## Estate Duty act, 1953

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Estate Duty act, 1953

## Act 34 of 1953

  * Published on 6 October 1953 
  * Commenced on 6 October 1953 
  * [This is the version of this document from 6 October 1953.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Estate Duty act, 1953(Act No.34 of 1953)Last Updated 16th January, 2020[Dated
6th October, 1953]An Act to provide for the levy and collection of an estate
duty.Be it enacted by Parliament as follows:-

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This act may be called the Estate Duty act, 1953.(2)It extends to the whole
of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Central Government may by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,.-(1)"affidavit of
valuation" means the affidavit of valuation made under section 19-1 of the
Court-fees act, 1870 (VII of 1870), in connection with an application for the
grant of representation;(2)"Board" means the Central Board of revenue
constituted under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924 (IV of
1924);(3)"company" includes anybody corporate wheresoever
incorporated;(4)"controlled company" means a company as defined in section
17:(5)"Controller" means a person appointed to be a Controller of Estate Duty
under section 4 and includes a person appointed to be a Deputy Controller of
Estate Duty or an Assistant controller of Estate Duty;(6)"deceased person" and
" the deceased" means a person dying after the commencement of this
Act;(7)"estate duty" means estate duty under this Act;(8)"executor" means the
executor or administrator of a deceased person;(9)"general power" includes
every power or authority enabling the done or other thereof to appoint or
dispose of property as he thinks fit, whether exercisable by instrument inter
vivos or by will or both but exclusive of any power exercisable in a fiduciary
capacity under a disposition not made by himself or exercisable as
mortgagee;(10)"incumbrances" includes mortgages and terminable
charges;(11)"interest in expectancy" includes an estate in remainder or
reversion and every other future interest whether vested or contingent, but
does not include reversions expectant upon the determination of
leases;(12)"legal representative" means a person who in law represents the
estate of a deceased person and includes.-(i)an executor,(ii)as regards any
obligation under this act, any person who takes possession of, or intermeddles
with, the estate, of a deceased person or any part thereof and(iii)where the
deceased was a coparcener of a Hindu family, the manager for the time being of
the family;(13)"power to appoint property" means power to determine the
disposition of property of which the person invested with the power is not the
owner;(14)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act.(15)"property" includes any interest in property, movable or immovable the
proceeds of sale thereof and any money or investment for the time being
representing the proceeds of sale and also includes any property converted
from one species into another by any method;Explanation 1. - The creation by a
person or with his consent of a debt or other right enforceable against him
personally or against property which he was or might become competent to
dispose of or to charge or burden for his own benefit, shall be deemed to have
been a disposition made by that person, and in relation to such a disposition
the expression " property" shall include the debt or right created.Explanation
2. - The extinguishment at the expense of the deceased of a debt or other
right shall be deemed to have been a disposition made by the deceased in
favour of the person for whose benefit the debt or right was extinguished, and
in relation to such a disposition the expression "property" shall include the
benefit conferred by th extinguishment of the debt or right;(16)"property
passing on the death" includes property passing either immediately on the
death or after any interval, either certainly or contingently, and either
originally or by way of substitutive limitation, and "on the death" includes "
at a period ascertainable only by reference to the death";(17)"public
charitable purpose" includes relief of the poor education medical relief and
the advancement of any other object of general public utility the territory of
India ;(18)"representation" means probate of a will or letters of
administration;(19)"settled property" means property which stands limited to,
or in trust for, any persons, natural or judicial by way of succession,
whether the settlement took effect before or after the commencement of this
act; and "settlement" means any disposition including a dedication or
endowment, whereby property is settled;(20)"Valuer" means a Valuer appointed
under section 4.

### 3. Interpretation.

(1)For the purposes of this Act,.-(a)a person shall be deemed competent to
dispose of property if he has such an estate or interest therein or such
general power as would, if he were sui juris enable him to dispose of the
property;(b)a disposition taking effect out of the interest of the deceased
shall be deemed to have been made by him, whether the concurrence, of any
other person was or was no required;(c)money which a person has a general
power to charge on the property of another person shall be deemed to be an
interest in that property of which the former has power to dispose;(d)the
domicile of a person shall be determined as if the provisions of the Indian
Succession Act, 1925 (XXXIX of 1925) on the subject applied to him.(2)In Parts
II and III of this act, any reference to any interest disposed of policy of
insurance effected, annuity or other interest purchased provided or to any
gift settlement, disposition or transfer of property made, shall be
constructed as including any such interest, policy, annuity, it, settlement,,
disposition or transfer, as the case may be, whether it disposed of, effected,
purchased or provided, or made before or after the commencement of this Act.

### 4. Estate duty authorities.

(1)There shall be the following authorised for the purposes of this Act,
namely :.-(a)the Board,(b)Controllers of Estate Duty.(c)Valuers.(2)The Central
government may appoint as many Controllers of state Duty as it thinks fit and
they shall, subject to the control of the board, perform their functions in
respect of such estates or classes of states and such areas as are assigned to
them by the Board :Provided that, subject to such rules as may be made by the
Board in the behalf, ever Controller, within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction of any part of the estate of the deceased is situated, may
exercise in ...........to the whole estate or any part thereof any of the
powers con......on the Controller by this Act:Provided further that the Board
may, by general or special order, direct that any Controller specified by it
in this behalf may exercise all or any of the powers conferred on the
Controller by this Act to the exclusion of any other Controller.(3)The Central
Government shall, within twelve months after the commencement of this Acts and
may thereafter, from time to time, appoint a sufficient number of qualified
persons to act as Valuers for the purpose of this Act and shall fix a scale of
charges for the remuneration of such persons.(4)Subject to the rules and
orders of the Central Government regulating the conditions of service of
persons in public services and posts, a Controller may appoint such executive
or ministerial staff as may be necessary to assist him in the execution of his
functions.(5)All officers and persons employed in the execution of this Act
other than Valuers, shall observe and follow the orders, instructions and
directions of the Board.

## Part II – Imposition of Estate Duty

Extent of charge

### 5. Levy of estate duty.

(1)In the case of every person dying after the commencement of this Act, there
shall, save as hereinafter expressed provided, be levied and paid upon the
principal value ascertained hereinafter provided of all property, settled or
not settled, including agricultural land situate in the States specified in
the first Schedule of this Act, which passes on the death of such person, a
duty called estate duty" at the rates fixed in accordance with section
35.(2)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add
the names of any other States to the First Schedule in respect whereof
resolutions have been passed by the Legislatures of those states adopting this
Act under clause (1) of article 252 of the constitutions respect of estate
duty on agricultural lands situate in those States, and on the issue of any
such notification the States so added shall be deemed to be States specified
in the first Schedule within the meaning of the section (1).Property which is
deemed to pass

### 6. Property within disposing capacity.

\- Property which the decease was at the time of his death competent to
dispose of shall be deemed pass on his death.

### 7. Interests ceasing on death.

(1)subject to the provisions of the section, property in which the deceased or
any other person had interest ceasing on the death of the deceased shall be
deemed to pass the deceased's death to the extent to which a benefit accrues
or area by the cesser of such interest, including, in particular, a
coparcenary interest in the joint family property of a Hindu family governed
by the Mitakshara, Marumakkattayam or Aliyasantana law.(2)If a member of a
Hindu coparcenary governed by the Mitaksha school of law dies, then the
provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply with respect to the interest of the
deceased in the coparcenary property only-(a)if the deceased had completed his
eighteenth year at the time of his death, or(b)where he had not completed his
eighteenth year at the time of his death, if his father or other male
ascendant in the male line was not a coparcener of the same family at the time
of his death.Explanation. - Where the deceased was also a member of a
sub.-coparcenary (within the coparcenary) possessing separate property of its
own, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect separately in
respect of the coparcenary and the sub- coparcenary.(3)If a member of any
tarwad or tavaahi governed by the Marumakkattayam rule of inheritance or a
member of a kutumba or kavaru governed by the Aliyasantana rule of inheritance
dies, then the provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply with respect to
the interest of the deceased in the property of the tarwad, tavazhi, kutumba
or kavaru, as the case may be, unless the deceased had completed his
eighteenth year.(4)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to the
property in which the deceased or any other person had an interest only as
holder of an office or recipient of the benefits of a charity, or as a
corporation sole.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that the holder of Sthanam is neither the holder of an office not a
corporation sole within the meaning of this sub-section.

### 8. Gifts.

\- mortis causa, .- Property taken as a gift made in contemplation of death
shall be deemed to pass on the donor's death.Explanation. - In this section,
the expression "gift made in contemplation of death" has the same meaning as
in section 191 of the Indian succession Act, 1925, (XXXIX of 1925).

### 9. Gifts within a certain period before death.

(1)Property taken under the disposition made by the deceased purporting to
operate as an immediate gift inter vivas whether by way of transfer, delivery,
declaration of trust, settlement upon persons in succession, or otherwise,
which shall not have been bona fide made two years or more before the death of
the deceased shall be deemed to pass on the death:Provided that in the case of
gifts made for public charitable purposes the period shall be six
months.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to gifts made in
consideration of marriage or which are proved to the satisfaction of the
Controller to have been part of the normal expenditure of the deceased, but
not exceeding rupees five thousand in the aggregate.

### 10. Gifts whenever made where donor not entirely excluded.

\- Property taken under any gift, whenever made, shall be deemed to pass on
the donor's death to the extent that bona fide possession and enjoyment of it
was not immediately assumed by the donee and thenceforward retained to the
entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him by contract or
otherwise:Provided that the property shall not be deemed to pass by reason
only that it was, not, as from the date of the gift, exclusively retained as
aforesaid, it is subsequently enjoyed to the entire exclusion of the donor or
of any benefit to him for at least two years before the death.

### 11. Limited interests disposed of within a certain period before death.

(1)subject to the provisions of this Section, whether an interest Limited to
cease on a death has been disposed of or has determined, whether by surrender,
assurance, divesting, forfeiture or in any other manner (except by the
expiration of a fixed period at the expiration of which the interest was
limited to cease), whether wholly or partly, and whether for value or not,
after becoming an interest in possession, and the disposition or determination
(or any of them if there are more than one) is not excepted by sub-section
(2), then .-(a)if, had there been no disposition or determination, as
aforesaid of that interest and no disposition of any interest expectant upon
or subject to that interest, the property in which the interest subsisted
would have passed on the death under section 5, that property shall be deemed
by virtue of this section to be included as to the whole thereof in the
property passing on the death; or(b)if, had there been no disposition or
determination as aforesaid of that interest and no disposition of any interest
expectant upon or subject to that interest, the property in which the interest
subsisted would have been deemed by virtue of section 7 to be including to a
particular extent in the property passing on the death, the property in which
the interest subsisted shall be deemed by virtue of this section to be
included to that extent in the property passing of the death.(2)Where a
disposition or determination of an interest limited that cease on the death
was bona fide effected or suffered not less than two years before the death
(or, if it was effected or suffered for public charitable purposes, not less
than six months before the death), the disposition or determination shall be
excepted by this sub-section .-(a)if bona fide possession and enjoyment of the
property in which the interest subsisted was assumed immediately thereafter by
the person becoming entitled by virtue of or upon the disposition or
determination and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the person
who immediately before the disposition or determination but the interest and
of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise ; or(b)in the case of a partial
determination, if the conditions specified in the preceding paragraph were not
satisfied by reason only of the retention or enjoyment by the deceased of
possession of some part of the property, or of some benefit, by virtue of the
provision of the instrument under which he had the interest ;Provided that
where bona fide possession and enjoyment of the property referred to in clause
(a) was not assumed immediately after the disposition or determination of the
interest limited to cease on death, the disposition or determination shall be
excepted by this sub-section, if, by means of the surrender of the reserved
benefit or otherwise, the property is subsequently enjoyed for at least two
years before the death, to the entire exclusion of the person who immediately
before the disposition of determination had the interest and of any benefit to
him by contract of otherwise:Provided further that nothing in this sub-section
shall be construed as affecting any charge of estate duty arising otherwise
than by virtue of the provisions of the preceding sub-section.(3)In the
application of sub-section (1) to a case in which an income branch on the
property in which the interest in question subsisted has been created by
associated operations (as hereinafter defined in section, 25 which included a
disposition of that interest, reference to that property shall be construed as
reference to that property free from the incumbrance, except in a case in
which the incumbrance was created for consideration in money or money's worth
which was applied for purposes calculated to maintain or increase the value of
the property, and, in that case, shall be construed as reference to that
property subject to the incumbrance to the extent to which the consideration
was so applied(4)Where an interest limited to cease on a death has been
disposed of or has determined, bona fide, possession and enjoyment of the
property shall not be deemed for the purposes of sub-section (2) to be assumed
immediately thereafter and thenceforward Retained to the entire exclusion of a
person who had the interest and of any benefit to him by virtue of any
operations associated with the disposition or determination, nor while he has
such a benefit shall the property be deemed to be enjoyed to the entire
exclusion as aforesaid for the purposes of the first proviso to sub-section
(2).(5)In the preceding sub-section.-(a)the reference to any operation
associated with the disposition shall be taken as referring to any associated
operations as defined in section 27, of which the disposition is one;
and(b)the reference to any operation associated with the determination shall
be taken as referring to any associated operations as so defined of which any
disposition resulting in, or effect in contemplation of or with reference to,
the determination is one.

### 12. Settlements with reservation.

(1)Property passing under any settlement made by the deceased by deed or any
other instrument not taking effect as a will whereby an interest in such
property for life or any other period determinable by reference to death is
reserved either expressed to himself the right by the exercise of any power,
to restore to himself or to reclaim the absolute interest in such property
shall be deemed to pass on the settlor's death:Provided that the property
shall not be deemed to pass on the settlor's death by reason only that any
such interest or right was so reserved, if by means of the surrender of such
interest or right the property is subsequently enjoyed to the entire exclusion
of the settlor and of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise, for at
least two years before his death.Explanation. - A settlor reserving an
interest in the settled (1), where property is settled by a person on one or
more other persons for their respective lives and after their death, on the
settlor for life and thereafter on other person and the settlor dies before
his interest in the property becomes an interest in possession, the property
shall not be deemed to pass on the settlor's death within the meaning of this
section.Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where property
is settled by a person on one or more other persons for their respective lives
and after their death, on the settlor for life and thereafter on other persons
and the settlor dies before his interest in the property becomes an interest
in possession, the property shall not be deemed to pass on the settlor's death
within the meaning of this section.

### 13. Joint investments.

\- Where a person, having been absolutely entitled to any property or to the
funds with which any property was purchased, has caused it to be transferred
to or vested in himself and any self alone, or in concert, or by arrangement,
with any other person so that the beneficial interest in some part of that
property passes or accrues by survivorship on his death to the other person,
the whole of that property shall be deemed to pass on the death.

### 14. Policies kept up for a donee.

(1)Money received under a policy of insurance effected by any person on his
life, where the policy is wholly kept up by him for the benefit of a donee,
whether nominee or assignee, or a part of such money in proportion to the
premiums paid by him, where the policy is partially kept up by him for such
benefit, shall be deemed to pass on the death of the assured.Explanation. - A
policy of insurance on the life of a deceased person effected by virtue or in
consequence of a settlement made by the deceased shall be treated as having
been effected by the deceased.(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), so much
of the premiums paid on any policy of insurance as was, by virtue or in
consequence of a settlement made by the deceased, paid out of property,
whether or not provided by the deceased comprised in the settlement or out of
income, whether or not provided by the deceased, arising under the settlement,
shall be treated as having been paid by the deceased :Provided that any
payments which were not made either out of property provided directly or
indirectly by the deceased for the purposes of the settlement, or out of
property representing that property, or out of income provided directly or
indirectly by the deceased whether arising from such property or otherwise,
shall not be treated as having been made by the deceased if the controller is
satisfied that those payments was not made as part of any reciprocal
arrangements between the deceased and any other person.(3)For the purposes of
this section.-(a)the expression "settlement" includes any disposition, trust,
covenant, agreement or arrangement; and(b)a person shall be deemed to have
made a settlement if he has made or entered into the settlement directly or
indirectly, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing words of this clause) if he has provided or undertaken to provide
funds directly or indirectly for the purposes of the settlement, or has made
with any other person a reciprocal arrangement for that other person to make
or enter into the settlement.

### 15. Annuity or other interest purchased or provided by the deceased.

\- Any annuity or other interest, purchased or provided by the deceased,
either by himself, alone or in concert or by arrangement with any other person
shall be deemed to pass on his death to the extent of the beneficial interest
accruing or arising, by survivorship or otherwise, on his death.Explanation. -
The extent of the beneficial interest must be ascertained without regard to
any interest by expectancy which the beneficiary may have had therein before
the death.

### 16. Annuity or other interest purchased or provided out of property
derived from the deceased.

(1)Section 15 shall have effect in relation to any annuity or other interest
that was purchased or provided wholly or in part by any person who was at any
time entitled to or amongst whose resources there was at any time included,
any property derived from the deceased, or, if it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Controller that the application of all the property
derived from the deceased would have been insufficient to provide the whole of
that annuity or other interest, as if a similar annuity or interest of an
amount reduced to an extent proportionate to the insufficiency proved had been
provided by the deceased.Provided that for the purpose of determining whether
there would have been any such insufficiency as aforesaid, and the extent
thereof, there shall be excluded from the property derived from the deceased
any part thereof as to which it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Controller that the disposition of which it, or the property which it
represented, was the subject-matter, was not made with reference to, or with a
view to enabling or facilitating, the purchase or provision of the annuity or
other interest, or the recoupment in any manner of the cost thereof.(2)In this
section the following expressions have the meanings hereby assigned to them
respectively, namely.-(a)"Property derived from the deceased" means any
property which was the subject-matter of a disposition made by the deceased,
either by himself alone or in concert or by arrangement with any other person,
otherwise than for full consideration in money or money's worth paid to him
for his own use or benefit, or which represented any of the subject-matter of
such a disposition, whether directly or indirectly, and whether by virtue of
one or more intermediate dispositions and whether any such intermediate
disposition was or was not for full or partial consideration:Provided that
where the first-mentioned disposition was for full consideration in money or
money's worth paid to the deceased for his own use or benefit and it is proved
to the satisfaction of the Controller that the disposition was not part of
associated operations which included -(a)a disposition by the deceased, either
by himself alone or in correct or by arrangement with any other person,
otherwise than for full consideration in money or money's worth paid to the
deceased for his own use or benefit, or(b)a disposition by any other person
operation to reduce the value of the property of the deceased;then, in
considering whether estate duty should be charged the said first mentioned
disposition shall be left out of account as if this provision did not apply in
relation to it ;(b)"disposition" includes any trust, convent, agreement or
arrangement ; and(c)"subject-matter" includes, in relation to any disposition,
any annual or periodical payment made or payable under or by virtue of the
disposition.(3)For the purpose of section 34 the deceased shall be deemed to
have had an interest in any property included by virtue of this section to the
property passing on the death of the deceased.Special Provisions relating to
transfers to companies

### 17. Property transferred to a controlled company.

(1)Where the deceased has made to a controlled company a transfer of any
property (other than an interest limited up cease on his death or property
which he transferred in a fiduciary capacity), and any benefits accruing to
the deceased from the company accrued to him in the three years ending with
his death, the assets of the company shall be deemed for the purposes of
estate duty to be included in the property passing on his death to an extent
determined in accordance with sub-section (2).(2)The extent to which the
assets of the company are to be deemed to be included as aforesaid shall be
the proportion ascertained by comparing the aggregate amount of the benefits
accruing to the deceased from the company in the last three accounting years
with the aggregate amount of the net income of the company for the said
years:Provided that.-(a)where, in any of the said accounting years, the
company sustained a loss, the amount of that loss shall be deducted in
ascertaining the said aggregate net income of the company;(b)where the company
came into existence in the last year but one, or in the last, of the said
accounting years, the reference in this sub-section to the said accounting
years shall be construed as references to the two, or, as the case may be, the
last, of those years.(3)The assets of the company which are deemed to be
included in the property passing on the death of the deceased by virtue of
this sect shall include any assets thereof which have been disposed of or
distributed by the company at any time between the beginning of the first of
the accounting years aforesaid and the death of the deceased either.-(a)in or
towards satisfaction of rights attaching to shares in or debentures of the
company, or(b)otherwise howsoever except as follows, that is to say, by way of
sale for full consideration in money or money's worth received by the company
for its own use and benefit, or in or towards discharge of taxes or rates or
other liability imposed by or under an enactment, or in or towards discharge
of a fine or penalty or a liability for tort incurred without collusion with
the injured party, including assets which have been so disposed of or
distributed in a winding up, whether continuing at or completed before the
death:Provided that this sub-section shall not apply to assets disposed of or
distributed by way of payments from which income-tax was deduction, or which
were assessable to income-tax, of amounts not exceeding in the aggregate, as
respects payments made in any accounting year or in the period between the end
of the last accounting year and the benefit of the deceased, the amount of the
income of the company for that year or period.(4)(i)A controlled company is
any company which at any relevant time, was or would, if those provisions had
always been in force, have been deemed to be, under the control of not more
than five persons and which is not a subsidiary company or a company in which
the public are substantially interested.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this sub-section.-(a)A company shall be deemed to be a subsidiary company if,
by reason of the beneficial ownership of shares therein, the control of the
company is in the hands of the company not being a company to which the
provisions of this sub-section apply, or of two or more companies none of
which is a company to which the aforesaid provisions apply;(b)a company shall
be deemed to be a company in which the public are substantially interested if
shares of the company (not being shares entitled to a fixed rate of dividend,
whether with or without a further right to participate in profits) carrying
not less than twenty five per cent.of the voting power have been allotted
unconditionally to, or acquired unconditionally by, and are at the end of year
or other period for which the accounts of the company have been made up
beneficially held by the public (not including a company to which the
provisions of this sub-section apply) and any such shares have.In the course
of such year or other period, been the subject of dealings on a recognised
stock exchange or are in fact freely transferable by the holders to other
members of the public.(ii)A company shall be deemed to be under the control of
not more than five persons, -(a)if any five or fewer persons together
exercise, or are able to exercise or are entitled to acquire, control, whether
direct or indirect, over the company's affairs, and in particular, but without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing words, if any five or fewer
persons together possess, or are entitled to acquire, the greater part of the
share capital or voting power of the company; or(b)if any five or fewer
persons together possess, or are entitled to acquire, either the greater part
of the issued share capital of the company, or such part of that capital as
work, if the whole of the income of the company were in fact distributed to
the members, entitled them to receive the greater part of the amount so
distributed; or(c)if, -(i)on the assumption that the company is a company to
which this sub-section applies; or(ii)on the assumption that the company and
any other company or companies are companies to which the said sub-section
applies,more than one half of the income of the company (including any income
which has been apportioned to it, or could on either of those assumptions be
apportioned to it, of the purposes of said sub-section) could be apportioned
for those purposes among not more than five persons.(iii)In determining
whether a company is or is not under the control of not more than five
persons, person who are relatives of one another, persons who are nominees of
any other persons together with that other person, persons in partnership, and
persons interested in any shares or obligations of the company which are
subject to any trust or are part of the estate of a deceased person, shall
respectively be treated as a single person.Explanation. - For the purpose of
this clause, -(a)the expression "relative" means a husband, wife, ancestor,
lineal descendant, brother or sister;(b)a person shall be deemed to be the
nominee of another person, if, whether directly or indirectly, he possesses on
behalf of that other person, or may be required to exercise on the direction
of or on behalf of that other person, any right or power which, by virtue of
any of the provisions of this sub-section, is material in determining whether
a company is or is not to be deemed to be under the control of not more than
five persons.(iv)An investment company shall be deemed to be under the control
of not more than five persons if any five or fewer persons would, if the
company were wound up, be entitled as members or loan creditors of the company
to receive more than half of the assets of the Company which would be
available for distribution to members and loan creditors.(v)Notwithstanding
anything contained in clause (i), a company which is deemed for the purposes
of that clause to be under the control of not more than five persons shall not
be deemed to be a subsidiary company, unless it can be deemed to be under the
control of not more than five persons only by including among the persons
mentioned in sub-clauses (a), (b) or (c) of clause (ii) or in clause (iv) a
company to which the provisions of the said clause (i) do not apply and which
is not the nominee of any other person.(vi)The expression, "relevant time" in
this sub-section means any time during the period ending with the death of the
deceased and beginning at the date of the disposition, transfer or other
transaction or event was one of associated operations, at the date of the
earliest of those operations.(5)For the purposes of section 34 the deceased
shall be deemed to have had an interest in the property deemed by virtue of
this section to be included in the property passing on his death.

### 18. Duty of company and officers of company to give information to
Controller on death of transferor.

(1)Where the deceased has made a transfer of property to controlled company,
the company shall be under obligation in inform the Controller within forty-
five days from the date of the death of the deceased, of the death, of the
fact that the deceased made a transfer of property to the company, and of the
fact that benefits accrued to the deceased from the company, and every person
who was a principal officer of the company at that date, or if the company has
been wound up and dissolved before that date, who was a principal officer of
the company at any time and who has been called upon to furnish any
information under this section, shall be under the like obligation as respects
such of the facts aforesaid as are within his knowledge, unless he knows, or
has reasonable cause for believing, that this informing in question has
already been given to the Controller by the company or some other person.(2)If
the company or any such person as aforesaid who is under obligation by virtue
of the preceding sub-section to give any information to the Controller makes
default in the performance of that obligation, the Controller may impose upon
the defaulter a penalty not exceeding one thousand rupees.Explanation. - For
the purposes of this section "principal officer" means a manager, managing
agent or secretary, and includes any person connected with the company upon
whom the Controller has served a notice under this section of treating him as
the principal officer thereof.

### 19. Collection and incidence of duty under section 17.

(1)The following persons shall be accountable for the duty payable on the
death of the deceased by virtue of section 17, namely:.-(a)the company;(b)any
person (other than a bona fide purchaser for full consideration in money or
money's worth received by the company for its own use and benefit) who
receives, whether directly from the company or otherwise, or disposes of, any
assets which the company had, whether as capital or as income, at the death or
at any time thereafter;(c)any person who received distributed assets of the
company on their distributionProvided that a person shall not,.-(i)by virtue
of clause (b), be accountable in respect of any assets of any duty in excess
of the value of those assets, or(ii)by virtue of clause (c), be accountable in
respect of any assets for more than a part of the duty bearing to the whole
thereof the some proportion as the value of the distribution of those assets
bears to the principal value of the assets of the company passing on the death
by virtue of section 17.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section the
expressions "distributed assets" and assets of the company passing on the
death" do not include any distributed assets of the company which the deceased
received on their distribution, and a person who, having received any
distributed assets of the company, has died before the deceased shall be
deemed to have been a person accountable by virtue of clause (c).(2)Where a
company incorporated outside the territories to which this Act extends is
accountable for any duty by virtue of the preceding sub-section or of this
sub-section, every person who is a member of that company at the death shall
also be accountable for a rateable part of that duty in proportion to the
value of his interest in that company.(3)A person accountable for any duty by
virtue of this section shall, for the purpose of raising and paying the duty,
have all the powers conferred on accountable parties.(4)On a winding up of the
company, (1) of section 230 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913),
shall have effect as if there were included in clause (a) of that sub-section
a reference to any duty payable in respect of assets of the company passing on
a death by virtue of section 16 of this Act, and section 129 of the Indian
Companies Act, 1913, shall have effect accordingly.(5)The duty payable on the
death of the deceased by virtue of section 17 shall be a first charge by way
of floating security on the assets which the company had at the death or has
at any time thereafter, and any part of the duty for which by virtue of clause
(c) of sub-section (1) any person is accountable in respect of any distributed
assets shall be a first charge also on those assets:Provided that nothing in
this sub-section shall operate to make any property chargeable as against a
bona fide purchaser thereof for valuable consideration without notice.(6)Where
any duty has been.-(a)paid by a person accountable therefor by virtue only of
clause (c) of sub.-section (1); or(b)raised by virtue of sub-section, (5) out
of any distributed assets charged therewith;that person or, as the case may
be, the person who was entitled to those assets subject to the charge, may
(without prejudice to any right of contribution or indemnity which he may have
apart from this sub-section) recover the amount of the duty so paid raised as
aforesaid from any person who is accountable therefor otherwise than by virtue
of the said clause (c)(7)No part of the duty paid by the company shall be
recoverable by it from any person on the ground only that he is entitled to
any interest in, or to any sum charged on, the assets which the company had at
the death of the deceased.(8)The provisions of sub.-sections (1) and (3) of
section 53 shall not have effect in relation to the duty payable by virtue of
section 17.

### 20. Power to make rule respecting controlled companies generally.

(1)The Board may make rules.-(a)prescribing the class of dispositions or
operations which shall be deemed to be transfers to controlled companies,
within the meaning of section 17;(b)prescribing the matters to be treated as
benefits accruing to the deceased from any such controlled company, the manner
is which there amount is to be determined, and the time at which they are to
be treated as accruing;(c)prescribing the manner in which the net income and
the value of the assets of any such company are to be
determined;(d)prescribing the manner in which the accounting year of any such
company is to be reckoned;(e)prescribing the manner in which the shares and
debentures of any such company passing upon the death of the deceased are to
be valued for estate duty;(f)providing an upper limit by reference to the
value of the property transferred by the deceased to any such company and
preventing duplicating of charge where duty would otherwise be payable in
respect of both the assets of any such company (or a proportion of them) and
the deceased's holding of shares and debentures in any such
company;(g)prescribing the conditions upon which and the extent to which
transactions in the name of any such company shall be deemed to be bona fide
transactions for full consideration; and(h)generally for the purpose of
checking the avoidance of estate duty through the machinery of any such
company.(2)All rules made under this section shall be laid before the House of
the People for not less than fifteen days before the date of their final
publication.

## Part III – Expceptions from the Charge of Duty

### 21. Foreign property.

(1)There shall not be including in the property passing on the death of the
deceased.-(a)immovable property situated outside the territories to which this
Act extends;(b)movable property situated outside the territories to which this
Act extends at the time of the death unless.-(i)in the case of any property,
whether settled or not, the deceased was domiciled in the said territories at
the time of this death; or(ii)in the case of settled property of which the
deceased was a life tenant, the settler was domiciled in the said territories
at the date the settlement took effect.(2)The Board may make rules regulating
the manner in which the nature and locality of different classes of assets
shall be determined for the purposes of this section.

### 22. Property held by the deceased as trustee.

\- Property passing on the death of the deceased shall not be deemed to
include property held by the deceased as trustee for another person under the
disposition not made by the deceased or under a disposition made by the
deceased where (whether by virtue of the original disposition or of a
subsequent surrender of any benefit originally reserved to the deceased or
otherwise possession any enjoyment of the property was bona fide assumed by
the beneficiary at least two years before the death and thenceforward retained
by him to the entire exclusion of the deceased or of any benefit to the
deceased by contract or otherwise;Provided that in the case of property held
by the deceased as sole trustee for another person under a disposition made by
himself, the period shall be five years.

### 23. Interest failing before becoming an interest in possession.

\- In the case of settled property where the interest of any person under the
settlement fails or determines by reason of his death before it becomes an
interest in possession, and one or more subsequent limitations under the
settlement continue to subsist, the property shall not be deemed to pass on
his death by reason only of the failure or determination of that
interest.Explanation 1. - Where property is settled by a person on himself for
life and after his death on any other person, with an ultimate reversion of an
absolute interest or absolute power of disposition to the settlor, the
property shall not be deemed to pass to the settlor on the death of such other
person by reason only that the settlor being then in possession of the
property as tenant for life becomes, in consequence of such death, entitled to
the immediate reversion or acquires an absolute power to dispose of the whole
property.Explanation 2. - Where the interest of a person in settled property
consists of an interest in the residue or part of the residue of an estate of
a testator or intestate and the said estate continues to be under
administration until the death of the person, the said interest of the person
in the residue or part of the residue shall be deemed to have become an
interest in possession of the date as from which the income from the residue
or part of the residue would have been attributable to that interest if the
residue had been ascertained immediately after the death of the testator or
intestate.

### 24. Property reverting to disponer.

(1)Where by a disposition of any property an interest is conferred on any
person, other than the disponer for the life of such person or determinable on
his death, the remainder being conferred upon the disponer absolutely, and
such person enters into possession o the interest, and thenceforward retains
possession of it, then, on the death of such person, the property shall not be
deemed to pass by reason only of its reverter to the disponer in his life
time.(2)Where by a disposition of any property any such interest as is
mentioned in sub-section (1) is conferred on two or more persons either
severally or jointly or in succession, sub-section (1) shall apply in like
manner as where the interest is conferred on one person :Provided that sub-
section (1) shall not apply where such person or persons taking the said life
or determinable interest had at any time prior to the disposition been himself
or themselves competent to dispose of the said property.

### 25. Income of settled property acquired on death of spouse.

\- Where a husband or wife is entitled, either solely or jointly with the
other, to the income of any property settled by the other under a disposition
which took effect before the commencement of this Act and on his or her death
the survivor becomes entitled to the income of the property (as distinguished
form the property itself) settled by such survivor, estate duty shall not be
payable in respect of that property until the death of that survivor.

### 26. Property passing by reason of a bona fide purchase for full or partial
consideration in money.

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 27 and section 46 estate duty shall
not be payable in respect of property passing on the death of the deceased by
reason only of bona fide purchase from the person under whose disposition the
property passes, nor in nor in respect of the determination of any annuity for
lives, where such purchase was made, or such lease or annuity granted, for
full consideration in money or money's worth paid to the vendor or grantor for
his own use or benefit, or in the case of a lease from the use or benefit of
any person from whom the grantor was a trustee.(2)Where any such purchase was
made, or lease or annuity granted for partial consideration in money or
money's worth paid to the vendor or grantor for his own use or benefit, or in
the case of a lease for the use or benefit of any person for whom the grantor
was a trustee, the value of the consideration shall be allowed as a deduction
from the value of the property for the purpose of estate duty.

### 27. Dispositions in favour of relatives.

(1)Any disposition made by the deceased in favour of a relative of his shall
be treated for the purposes of section 9 as a gift unless.-(a)the disposition
was made on the part of the deceased for full consideration in money or
money's worth paid to him for his own use or benefit; or(b)the deceased was
concerned in a fiduciary capacity imposed on him otherwise than by a
disposition made by him and in such a capacity only ; and references to a gift
in this Act shall be construed accordingly :Provided that where the
disposition was made on the part of the deceased for partial consideration in
money or money's worth paid to him for his own use or benefit, the value of
the consideration shall be allowed as a deduction from the value of the
property for the purpose of estate duty.(2)Where the deceased has made a
disposition of property in favour of a relative of his, the creation or
disposition in favour of the deceased of an annuity or other interest limited
to cease on the death of the deceased or of any other person shall not be
treated for the purposes of this section as consideration for the disposition
made by the deceased.(3)If a controlled company was concerned in a transaction
in relation to which it is claimed that the provisions of clause (a) of or the
provise to sub-section (1) have effect, those provisions shall have effect in
relation thereto if and only if, and to the extent only to which, the
Controller to satisfied that those provisions would have had effect in the
following circumstances, namely, if the assets of the company had been held by
it on trust for the members thereof and any other person to whom it is under
any liability incurred otherwise than for the purposes of the business of the
company wholly and exclusively, in accordance with the rights attaching to the
shares in and debentures of the company and terms on which any such liability
was incurred, and if the company had acted in the capacity of a trustee only
with power to carry on the business of the company and to employ the assets of
the company therein.(4)Any gift made in favour of a relative of the deceased
by a controlled company of which the deceased at the time of the gift had
control within the meaning of section 17 shall be treated for the purposes of
section 9 as a gift made by the deceased, and the property taken under the
gift shall be treated as included by virtue of that section in the property
passing on the death of the deceased, if and to the extent to which the
Controller is satisfied that they would fall to be so treated in the
circumstances mentioned in the last foregoing sub-section.(5)If the deceased
has made in favour of a controlled company a disposition which, if it had been
made in favour of a relative of his, would have fallen within sub-section (2),
this section shall have effect in like manner as if the disposition had been
made in favour of a relative of his, unless it is shown to the satisfaction of
the Controller that no relative of the deceased was, at the time of the
disposition or subsequently during the life of the deceased, a member of the
company.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section a person who is,
or is deemed by virtue of this provision to be, a member of a controlled
company which is a member of another such company shall be deemed to be a
member of that other company.(6)Where there have been associated operations
effected with reference to the receiving by the deceased of any payment in
respect of such an annuity or other interest as is mentioned in sub-section
(2), or effected with a view to enabling him to receive or to facilitating the
receipt by him of any such payment, this section shall have effect in relation
to each of those associated operations as it has effect in relation to the
creation or disposition in favour of the deceased of such an annuity or other
interest.(7)In this section.-(i)" relative" means, in relation to the
deceased,.-(a)the wife or husband of the deceased,(b)the father, mother,
children, uncles and aunts of the deceased, and(c)any issue of any person
falling within either of the preceding sub-clauses and the other party to a
marriage with any such person or issue;(ii)reference to "children" and "issue"
include reference to illegitimate children and to adopted
children;(iii)"annuity" includes any series of payments, whether
interconnected or not, whether of the same or of varying amounts, and whether
payable at regular intervals or otherwise, and payment of dividends or
interests on shares in or debentures of a company shall be treated for the
purposes of this section as a serious of payments constituting an annuity
limited to cease of a death if the payments are liable to cease on the death,
or the amounts thereof are liable to be reduced on the death, by reason
directly or indirectly of the extinguishment or any alteration of rights
attaching to, or of the issue of any shares in or debentures of a company
;(iv)"associated operations" means any two or more operations of any kind
being.-(a)operations which effect the same property, or one of which affects
some property and the other or others of which affect property which
represents, whether directly or indirectly, that property, or income arising
from that property, or any property representing accumulations of any such
income ; or(b)any two operations of which one is effected with reference to
the other, or with a view to enabling it to be effected or to facilitating its
being effected, and any third operation having a like relation to either of
those two, and any fourth operation having a like relation to any of those
three, and so on ;whether those operations are effected by the same person or
by different persons, whether they are connected otherwise than as aforesaid
or not, and whether they are contemporaneous or any of them precedes or
follows any other.

### 28. Effect of new or increased rates of duty on certain prior sales and
mortgages.

\- Where an interest in expectancy in any property has whether before or after
the commencement of this Act, been bona fide sold or mortgaged for full
consideration in money or money's worth, and the rates of estate duty in force
in the case of a person dying when the interest falls into possession are
higher than the rates in force, if any, in the case of a person dying at the
time of the sale or mortgage, then.-(a)no other duty on that property shall be
payable by the purchaser or mortgagee when the interest falls into possession
than the duty, if any, which would have been payable if the rates of estate
duty applicable had been the rates in force, if any, in the case of a person
dying at the time of the sale, or mortgage, and(b)in the case of a mortgage,
any higher duty payable by the mortgagor shall rank as a charge subsequent to
that of the mortgagee.

### 29. Settled property in respect of which since the date of the settlement
estate duty has been paid on the death of the deceaseds spouse.

\- If estate duty has already been paid in respect of any settled property
since the date of the settlement, on the death of one of the parties to a
marriage the estate duty shall not be death of one of the parties to a
marriage the estate duty shall not be payable in respect thereof on the death
of the other party to the marriage, unless the latter was at the time of his
death, or had been at any time during the continuance of the settlement,
competent to dispose of such property, and, if on his death subsequent
limitations under the settlement take effect in respect of such property, was
sui juris at the time of his death, or had been sui juris at any time while so
competent to dispose of the property.

### 30. Agreement for avoidance or relief of double taxation with respect to
estate duty.

\- The Central Government may enter into an agreement with the Government of
any reciprocating country for the avoidance or relief of double taxation with
respect to estate duty leviable under this Act and under the corresponding law
in force in the reciprocating country and may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, make such provision as may be necessary for implementing the
agreement.Explanation. - The expression "reciprocating country" for the
purpose of this Act means any country which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a reciprocating country.

### 31. Allowance for quick succession to property.

\- Where the Board is satisfied that estate duty has become payable on any
property passing upon the death of any person, and that subsequently within
five years estate duty has again become payable on the same property or any
part thereof passing on the death of the person to whom the property passed on
the first death, the amount of estate duty payable on the second death in
respect of the property so passing shall be reduced as follows :.-Where the
second death occurs within one year of the first death, by fifty per cent
;Where the second death occurs within two years of the first death, by forty
per cent ;Where the second death occurs within three years of the first death,
by thirty per cent.;Where the second death occurs within four years of the
first death, by twenty per cent.;Where the second death occurs within five
years of the first death, by ten per cent.;Provided that where the value on
which the duty is payable of the property on the second death exceeds the
value on which the duty was payable of the property on the first death, the
latter value shall be substituted for the former for the purpose of
calculating the amount of duty on which the reduction under this section is to
be calculated.Explanation 1. - For the purposes of this section every death
shall be deemed to be a second death in relation to the death immediately
preceding.Explanation 2. - In computing any period for the purposes of this
section, deaths occurring within a period of three months after the death of
any person in respect of whose property estate duty has become payable, shall
be treated as one death, and no estate duty shall again be payable on the same
property by reason of the subsequent deaths occurring within the said period
of three months.

### 32. Exemption of interest of a Hindu widow devolving upon reversioners in
certain cases.

\- Where on the death of any person governed by any school of Hindu law, his
interest in any property has devolved on his widow, then, if the widow dies
within seven years of her husband's death and the interest aforesaid devolves
upon the reversioners or any of them, no estate duty shall be leviable in
respect of the passing of the interest aforesaid on the death of the widow, if
and in so far as estate duty had been paid in respect of the passing of such
interest on the death of her husband.

### 33. Exemptions.

(1)To the extent specified against each of the clauses in this sub-section, no
estate duty shall be payable in respect of property of any of the following
kinds belonging to the deceased which passes on his death.-(a)property taken
under a gift made by the deceased for a public charitable purpose within a
period of six months before his death, to the extent of rupees two thousand
and five hundred in value ;(b)property taken under a gift made by the deceased
for any other purpose within a period of two years before his death, to the
extent of rupees one thousand and five hundred in value :(c)household goods,
including tools of artisans, agricultural implements or any other tools or
implements as were necessary to the deceased to enable him to earn his
livelihood, to the extent of rupees two thousand and five hundred in value
;(d)books not intended for sale ;(e)wearing apparel, but not including any
previous or semi-precious stones or ornaments worked or sewn into the wearing
apparel ;(f)moneys payable under one or more policies of insurance effected by
the deceased on his life for the purpose of paying estate duty or assigned to
the Government for the said purpose, to the extent of the amount of duty
payable but not exceeding rupees fifty thousand ;(g)moneys deposited with the
Government in such manner as may be prescribed for the purpose of paying
estate duty, together with the interest which has accrued due thereon at such
rate as may be prescribed, to the extent of the amount of duty payable but not
exceeding rupees fifty thousand ;(h)moneys payable under one or more policies
of insurance effected by the deceased on his life, to the extent of rupees
five thousand ;(i)drawings, paintings, prints, manuscripts, works of art or
archaeological or scientific collections which are of national, scientific or
historical interest and which are retained in the family of the deceased and
dealt with or disposed of in accordance with such conditions as the Board may
prescribed, or which are given absolutely or bequeathed to Government or to
any University or other public institution ;(j)drawings, paintings,
photographs, prints, manuscripts and any other heir-loom, not falling within
clause (i), which are retained in the family of the deceased and are dealt
with or disposed of in accordance with such conditions as the Board may
prescribe and are not intended for sale ;(k)moneys earmarked under policies of
insurance of declarations of trust or settlements effected or made by a
deceased parent or natural guardian for the marriage of any of his female
relatives dependent upon him for the necessaries of life, to the extent of
rupees five thousand in respect of the marriage of each of such
relatives.(2)If the Central Government is of opinion that in respect of any
class of property or class of persons the circumstances are such that some
relief in addition to the reliefs provided in sub-section (1) should be given,
it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make any exemption, reduction
in rate or other modification in respect of estate duty in favour of any such
class of property or the whole or any part of the property of any class of
persons, and any notification so issued shall be laid before both Houses of
Parliament as soon as may be after it is issued.

## Part IV – Aggregation of Property and Rates of Duty

### 34. Aggregation.

(1)For determining the rate of estate duty to be paid on any property passing
on the death of the deceased, all property so passing, excluding.-property
exempted from duty under clauses (c), (d), (e), (i) and (j) of sub-section (1)
of section 33.but including.-(i)property on which no estate duty is leviable
under section 35,(ii)property exempted from duty under clauses (a), (b), (f),
(g), (h) and (k) of section 33, and(iii)agricultural land situate in any State
not specified in the First Schedule,shall be aggregated so as to form one
estate and the duty shall be levied at the rate of rates applicable in respect
of the principal value thereof :Provided that any property so passing, in
which the deceased never had an interest, not being a debt or right or benefit
that is treated as property by virtue of the Explanations to clause (15) of
section 2, shall not be aggregated with any other property, but shall be an
estate by itself and the estate duty shall be leviable at the rate or rates
applicable in respect of the principal value thereof.(2)Every estate shall
include all income accrued upon the property included therein down to and
outstanding at the date of the death of the deceased.(3)Property passing on
any death shall not be aggregated more than once nor shall estate duty in
respect thereof be levied more than once on the same death.(4)Where an estate
includes any property which is exempt from estate duty, the estate duty
leviable on the property which is not so exempt shall be an amount bearing to
the total amount of duty which would have been payable on the whole estate had
no part of it been exempted the same proportion as the unexempted value of the
property bears to the value of the whole estate.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this sub-section property which is exempt from estate duty means
any property which is exempt from estate duty under section 33 and also any
agricultural land situate in any State not specified in the First Schedule.

### 35. Rates of estate duty on property including agricultural land.

(1)The rates of estate duty shall be as mentioned in the Second Schedule
:Provided that no such duty shall be levied upon.-(a)property which consists
of an interest in the joint family property of a Hindu family governed by the
Mitakshara, Marumakkattayam or Aliayasantana law, to the extent to which the
principal value of the estate does not exceed rupees fifty thousand
;(b)property of any other kind, to the extent to which the principal value of
the estate does not exceed rupees one lakh.(2)Where an estate passing on the
death of a person consist partly of property of the nature described in clause
(a) of the proviso to sub-section (1) and party of the nature described in
clause (b) of the said proviso, the estate duty payable thereon shall
be.-(i)the amount which bears to the total amount of estate duty which would
have been payable on the estate had it wholly consisted of property of the
nature described in clause (a) the same proportion as the value of such
property bears to the value of the estate, plus(ii)the amount which bears to
the total amount of estate duty which would have been payable on the estate
had it wholly consisted of property of the nature described in clause (b) the
same proportion as the value of such property bears to the value of the
estate.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) and the Second
Schedule, where any property passing on the death of any person consists
wholly or in part of agricultural land and the principal value of the estate
does not exceed rupees two lakhs, there shall be allowed by way of
rebate.-(a)in the case of an estate which consists wholly of agricultural
land, a sum representing one-fourth of the estate duty payable; and(b)in the
case of an estate which consists in part only of agricultural land, a sum
representing one-fourth of the estate duty payable on that part of the estate
which consists of agricultural land, the duty on such part being a sum which
bears to the total amount of estate duty the same proportion as the value of
the agricultural land bears to the value of the estate.

## Part V – Value Chargeable

### 36. Principal value how to be estimated.

(1)The principal value of any property shall be estimated to be the price
which, in the opinion of the Controller it would fetch if sold in the open
market at the time of the deceased's death.(2)In estimating the principal
value under this section the Controller shall fix the price of the property
according to the market price at the time of the deceased's death and shall
not make any reduction in the estimate on account of the estimate being made
on the assumption that the whole property is to be placed on the market at one
and the same time :Provided that where it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Controller that the value of the property has depreciated by reason of the
death of the deceased, the depreciation shall be taken into account in fixing
the price.

### 37. Valuation of shares in a private company where alienation in
restricted.

\- Where the articles of association of a private company contain restrictive
provisions as to the alienation of shares, the value of the shares, if not
ascertainable by reference to the value of the total assets of the company,
shall be estimated to be what they would fetch if they could be sold in the
open market on the terms of the purchaser being entitled to be registered as
holder subject to the articles, but the fact that a special buyer would for
his own special reasons give a higher price than the price in the open market
shall be disregarded.

### 38. Valuation of interests in expectancy.

\- Where an estate includes an interest in expectancy, estate duty in respect
of that interest shall be paid, at the option of the person accountable for
the duty, either with the duty in respect of the rest of the estate or when
the interest falls into possession, and if the duty is not paid with the
estate duty in respect of the rest of the estate, then.-(a)for the purpose of
determining the rate of estate duty in respect of the rest of the estate, the
value of the interest shall be its value at the date of the death of the
deceased ; and(b)the rate of estate duty in respect of the interest when in
falls into possession shall be calculated according to its value when it falls
into possession, together with the value of the rest of the estate as
previously ascertained.

### 39. Valuation of interest in coparcenary property ceasing on death.

(1)The value of the benefit accruing or arising from the cesser of a
coparcenary interest in any joint family property governed by the Mitakshara
school of Hindu law which ceases on the death of a member thereof shall be the
principal value of the share in the joint family property which would have
been allotted to the deceased had there been a partition immediately before
his death.(2)The value of the benefit accruing or arising from the cesser of
an interest in the property of a tarwad or tavazhi governed by the
Marumakkattayam rule of inheritance or of a kutumba or kavaru governed by the
Aliyasantana rule of inheritance which ceases on the death of a member thereof
shall be the principal value of the share in the property of the tarawd or
tavazhi or, as the case may be, the kutumba or kavaru which would have been
allotted to the deceased had a partition taken place immediately before his
death.(3)For the purpose of estimating the principal value of the joint family
property of a Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara, Marumakkattayam or
Aliyasantana law in order to arrive at the share which would have been
allotted to the deceased had a partition taken place immediately before his
death, the provisions of this Act, so far as may be, shall apply as they would
have applied if the whole of the joint family property had belonged to the
deceased.

### 40. Valuation of benefits from interests ceasing on death.

\- The value of the benefit accruing or arising or arising from the cesser of
an interest ceasing on the death of the deceased shall.-(a)if the interest
extended to the whole income of the property, be the principal value of that
property ; and(b)if the interest extended to less than the whole income of the
property, be the principal value of an addition to the property equal of the
income to which the interest extended.

### 41. Valuation to be made by the Controller.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the value of any property for the
purpose of estate duty shall be ascertained by the Controller in such manner
and by such means as may be prescribed and if he authorises a person to
inspect any property and to report the value thereof for the purposes of this
act, that person may enter upon the property and inspect it at such reasonable
times as may be prescribed.

### 42. Costs of valuation.

\- Where the Controller requires any person to report on the value of any
property for the purposes of this Act, the reasonable costs of such valuation
shall be defrayed by the Controller.

### 43. Controller may accept and certify valuation when convenient.

\- The Controller on application from a person accountable for the duty on any
property forming part of an estate shall, where he considers that if can
conveniently be done, certify the amount of the valuation accepted by him for
any class or description of property forming part of such estate.

### 44. Reasonable funeral expenses, and with some exceptions, debts and
incumbrances to be allowed for in determining chargeable value of estate.

\- In determining the value of an estate for the purpose of estate duty,
allowance shall be made for funeral expenses (not exceeding rupees one
thousand) and for debts and incumbrances; but an allowance shall not be
made.-(a)for debts incurred by the deceased, or incumbrances created by a
disposition made by the deceased, unless, subject to the provisions of section
27, such debts or incumbrances were incurred or created bona fide for full
consideration in money or money's worth wholly for the deceased's own use and
benefit and take effect out of his interest, or(b)for any debt in respect
whereof there is right to reimbursement from any other estate or person,
unless such reimbursement cannot be obtained or(c)more than once for the same
debt or incumbrance charged upon different portions of the estate, or(d)for
debts incurred by or on behalf of the deceased by way of dower, to the extent
to which such debts are in excess of rupees five thousand,and any debt or
incumbrance for which an allowance is made shall be deducted from the value of
the property liable thereto.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
"funeral expenses" include all expenses which may have to be incurred in
connection with the sraddha or basis ceremonies of the deceased for a period
of one year from his death.

### 45. Limitations on debts deductible.

\- Where a debt or incumbracne has been incurred or created in whole or in
part for the purpose of or in consideration for the purchase or acquisition or
extinction, whether by operation of law or otherwise of any interest in
expectancy in any property passing or deemed to pass on the death of the
deceased and any person whose interest in expectancy is so purchased,
acquired, or extinguished becomes (under any disposition made by or through
devolution of law from, or under the intestacy of the deceased) entitled to
any interest in that property, then in determining the value of the estate of
the deceased for the purpose of estate duty no allowance shall be made in
respect of such debt or incumbrance, and any property charged with any such
debt incumbrance shall be deemed to pass freed from that debt or
incumbrance:Provided that.-(a)if part only of such debt or incumbrance was
incurred or created for such purpose or as such consideration as aforesaid,
this provision shall apply to that part of such debt or incumbrance only;
and(b)if a person whose interest in expectancy in the property so purchased,
acquired or extinguished becomes entitled to an interest in part only of that
property, this provision shall apply only to such part of the debt or
incumbrance as bears the same proportion to the whole debt or incumbrance as
bears the same proportion to the whole debt or incumbrance as the value of the
part of the property to an interest in which he becomes entitled bears to the
value of the whole of that property.

### 46. Further limitations.

(1)Any allowance which, but for this provision, would be made under section 44
for a debt incurred by the deceased as mentioned include (a) of that section
or for an incumbrance created by a disposition made by the deceased as therein
mentioned, shall be subject to abatement to an extent proportionate to the
value of any of the consideration given therefor which consisted
of.-(a)property derived from the deceased; or(b)consideration not being such
property as aforesaid, but given by any person who was at any time entitled to
or amongst whose resources there was a t any time included, any property
derived from the deceased;Provided that if, where the whole or a part of the
consideration give consisted of such consideration as is mentioned in
clause(b) of this sub-section it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Controller that the value of the consideration given, or of that part thereof,
as the case may be exceeded that which could have been rendered available by
application of all the property derived from the deceased, other than such (
if any) of that property as is included in the consideration given or as to
which the like facts are proved in relation to the giving of the consideration
as are mentioned in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 16 in relation
to the purchase or provision of an annuity or other interest no abatement
shall be made in respect of the excess.(2)Money or money's worth paid or
applied by the deceased in or towards satisfied or discharge of debt or
incumbrance in the case of incumbrance had not been satisfied or discharged,
or in reduction of a debt or incumbrance had not been satisfied or discharged,
or in reduction of a debt or incumbrance in the case of which that sub-section
has effect on his death, shall, unless so paid or applied two years before the
death, be treated as property deemed to be included in the property passing on
the death and estate duty shall, notwithstanding anything in section 25, be
payable in respect thereof accordingly.(3)The provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 16n shall have effect for the purpose of this section as they have
effect for the purpose of that section.

### 47. Debts to persons resident in foreign country not to be deducted in
first instance except from duty-paid property in that country.

\- An allowance shall not be made in the first instance for debts due from the
deceased to persons resident out of the territories to which this act extends
(unless contracted to be paid in the said territories or charged on properties
situate within the said territories),except, out of the value of any property
of the deceased situate out of the said territories in respect of which estate
duty is paid; and there shall be no repayment of estate duty in respect of any
such debts, except to the extent to which it is shown to the satisfaction of
the Controller that the property of the deceased situate in the foreign
country in which the person to whom such debts are due resides is insufficient
for their payment.

### 48. Cost of realising or administering foreign property may be allowed for
within certain limits.

\- Where the Controller is satisfied that any additional expense in
administering or in realising property has been incurred by reason of the
property being situate out of the territories to which this Act extends he may
make an allowance from the value of the property on account of such expense
not exceeding in any case five percent or the value of the property.

### 49. Allowance for duty paid in a non-reciprocating country.

\- Where any property passing on the death of the deceased is situate in a
non-reciprocating country and the Controller is satisfied that by reason of
such death any duty is payable in that country in respect of that property, he
may, subject to such rules as may be made by the Board in the behalf, make an
allowance of the whole or any part of the amount of that duty form the value
of the property.Explanation. - In this section, the expression "non-
reciprocating country" means any country other than India which has not been
declared to be a reciprocating country for the purposes of this Act.

### 50. Relief from estate duty where court-fees have been paid for obtaining
representation to estate of deceased.

\- Where any fees have been paid under any law relating to court-fees in force
in any State other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir for obtaining probate,
letters, of administration or a succession certificate in respect of any
property on which estate duty is leviable under this Act, the amount of the
estate duty pay7able shall be reduced by an amount which is equal to the
court-fees so paid.

## Part VII – Collection of the Duty

### 51. Method of collection of duty.

\- Estate duty may be collected by such means and in such manner as the Board
may prescribe.

### 52. Payment of duty may be accepted in prescribed Government securities.

\- The Board may prescribed that Government securities shall be accepted in
payment of estate duty on such terms as it thinks fit.

### 53. Persons accountable, and their duties and liabilities,.

(1)Where any property passes on the death of the deceased.-(a)every legal
representative to whom such property so passes for any beneficial interest in
possession or in whom any interest in the property so passing is at any time
vested,(b)every trustee, guardian, committee or other person in whom any
interest in the property so passing or the management thereof is at any time
vested, and(c)every person in whom any interest in the property so passing is
vested in possession by allegation or other derivative title,shall be
accountable for the whole of the estate duty on the property passing on the
death but shall not be liable for any duty, in excess of the assets of the
deceased which he actually received or which, but for his own neglect or
default he might have received:Provided that nothing in this section shall
render a person accountable for duty who acts merely as agent or bailiff for
another person in the management of property.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1)where an heir-at-law proves to the satisfaction of
the controller that some other person is in adverse possession of any assets
of the deceased, the heir-at-law shall not be accountable for the portion of
the estate duty payable in respect of such assets:Provided that he shall
become so accountable if, and to the extent that, he subsequently recovers
possession of such assets.(3)Every person accountable for estate duty under
the provisions of this section shall, within six months of the death of
deceased or such later time as the Controller may allow, deliver to the
Controller and verify to the best of his knowledge and belief, an account of
all the property in respect of which estate duty is payable.(4)Where the
person accountable knows of any property which he has not included in his
account because he does not know its amount or value, he may state that such
property exists, but he does not know the amount or value thereof and that he
undertakes, as soon as the amount and value are ascertained to bring a
supplementary account thereof and to pay both the duty for which he may be
liable in respect of such property and any further duty payable by reason
thereof for which he may be liable in respect of the property mentioned in the
original account(5)Where two or more persons are accountable whether in the
same capacity or in different capacities, for estate duty in respect of any
property passing on the death of the deceased, they shall be liable jointly
and severally for the whole of the estate duty on the property so passing.

### 54. Persons accountable may include trustees in certain cases.

(1)Where an interest limited to cease on a death within the meaning of section
11 after becoming an interest in possession is disposed of or determines
wholly or partly then whatever the nature of the property in which the
interest subsisted, the following persons shall be accountable for any estate
duty payable on the death by virtue of that section (in addition to any
persons accountable therefor apart form this section), that is to say.-(a)if
the settlement under which the interest subsisted is in existence at the
death, the trustees for the time being of that settlement; and(b)if it is not,
the persons who were the last trustees of that settlement.(2)Where.-(a)the
trustees of a settlement may become accountable for estate duty payable by
virtue of section 11 in respect of any property; and(b)it is intended that the
property or any part thereof shall cease to be comprised in the
settlement;then if the trustees obtain from the Controller a certificate of
the amount which in the opinion of the Controller may properly be treated as
the prospective amount of the duty, and give the Controller all the
information ad evidence required by the Controller in connection with the
application for the certificate no person shall be accountable as trustee of
the settlement for the duty to which the certificate relates to an amount in
excess of the amount certified.(3)It is hereby declared that a person who may
become accountable as trustee of a settlement for estate duty payable by
virtue of section 11 on property which is or has been comprised in the
settlement has a lien for the prospective amount of the duty and the costs in
respect thereof on any property in his hands which is so
comprised.Explanation. - References in this section to the prospective amount
of any duty are to be taken as referring to the prospective amount of the duty
on the assumption that it will become chargeable.

### 55. Every person believed to be in possession to deliver statement of
particulars of property as required by Controller.

\- Every person accountable for estate duty, every company to which, in the
opinion of the Controller, a transfer of property has been made by the
deceased as mentioned in section 17, every person who is or was at any time an
officer or auditor of such a company, and every person whom the Controller
believes to have taken possession of or administered any part of the estate in
respect of which duty is leviable on the death of the deceased, or of the
income of any part of such estate shall, if required by the Controller,
deliver to him and verify to the best of his knowledge, and belief, a
statement of such particulars together with such accounts, documents, evidence
or information as the controller may require relating to any property which he
has reason to believe to from part of an estate in respect of which estate
duty is leviable on the death of the deceased.

### 56. Penalty for default.

\- Any person who without reasonable cause has failed to comply with the
provisions of section 53 or section 55, or has failed to comply with the said
provisions within the time allowed, shall be liable to pay a penalty of one
thousand rupees or a sum equal to double the amount of estate duty, if any
remaining unpaid for which he is account able according as the Controller may
direct:Provided that the Controller may reduce the penalty in any particular
case.

### 57. Executor to specify all chargeable property with affidavit of
valuation.

\- In all cases in which a grant of representation is applied of within six
months of the death of the deceased.-(a)the executor of the deceased shall, to
the best of his knowledge and belief, specify in an appropriate account
annexed to the affidavit of valuation filed in court under section 19-I of the
court-fees Act, 1870 (VII of 1870) all the property in respect of which estate
duty is payable upon the death of the deceased and shall deliver a copy of the
affidavit with the account to the Controller and(b)no order entitling the
applicant to the grant of representation shall be made upon his application
until he has delivered the account prescribed in clause (a) and has produced a
certificate from the Controller under section 60 or section 67 that the estate
duty payable in respect of the property included in the account has been or
will be paid, or that none is due as the case may be

### 58. Estate duty when due and how and when to be collected.

(1)Estate duty shall be due from the date of the death of the deceased and
shall be collected upon the account delivered under section 53 or clause (a)
of section 57 or the account prepared under sub.-section (2) of section
61.(2)When any estate duty, penalty interest or any other sum chargeable under
this act has bee determined in consequence of any order passed under or in
pursuance of this act, the Controller shall serve on the person accountable a
notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the sum so payable and the
time which and the place at which it is payable.

### 59. Limitation for commencing proceedings for levy of estate duty.

\- No proceeding for the levy of any estate duty under this Act shall be
commenced after the expiration of twelve years from the date of death of the
deceased in respect of whose property estate duty became leviable.

### 60. Duty to be paid or security for payment furnished on delivery of
account and certificate to be granted thereupon.

\- Upon delivery of the account under section 53 or clause (a) of section 57,
the person delivering it shall pay to the Controller or furnish security to
the satisfaction of the Controller for the payment of the state duty, if any
payable in respect of the property included in the account and the Controller
shall thereupon grant him a certificate that such duty has been or w8ill be
paid or that none is due as the case may be.

### 61. Controllers powers in respect of valuations.

(1)If the Controller is of opinion that the person delivering the account has
under-estimated the value of the property in respect of which estate duty is
payable (whether by placing too low a value on the property included in the
account or by omitting to include therein property that ought to have been
included), the Controller may inquire into the matter in such manner and by
such means as he thinks fit and if still of opinion that the value of the
property has been under-estimated may required him to amend the valuation, and
if that person does not amend the valuation to the satisfaction of the
Controller, the Controller may determine the valuation on the basis of which
estate duty is payable after giving the person accountable an opportunity of
being heard.(2)In any case where no account has been delivered as required by
section 53 or clause (a) of section 57, the Controller may cause an account of
the property passing on the death of the deceased to be prepared in such
manner and by such means as he thinks fit and may call upon any person who in
his opinion is accountable for the payment of estate duty in respect of the
property to accept such account, and if that person does not accept the
account or his liability the Controller may determine the estate duty payable
by that person.

### 62. Rectification of mistakes relating to valuation for estate duty.

(1)If, after the determination of the estate duty payable in respect of any
estate, it appears to the Controller, that by reason of any mistake apparent
from the record or of any mistake in the valuation of any property in any case
other than a case in which the valuation of any property in any case other
than a case in which the valuation has been the subject matter of an appeal
under this act or of the omission of any property, the estate duty paid
thereon is either in excess of or less than the actual duty payable, he may,
either on his own motion or on the application of the person accountable and
after obtaining the previous approval of the Board, at any time within three
years from the date on which the estate duty was first determined.(a)refund
the excess duty paid, or as the case may be,(b)determine the additional duty
payable on the property:Provided that where the person accountable had
fraudulently under estimated the value of any property or omitted and property
the period shall be six year:Provided further that no order shall be made
under this sub-section unless the person accountable has been given an
opportunity of being heard.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall
render any person accountable to whom a certificate that the estate duty has
been paid is granted liable for any additional duty in excess of the assets of
the deceased which are still in his possession, unless the person accountable
had fraudulently attempted to evade any part of the estate duty in the first
instance.

### 63. Appeal against determination by Controller.

(1)Any person.-(a)objecting.-(i)to any valuation made by the Controller
or(ii)to any order made by the Controller determining the estate duty payable,
or(iii)to any penalty levied by the Controller under section 56, or(iv)to any
final order or adjudication having the effect of imposing a liability or an
obligation to pay estate duty in respect of any property, or(b)denying his
liability to account for the estate duty payable in respect of any
propertyor(c)objecting to any order made by the Controller refusing to grant a
certificate of discharge or any other certificate under this Act,may, within
ninety days of the date of the receipt of the notice of demand under section
58 in the cases specified in clauses (a) and (b) and within nicety days of the
date of the order in the cases specified in clause(c), appeal to the Board in
the prescribed form which shall be verified in the prescribed manner.(2)The
Board may admit an appeal after the expiry of ninety days referred to in sub-
section (10 if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not
presenting it within that period.(3)The Board may, in disposing of any appeal,
hold or cause to be held such further inquiry as it thinks fit, and after
giving the appellant a opportunity of being, heard, pass, subject top the
provisions o sub-section (4) such orders thereon as it thinks fit and shall
send a copy of such orders to the appellant and the Controller.(4)Where the
dispute pertains to any valuation of property the Board may and if the
appellant so requires, it shall, refer the question of disputed value to the
arbitration of two values, one of whom shall be nominated y the Board and the
other b y the appellant, and the costs of any such arbitration shall be borne
by the Board or the appellant as the case may be at whose instance the matter
was referred to the valuers:Provided that where the appellant has been wholly
or partially successful in any reference made at his instance, the extent to
which costs should be borne by the appellant shall be at the discretion of the
Board:Provided further that if there is a difference of opinion between the
two valuers, the matter shall be referred to a third valuer nominated by
agreement, or failing agreement by the Central Government and his decision on
the question of valuation shall be final.(5)The valuers may in disposing of
any matter referred to them for arbitration under sub-section (4) hold or
cause to be held such inquiry as they think fit, and after giving the
appellant and the Controller an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders
thereon as they think fit and shall send a copy of such order to the appellant
and to the Board.(6)Notwithstanding that an appeal has been filed before the
Board, so much of the estate duty as is not in dispute shall be payable by the
appellant.

### 64. Statement of case by the Board to High Court.

(1)Within ninety days of the date upon which he is served an order under sub-
section (3) of section 63, the person accountable may present an application
to the Board in the prescribed from, accompanied by a fee of one hundred
rupees, requiring the Board to refer to the High Court any question of law
arising out of such order, and the Board shall, if in its opinion a question
of law arises out o f such order, state the case for the opinion of the High
Court:Provided that the Board may admit such an application after the expiry
of ninety days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not
presenting it within the said period.(2)If, on an application made under sub-
section (1) the Board.-(a)refuses to state a case on the ground that no
question of law arises or(b)rejects it on the ground that it is time-barred,
the person accountable may, within three months from the date on which he is
served with a notice of refusal or rejection, as the case may be apply to the
High Court, and the High court may, if it is not satisfied with the
correctness of the decision of the Board require the Board to state the case
to the High Court and on receipt of such requisition the Board shall state the
case:Provided that if, in any case where it has been required by a person
accountable to state a case, the Board refuses to do so on the ground that no
question of law arises, such person may within thirty days from the date on
which he receives notice of the refusal to state the case, withdraw his
application and if he does so the fee paid by him under sub-section (1) shall
be refunded.(3)Section 5 of the Indian Limitation act, 1908 (IX of 1908) shall
apply to an application to the High Court under sub-section (2)(4)If, on an
application made under sub-section (1), the Board is of opinion that either on
account of the importance of any question of law involved in the case or on
account of a conflict in the decisions of different High Courts, in respect of
any particular question of law arising therefrom, it is expedient that a case
should be stated direct to the Supreme Court, the Board may state the case
direct to the Supreme Court.(5)The case shall set forth the facts, the
determination of the Board and the questions of law which arise out of the
case.(6)If the High Court or the Supreme Court is not satisfied that the case
as stated is sufficient to enable it to determine the questions of law raised
thereby the court may require the Board to make such additions thereto, or
alterations therein, as it may direct in this behalf.(7)The High Court or the
Supreme Court upon hearing any such case shall decide the question of law
raised therein and in doing so may if it thinks fit, alter the form of the
question of law and shall deliver its judgement thereon containing the ground
on which such decision is founded and shall send a copy of such judgement
under the seal of the Court and the signature of the Registrar, to the Board
which shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose of the case
conformably to such.(8)The costs of any reference to the High Court or to he
Supreme Court shall be in the discretion of the court;Provided that in case is
referred to the Supreme Court under sub-section (4) of this section the party
shall pay, if required to do so, the cost only as if reference has been made
to a High court and not th supreme Court.(9)Notwithstanding that a reference
has been made under this section to the high Court or to the Supreme Court
estate duty shall be payable in accordance with the determination made by the
Board.(10)For the purposes of this section "High Court" means the High Court
to which or to a court subordinate to which, an application for grant of
representation has been made, or where no such application has been made, the
High Court which would have jurisdiction to entertain such an
application:Provided that in the case of Part C States, "High Court"
means.-(a)in relation to ajmer and Vindhya pradesh, the high Court at
Allahabad,(b)in relation to Bhopal, the High Court at Nagpur,(c)in relation to
Bilaspur, Delhi and Himachal pradesh, the High Court of Punjab,(d)in relation
to Coorg, the High Court of Mysore,(e)in relation to Kutch the High Court at
Bombay,(f)in relation to Manipur and Tripura, the High Court of Assam,
and(g)in relation to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the High Court at
Calcutta.

### 65. Case to be heard by Benches of High Courts and appeal to lie in
certain cases to the Supreme Court.

(1)When a case has been stated to the High Court under section 64, it shall be
heard by a Bench of not less than two Judges of the High Court, and shall be
decided in accordance with the opinion of such Judges or of the majority (if
any) of such Judges.Provided that where there is no such majority, the Judges
shall state the point of law upon which they differ, and the case shall then
be heard upon that point only by one or more of the other Judges of the High
Court, and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the
majority of the Judges who have heard the case, including those who first
heard it.(2)An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgement of the
High Court delivered on a case stated under section 64 in any case which the
High Court certifies to be a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court.(3)The
provisions of the code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) relating to
appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of
appeals under this section in like manner as they apply in the case of appeals
from decrees of a High Court:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall
be deemed to affect the provisions of sub-section (7) of section 64:Provided
further that the High Court may on petition made for the execution of the
order of the Supreme Court in respect of any costs awarded thereby transmit
the order for execution to any court subordinate to the High Court.(4)Where
the judgement of the High Court is varied o reversed in appeal under this
section, effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner
provided in sub-section (7) of section 64.

### 66. Grant of representation not to be delayed on reference to High Court.

\- Where any grant of representation has been applied for it shall not be
delayed by reason of any reference to a High Court under section 64.

### 67. Certificate of payment of duty and penalty for non-payment..

(1)Where the valuation is amended by the person accountable upon the
Controller's requisition under sub-section (1) of section 61 or is enhanced by
the Court upon the Board's reference under section 64, and in any case where
the original valuation has been discovered to be too low, such person shall,
within two months, of the amendment or enhancement or discovery pay the
deficit duty which is payable in respect of the property upon the amended or
enhanced or full valuation ad the Controller shall thereupon grant him a
certificate accordingly.(2)Where the valuation is reduced by the Court on the
Board's reference under section 64, the Controller shall refund to the person
accountable any excess duty paid by him within two months from the date of
receipt by him of the order and shall grant OT him a certificate that the full
duty payable in respect of the property has been paid.(3)In any case where no
account has been delivered as required by section 53 or clause (a_) of section
57 the person who is called upon to accept the account prepared by the
Controller under sub-section (2) of section 61 shall, within two months of his
acceptance or as the case may by of the final disposal of the reference made
under sub-section (1) of section 64, pay the full duty payable in respect of
the property and the Controller shall thereupon grant him a certificate
accordingly.(4)If the person accountable does not pay the amount of duty due
from him under sub-section (1) or sub-section 93) within the period specified
therein, he shall be liable to a penalty of one thousand rupees or a sum equal
to twice the amount due according as the Controller may elect:Provided that
the Controller may in any particular case reduce the penalty.(5)Where a person
accountable for the estate duty in respect of any property passing on a death
applies to the Controller at any time and delivers and verifies a full
statement to the best of his knowledge and belief of all property passing on
such death and the several persons entitled thereto the Controller may
determine the estate duty payable in respect of the property and on payment of
that duty, the Controller shall give him a certificate accordingly.

### 68. Commutation of duty in respect of interest in expectancy.

\- The Controller in his discretion may upon application by a person entitled
to an interest in expectancy commute the 4estate duty which would or might but
for the commutation become payable in respect of such interest of r accretion
sum to be presently paid and for determining that sum shall cause a present
value to be set upon such duty regard being had to the contingencies affecting
the liability to and rate and amount of such duty and interest being reckoned
at three per cent, and on the receipt of such sum the controller shall give a
certificate accordingly.

### 69. Assessment in complicated cases.

\- Where by reason of the number of deaths upon which property has passed or
of the complicated nature of the interests of different persons in property
which has passed on death or from any other cause, it is difficult to
ascertain exactly the amount of estate duty payable in respect of any property
or any interest therein or so to ascertain the same without undue expense in
proportion to the value of the property or interest, the Board, on the
application of any person accountable for the duty and upon his giving to the
Board all the information in his power respecting the amount of the property
and the several interests therein and other circumstances of the case, may by
way of composition for all or any of the duties payable in respect of the
property or interest and the various interests therein or any of them, assess
such sum on the value of the property or interest, as having regard to the
circumstances appears proper, and may accept payment of the sum so assessed in
full payment of all claims for estate duty in respect of such property or
interests and shall give a certificate accordingly.

### 70. Controller may allow postponement of payment on terms.

(1)Where the controller is satisfied that the estate duty leviable in respect
of any property cannot, without excessive sacrifice be raised at once, he may
allow payment to be postponed for such period, to such extent and non payment
of such interest not exceeding four cent,.or any higher interest yielded by
the property, and on such other terms as he may think fit.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1) estate duty in respect of immovable
property may at the option of the person accountable be paid in eight equal
yearly instalments or sixteen equal half-yearly instalments with interest at
the rate of four per cent.per annum or any higher interest yielded by the
property from the date on which the first instalment is payable and the
interest on the unpaid portion of the duty shall be added to each instalment
and paid accordingly; but the duty for the time being unpaid with such
interest to the date of payment may be paid at any time and in case where the
property is sold shall be paid on the completion of the sale and if not so
paid shall be recovered in the manner specified in section 73.

### 71. Board may remit duty and interest outstanding after twenty years from
death.

\- If after the expiration of twenty years from a death upon which estate duty
became leviable any such duty remains unpaid the Board may if it thinks fit,
on the application of any person accountable or liable for such duty or
interested in the property, remit the payment of such duty or any part thereof
or any interest thereon.

### 72. Forms.

\- All affidavits, accounts, certificates, statements and forms used for the
purposes of this Part of this act shall be in such form and contain such
particulars as may be prescribed by the Board and if so required by the Board
shall be in duplicate and accounts ad statements shall be delivered and
verified on oath and by production of books and documents in the manner
prescribed by the Board and any person who wilfully fails to comply with
provisions of this section shall be liable to the penalty mentioned in section
56.

### 73. Recovery of duty and penalties.

\- Any estate duty or deficit duty and any interest or penalty payable under
this Act may, on the certificate of the Controller, be recovered from the
person liable thereto as if it were an arrear of land revenue by any Collector
in any State.

## Part VIII – Charge of Estate Duty on Property and Facilities For Raising It

### 74. Estate duty a first charge on property liable thereto.

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 19, the estate duty payable in respect
of property, movable or immovable, passing on the death of the deceased, shall
be a first charge on the immovable property so passing (including agricultural
land) in whomsoever it may vest on his death after the debts and in cumbrances
allowable under Part VI of this Act; and any private transfer or delivery of
such property shall be void against any claim in respect of such estate
duty.(2)A rateable part of the estate duty on an estate, in proportion to the
value of any beneficial interest in possession in movable property which
passes to any person (other than the legal representative of the deceased) on
the death of the deceased shall be a first charge on such interest:Provided
that the property shall not be so chargeable as against a bona fide purchaser
thereof for valuable consideration without notice.(3)The Controller may
release the whole or any part of any property, whether movable or immovable
from charge under this section in such circumstances and on such conditions as
he thinks fit.

### 75. Discharge from estate duty in certain cases.

\- A certificate granted by the Controller under section 67, or by the Board
under section 69, shall discharge the property included therein ad the grantee
so far as regards that property from any further claim for estate duty, but
shall not discharge any person or property from estate duty in case of fraud
or failure to disclose material facts and shall not affect the duty payable in
respect of any property afterwards shown to have passed on the death nor any
further duty payable by reason thereof in respect of the property included in
the certificate:Provided nevertheless that a certificate purporting to be a
discharge of the whole estate duty payable in respect of any property included
in the certificate shall exonerate a bona fide purchaser for valuable
consideration without notice form the duty notwithstanding any such fraud or
failure.

### 76. Person accountable to be repaid by trustees and owners in certain
cases.

\- If a person accountable under section 53 pays any part of the estate duty
in respect of any property not passing to him; it shall where occasion
requires be repaid to him by the trustees or owners of the property.

### 77. Facilities for paying duty or raising amount already paid.

(1)A person authorised or required to pay estate duty in respect of any
property shall, for the purposes of paying the duty or raising the amount of
the duty when already paid, have power, whether the property is or is not
vested in him, to raise the amount of such duty and any interest and expenses
properly paid or incurred by him in respect therefor by the sale or mortgage
of or a terminable charge on that property or any party thereof:Provided that
any sum payable under any such sale, mortgage or terminable charge may be paid
( (to the extent to which such sum or part thereof represents the estate duty
payable) not to the person raising the sum but to the Controller at the option
of the person from whom the sum is being raised.(2)A person having an interest
in any property who pays the estate duty in respect of that property shall be
entitled to the like charge as if the estate duty in respect of that property
had been raised by means of a mortgage to him.(3)Any money arising from the
sale of property comprised in a settlement or held upon trust to lay out upon
the trusts of a settlement may be expended in paying any estate duty in
respect of property comprised in the settlement and held upon the same trusts.

## Part IX – Miscellaneous

### 78. Jurisdiction of Courts barred in certain cases.

\- No suit shall be brought in any Civil Court to set aside or modify any
estate duty determined under this Act and no prosecution suit or other
proceedings shall lie against any officer of Government for anything in good
faith done or intended to be done under this Act.

### 79. Power to take evidence on oath etc.

\- Every authority specified in sub-section (1) of section 4, other than
valuers, shall, for the purposes of this Act have the same powers as are
vested in a Court under the code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) when
trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:.-(a)enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery
and production of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavit ;(d)issuing
commissions for the examination of witnesses;and any proceeding before any
such authority under this Act shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of section 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of
1860).

### 80. Disclosure of information by a public servant.

\- The provisions of section 54 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of
1922), shall apply to all accounts, statements, documents, evidence or
affidavits, given, produced or obtained in connection with or in the course of
the proceedings under this Act :Provided that nothing in the said section 54
shall apply to the disclosures of any such particulars to any person acting in
the execution of this Act or of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922),
where it is necessary or desirable to disclose the same to him for the
purposes of either this Act or the said Act.

### 81. Arrangements with States to supply information.

\- The Central Government May make arrangements with the Government of any
State for exchange of such information as may be necessary for the purposes of
levying or realising any estate duty under this Act or under any other law for
the time being in force in that State.

### 82. Service of Notices.

\- Any notice or requisition under this Act may be served on the person
therein named either by post or as if it were a summons issued by a Court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908).

### 83. Appearance by authorised representatives.

\- Any person accountable for estate duty who is entitled or required to
attend before any authority specified in sub-section (1) of section 4 in
connection with any proceeding under this Act, otherwise than when required
under section 79 in attend in person, may attend by a person authorised by him
in writing in this behalf, being a relative of or a person regularly employed
by that person, or a legal practitioner or a chartered accountant.Explanation.
- In this section .-(a)a person regularly employed by the accountable person
shall include any officer of a Scheduled Bank with which the accountable
person maintains a current account or has other regular dealings;(b)'legal
practitioner' means an advocate, vakil or attorney of any High Court in the
territories to which this Act extends and includes a pleader practising in any
part of the said territories;(c)'chartered accountant' means a chartered
accountant as defined in the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (XXXVIII of
1949).

### 84. Company to furnish particulars of deceased members to the controller.

(1)Where a company incorporated outside India carries on business in the
territories to which this Act extends and has been treated for the purposes of
the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), as resident for two out of the
three completed assessments immediately preceding, the death of a member dying
after the commencement of this Act, furnish to the controller such particulars
as may be prescribed in respect of the estate duty at the rates mentioned in
Part III of the Second Schedule, on the principal value of the shares held by
the deceased in the company except in cases where the deceased member was a
person domiciled in India and the person accountable has obtained a
certificate from the Controller showing that either the estate duty in respect
thereof has been paid or will be paid or that none is due, as the case may
be.(2)If any member of a company formed and registered under the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913) dies after the commencement of this Act and
the company through any of its principal officers as defined in section 18,
has knowledge of the death, it shall not be lawful for the company to register
the transfer of any shares standing in the name of the deceased member unless
the company is satisfied that the transferee has acquired such shares for
valuable consideration or there is produced before it a certificate from the
Controller that either the estate duty in respect thereof has been paid or
will be paid or none is due, as case may be.(3)Any company which fails to
comply with the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be
liable to a penalty of one thousand rupees or a sum equal to double the amount
of the estate duty payable according as the Controller may direct :Provided
that the Controller may reduce the penalty in any particular case.

### 85. Rule-making powers of the Board.

(1)Subject to the condition of previous publication and subject to the control
of the Central Government, the Board may make rules not inconsistent with this
Act prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be
prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out the purposes of or giving effect to this Act.(2)the power to make rules
conferred by this section shall, on the first occasion of the exercise
thereof, include the power to give retrospective effect to the rules or any of
them from a date not earlier than the date of the commencement of this
Act.(3)All rules made under this Act shall be laid before both Houses of
Parliament as soon as may be after they are made.The First Schedule(See
section 5)States in which estate duty is leviable on agricultural
landBombay.Madhya Pradesh.Orissa.Punjab.Uttar Pradesh.Hyderabad.Madhya
Bharat.Rajasthan.Saurashtra.All Part C States.The Second Schedule(See Sections
5, 35 and 84)Rates of Estate Duty

## Part I – In the case of property which consists of an interest in the joint
family property of a Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara, Marumakkattayam
or Aliyasantana law:.-

| Rate of Duty |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) |  On the first Rs.50,000 of the principal value ofthe estate |  |  |  | Nil  
(2) | on the next Rs.50,000 | " | " | 5 per cent |   
(3) | on the next Rs.50,000 | " | " | 7 ½ | "  
(4) | on the next Rs.50,000 | " | " | 10 | "  
(5) | on the next Rs.1,00,000 | " | " | 12 ½ | "  
(6) | on the next Rs.2,00,000 | " | " | 15 | "  
(7) | on the next Rs.5,00,000 | " | " | 20 | "  
(8) | on the next Rs.10,00,000 | " | " | 25 | "  
(9) | on the next Rs.10,00,000 | " | " | 30 | "  
(10) | on the next Rs.20,00,000 | " | " | 35 | "  
(11) |  on the balance of the principal value of the estate40 " |  |  |  |   
  
## Part II – In the case of property of any other kind.-

| Rate of Duty |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | on the first Rs.1,00,000 of the principal value of the estate |  | Nil |  |   
(2) | on the next Rs.50,000 | " | " | 7 ½ per cent |   
(3) | on the next Rs.50,000 | " | " | 10 | "  
(4) | on the next Rs.1,00,000 | " | " | 12 ½ | "  
(5) | on the next Rs.2,00,000 | " | " | 15 | "  
(6) | on the next Rs.5,00,000 | " | " | 20 | "  
(7) | on the next Rs.10,00,000 | " | " | 25 | "  
(8) | on the next Rs.10,00,000 | " | " | 30 | "  
(9) | on the next Rs.20,00,000 | " | " | 35 | "  
(10) | on the balance of the principal value of the estate 40 " |  |  |  |   
  
## Part III – In the case of shares held by a deceased member in any such
company as is referred to in sub-section (1) of section 84.-

| Rate of Duty |  |   
---|---|---|---  
(1) |  If the principal value of the shares does notexceed | Rs.5,000 | Nil  
(2) | If the principal value of the shares exceeds | Rs.5,000 | 7 ½ per

