## Union of India - Act

## Expenditure-Tax Act, 1987

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Expenditure-Tax Act, 1987

## Act 35 of 1987

  * Published on 14 September 1987 
  * Commenced on 14 September 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2003 (Act 54 of 2003) on 1 January 2003] 

An Act to provide for the levy of a tax on expenditure incurred in certain
hotels [or restaurants and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto] [Inserted by Act 49 of 1991, section 113 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).].Be it
enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Expenditure-tax Act, 1987.(2)It extends to the
whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall [come into
force on such date] [1st November, 1987, vide notification No. S.O. 919(E),
dated 14th October, 1987, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, sec.
3(ii).] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"assessee" means a
person responsible for collecting the expenditure-tax payable under the
provisions of this Act;(2)"assessment year" means the period of twelve months
commencing on the 1st day of April every year;(3)"Board" means the Central
Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act,
1963 (54 of 1963);(4)"chargeable expenditure" means the expenditure referred
to in section 5;(5)"expenditure-tax" or "tax" means the tax chargeable under
the provisions of this Act;(6)"hotel" includes a building or part of a
building where residential accommodation is, by way of business, provided for
a monetary consideration;(7)"Income-tax Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1961
(43 of 1961);(8)"person responsible for collecting" means a person who is
required to collect tax under this Act or is required to pay any other sum of
money under this Act and includes -(a)every person in respect of whom any
proceedings under this Act have been taken, and(b)every person who is deemed
to be an assessee-in-default under any provision of this Act;(9)"prescribed"
means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(9A)[ "restaurant" means any
premises, not being a restaurant situated in a hotel referred to in clause (1)
of section 3, in which the business of sale of food or drink to the public is
carried on and such premises, at the beginning of any month, are equipped
with, or have access to, facilities for air-conditioning;] [Inserted by Act 49
of 1991, section 114 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).](10)"room charges" means the charges
for a unit of residential accommodation in a hotel and includes the charges
for -(a)furniture, air-conditioner, refrigerator, radio, music, telephone,
television, and(b)such other services as are normally included by a hotel in
room rent,but does not include charges for food, drinks and any services other
than those referred to in sub-clauses (a) and (b);(11)all other words and
expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Income-tax Act
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. [ Application of the Act. [Substituted by Act 49 of 1991, section 115,
for sections 3 to 5 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).]

\- This Act shall apply in relation to any chargeable expenditure
-(1)[incurred before the 1st day of June, 2003 in a hotel] wherein the room
charges for any unit of residential accommodation at the time of incurring of
such expenditure are [three thousand rupees or more per day] [Substituted by
Act 20 of 2002, section 115, for 'two thousand rupees or more per day per
individual' (w.e.f. 1-6-2002).] and where,-(a)a composite charge is payable in
respect of such unit and food, the room charges included therein shall be
determined in the prescribed manner;(b)(i)a composite charge is payable in
respect of such unit, food, drinks and other services, or any of them, and the
case is not covered by the provisions of sub-clause (a), or(ii)it appears to
the Assessing Officer that the charges for such unit, food, drinks or other
services are so arranged that the room charges are understated and the other
charges are overstated,the Assessing Officer shall, for the purposes of this
clause determine the room charges on such reasonable basis as he may deem fit;
and(2)incurred in a restaurant [before the 1st day of June, 1992.] [Inserted
by Act 18 of 1992, section 105 (w.e.f 1-6-1992).] ]

### 4. Charge of expenditure-tax.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, there shall be charged on and from
-(a)the commencement of this Act [but not after the 31st day of May, 2003]
[Inserted by Act 32 of 2003, section 103 (w.e.f. 1-6-2003).], a tax at the
rate of [ten per cent.] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, section 57, for
'twenty per cent.' (w.e.f. 1-6-1994).] of the chargeable expenditure incurred
in a hotel referred to in clause (1) of section 3:Provided that nothing in
this clause shall apply in the case of a hotel referred to in [clause (a) of
sub-section (7) of section 80-IB] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, section 98,
for 'clause (ii) of sub-section (5) of section 80-IA' (w.e.f. 1-4-2000).] of
the Income-tax Act during the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1991
and ending on the 31st day of March, 2001:[Provided further that nothing in
this clause shall apply in the case of a hotel referred to in [clause (a) of
sub-section (7) of section 80-IB] [Inserted by Act 26 of 1997, section 61
(w.e.f. 1-4-1998).] of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) during the period
beginning on the 1st day of April, 1998 and ending on the 31st day of March,
2008].(b)the 1st day of October, 1991, [but not after the 31st day of May,
1992] [Substituted by Act 18 of 1992, section 106, for 'the commencement of
this Act' (w.e.f. 1-6-1992).] a tax at the rate of fifteen per cent. of the
chargeable expenditure incurred in a restaurant referred to in clause (2) of
section 3.

### 5. Meaning of Chargeable expenditure.

\- For the purposes of this Act, chargeable expenditure, -(1)in relation to a
hotel referred to in clause (1) of section 3, means any expenditure incurred
in, or payments made to, the hotel in connection with the provision of -(a)any
accommodation, residential or otherwise; or[* * * * *] [Sub-clause (b) omitted
by Act 20 of 2002, section 116 (w.e.f. 1-6-2002).](c)any accommodation in such
hotel on hire or lease; or[* * * * *] [Sub-clause (d) omitted by section 116,
Act 20 of 2002, (w.e.f. 1-6-2002).]but does not include -(i)any expenditure
which is incurred, or payment for which is made, in foreign exchange [before
the 1st day of October, 1992;] [Inserted by Act 18 of 1992, section 107
(w.e.f. 1-6-1992).](ii)any expenditure incurred by persons within the purview
of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 1961 or the Vienna
Convention on Consular Relations, 1963;(iii)any expenditure incurred in any
shop or in any office which is not owned or managed by the person who carries
on the business of a hotel;(iv)any expenditure by way of any tax, including
tax under this Act.Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause,
-(a)expenditure incurred or any payments made in Indian currency obtained by
conversion of foreign exchange into Indian currency shall in such cases and in
such circumstances as may be prescribed be deemed to have been incurred or, as
the case may be, made in foreign exchange; and(b)"foreign exchange" and
"Indian currency" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
clauses (h) and (k) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973
(46 of 1973);(2)in relation to a restaurant referred to in clause (2) of
section 3, means any expenditure incurred in, or payments made to, a
restaurant in connection with the provision of food or drink by the
restaurant, whether at the restaurant or outside, or by any other person in
the restaurant, but does not include any expenditure referred to in sub-
clauses (ii) and (iv) of clause (1).

### 6. Tax authorities.

\- [(1) Every Director General of Income-tax, Chief Commissioner of Income-
tax, tax, Director of Income-tax, Commissioner of Income-tax, Commissioner of
Income-tax (Appeals) [Additional Director of Income-tax, [Joint Director of
Income-tax, Joint Commissioner of Income-tax] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988,
section 73, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] Deputy Director] of Income
tax, Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, Assistant Director Income-tax,
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, Income-tax Officer, Tax Recovery Officer
and Inspector of Income-tax shall have the like powers and perform the like
functions under this Act as he has and performs under the Income-tax Act, and
for the exercise of his powers and the performance of his functions, his
jurisdiction under this Act shall be the same as he has under the Income-tax
Act.](2)All officers and persons employed in the execution of this Act shall
observe and follow the orders, instructions and directions of the
Board:Provided that no such orders, instructions or directions shall be
issued-(a)so as to require any tax authority to make a particular assessment
or to dispose of a particular case in a particular manner; or(b)so as to
interfere with the discretion of the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Commissioner' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] (Appeals) in the exercise of his appellate functions.(3)Every
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted by, section 72, Act 26 of 1988, for 'Income-
tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] employed in the execution of this Act shall
observe and follow the the orders, instructions and directions issued for his
guidance by the [Director General or Director or by the Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 73, for 'Director of
Inspection or by the Commissioner' (w.e.f 1-4-1988).] or by the [Additional
Commissioner of Income-tax or] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, section 58, for
'Deputy Commissioner' (w.e.f. 1-6-1994).] [Joint Commissioner] [Substituted by
Act 21 of 1998, section 82, for 'Deputy Commissioner' (w.e.f 1-10-1998).]
within whose jurisdiction he performs his functions.

### 7. [ Collection and recovery of expenditure-tax. [Substituted by Act 49 of
1991, section 116, for section 7 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).]

(1)Where any chargeable expenditure is incurred in a hotel referred to in
clause (1) of section 3,-(a)if such expenditure relates to any of the
services, specified in sub-clauses (a) to (d) of clause (1) of section 5,
provided by the hotel, the person who carries on the business of such hotel;
and(b)if such expenditure relates to any of the services, specified in sub-
clause (b) or sub-clause (d) of clause (1) of section 5, provided by the other
person referred to therein, such other person, shall collect the expenditure-
tax at the rate specified in clause (a) of section 4.(2)Where any chargeable
expenditure is incurred in a restaurant referred to in clause (2) of section 3
[before the 1st day of June, 1992] in relation to any services specified in
clause (2) of section 5 and where such services are -(a)provided by the
restaurant, the person who carries on the business of such restaurant;
and(b)provided by the other person, such other person,shall collect the
expenditure-tax at the rate specified in clause (b) of section 4.(3)The tax
collected during any calendar month in accordance with the provisions of sub-
sections (1) and (2) shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government by
the 10th of the month immediately following the said calendar month.(4)Any
person responsible for collecting the tax, who fails to collect the tax in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall,
notwithstanding such failure, be liable to pay the tax to the credit of the
Central Government in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3).]

### 8. Person responsible for collecting tax to furnish prescribed return.

(1)Every person responsible for collecting the tax shall before the expiry of
four months from the 31st day of March in each year, furnish or cause to be
furnished to the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section
72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] in the prescribed form and
verified in the prescribed manner, a return in respect of the immediately
preceding financial year showing-(a)the aggregate of the payments received in
respect of chargeable expenditure;(b)the amount of the tax collected;(c)the
amount of the tax paid to the credit of the Central Government; and(d)such
other particulars as may be prescribed.(2)In the case of any person who, in
the opinion of the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section
72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).], is responsible for
collecting tax under this Act and who has not furnished a return under sub-
section (1), the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section
72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] may, before the expiry of the
financial year in which the return is to be furnished, issue a notice to him
and serve the same upon him, requiring him to furnish within thirty days from
the date of service of the notice the return in the prescribed form and
verified in the prescribed manner setting forth such other particulars as may
be prescribed.(3)Any person responsible for collecting the tax who has not
furnished the return within the time allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), or having furnished a return under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2) discovers any omission or wrong statement therein, may furnish a return or
a revised return, as the case may be, at any time before the assessment is
made.

### 9. Assessment.

(1)For the purpose of making an assessment under this Act, the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer'
(w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] may serve on any person who has furnished a return under
section 8 or upon whom a notice has been served under sub-section (2) of
section 8 (whether a return has been furnished or not) a notice requiring him
on a date therein to be specified, to produce or cause to be produced such
accounts or documents or other evidence as the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] may require for the purposes of this Act and may, from time to
time, serve further notices requiring the production of such further accounts
or documents or other evidence as he may require.(2)The [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).], after considering such accounts, documents or other evidence, if
any, as he has obtained under sub-section (1) and after taking into account
any relevant material which he has gathered, shall, by an order in writing,
assess the chargeable expenditure and the amount of tax payable on the basis
of such assessment.

### 10. Best judgment assessment.

\- If-(a)any person fails to make the return required by any notice given
under sub-section (2) of section 8 and has not made a return or a revised
return under sub-section (3) of that section, or(b)any person having made a
return fails to comply with all the terms of a notice issued under sub-section
(1) of section 9, or(c)the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988,
section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] is not satisfied with
the correctness or the completeness of the accounts of the assessee,the
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-
tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).], after taking into account all the relevant
material which he has gathered, shall, by an order in writing, make the
assessment of the chargeable expenditure to the best of his judgment and
determine the sum payable by the assessee or refundable to the assessee on the
basis of such assessment.

### 11. Chargeable expenditure escaping assessment.

\- If-(a)the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72,
for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] has reason to believe that by
reason of omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return
under section 8 for any assessment year or to disclose wholly and truly all
material facts necessary for his assessment for any assessment year,
chargeable expenditure for that year has escaped assessment or has been under-
assessed, or(b)notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as
mentioned in clause (a) on the part of the assessee, the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] has, in consequence of information in his possession, reason to
believe that chargeable expenditure assessable in any assessment year has
escaped assessment or has been under-assessed,he may, in cases falling under
clause (a), at any time, and in cases falling under clause (b), at any time
within four years from the end of that assessment year, serve on the assessee
a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a
notice under section 8 and may proceed to assess or reassess the chargeable
expenditure, and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply, as
if the notice was a notice issued under that section.

### 12. Rectification of mistake.

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, the tax
authority referred to in section 6 which passed any order under the provisions
of this Act may, within four years of the date on which such order was passed,
amend the order.(2)Where any matter has been considered and decided in any
proceeding by way of appeal or revision relating to an order referred to in
sub-section (1), the authority passing such order may, notwithstanding
anything contained in any law for the time being in force, amend the order
under that sub-section in relation to any matter other than the matter which
has been so considered and decided.(3)Subject to the other provisions of this
section, the authority concerned-(a)may make an amendment under sub-section
(1) of its own motion, and(b)shall make such amendment if any mistake is
brought to its notice,-(i)by the assessee; or(ii)where the authority concerned
is the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner] [Substituted by section 72, Act 26
of 1988, for 'Commissioner' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] (Appeals), by the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer'
(w.e.f. 1-4-1988).].(4)An amendment, which has the effect of enhancing an
assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increasing the liability of the
assessee, shall not be made under this section unless the authority concerned
has given notice to the assessee of its intention so to do and has allowed the
assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)Where an amendment is made
under this section, an order shall be passed in writing by the tax authority
concerned.(6)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, where any such
amendment has the effect of reducing the assessment, the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] shall make any refund which may be due to such assessee.(7)Where
any such amendment has the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing the
refund already made, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988,
section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] shall serve on the
assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the sum payable
and such notice of demand shall be deemed to be issued under section 20 and
the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.

### 13. Time limit for completion of assessment and reassessment.

(1)No order of assessment shall be made under section 9 or section 10 at any
time after the expiration of a period of four years from the end of the
assessment year in which the chargeable expenditure was first assessable, or
one year from the date of the filing of the return or revised return under
section 8, whichever is later.(2)No order of assessment or reassessment shall
be made under section 11,-(a)where the assessment or reassessment is to be
made in a case falling within clause (a) of section 11 for which a notice has
been served upon the assessee, at any time after the expiration of a period of
four years from the end of the assessment year in which the said notice was
served;(b)where the assessment or reassessment is to be made in a case falling
within clause (b) of section 11, for which a notice has been served, after the
expiration of a period of-(i)four years from the end of the assessment year in
which the chargeable expenditure was first assessable, or(ii)one year from the
date of service of such notice,whichever is later.(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), an order of fresh assessment in
pursuance of an order passed under section 21, section 22 or section 23,
setting aside or cancelling an assessment, may be made at any time before the
expiry of four years from the end of the financial year in which the order
under section 21 is passed by [the Commissioner, or the order is received by
the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner, as the case may be, under section 22
or section 23] [Substituted by section 74, Act 26 of 1988, for 'the
Commissioner, or, as the case may be, the order under section 22 or section 23
is received by the Commissioner' (w.e.f. 1-4-1998).] shall be
substituted.(4)The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall not apply to
the assessment or reassessment made in consequence of, or to give effect to,
any finding or direction contained in an order under section 21, section 22,
section 23 [or any order of the National Tax Tribunal or of a High Court]
[Substituted by Act 49 of 2005, section 30 and the Schedule, for 'or any order
of a High Court' (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).] or Supreme Court in a proceeding by way
of reference or appeal under this Act or any order of any court in a
proceeding otherwise than by way of an appeal or reference under this Act and
such assessment or reassessment may, subject to the provisions of sub-section
(3), be completed at any time.Explanation. - In computing the period of
limitation for the purposes of this section, the period during which the
assessment proceeding is stayed by an order or injunction of any court shall
be excluded.

### 14. Interest on delayed payment of expenditure-tax.

\- Every person responsible for collecting expenditure-tax and paying it to
the credit of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of
section 7, who fails to credit the tax to the account of the Central
Government within the period specified in that section, shall pay simple
interest at the rate of [one per cent.] [Substituted by Act 54 of 2003,
section 22, for 'one and one-fourth per cent.' (w.e.f. 8-9-2003).] for every
month or part of a month by which such crediting of tax is delayed.

### 15. [ Penalty for failure to collect or pay expenditure-tax. [Substituted
by Act 49 of 1991, section 117, for section 15 (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).]

\- Any person responsible for collecting expenditure-tax in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 7,
who-(a)fails to collect such tax; or(b)having collected the tax, fails to pay
such tax to the credit of the Central Government in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (3) of that section,shall pay,-(i)in the case
referred to in clause (a), in addition to paying tax in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (4) of that section, by way of penalty, a sum equal
to the amount of tax that he failed to collect; and(ii)in the case referred to
in clause (b), in addition to paying interest in accordance with the
provisions of section 14, by way of penalty, a sum which shall not be less
than one hundred rupees but which may extend to two hundred rupees for every
day during which the failure continues, so, however, that the penalty under
this clause shall not exceed the amount of tax that he failed to pay.]

### 16. Penalty for failure to furnish prescribed return.

\- If a person fails to furnish in due time the return which he is required to
furnish under sub-section (1) of section 8 or by notice given under sub-
section (2) of that section, he shall pay, by way of penalty, a sum which
shall not be less than one hundred rupees, but which may extend to two hundred
rupees for every day during which the failure continues.

### 17. Penalty for concealment of chargeable expenditure.

\- If the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for
'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] or the [Chief Commissioner or
Commissioner] [Substituted by section 72, Act 26 of 1988, for 'Commissioner'
(w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] (Appeals) in the course of any proceedings under this Act
is satisfied that any person has concealed particulars of chargeable
expenditure or has furnished inaccurate particulars of such chargeable
expenditure, he may direct that such person shall pay by way of penalty, in
addition to any expenditure-tax payable by him, a sum which shall not be less
than, but which shall not exceed twice, the amount of tax sought to be evaded
by reason of concealment of particulars of chargeable expenditure or the
furnishing of inaccurate particulars of such chargeable expenditure:Provided
that if the amount of chargeable expenditure (as determined by the [Assessing
Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer'
(w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] on assessment) in respect of which particulars have been
concealed or inaccurate particulars have been furnished exceeds a sum of
twenty-five thousand rupees, the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of
1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] shall not issue
any direction for payment by way of penalty without the previous approval of
the [Additional Commissioner or, as the case may be, of the Deputy
Commissioner] [Substituted by Act 32 of 1994, section 59, for 'Deputy
Commissioner' (w.e.f. 1-6-1994).].

### 18. Penalty for failure to comply with notice.

\- If the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for
'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] in the course of any proceedings
under this Act is satisfied that any person has failed to comply with a notice
under sub-section (1) of section 9, he may direct that such person shall pay,
by way of penalty, in addition to any tax payable by him, a sum which shall
not be less than ten per cent. but which shall not exceed fifty per cent. of
the amount of the tax, if any, which would have been avoided if the chargeable
expenditure returned by such person had been accepted as the correct
chargeable expenditure.

### 19. Penalty not to be imposed in certain cases.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of section 15, section
16, section 17 or section 18, no penalty shall be imposable on the assessee
for any failure referred to in the said provisions if he proves that there was
reasonable cause for the said failure.

### 20. Notice of demand.

\- When any tax, interest, penalty or any other sum is payable under this Act,
the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for
'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] shall serve upon the assessee a
notice of demand in the prescribed form, specifying the sum so payable and the
amount of chargeable expenditure in relation to which such sum is payable.

### 21. Revision of orders by the Commissioner.

(1)The Commissioner may, either of his own motion or on application by the
assessee for revision, call for the record of a proceeding under this Act
which has been taken by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of
1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] subordinate to
him and may make such enquiry or cause such enquiry to be made and, subject to
the provisions of this Act, may pass such order thereon as he thinks fit.(2)No
order which is prejudicial to the assessee shall be passed under this section
unless the assessee has been given an opportunity of being heard.(3)No order
under this section shall be passed by the Commissioner, if an appeal against
the notice of demand issued by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26
of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] under
section 20 is pending before the Commissioner (Appeals).(4)No order under this
section shall be passed after the expiry of two years from the end of the
financial year in which the order sought to be reviewed has been passed.(6)[
On every application by an assessee for revision under this sub-section, made
on or after the 1st day of October, 1998, an order shall be passed within one
year from the end of the financial year in which such application is made by
the assessee for revision.Explanation. - In computing the period of limitation
for the purposes of this sub-section, the time taken in giving an opportunity
to the assessee to be re-heard under the proviso to section 24 and any period
during which any proceeding under this section is stayed by an order or
injunction of any court shall be excluded.(7)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (6), an order in revision under that sub-section may
be passed at any time in consequence of or to give effect to any finding or
direction contained in an order of the Appellate Tribunal, [the National Tax
Tribunal,] [Inserted by Act 21 of 1998, section 83 (w.e.f. 1-10-1998).] the
High Court or the Supreme Court.]

### 22. Appeals to the Commissioner (Appeals).

(1)Any person objecting to the amount of expenditure-tax for which he is
assessed by the [Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section
72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).], or denying his liability to
be assessed under this Act, or objecting to an order levying penalty under
this Act, may appeal to the Commissioner (Appeals).(2)[ Every appeal shall be
in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner and in
respect of appeals filed on or after the 1st day of October, 1998, shall be
accompanied by a fee of two hundred and fifty rupees.] [Substituted by Act 21
of 1998, section 84, for sub-section (2) (w.e..f. 1-10-1998).](3)An appeal
shall be presented within thirty days of the receipt of the notice of demand
relating to tax, interest or penalty under this Act:Provided that the
Commissioner (Appeals) may admit an appeal after the expiration of the said
period if he is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not
presenting it within that period.(4)The Commissioner (Appeals) shall hear and
determine the appeal and, subject to the provisions of this Act, pass such
orders as he thinks fit and such orders may include an order enhancing the
assessment or penalty.(4A)[ In every appeal, the Commissioner (Appeals), where
it is possible, may hear and determine such appeal within a period of one year
from the end of the financial year in which such appeal is filed under sub-
section (1).] [Substituted by Act 27 of 1999, section 99, for sub-section (4)
(w.e.f. 1-6-1999).].Provided that an order enhancing the assessment or penalty
shall not be made unless the person affected thereby has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such enhancement.(5)The
procedure to be adopted in the hearing and determination of the appeals shall,
with any necessary modification, be in accordance with the procedure
applicable in relation to income-tax.

### 23. Appeals to Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any assessee aggrieved by an order passed by a Commissioner under section
21, or an order passed by a Commissioner (Appeals) under any provision of this
Act, may appeal to the Appellate Tribunal against such order.(2)The
Commissioner may, if he objects to any order passed by the Commissioner
(Appeals) under any provision of this Act, direct the [Assessing Officer]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-tax Officer' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] to appeal to the Appellate Tribunal against the order.(3)Every
appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be filed within sixty
days of the date on which the order sought to be appealed against is
communicated to the assessee or to the Commissioner, as the case may be.(4)The
[Assessing Officer] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Income-
tax Officer' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] or the assessee, as the case may be, on
receipt of a notice that an appeal against the order of the Commissioner
(Appeals) has been preferred under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by the
other party may, notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against such
order or any part thereof, within thirty days of the receipt of the notice,
file a memorandum of cross-objections, verified in the prescribed manner,
against any part of the order of the Commissioner (Appeals), and such
memorandum shall be disposed of by the Appellate Tribunal as if it were an
appeal presented within the time specified in sub-section (3).(5)The Appellate
Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the filing of a memorandum of cross-
objections after the expiry of the relevant period referred to in sub-section
(3) or sub-section (4), if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for
not presenting it within that period.(6)An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal
shall be in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner
and shall, except in the case of an appeal referred to in sub-section (2) or a
memorandum of cross-objections referred to in sub-section (4), be accompanied
by [a fee of one thousand rupees in the case of appeals filed on or after the
1st day of October, 1998.] [Substituted by Act 21 of 1998, section 85, for 'a
fee of two hundred rupees' (w.e.f. 1-10-1998).](7)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, in hearing and making an order on any appeal under this section, the
Appellate Tribunal shall exercise the same powers and follow the same
procedure as it exercises and follows in hearing and making an order on any
appeal under the Income-tax Act.

### 24. Application of provisions of Income-tax Act.

\- The provisions of the following sections and Schedules of the Income-tax
Act and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from
time to time, shall apply with necessary modifications as if the said
provisions and the rules referred to expenditure-tax instead of to income-
tax:-[2(44), 118, 120, 129, 131 to 136 (both inclusive)] [Substituted by Act
26 of 1988, section 75, for '2(43B) and (44), 118,125,125A,128 to 136 (both
inclusive )' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).] 138, [139A, 140, 144A, 145] [Substituted by
Act 49 of 1991, section 118, for '140, 144A' (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).], 159 to 163
(both inclusive), 166, 167, 170, 171, 173 to 179 (both inclusive), 187, 188,
[188A] [Inserted by section 118, Act 49 of 1991, (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).] 189, 220
to 227 (both inclusive), 229, [***] [The figures '231,' omitted by Act 26 of
1988, section 75 (w.e.f 1-4-1988).] 232, 237 to 245 (both inclusive), 254 to
262 (both inclusive), 265, 266, 268, 269, 278B, 278C, 278D, 278E, [279B]
[Inserted by section 118, Act 49 of 1991, (w.e.f. 1-10-1991).], 281, 281B,
282, 283, 284, 287, 288, 288A, 288B, 289 to 293 (both inclusive), the Second
Schedule and the Third Schedule:Provided that references in the said
provisions and rules to the "assessee" shall be construed as references to an
assessee as defined in this Act.

### 25. Willful attempt to evade tax, etc.

\- If a person willfully attempts in any manner whatsoever to evade collection
or payment of any tax, penalty or interest chargeable or impossible under this
Act, or to understate the aggregate of the chargeable expenditure, he shall,
without prejudice to any penalty that may be imposable on him under any other
provision of this Act, be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than three months but which may extend to seven years
and with fine.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, a willful
attempt to evade collection or payment of any tax, penalty or interest
chargeable or imposable under this Act shall include a case where any
person-(i)has in his possession or control any books of account or other
documents (being books of account or other documents relevant to any
proceeding under this Act) containing a false entry or statement; or(ii)makes
or causes to be made any false entry or statement in such books of account or
other documents; or(iii)willfully omits or causes to be omitted any relevant
entry or statement in such books of account or other documents; or(iv)causes
any other circumstances to exist which will have the effect of enabling such
person to evade collection or payment of any tax, penalty or interest
chargeable or imposable under this Act.

### 26. Failure to furnish prescribed returns.

\- If a person fails to furnish in due time the return which he is required to
furnish under sub-section (1) of section 8 or by a notice given under sub-
section (2) of that section, he shall, without prejudice to any penalty that
may be imposable on him under any other provision of this Act, be punishable
with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three
months but which may extend to seven years and with fine.

### 27. False statement in verification, etc.

\- If a person makes a statement in any verification under this Act or any
rule made thereunder, or delivers an account or statement which is false, and
which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not believe to be true,
he shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than three months but which may extend to seven years and with fine.

### 28. Abetment of false return, etc.

\- If a person abets or induces in any manner another person to make and
deliver an account or a statement or declaration relating to any chargeable
expenditure which is false and which he either knows to be false or does not
believe to be true or to commit an offence under section 25, he shall be
punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
three months but which may extend to seven years and with fine.

### 29. Certain offences to be non-cognizable.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), an offence punishable under section 25 or section 26 or section
27 or section 28 shall be deemed to be non-cognizable within the meaning of
that Code.

### 30. Institution of proceedings and composition of offences.

(1)A person shall not be proceeded against for any offence under section 25 or
section 26 or section 27 or section 28, except with the previous sanction of
the [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner:] [Substituted by Act 26 of 1988,
section 72, for 'Commissioner' (w.e.f. 1-4-1988).]Provided that no such
sanction shall be required where the complainant before the court is a
Commissioner (Appeals).(2)The [Chief Commissioner or Commissioner]
[Substituted by Act 26 of 1988, section 72, for 'Commissioner' (w.e.f.
1-4-1988).] may, either before or after the institution of proceedings,
compound any offence punishable under section 25 or section 26 or section 27
or section 28.

### 31. Power to make rules.

(1)The Board may, subject to the control of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the manner in which the room charges may be
determined under [sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of section 3] [Substituted by
Act 49 of 1991, section 119, for 'sub-section (2) of section 3' (w.e.f.
1-10-1991).] in cases where composite charges are payable in respect of
residential accommodation and food;(b)the cases and the circumstances in which
payments made in Indian, currency by conversion of foreign exchange into
Indian currency shall be deemed to have been made in foreign exchange for the
purposes of clause (a) of the Explanation to [clause (1) of section 5.]
[Substituted by Act 49 of 1991. section 119, for 'section 5' (w.e.f.
1-10-1991).](c)the form in which returns under section 8 may be furnished, the
manner in which they may be verified and the other particulars which a form
may contain;(d)the form in which a notice of demand may be served on the
assessee under sub-section (7) of section 12;(e)the form in which appeals
under section 22 or under sub-section (6) of section 23 may be filed and the
manner in which they may be verified;(f)the manner in which a memorandum of
cross-objections under sub-section (4) of section 23 may be verified;(g)any
other matter which by this Act is to be or may be prescribed.(3)The power to
make rules conferred by this section shall on the first occasion of the
exercise thereof include the power to give retrospective effect to the rules
or any of them from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of this
Act.(4)The Central Government shall cause every rule made under this section
to be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 32. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made
after the expiry of a period of two years from the commencement of this Act.

### 33.

[Consequential amendments.] - Repealed by Repealing and Amending Act, 2001 (30
of 2001), section 2 and the First Schedule (w.e.f. 3-9-2001).

