## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-KINGDOM-OF-BAHRAIN of 2005

  * Published on 20 September 2005 
  * Commenced on 20 September 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 September 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Kingdom of BahrainPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.
606(E), dated 20th September, 2005Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R.
606(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the
Kingdom of Bahrain was signed at New Delhi, on 13th January, 2004; and the
instruments of ratification exchanged at Bahrain on 16th July, 2005 and which
treaty provides as follows:The Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, hereinafter referred to as "the
Contracting States";Being desirous to promote the bonds of fruitful
cooperation between the two countries;Recognising that concrete steps are
necessary to combat terrorism and other crimes;Determined to make more
effective the cooperation between the two countries in the suppression of
crime by entering into an extradition Treaty;Have agreed as follows:Article
1The Contracting States shall extradite any person found in their respective
territories who is accused or convicted of an extraditable offence in the
territory of the other Contracting State, in accordance with the rules and
stipulations contained in the subsequent Articles, whether such offence was
committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty.Article 2

### 1. An "extraditable offence" shall be any offence punishable under the
laws of both Contracting States by imprisonment for a period of at least one
year.

### 2. The following persons shall be extradited:

(a)Persons accused of an extraditable offence.(b)Persons sentenced by the
Courts of the requesting State to imprisonment for at least six months in
respect of an extraditable offence.Article 3

### 1\. Subject to Article 2 for offences in connection with taxes, fiscal
charges and customs duties extradition shall be effected in accordance with
the provisions of this Treaty only if the said offence corresponds to an
offence of a similar nature under the law of the requested State.

### 2\. An attempt or conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in the
commission of a extraditable offence shall also be regarded as an extraditable
offence.

Article 4

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted in respect of an extraditable offence
committed outside the territory of the requesting State, if it has
jurisdiction to try the offence, and provided that the requested State, in
corresponding circumstances, would have jurisdiction over such an offence.

### 2\. Extradition shall also be available for an extraditable offence
notwithstanding that the criminal conduct of the person sought occurred wholly
or partly in the requested State, if under the law of that State his conduct
and its effects or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be regarded
as constituting the commission of an extraditable offence in its territory.

### 3. Extradition shall be available for an extraditable offence if committed
in a third State by a national of the requesting State who is present in the
requested State.

Article 5Extradition may be refused:

### 1\. If the offence for which the extradition is requested is a political
offence. In the application of this Treaty, the following shall not be
regarded as political offences:

(a)Assault upon the President and Vice President of the Republic of India or
their immediate families, or assault upon any member of the Council of
Ministers of the Republic of India or their immediate family.(b)Assault upon
the King, the Prime Minister or the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Bahrain, or
their immediate families, or assault upon any member of the Council of
Ministers of the Kingdom of Bahrain or their immediate family.(c)Offences of
murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, or theft by coercion
against individuals, authorities, or public transport.(d)Offences of
kidnapping, assault causing bodily harm, hostage-taking, offences involving
serious damage to property or disruption of public facilities, and offences
relating to fIrearms or other weapons, or explosives, or dangerous
substances;(e)Any attempt or conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in
any of the above offences;(f)Any offence within the scope of an international
Convention to which both Contracting States are parties and which obligates
the States parties to prosecute or grant extradition.

### 2\. If the offence of which the person is accused or convicted is a
military offence which is not also an offence under the general criminal law.

### 3\. If the offence for which extradition is requested was committed in the
requested State.

### 4. If the offence has been the subject of a final judgement in the
requested State.

### 5. If the case or the sentence had lapsed by virtue of the law of either
of the Contracting States when the request for extradition was received;

### 6. If the requested person is under investigation or standing trial in the
requested state for the same offence which is the subject of the extradition
request.

Article 6Extradition shall be refused if the person wanted is a national of
the requested State. For the purpose of this Treaty, nationality of the
person, sought for extradition shall be determined to be that at the time of
the commission of the offence.Article 7

### 1\. Where the requested State refuses a request for extradition for any of
the reasons set out in the foregoing Articles 5 and 6 it shall submit the case
to its competent authorities for prosecution. Those authorities shall
determine the case in the same manner as in the case of any offence of a
similar nature under the law of that State.

### 2\. Where extradition is refused under paragraph 3 of Article 5, if at any
stage of the prosecution or investigation in the requested State, the
investigating, prosecuting or judicial authorities in the requested State find
the prosecution of the person wanted non-feasible in that State, the request
for extradition may be reconsidered.

Article 8The request for extradition shall be made in writing and despatched
through diplomatic channels with the following supporting documents and
particulars:

### 1\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, an
official copy of the sentence passed against the person to be extradited or,
if the person to be extradited is wanted for trial, the warrant of arrest, or
remand or any document having the same effect, issued by a competent
authority;

### 2\. Particulars as to identity, description and a photograph of the person
to be extradited, if possible;

### 3\. The date, the place of the commission of the acts for which
extradition is requested, the legal characterisation of those offences, and a
certified copy of the applicable legal provisions, and a statement by the
prosecuting authorities as to evidence against the person to be extradited;

### 4\. In case of persons not yet sentenced, such other evidence as,
according to the laws of the requested State, would justify his arrest and
committal for trial had the offence been committed within the jurisdiction of
the requested State;

All documents referred to above shall be translated into English and
authenticated by the requesting State.Article 9

### 1\. In case of urgency, a person to be extradited may be provisionally
arrested and kept in custody until the request for extradition, together with
the documents referred to in the preceding Article are received.

### 2\. The Request for provisional arrest shall be communicated in writing to
the competent authority of the requested State, either directly or through the
International Criminal Police Organisation (INTERPOL) channels.

### 3\. The same request shall be confirmed through the diplomatic channels,
and shall contain a reference to the existence of any of the documents,
enumerated in paragraph (1) of Article 8, and confirming the intention of the
requesting State to transmit a request for extradition, a statement of the
offence for which extradition is requested, the sentence specified for that
offence or the sentence imposed, the time and place of the commission of the
offence and a detailed description of the person to be extradited as far as
possible. The requesting State shall expeditiously be notified of any action
taken in respect of the request.

### 4\. The provisional arrest shall be made in accordance with the legal
procedures of the requested State.

Article 10

### 1\. The competent authority in the requested State may, if the documents
required under Article 8 of this Treaty are not delivered within sixty days
from the date of the arrest of the person to be extradited release that
person.

### 2\. The period of the provisional detention shall not, in any case, exceed
ninety days from the date of its commencement. However, the release of such
person shall not prevent his re-arrest and extradition, if the request for
extradition is submitted afterwards.

### 3\. The person to be extradited may at any time be released on bail, if
the requested State takes all necessary measures to prevent his escape.

Article 11If the requested State needs additional clarifications to ensure
compliance with the conditions prescribed under this Treaty, it shall notify
the requesting State through diplomatic channels, before rejecting the
request, and may fix a date for receiving such clarifications.Article 12

### 1\. If more than one request for extradition for the same person or
offence are made from States to which the Requested State is obliged, by
virtue of any international agreement to which it is a party, to extradite
persons, priority shall be given to the State whose security or interest or
its nationals or their interests are affected by the offence, and then to the
State on whose territory the offence is committed, and lastly to the State of
which the person to be extradited is a national.

### 2\. If the circumstances are identical, the State which made the first
request, shall have preference. If the requests for extradition are for
several offences, then priority is accorded to the circumstances of the
offence and its gravity.

Article 13Without prejudice to the right of others acting in good faith, and
to the laws in force in the requested State anything found in possession of
the person to be extradited, at the time of his arrest, whether being the
proceeds of the offence or used in the commission of, or connected with it, or
relevant as evidence, shall be attached and may be handed over to the
requesting State, even if the offender is not extradited due to his death or
his absconding.Article 14

### 1\. The competent authorities in each Contracting State shall determine
the request for extradition in accordance with the law in force at the time of
the request.

### 2\. In the event of accepting the extradition request, the requesting
State shall be notified of the date and place of the extradition.

### 3\. In case the request is rejected, the requested State shall communicate
to the requesting State, through diplomatic channels, the decision taken
stating the reasons for rejection.

### 4\. The Requesting State shall, within thirty days from the date of its
notification of the extradition, receive the person to be extradited,
otherwise the requested State may discharge him, and in such event no second
request for extradition may be accepted for the same offence.

### 5\. If exceptional circumstances prevent a Contracting State from
surrendering or taking delivery of the person sought in the prescribed time,
it shall notify the other Contracting State. In such a case, the competent
authorities of the Contracting States may agree upon a new date for the
surrender.

Article 15

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is under investigation or standing
trial or is convicted in the requested State for an offence other than that
for which his extradition is requested, then the requested State shall
determine the request and communicate its decision to the requesting State.

### 2\. If the request for extradition is accepted, then the surrender of the
person to be extradited, shall be postponed until his trial in the requested
State is completed and the punishment passed is executed.

### 3\. The provisions of this Article shall not preclude the possibility of
the provisional surrender of the person to be extradited to appear before the
judicial authorities of the requesting State, provided that the requesting
State expressly undertakes to return him to the other contracting State, after
the completion of the judicial proceedings pertaining thereto, subject to the
law of the requested State.

Article 16

### 1\. The competent authorities of the requested State shall admit as
evidence, in any proceedings for extradition, any statement taken on oath or
by way of affirmation, any warrant or any certificate or judicial document
stating the fact of conviction, if it is authenticated:

(a)In the case of a warrant being signed by a competent person, or in the case
of any original document being certified by a judge, magistrate or other
competent authority of the requesting State; and(b)In the case of depositions
or statements either by oath of some witness or by being sealed with the
official seal of the appropriate authority of the requesting State; or(c)In
such other manner as may be permitted by the law of the requested State.

### 2\. The evidence described in the foregoing paragraph shall be admissible
in extradition proceedings in the requested State whether sworn or affirmed in
the requesting State or in some third State.

Article 17

### 1\. The person to be extradited shall not be tried or punished in the
requesting State except for the offence for which his extradition has been
sought or for offences connected therewith, or offences committed after his
extradition. If the characterisation of the offence is modified during the
proceedings taken against the person extradited, he shall not be charged or
tried, unless the ingredients of the offence in its new characterisation,
permit extradition in conformity with the provisions of this Treaty.

### 2\. If the person extradited had the liberty and means to leave the
territory of the State to which he was extradited, and he did not leave within
thirty days subsequent to his final release or left during that period, but
voluntarily returned, he may be tried for the other offences.

Article 18The Contracting State to which the person is extradited shall not
extradite him to a third State without the consent of the other Contracting
State, unless any of the condition under Article 17(2) are applicable.Article
19The term of provisional arrest referred to under Article 9 shall be remitted
from any sentence passed in the requesting State against the person to be
extradited.Article 20

### 1\. Transit of a person who is the subject of extradition from a third
State through the territory of a Contracting State to the territory of the
other Contracting State shall be granted on submission of a request, provided
that the offence concerned is an extraditable offence under the provisions of
this Treaty.

### 2\. Transit of a national of the requested State may be refused if it is
inadmissible under its law.

### 3\. The request for transit must be accompanied by the documents mentioned
in this Treaty.

### 4\. The documents mentioned in the foregoing paragraph shall be delivered
to the Requested State forty five days before the date fixed for transit.

Article 21

### 1\. The Requested State shall meet all the expenses necessitated by the
extradition of e person arising within its territory but the Requesting State
shall pay all the transportation expenses to its territory.

### 2\. The Requesting State shall bear the expenses of the return of the
extradited person to the place, he was in at the time of his extradition if
his commission of the offence or complicity is not proved.

Article 22Each Contracting State shall in accordance with its national law and
bilateral agreements afford the other the widest measure of mutual assistance
in criminal matters in connection with the offence for which extradition has
been requested.Article 23The present Treaty shall not affect the rights and
obligations of the Contracting States arising from international conventions,
treaties or agreements to which they are parties.Article 24

### 1\. This Treaty is subject to ratification in accordance with the
Constitutional procedures and practice in each of the Contracting States and
the instruments of ratification shall be exchanged through diplomatic channels
as soon as possible. It shall come into force on the date of exchange of
instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may terminate this Treaty by giving
six months notice thereof through diplomatic channels. Upon the expiry of such
notice, the Treaty shall cease to have any force or effect.

### 3\. Any difficulties or dispute in the application and/or interpretation
of this Treaty shall be settled amicably between the Contracting States
through diplomatic channels.

In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Treaty.Done at New Delhi on this 13
day of January 2004, in two original each in the Hindi, Arabic and English
languages, all texts being equally authentic. However, in case of difference,
the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of
1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to the Kingdom of Bahrain with effect
from the date of the publication of this notification.

