## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of Turkey

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of Turkey

## Rule EXTRADITION-AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-TURKEY of 2004

  * Published on 27 February 2004 
  * Commenced on 27 February 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 February 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of TurkeyPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.
174(E), dated 27th February, 2004Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R.
174(E). - Whereas the Extradition Agreement between the Government of the
Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Turkey was signed at
Ankara, Turkey on 29th June, 2001; and the instruments of ratification were
also exchanged at Ankara, Turkey on 18th September, 2003 and which Agreement
provides as follows :The Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter to be referred to as the
"Contracting States"),Desiring to make more effective the co-operation between
the two countries in the suppression of crime by concluding an agreement on
extradition.Have agreed as follows :Article 1Duty to Extradite

### 1. Each Contracting State undertakes to extradite to the other, in the
circumstances and subject to the conditions specified in this Agreement, any
person who, being accused or convicted of an extradition offence as described
in Article 2, committed within the territory of the one State, is found within
the territory of the other State, whether such offence was committed before or
after the entry into force of this Agreement.

### 2. Extradition shall also be available in respect of an extradition
offence as described in Article 2 committed outside the territory of the
Requesting State but in respect of which it has jurisdiction if the Requested
State would, in corresponding circumstances, have jurisdiction over such an
offence. In such circumstances the Requested State shall have regard to all
the circumstances of the case including the seriousness of the offence.

### 3. When the offence has been committed outside the territory of the
Requesting State, the Requested State shall grant extradition subject to the
provisions described in this Agreement if either:

(a)the laws of the Requested State provide for the punishment of such an
offence committed in similar circumstances; or(b)the offence has been
committed by a national of the Requesting State, and that State has
jurisdiction, according to laws, to try that person.Article 2Extradition
Offences

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted in respect of offences punishable under
the laws of the Requesting State and of the Requested State by deprivation of
liberty for a period of at least one year or by a more severe penalty. Where a
conviction and prison sentence have occurred in the territory of the
Requesting State, the punishment awarded must have been for a period of at
least six months.

### 2\. If the request for extradition includes several separate offences each
of which is punishable under the laws of the Requesting State and the
Requested State by deprivation of liberty, but of which some do not fulfil the
condition with regard to the amount of punishment which may be awarded, the
Requested State shall also have the right to grant extradition for the latter
offences.

Article 3Extradition and Prosecution

### 1\. The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested State if
the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the extradition
offence in the courts of that State.

### 2\. Where the Requested State refuses a request for extradition for the
reason set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall submit the case to its
competent authorities so that prosecution may be considered. Those authorities
shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any offence of
a serious nature under the law of that State.

### 3\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in such a case,
the request for extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance with this
Agreement.

Article 4Grounds for Refusal of ExtraditionA person may not be extradited if:

### 1\. he has been convicted of an extradition offence, unless he was
sentenced to imprisonment or other form of detention for a period of six
months or more;

### 2\. he would, if proceeded against in the territory of the Requested State
for the offence for which his extradition is requested, be entitled to be
discharged under any rule of law of the Requested State relating to previous
acquittal or conviction;

### 3\. he has been previously convicted or acquitted in the territory of a
third State in respect of the offence for which extradition is requested.

Article 5Political Offences

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted if the offence in respect of which it
is requested is regarded by the Requested Party as a political offence.

### 2\. For the purpose of this Agreement the following offences shall not be
regarded as political offence:

(a)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, opened for signature at the Hague on 16
December, 1970;(b)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, opened for
signature at Montreal on 23 September 1971;(c)an offence within the scope of
the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against
internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents, opened for
signature at New York on 14 Dec 1973;(d)an offence within the scope of the
International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, opened for signature
at New York on 18 December 1979;(e)murder(f)The taking or attempt to take the
life of the Head of State or the Head of Government or a member of their
families;(g)manslaughter or culpable homicide;(h)assault occasioning actual
bodily harm, or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous
bodily harm whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or
otherwise;(i)the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property;(j)the making or possession of an explosive
substance by a person who intends either himself or through another person to
endanger life or cause serious damage to property;(k)the possession of a
firearm or ammunition by a person who intends either himself or through
another person to endanger life;(l)the use of a firearm by a person with
intent to resist or prevent the arrest or detention of himself or another
person;(m)damaging property whether used for public utilities or otherwise
with intent to endanger life or with reckless disregard as to whether the life
of another would thereby be endangered;(n)kidnapping, abduction, false
imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the taking of a
hostage;(o)incitement to murder;(p)any other offence related to terrorism
which at the time of the request is, under the law of the Requested State, not
to be regarded as an offence of a political character;(q)an attempt or
conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing offences or participation as an
accomplice of a person who commits or attempts to commit such an offence.

### 3\. This Article shall not affect any obligations which the Contracting
States may have undertaken or may undertake under any other international
convention of a multilateral character.

Article 6Military OffencesExtradition for offences under military law which
are not offences under ordinary criminal law is excluded from the application
of this Agreement.Article 7Fiscal OffencesFiscal offences Extradition shall be
granted in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement for offences of a
fiscal character including taxes, duties, customs and foreign exchange.Article
8Extradition of nationals

### 1\. The nationals of a Contracting State shall not be extradited to the
other Contracting State provided that the Requested State shall submit the
case to its competent authorities for prosecution if the act committed is also
considered as an offence under the laws of the Requested State.

### 2\. If the Requested State does not extradite its national, it shall at
the request of the Requesting State submit the case to its competent
authorities in order that proceedings may be taken if they are considered
appropriate. For this purpose, the files information and exhibits relating to
the offence shall be transmitted without charge by the means provided for in
Article 14. The Requesting State shall be informed of the result of its
request.

Article 9Place of CommissionWhen the offence for which extradition is
requested has been committed outside the territory of the Requesting State,
extradition may only be refused if the law of the Requested State does not
allow prosecution for the same category of offence when committed outside the
latter State's territory or does not allow extradition for the offence
concerned, under the terms of this Agreement.Article 10Pending Proceedings for
the Same OffencesThe Requested State may refuse to extradite the person
claimed if the competent authorities of that State are already proceeding
against him in respect of the offence or offences for Which extradition is
requested.Article 11Non bis in idemExtradition shall not be granted if final
judgement has been passed by the competent authorities of the requested State
upon the person claimed in respect of the offence or offences for which
extradition is requested. Extradition may be refused if the competent
authorities of the Requested State have decided either not to institute or to
terminate proceedings in respect of the same offence or offences.Article
12Lapse of timeExtradition shall not be granted when the person claimed has,
according to the law of Requesting State, become immune by reason of lapse of
time from prosecution or Punishment.Article 13Capital PunishmentIf the offence
for which extradition is requested is punishable by death under the law of
Requesting State, and if in respect of such offence the death-penalty is not
provided for by the law of the Requested State or is not normally carried out,
extradition may be refused unless the Requesting State gives such assurance as
the Requested State considers sufficient that the death-penalty will not be
carried out.Article 14The Request and Supporting Documents

### 1\. The request for extradition under this Agreement shall be made through
the diplomatic channel. Other means of communication may also be used after
mutual consultation between the two States.

### 2\. The request shall be supported by :

(a)the original or an authenticated copy of the order of conviction and
sentence or the warrant of arrest or other order having the same effect and
issued in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law of the Requesting
State;(b)a statement of the offence(s) for which extradition is requested, the
time and place of their commission, their legal description and a reference to
the relevant legal provisions;(c)a copy of the relevant legal provisions
applied to the offence(s);(d)as accurate a description as possible of the
person claimed, together with any other available information such as his
photograph, fingerprints, passport details, etc., which will help to establish
his identity and nationality.

### 3\. If the information communicated by the Requesting State is found to be
insufficient to allow the Requested State to make a decision the Requested
State may request for the necessary supplementary information, which shall be
supplied by the Requesting State within one month. This time limit may by
mutual consent, be extended for valid reasons.

Article 15Evidence

### 1\. The authorities of the Requested State shall admit as evidence, in any
proceedings for extradition, any evidence taken on oath or by way of
affirmation, any warrant and any certificate of, or judicial document stating
the fact of, a conviction, if it is authenticated:

(a)(i)in the case of a warrant being signed, or in the case of any original
document by being certified, by a judge, magistrate or other competent
authority of the Requesting State; and(ii)either by oath of some witness or by
being sealed with the official seal of the appropriate Minister of the
Requesting State; or(b)In such other manner as may be permitted by the law of
the Requested State.

### 2\. The evidence described in paragraph (1) shall be admissible in
extradition proceedings in the Requested State whether sworn or affirmed in
the Requesting State or in some third State.

Article 16Rule of Speciality

### 1\. A person who has been extradited shall not be proceeded against,
sentenced or detained with a view to the carrying out of a sentence or
detention order for any offence committed prior to his surrender other than
that for which he was extradited, nor shall he be for any other reason
restricted in his personal freedom, except in the following cases:

(a)When the State which surrendered him consents. A request for consent shall
be submitted, accompanied by the documents mentioned in Article 14 and a legal
record of any statement made by the extradited person in respect of the
offence concerned. Consent shall be given when the offence for which it is
requested is itself subject to extradition in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement;(b)when that person, having had an opportunity to leave the
territory of the State to which he has been surrendered, has not done so
within 45 days of his final discharge, or has returned to that territory after
leaving it.(c)any lesser extradition offence disclosed by the facts proved for
the purposes of securing his extradition.

### 2\. When the description of the offence charged is altered in the course
of trial proceedings, the extradited person shall only be proceeded against or
sentenced in so far as the offence under its new description is shown by its
constituent elements to be an offence which would allow extradition.

Article 17Re-extradition to a Third StateExcept as provided for in Article 16,
paragraph 1 (b), the Requesting State shall not, without the consent of the
Requested State, surrender to a third State a person surrendered to the
Requesting State and sought by the said third State in respect of offences
committed before his surrender. The Requested State may request the production
of the documents mentioned in Article 14.Article 18Provisional arrest

### 1\. In case of urgency the competent authorities of the Requesting State
may request the provisional arrest of the person sought. The competent
authorities of the Requested State shall decide the matter in accordance with
its law.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest shall state that one of the
documents mentioned in paragraph 2(a) Article 14, exists and that it is
intended to send a request for extradition. It shall also state for what
offence extradition will be requested and when and where such offence was
committed and shall so far as possible give a description of the person
sought.

### 3\. A request for provisional arrest shall be sent to the competent
authorities of the Requested State either through the diplomatic channel or
direct by post or telegraph or through the International Criminal Police
Organization (Interpol) or by any other means affording evidence in writing or
accepted by the Contracting States.

### 4. The requesting authority shall be informed without delay of the result
of its request.

### 5. Provisional arrest may be terminated if, within a period of 60 days
after arrest, the Requested State has not received the request for extradition
and the documents mentioned in Article 14. It shall not, in any event, exceed
90 days from the date of such arrest. The possibility of provisional release
at any time is not excluded, but the requested State shall take any measures
which it considers necessary to prevent the escape of the person sought.

### 6. Release shall not prejudice re-arrest and extradition if a request for
extradition is received subsequently.

Article 19Conflicting requestsIf extradition is requested concurrently by more
than one State, either for the same offence or for different offences, the
Requested State shall make its decision having regard to all the circumstances
and especially the relative seriousness and place of commission of the
offences, the respective dates of the requests, the nationality of the person
claimed and the possibility of subsequent extradition to another State.Article
20Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State shall inform the Requesting State by the means
mentioned in Article 14, paragraph 1, of its decision with regard to the
extradition.

### 2\. Reasons shall be given for any complete or partial rejection.

### 3\. If the request is agreed to, the Requesting State shall be informed of
the place and date of surrender and of the length of time for which the person
claimed was detained with a view to surrender.

### 4\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Article, if the
person claimed has not been taken over on the appointed date, he may be
released after the expiry of 30 days. If he is not removed within that period,
the Requested State may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.

### 5\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a State from surrendering
or taking over the person to be extradited, it shall notify the other State.
The two States shall agree to a new date for surrender and the provisions of
paragraph 4 of this Article shall apply.

Article 21Postponed or conditional surrender

### 1\. The Requested State may, after making its decision on the request for
extradition, postpone the surrender of the person claimed in order that he may
be proceeded against by that State or, if he has already been convicted, in
order that he may serve his sentence in the territory of that State for an
offence other than that for which extradition is requested.

### 2\. The Requested State may, instead of postponing surrender, temporarily
surrender the person claimed to the Requesting State in accordance with
conditions to be determined by mutual agreement between the States.

Article 22Handing Over of property

### 1\. The Requested State shall, in so far as its law permits and at the
request of the Requesting State, seize and hand over property: (a) which may
be required as evidence, or (b) which has been acquired as a result of the
offence and which, at the time of the arrest, is found in the possession of
the person claimed or is discovered subsequently.

### 2\. The property mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be handed
over even if extradition, having been agreed to, cannot be carried out owing
to the death or escape of the person claimed.

### 3\. When the said property is liable to seizure or confiscation in the
territory of the Requested State, the latter may, in connection with pending
criminal proceedings, temporarily retain it or hand it over on condition that
it is returned.

### 4\. Any rights which the Requested State or third parties may have
acquired in the said property shall be preserved. Where these rights exist,
the property shall be returned without charge to the Requested State as soon
as possible after the trial.

Article 23Transit

### 1\. Transit through the territory of one of the Contracting States shall
be granted on submission of a request by the means mentioned in Article 14,
provided that the offence concerned is not considered by the State requested
to grant transit as an offence of a political or purely military character
having regard to provisions of this Agreement.

### 2\. Transit of a national, within the meaning of Article 8, of a country
requested to grant transit may be refused.

### 3\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article, it shall be
necessary to produce the documents mentioned in Article 14.

### 4\. If air transport is used, the following provisions shall apply:

(a)when it is not intended to land, the requesting State shall notify the
State over whose territory the flight is to be made and shall certify that one
of the documents mentioned in Article 14, exists. In the case of an
unscheduled landing, such notification shall have the effect of a request for
provisional arrest as provided for in Article 18, and the requesting State
shall submit a formal request for transit;(b)when it is intended to land, the
Requesting State shall submit a formal request for transit.Article
24Applicable LawsThe procedure with regard to extradition and provisional
arrest shall be governed solely by the laws of the Requested State.Article
25Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting State shall, to the
extent permitted by its law, afford the other the widest measure of mutual
assistance in criminal matters in connection with the offence for which
extradition has been requested.Article 26LanguageWhile complying with the
present Agreement, the Contracting States shall use their national
language(s), attaching therewith authenticated translated version of the
documents into English language.Article 27Expenses

### 1\. Expenses incurred in the territory of the Requested State by reason of
extradition shall be borne by that State.

### 2\. Expenses incurred by reason of transit through the territory of a
State requested to grant transit shall be borne by the Requesting State.

Article 28International ObligationsThe present Agreement shall not affect the
rights and obligations of the Contracting States arising from International
Conventions/Treaties to which they are parties.Article 29Ratification and
Entry into Force

### 1\. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into
force 30 days after the exchange of instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may terminate this Agreement at any
time by giving notice to the other through the diplomatic channel; and if such
notice is given the Agreement shall cease to have effect six months after the
receipt of the notice.

### 3\. In witness whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries of the
Contracting States have signed this Agreement and have affixed hereto their
seals.

Done at Ankara on this 29th day of June 2001 in triplicate, in Hindi, Turkish
and English languages, all three texts having the same force. In case of
divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore,
in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (2) of Section 12 of the
Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that
the provisions of the said Act, other than Chapter II, would apply to the
Republic of Turkey with effect from the date of publication of this
notification.

