## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United States of America

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United States of America

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-UNITED-STATES-OF-AMERICA of 1999

  * Published on 14 September 1999 
  * Commenced on 14 September 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 September 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United States of AmericaPublished vide Notification No.
G.S.R. 633(E), dated 14th September, 1999Ministry of External
AffairsOrderG.S.R. 633(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the
Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of
America was signed at Washington D.C. on 25th June, 1997 and in accordance
with Article 23 of the Treaty Instruments of ratification were exchanged at
New Delhi on 21st July, 1999 and which treaty provides as follows:Article
1Obligation to ExtraditeThe Contracting Stages agree to extradite to each
other, pursuant to the provisions of this Treaty, person who, by the
authorities in the Requesting State are formally accused of, charged with or
convicted of an extraditable offence, whether such offence was committed
before or after the entry into force of the Treaty.Article 2Extraditable
Offenses

### 1. An offense shall be an extraditable offense if it is punishable under
the laws in both Contracting States by deprivation of liberty, including
imprisonment, for a period of more than one year or by a more severe penalty.

### 2. An offense shall also be an extraditable offense if it consists or an
attempt or a conspiracy to commit, aiding or abetting, counselling or
procuring the commission of or being an accessory before or after the fact to,
any offense described in paragraph 1.

### 3. For the purposes of this Article, an offense shall be an extraditable
offense:

(a)whether or not the laws in the Contracting States place the offense within
the same category of offenses or describe the offense by the same
terminology;(b)whether or not the offense is one for which United States
federal law requires the showing of such matters as interstate transportation,
or use of the mails or of other facilities affecting interstate or foreign
commerce, such matters being merely for the purpose of establishing
jurisdiction in a United States federal court; or(c)whether or not it relates
to taxation or revenue or is one of a purely fiscal character.

### 4. Extradition shall be granted for an extraditable offense regardless of
where the act or acts constituting the offense were committed.

### 5. If extradition has been granted for an extraditable offense, it shall
also be granted for any other offense specified in the request, even if the
latter offense is punishable by less than one year's deprivation of liberty,
provided that all other requirements for extradition are met.

Article 3NationalityExtradition shall not be refused on the ground that the
person sought is a national of the Requested State.Article 4Political Offenses

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted if the offense for which extradition
is requested is a political offense.

### 2\. For the purposes of this Treaty, the following offenses shall not be
considered to be political offenses:

(a)a murder or other willful crime against the person of a Head of State or
Head of Government of one of the Contracting States, or of a member of the
Head of State's or Head of Government's family;(b)aircraft hijacking offenses,
as described in the Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure
of Aircraft, done at the Hague on December 16, 1970;(c)acts of aviation
sabotage, as described in the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation, done at Montreal on
September 23, 1971;(d)crimes against internationally protected persons,
including diplomats, as described in the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents, done at New York on December 14, 1973;(e)hostage taking, as
described in the International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, done
at New York on December 17, 1979;(f)offenses related to illegal drugs, as
described in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, done at New York
on March 30, 1961, the Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs, 1961, done at Geneva on March 25, 1972, and the United Nations
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotics Drugs and Psycho tropic
Substances, done at Vienna on December 20, 1988;(g)any other offense for which
both Contracting States have the obligation pursuant to a multilateral
international agreement to extradite the person sought or to submit the case
to their competent authorities for decision as to prosecution; and(h)a
conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the foregoing offenses, or aiding or
abetting a person who commits or attempts to commit such offenses.Article
5Military Offenses and Other Bases for Denial of Extradition

### 1\. The executive authority of the Requested State may refuse extradition
for offenses under military law which are not offenses under ordinary criminal
law.

### 2\. Extradition shall not be granted if the executive authority of the
Requested State determines that the request was politically motivated.

Article 6Prior Prosecution

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted when the person sought has been
convicted or acquitted in the Requested State for the offense for which
extradition is requested.

### 2\. Extradition shall not be precluded by the fact that the authorities in
the Requested State have decided not to prosecute the person sought for the
acts for which extradition is requested, or to discontinue any criminal
proceedings which have been instituted against the person sought for those
acts.

Article 7Lapse of TimeExtradition shall not be granted when the prosecution
has become barred by lapse of time according to the laws of the Requesting
State.Article 8Capital Punishment

### 1\. When the offense for which extradition is sought is punishable by
death under the laws in the Requesting State and is not punishable by death
under the laws in the Requested State, the Requested State may refuse
extradition unless:

(a)the offense constitutes murder under the laws in the Requested State;
or(b)the Requesting State provides assurances that the death penalty, if
imposed, will not be carried out.

### 2\. In instances in which a Requesting State provides an assurance in
accordance with paragraph (1)(b) of this Article, the death penalty, if
imposed by the courts of the Requesting State, shall not be carried out.

Article 9Extradition Procedures and Required Documents

### 1\. All requests for extradition shall be submitted through the diplomatic
channel.

### 2\. All requests for extradition shall be supported by:

(a)documents, statements, or other types of information which describe the
identity and probable location of the person sought;(b)information describing
the facts of the offense and the procedural history of the case;(c)a statement
of the provisions of the law describing the essential elements of the offense
for which extradition is requested;(d)a statement of the provisions of the law
describing the punishment tor the offense; and(e)the documents, statements, or
other types of information specified in paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this
Article, as applicable.

### 3\. A request for extradition of a person who is sought for prosecution
shall also be supported by:

(a)a copy of the warrant or order of arrest, issued by a judge or other
competent authority;(b)a copy of the charging document, if any; and(c)such
information as would justify the committal for trial of the person if the
offense had been committed in the Requested State.

### 4\. A request for extradition relating to a person who has been convicted
of the offense for which extradition is sought shall also be supported by:

(a)a copy of the judgment of conviction or, if such copy is not available, a
statement by a judicial authority that the person has been
convicted;(b)information establishing that the person sought is the person to
whom the conviction refers;(c)a copy of the sentence imposed, if the person
sought has been sentenced, and a statement establishing to what extent the
sentence has been carried out; and(d)in the case of a person who has been
convicted in absentia, the documents required in paragraph 3.Article
10Admissibility of DocumentsThe documents which accompany an extradition
request shall be received and admitted as evidence in extradition proceedings
if:(a)in the case of a request from the United States, they are certified by
the principal diplomatic or principal consular officer of the Republic of
India resident in the United States;(b)in the case of a request from the
Republic of India, they arc certified by the principal diplomatic or principal
consular officer of the United States resident in the Republic of India, as
provided by the extradition laws of the United States; or(c)they are certified
or authenticated in any other manner accepted by the laws in the Requested
State.Article 11TranslationAll documents submitted by the Requesting State
shall be in English.Article 12Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In case of urgency, a Contracting State may request the provisional
arrest of the person sought pending presentation of the request for
extradition. A request for provisional arrest may be transmitted through the
diplomatic channel. The facilities of the International Criminal Police
Organization (Interpol) may be used to transmit such a request.

### 2\. The application for provisional arrest shall contain:

(a)a description of the person sought;(b)the location of the person sought, if
known;(c)a brief statement of the facts of the case, including, if possible,
the time and location of the offense;(d)a description of the laws
violated;(e)a statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest or a finding
of guilt or judgment of conviction against the person sought; and(f)a
statement that a request for extradition for the person sought will follow.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall be notified without delay of the
disposition of its application and the reasons for any denial.

### 4\. A person who is provisionally arrested may be discharged from custody
upon the expiration of sixty (60) days from the date of provisional arrest
pursuant to this Treaty if the executive authority of the Requested State has
not received the formal request for extradition and the supporting documents
required in Article 9.

### 5\. The fact that the person sought has been discharged from custody
pursuant to paragraph (4) of this Article shall not prejudice the subsequent
rearrest and extradition of that person if the extradition request and
supporting documents are delivered at a later date.

Article 13Decision and Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State shall promptly notify the Requesting State through
the diplomatic channel of its decision on the request for extradition.

### 2\. If the request is denied in whole or in part, the Requested State
shall provide the reasons for the denial. The Requested State shall provide
copies of pertinent judicial decisions upon request.

### 3\. If the request for extradition is granted, the authorities of the
Contracting States shall agree on the time and place for the surrender of the
person sought.

### 4\. If the person sought is not removed from the territory of the
Requested State within the time prescribed by the laws in that State, that
person may be discharged from custody, and the Requested State may
subsequently refuse extradition for the same offense.

Article 14Temporary and Deferred Surrender

### 1\. If the extradition request is granted in the case of a person who is
being prosecuted or is serving a sentence in the Requested State, the
Requested State, subject to its laws, may temporarily surrender the person
sought to the Requesting State for the purpose of prosecution. The person so
surrendered shall be kept in custody in the Requesting State and shall be
returned to the Requested State after the conclusion of the proceedings
against that person, in accordance with conditions to be determined by
agreement of the Contracting States.

### 2\. The Requested State may postpone the extradition proceedings against a
person who is being prosecuted or who is serving a sentence in that State. The
postponement may continue until the prosecution of the person sought has been
concluded or until such person has served any sentence imposed.

Article 15Requests for Extradition Made by More than One StateIf the Requested
State receives requests from the other Contracting State and from any other
State or States for the extradition of the same person, either for the same
offense or for different offenses, the executive authority of the Requested
State shall determine to which State it will surrender the person. In making
its decision, the Requested State shall consider all relevant factors,
including but not limited to:(a)whether the requests were made pursuant to
treaty;(b)the place where each offense was committed:(c)the respective
interests of the Requesting States;(d)the gravity of the offenses;(e)the
nationality of the victim;(f)the possibility of further extradition between
the Requesting States; and(g)the chronological order in which the requests
were received from the Requesting States.Article 16Seizure and Surrender of
Property

### 1\. To the extent permitted under its laws, the Requested State may seize
and surrender to the Requesting State all articles, documents, and evidence
connected with the offense in respect of which extradition is granted. The
items mentioned in this Article may be surrendered even when the extradition
cannot be effected due to the death, disappearance, or escape of the person
sought.

### 2\. The Requested State may condition the surrender of the property upon
satisfactory assurances from the Requesting State that the property will be
returned to the Requested State as soon as practicable. The Requested State
may also defer the surrender of such property if it is needed as evidence in
the Requested State.

### 3\. The rights of third parties in such property shall be duly respected.

Article 17Rule of Speciality

### 1\. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be detained, tried, or
punished in the Requesting State except for:

(a)the offense for which extradition has been granted or a differently
denominated offense based on the same facts on which extradition was granted,
provided such offense is extraditable or is a lesser included offense;(b)an
offense committed after the extradition of the person; or(c)an offense for
which the executive authority of the Requested State consents to, the person's
detention, trial, or punishment. For the purpose of this sub paragraph;(i)the
Requested State may require the submission of the documents called for in
Article 9; and(ii)the person extradited may be detained by the Requesting
State for 90 days, or for such longer period of time as the Requested State
may authorize, while the request is being processed.

### 2\. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be extradited to a third
State for an offense committed prior to his surrender unless the surrendering
State consents.

### 3\. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not prevent the detention,
trial, or punishment of an extradited person, or the extradition of that
person to a third State, if;

(a)that person leaves the territory of the Requesting State after extradition
and voluntarily returns to it; or(b)that person does not leave the territory
of the Requesting State within 15 days of the day on which that person is free
to leave.Article 18Waiver of ExtraditionIf the person sought consents to
surrender to the Requesting State, the Requested State may, subject to its
laws, surrender the person as expeditiously as possible without further
proceedings.Article 19Transit

### 1\. Either Contracting State may authorize transportation through its
territory of a person surrendered to the other State by a third State. A
request for transit shall be made through the diplomatic channel. The
facilities of Interpol may be used to transmit such a request. It shall
contain a description of the person being transported and a brief statement of
the facts of the case. A person in transit may be detained in custody during
the period of transit.

### 2\. No authorization is required where air transportation is used and no
landing is scheduled on the territory of the Contracting State. If an
unscheduled landing occurs on the territory of the other Contracting State,
the other Contracting State may require the request for transit as provided in
paragraph 1. That Contracting State shall detain the person to be transported
until the request for transit is received and the transit is effected, so long
as the request is received within 96 hours of the unscheduled landing.

Article 20Representation and Expenses

### 1\. The Requested State shall advise, assist, appear in court on behalf of
the Requesting State, and represent the interests of the Requesting State, in
any proceeding arising out of a request for extradition.

### 2\. The Requesting State shall bear the expenses related to the
translation of documents and the transportation of the person surrendered. The
Requested State shall pay all other expenses incurred in that State by reason
of the extradition proceedings.

### 3\. Neither State shall make any pecuniary claim against the other State
arising out of the arrest, detention, examination, or surrender of persons
sought under this Treaty.

Article 21ConsultationThe competent authorities of the United States and the
Republic of India may consult with each other directly or through the
facilities of Interpol in connection with the processing of individual cases
and in furtherance of maintaining and improving procedures for the
implementation of this Treaty.Article 22Mutual Legal Assistance in
ExtraditionEach Contracting State shall, to the extent permitted by its law,
afford the other the widest measure of mutual assistance in criminal matters
in connection with an offense for which extradition has been requested.Article
23Ratification and Entry into Force

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification; the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible.

### 2\. This Treaty shall enter into force upon the exchange of the
instruments of ratification.

### 3\. Upon the entry into force of this Treaty, the Treaty for the Mutual
Extradition of Criminals between The United States of America and Great
Britain, signed at London December 22, 1931, shall cease to have any effect
between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the
United States of America. Nevertheless, the prior Treaty shall apply to any
extradition proceedings in which the extradition documents have already been
submitted to the courts of the Requested State at the time this Treaty enters
into force, except that Article 17 of this Treaty shall be applicable to such
proceedings.

Article 24TerminationEither Contracting State may terminate this Treaty at any
time by giving written notice to the other Contracting State, any the
termination shall be effective six months after the date of such notice.In
Witness Whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective
Governments have signed this Treaty.Done at Washington, D.C., in duplicate,
this twenty-fifth day of June, 1997, in the English and Hindi languages, both
texts being equally authentic.Now, therefore, in exercise of the power
conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of
1962), in suppression of the notification G.S.R. No. 493 dated 1st April,
1966, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said
Act, other them chapter III, shall apply to the United States of America with
effect from the date of Publication of this notification.

