## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Republic of Uzbekistan

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Republic of Uzbekistan

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-UZBEKISTAN of 2002

  * Published on 15 July 2002 
  * Commenced on 15 July 2002 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 July 2002.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Republic of UzbekistanPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 505(E), dated
15th July, 2002Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 505(E). - Whereas the
Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Republic of Uzbekistan was signed at New Delhi, India on 2nd May, 2000 and in
pursuance of Article 23(1) of the Treaty instruments of ratification were
exchanged at Tashkent, Uzbekistan on 22nd May, 2002 and which Treaty provides
as follows :-Article 1Obligation to extradite

### 1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to extradite to the other Contracting
Party in the circumstances and subject to the conditions specified in this
Treaty, a person who, being accused or convicted of an extradition offence as
described in Article 2 of this Treaty, committed within the territory of the
Requesting Party, is found within the territory of the Requested Party,
whether such offence was committed before or after the entry into force of
this Treaty.

### 2. Extradition shall also be available in respect of an extradition
offence, as described in Article 2 of this Treaty, committed outside the
territory of the Requesting Party but in respect of which it has jurisdiction,
if the Requested Party would, in corresponding circumstances, have
jurisdiction over such an offence. In such circumstances the Requested Party
shall have regard to all the circumstances of the case including the
seriousness of the offence.

### 3. Extradition shall also be available for an extradition offence, as
described in Article 2 of this Treaty, if it is committed in a third State by
a citizen of the Requesting Party and the Requesting Party bases its
jurisdiction on the citizenship of the offender, or if it occurred in the
territory of the Requested Party and is an extradition offence under the law
of that Party.

Article 2Extradition offences

### 1\. An extradition offence, for the purpose of this Treaty, is constituted
by conduct which under the laws of each Contracting Party is punishable by a
term of imprisonment for a period of at least one year.

### 2\. An offence may be an extradition offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation or revenue or is one of a purely fiscal character.

Article 3Composite offencesExtradition shall be available in accordance with
this Treaty for an extradition offence, notwithstanding that the conduct of
the person sought occurred wholly or in part in the Requested Party, if this
conduct and its effects, or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be
regarded as constituting the commission of an extradition offence under the
laws of both the Contracting Parties.Article 4Offences of conspiracy,
incitement and attempt, and extra-territorial jurisdiction

### 1\. It shall be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting Parties
for any person to abet, conspire or attempt to commit, or incite or
participate as an accomplice in the commission of, any extradition offence.

### 2\. It shall also be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting
Parties, for any citizen of a Contracting Party to commit any offence in any
place beyond its territory.

Article 5Grounds for refusal of extradition

### 1\. A person may not be extradited if:

1.1he is a citizen of the Requested Party at the time of the commission of the
offence; or1.2he satisfies the Requested Party that he might if extradited, be
prejudiced at his trial or be punished, by reason of his race, religion,
nationality or political opinions; or1.3he satisfies the Requested Party that
it would, having regard to all the circumstances, be unjust or oppressive to
extradite him by reasons of:1.3.1the expiry of the limitation-period for
initiating the criminal proceedings under the legislation of the Requested
Party or for execution of a sentence, or on other legal grounds;1.3.2the
accusation against him having not been made in the interests of justice;
or1.4the extradition is not permitted according to the laws of the Requested
Party;1.5the offence of which he is accused or convicted is a military offence
which is not also an offence under the general criminal law.

### 2\. A person shall also not be extradited if in respect of the offence for
which his extradition is requested, he has been previously proceeded against
in the Requested Party and convicted or acquitted.

### 3\. The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested Party if
the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the extradition
offence in the courts of that Party.

### 4. A person who has been convicted of an extradition offence may not be
extradited thereof unless he was sentenced to imprisonment or other form of
detention for a period of at least six months.

Article 6The Political Offence Exception

### 1\. Extradition may be refused if the offence of which it is requested is
an offence of a political character.

### 2\. For the purpose of this Treaty the following offences shall not be
regarded as offences of a political character :

(a)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, opened for signature at the Hague on 16
December, 1970;(b)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, opened for
signature at Montreal on 23 September 1971 ;(c)an offence within the scope of
the Convention of the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against
internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents, opened for
signature at New York on 14 December 1973;(d)an offence within the scope of
the International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, opened for
signature at New York on 17 December 1979;(e)murder;(f)manslaughter or
culpable homicide;(g)assault occasioning actual bodily harm, or causing
injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm whether by
means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or otherwise;(h)the causing of an
explosion likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to property;(i)the
making or possession of an explosive substance by a person who intends either
himself or through another person to endanger life or cause serious damage to
property;(j)the possession of a firearm or ammunition by a person who intends
either himself or through another person to endanger life;(k)the use of a
firearm by a person with intent to resist or prevent the arrest, or detention
of himself or another person;(l)damaging property whether used for public
utilities or otherwise with intent to endanger life or with reckless disregard
as to whether the life of another would thereby be endangered;(m)kidnapping,
abduction, false imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the taking of a
hostage;(n)incitement to murder;(o)any other offence related to terrorism
which at the time of the request is, under the law of the Requested Party, not
to be regarded as an offence of a political character; and(p)an attempt or
conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing offences or participation as an
accomplice of a person who commits or attempts to commit such an
offence.Article 7Obligation to prosecute

### 1\. Where the Requested Party refuses a request for extradition for the
reason set out in paragraphs 1.1 and 3 of Article 5 of this Treaty, it shall
accept and submit the case to its competent authorities for prosecution.

### 2\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in such a case,
the request for extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance with this
Treaty.

Article 8Postponement of extradition and temporary extradition

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is being prosecuted or serving sentence
for another crime in the territory of the Requested Party, the extradition may
be postponed till the end of the proceedings of the case, end of sentence or
release, which shall be advised to the Requesting Party.

### 2\. If the postponement of extradition can cause the expiration of the
limitation or impede the investigation, the person can be extradited
temporarily under a special request of the Requesting Party.

### 3\. The temporarily extradited person must be returned to the Requested
Party immediately after the end of the proceedings of the case.

Article 9Extradition procedures

### 1\. The request of extradition shall be made through diplomatic channels.

### 2\. The request shall be accompanied by:

2.1the name and surname (petronym) of the person whose extradition is
requested, information on his citizenship, place of residence or whereabouts
and other relevant data, as well as, if possible, the description of the
person's appearance, his photographs and fingerprints;2.2a statement of the
facts of the offence for which extradition is requested; and2.3the text, of
the corresponding law;2.3.1defining that offence; and2.3.2prescribing the
punishment for that offence.

### 3\. The request for extradition for the prosecution, besides the
information specified above, must be accompanied by the warrant of arrest
issued by a court or a competent authority of the Requesting Party on the
subject matter.

### 4\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the judgement and a statement
that the person is no longer entitled to question the conviction or sentence
and showing how much of sentence has not been carried out.

### 5. If the Requested Party considers that the information supplied for the
purposes of this Treaty is not sufficient in order to enable a decision to be
taken as to the request, additional information shall be submitted within a
reasonable time.

Article 10Provisional arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases a person may be provisionally arrested by the
Requested Party, in accordance with its law, on the request of the competent
authorities of the Requesting Party, made either through Diplomatic Channels
or the National Central Bureau of International Criminal Police Organization
-INTERPOL, before the receiving of the request for extradition. The request
shall contain an indication of intention to request the extradition of that
person and a statement of existence of a warrant of arrest and, if the person
sought is already convicted, the conviction order against him; and, if
available, the data specified in paragraphs 2.1 and 2.3 of Article 9 of this
Treaty and such further information, if any, as would be necessary to justify
the issue of a warrant of arrest had the offence been committed, or the person
been convicted, in the territory of the Requested Party.

### 2\. A person arrested upon such a request shall be set at liberty upon the
expiration of 60 days from the date of his arrest if a request for his
extradition shall not have been received. This provision shall not prevent the
institution of further proceedings for the extradition of the person sought if
a request for extradition is subsequently received.

Article 11Rule of speciality

### 1\. The extradited person may not, without prior consent of the Requested
Party, be prosecuted or punished by the Requesting Party for the offence other
than that for which extradition has been granted and any lesser offence
disclosed by the facts proved for the purposes of securing his extradition,
nor may such a person, without prior consent of the Requested Party, be
extradited to a third State.

### 2\. The consent of the Requested Party is not required if:

2.1the extradited person has not left, though had the opportunity to leave,
the territory of the Requesting Party within 30 days after termination of the
criminal prosecution, serving of the sentence or release on any legal ground.
Such period shall not be deemed to include the period of time during which the
extradited person is unable to leave the territory of the Requesting Party,
for reasons beyond his control; and2.2if, the extradited person, once having
left the territory of the Requesting Party, voluntarily returns there.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to
offences committed after the return of person to the Requesting Party or
matters arising in relation to such offences.

Article 12Recognition of documents and evidence

### 1\. Documents issued or certified and statements recorded by competent
courts or other authorities in the prescribed form in the territory of one
Contracting Party as per its laws shall not require any form of authentication
in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

### 2\. Documents considered as public in the territory of one of the
Contracting Parties shall have the evidential force of public documents also
in the territory or the other Contracting Party.

Article 13Competing requests

### 1\. If numerous requests from Contracting Parties for extradition are made
for the same offence, priority shall be given to the Party whose security or
interest or its nationals or their interests are affected by the offence, and
then to the Party on whose territory the offence is committed, and lastly to
the Party of which the person to be extradited is a national.

### 2\. If the circumstances are identical then the Contracting Party which
made the first request shall have preference. If the requests for extradition
are for several offences, then preponderance is accorded to the circumstances
of the offence and its gravity.

Article 14Capital punishmentIf under the law of the Requesting Party the
person sought is liable to the death penalty for the offence for which his
extradition is requested, but the law of the Requested Party does not provide
for the death penalty for the same offence, extradition may be refused, unless
the Requesting Party gives such assurances as the Requested Party considers
sufficient that the death penalty will not be carried out.Article 15Surrender
of the person

### 1\. Upon being informed that extradition has been granted, the Parties
shall, without undue delay, arrange for the surrender of the person sought and
the Requested Party shall inform the Requesting Party of the length of time
for which the person sought was detained with a view to surrender.

### 2\. The person shall be removed from the territory of the Requested Party
within such reasonable period as the Requested Party specifies and, if the
person is not removed within that period, the Requested Party may release the
person and may refuse to extradite that person for the same offence.

### 3\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Party from surrendering
or removing the person to be extradited, it shall notify the other Party. The
two Parties shall mutually decide upon a new date of surrender, and the
provisions of paragraph 2 of this article shall apply.

Article 16Transit

### 1\. Where a person is to be extradited to a Party from a third State
through the territory of the other Party, the Party to which the person is to
be extradited shall request the other Party to permit the transit of that
person through its territory. This does not apply where air transport is used
and no landing in the territory of the other Party is scheduled. A request for
transit shall be made through the diplomatic channel.

### 2\. Upon receipt of such a request, which shall contain relevant
information, the Requested Party shall deal with this request pursuant to
procedures provided by its own law. The Requested Party shall grant the
request expeditiously unless its essential interests would be prejudiced
thereby.

### 3\. The State of transit shall ensure that legal provisions exist enabling
the person to be held in custody during transit.

### 4\. In the event of an unscheduled landing, the Party to be requested to
permit transit may, at the request of the escorting officer, hold the person
in custody for 48 hours, pending receipt of the transit request to be made in
accordance with paragraph 1 of this article.

Article 17Transfer of articles connected with crime

### 1\. The Requested Party shall, within the limits of its legislation,
transfer on the request of the Requesting Party the articles used for
committing crime by the person being extradited, articles bearing crime traces
or crime proceeds.

### 2\. The above articles shall be transferred also in cases when the
extradition cannot be effected if person died, fled or due to other reasons.

### 3\. The Requested party may temporarily postpone the transfer of the
articles referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article if they are required for
proceedings instituted by that Party in connection with any other criminal
case till the end of such proceedings.

### 4\. The rights of third persons to the articles transferred to the
Requesting Party, shall not be prejudiced against. Upon termination of the
proceedings, the Requesting Party shall return these articles to their owners
in its territory. If the owners are in the territory of the Requested Party
the articles are to be returned to it for transfer to them. If the owners are
in the territory of a third country the articles shall be returned to them by
the Requesting Party without charge.

### 5\. The transfer of the articles and of money shall be effected within the
limits provided for by the legislation of the Requested Party.

Article 18Mutual legal assistance in extraditionEach Contracting Party shall,
to the extent permitted by its law, afford the other the widest possible
measure of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters in connection with the
offence for which extradition has been requested.Article 19Expenses on
extraditionAll expenses related to the extradition shall be borne by the
Contracting Party in whose territory the same occurred. The expenses caused by
transit transportation of the extradited person by one of the Contracting
Parties from a third Party through territory of the other Contracting Party
shall be borne by the Contracting Party effecting the transit.Article
20LanguagesWhile complying with the present Treaty, the Contracting Parties
shall use their national language attaching the translation in the national
language of the other Contracting Party or in the English languages.Article
21International Conventions/TreatiesThe present Treaty shall not affect the
rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties arising from other
international Conventions/Treaties to which the Contracting Parties are
signatories.Article 22ConsultationsThe Contracting Parties shall consult
promptly, at the request of either Contracting Party, concerning the
interpretation and the application of this Treaty, either generally or in
relation to a particular request.Article 23Ratification and termination

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and it shall enter into
force on the date of exchange of the instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting Party may terminate this Treaty at any time
by giving notice to the other contracting Party through the diplomatic channel
and if such notice is given the Treaty shall cease to have effect six months
after the receipt of the notice.

Done at New Delhi on 2nd May, 2000, in two originals in Hindi, Uzbek and
English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of
interpretation of the provisions of this Treaty, the English text shall
prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (2)
of Section 12 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central
Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act, other than
chapter II, shall apply to the Republic of Uzbekistan with effect from the
date of the publication of this notification.

