## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the State of Kuwait

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the State of Kuwait

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-STATE-OF-
KUWAIT of 2007

  * Published on 26 September 2007 
  * Commenced on 26 September 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 September 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the State of
KuwaitPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 634(E), dated 26th September,
2007G.S.R. 634(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of
India and the State of Kuwait was signed at New Delhi on 25th August, 2004;
and the Treaty has entered into force from 7th August, 2007 in terms of
Article 24 on receipt of information from the State of Kuwait regarding the
completion of legal procedure for the entry into force of the Treaty, and
which Treaty provides as follows :The Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the State of Kuwait and, hereinafter referred to as the
"Contracting Parties",Being desirous to promote the bonds of fruitful
cooperation between the Contracting Parties;Recognising that concrete steps
are necessary to combat terrorism and other crimes.Determined to make more
effective the cooperation between the Contracting Parties in combating crime
by entering into an extradition treaty;Have agreed as follows:-Article 1The
Contracting Parties shall extradite any person found in their respective
territories who is accused or convicted of an extraditable offence in the
territory of the other Contracting Party, in accordance with the rules and
stipulations contained in the subsequent Articles, whether such offence was
committed before or after the entry into force at this Treaty.Article 2The
following persons shall be extradited :(a) Persons accused of an offence
punishable under the laws at both the Contracting Parties by imprisonment for
a period of at least one year or more; and(b) Persons sentenced by the courts
of the, Requesting Party with, imprisonment for at least six months in respect
of an extraditable offence.Article 3

### 1. For offences in connection with taxes, fiscal charges and customs
duties, extradition shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
this Treaty only if the said offence corresponds to an offence at a similar
nature under the law of the Requested Party.

### 2. An attempt or conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in the
commission at an extraditable offence shall also be regarded as an
extraditable offence.

Article 4

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted in respect at an extraditable offence
committed outside its territory but within the jurisdiction as asserted by the
Requesting Party, if the Requested Party would, in circumstances, have
jurisdiction over such an offence. In such cases, the Requested Party shall
have regard to all the circumstances at the case including the seriousness of
the offence.

### 2\. Extradition shall be available for an extraditable, offence if
committed in a third State by a national at the Requesting Party who is
present in the Requested Party and provided that it would be an extraditable
offence under the laws of the Requested Party, had the offence been committed
in the Requested Party.

### 3. Extradition shall also be available for an extraditable offence,
notwithstanding that the conduct at the person sought occurred wholly or
partly in, the Requested Party, if under the law at that Party his conduct and
it a effects or it a intended effects, taken as a whole, would be regarded as
constituting the commission of an extraditable offence in the territory of the
Requesting Party.

Article 5

### 1\. The nationals of either of the two Contracting Parties shall not be
extradited to the other Contracting Party. In this case the Requested Party
shall submit the case for prosecution to the competent authority, if the act
committed or omission is considered as an offence under the law of the
Requested Party.

### 2\. Nationality shall be determined as at the time at the commission of
the offence.

Article 6Extradition may be refused:

### 1\. If the offence for which the extradition is requested is a political
offence or connected with a political offence. In the application of this
Treaty, the following shall not be regarded as political offences:

(a)assault against the President, Vice President or Prime Minister of either
Contracting Party;(b)murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder or
robbery;(c)offences relating to terrorism, including murder, culpable homicide
not amounting to murder, culpable homicide causing bodily harm; kidnapping,
hostage-taking, offences involving serious damage to property or disruption of
public facilities, and offences relating to firearms or other weapons, or
explosives, or dangerous substances;(d)any offence within the scope at
international conventions to which both Contracting Parties are parties and
which obligate the Parties to grant extradition or prosecute; or(e)an attempt
or conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in the commission of any of
the above offences.

### 2\. Extradition may also be refused if:

(a)the person sought to be extradited was previously tried for the same
offence for which extradition is requested and was, acquitted or was convicted
and had completed the sentence or is, undergoing it;(b)the criminal
proceedings had expired of the sentence lapsed by time, in pursuance at the
law of the Requesting Party, when the request for extradition was
received;(c)the offence was committed outside the territory of the Requesting
Party by an alien and if is not an offence under the law of the Requested
Party;(d)the offence for which extradition is requested was committed in the
Requested Party, provided the Requested Party prosecutes the person;(e)a
person whose extradition is sought is being investigated or tried in the
Requested Party for the same offence for which his extradition is requested;
or(f)The sentence remaining to be served by a person convicted of an
extraditable offence is less than six month.Article 7

### 1\. When the Requested Party refuses a request for extradition for the
reason set out under this Treaty, it shall submit the case to its competent
authorities for prosecution. Those authorities shall take their decision in
the same manner as in the case of any offence of a similar nature under the
law of that Party.

### 2\. If, after refusing extradition, prosecution is not found feasible in
the Requested Party for whatever reason, the Requested Party shall re-consider
the extradition request, and may extradite the person sought to the Requesting
Party.

Article 8

### 1\. The request for extradition shall be made in writing and dispatched
through the diplomatic channels with the under-mentioned documents and
particulars appended :

(a)if the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, an
official copy of the sentence passed against the person to be
extradited;(b)the warrant of arrest, or remand or any document having the same
effect, issued by competent authority, if the person to be extradited is under
investigation;(c)particulars as to identity, description and a photograph of
the person to be extradited, if possible;(d)the date, the place of the
commission of the acts for which extradition is requested, the legal
characterisation of those offences, and a certified copy of the applicable
legal provisions, and a statement by the prosecuting authorities as to
evidence against the person to be extradited;(e)in case of the person not yet
sentenced, such other evidence, as according to the laws of the Requested
Party, would justify his arrest and committal for trial had the offence been
committed within the jurisdiction of the Requested Party.

### 2\. All document referred to above shall be translated into English and
authenticated by the Requesting Party.

Article 9

### 1\. In case of urgency, a person to be extradited may be provisionally
arrested and remanded in custody until the request for extradition, together
with the documents referred to in the preceding Article, is received.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest and remand shall be communicated in
writing to the competent authority of the Requested Party either directly or
through the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) channels.

### 3\. The same request shall be confirmed through the diplomatic channels,
and shall contain a reference to the existence of any of the documents
enumerated in the preceding Article, and intimating the intention of the
Requesting Party to transmit a request for extradition a statement of the
offence for which extradition is requested the sentence specified for that
offence or the sentence imposed the time and place of the commission of the
offence and a detailed description of the person to be extradited. The
Requesting Party shall forthwith be notified of any action taken in respect of
the request.

### 4. The provisional arrest and remand shall be made in accordance with the
legal procedures of the Requested Party.

Article 10

### 1\. The competent authority in the Requested Party may, if the documents
required under this Treaty are not delivered within 45 days from the date of
the arrest of the person to be extradited, release that person.

### 2\. The period of the provisional detention shall not, in any case, exceed
60 days from the date of its commencement.

### 3\. The person to be extradited may at any time be released on bail, if
the Requested Party takes all necessary measures to prevent his escape. The
release of such person shall not prevent his re-arrest and extradition, if the
request for extradition is received afterwards.

Article 11If the Requested Party needs additional clarifications/evidence to
ensure the compliance with the conditions embodied in this Treaty, it shall
notify the Requesting Party through diplomatic channels, before rejecting the
request, and may fix a date for receiving such clarifications/evidence.Article
12

### 1\. If numerous requests from more than one state for extradition are made
for the same offence, priority shall be given to the State whose security or
interest or national a or their interests are affected by the offence, and
then to the State on whose territory the offence is committed, and lastly to
the State of which the person to be extradited is a national.

### 2\. If the circumstances are identical then the State which made the first
request shall have preference. If the requests for extradition are for several
offences, then preponderance is accorded to the circumstances of the offence
and its gravity.

Article 13Without prejudice to the rights of others acting in good faith, and
to the laws in force in the Requested Party, everything found in possession of
the person to be extradited, at the time of his arrest or remand or at a later
stage, whether being the proceeds of the offence or used in the commission of,
or connected with it, or relevant as evidence, shall be attached and may be
handed over to the Requesting Party, even if the offender is not extradited
due to his death or his absconding.Article 14

### 1\. The competent authorities in each Contracting Party shall determine
the request for extradition in accordance with the laws in force at the time
of the request.

### 2\. In the event of granting the extradition request, the Requesting Party
shall be notified of the date and place of extradition.

### 3\. In case the request is rejected, the Requested Party shall communicate
to the Requesting Party, through diplomatic channels, the decision taken,
giving reasons thereof.

### 4\. The Requesting Party shall, within thirty days from the date of its
notification of the extradition, receive the person to be extradited,
otherwise the Requested Party may discharge him, and in such event no second
request for extradition may be accepted for the same offence.

### 5. If exceptional circumstances prevent a Contracting Party from
surrendering or taking delivery of the person sought within the stipulated
time, it shall notify the other Contracting Party prior to the expiration of
the time limit. In such a case, the competent authorities of the Contracting
Party may agree upon a new date for the surrender.

Article 15

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is under investigation or standing
trial or is convicted in the Requested Party for an offence other than that
for which his extradition is Requested, then the Requested Party shall decide
on the request and communicate the decision made to the Requesting Party.

### 2\. If the request for extradition is granted, then the surrender of the
person concerned shall be postponed until his trial in the Requested Party is
complete and the punishment awarded is executed.

### 3\. The provisions of this Article shall not preclude the possibility of
the provisional surrender of the person concerned to appear before the
judicial authorities of the Requesting Party, provided that the Requesting
Party expressly undertakes to between him to the other Contracting Party,
after the completion of the judicial proceedings pertaining thereto, subject
to the law of the Requested Party.

Article 16

### 1\. The competent authorities of the Requested Party shall admit as
evidence, in any proceedings for extradition, any statement taken on oath or
by way of affirmation, any warrant or any certificate or judicial document
stating the fact of conviction, if it is authenticated:

(a)In the case of a warrant being signed, or in the case of any original
document being certified by a judge, magistrate or other competent authority
of the Requesting Party;(b)In the case of deposition or statements either by
oath, of some witness or by being sealed with the official seal of the
appropriate authority of the Requesting Party;(c)In such other manner as may
be permitted by the law of the Requested Party.

### 2\. The evidence described in paragraph 1 shall be admissible in
extradition proceedings in the Requested Party whether sworn or affirmed in
the Requesting Party or in some third State.

Article 17

### 1\. The person to be extradited shall not be tried or punished in the
Requested Party except for the offence for which his extradition is sought or
for offences connected therewith, or offences committed after his extradition.
If the characterization of the offence is modified during the proceedings
taken against the person extradited he shall not be charged or tried unless
the ingredients of the offence in its new characterisation, permit extradition
in conformity with the provisions of this Treaty.

### 2\. If the person extradited had the liberty and means to leave the
territory of the party to which he was extradited and he did not leave within
30 days subsequent to his final release or left during that period, but
voluntarily returned he may be tried for any other offence.

Article 18

### 1\. The Contracting Party to which the person is extradited shall not
extradite him to a third State, without the consent of the other Contracting
Party.

### 2\. The person may be extradited to a third State if the conditions under
Article 17(2) exist.

Article 19The term of provisional remand shall be remitted from any sentence
passed in the Requesting Party against the person to be extradited.Article 20

### 1\. Transit of a person who is the subject of extradition from a third
State through the territory of a Contracting Party to the territory of the
other Contracting Party shall be granted on submission of a request provided
that the offence concerned is an extraditable offence under Article 2, and
that the Contracting Party requested to grant transit does not consider the
offence to be one covered by Article 6.

### 2\. Transit of a national of the Requested Party may be refused if, in the
opinion of that Party, it is inadmissible under its law.

### 3\. The request for transit must be accompanied by documents as mentioned
in article 8 of this Treaty.

Article 21

### 1\. Each Contracting Party shall reciprocally bear all the expenses
necessitated by the extradition of the concerned person except transportation
expenses which shall be borne by the Requesting Party.

### 2\. Transit Requesting Party shall pay the expenses of the return of the
extradited person to the place he was in at the time of his extradition if
commission of the offence by him or his complicity therein is not proved.

Article 22Each Contracting Party shall, in a accordance with national laws and
bilateral agreements, afford the other the widest measures of mutual
assistance in criminal matter in connection with the offence for which
extradition has been requested.Article 23The present Treaty shall not affect
the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties arising from
international conventions/treaties to which they are parties.Article 24This
Treaty shall be subject to ratification in accordance with the constitutional
procedures in force in both Contracting Parties. It shall become effective
from the date of the last intimation by which either contracting party shall
inform the other that all the necessary legal procedures for the enforcement
of the Treaty have been fulfilled.Article 25This Treaty has been concluded for
an indefinite period of time. Either of the contracting parties may terminate
this Treaty by giving six month notice thereof through diplomatic channels.
Upon the expiry of such notice, the Treaty shall cease to have any force or
effect.In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this Treaty.Done at New Delhi on
this the 25th Day of August 2004 in two originals each in the Hindi, Arabic
and English languages all the text being equally authentic. In the event of
any difference the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section 1 of section 3 of the Extradition Act,
1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the said Act, other Chapter III, shall apply to the State of Kuwait from
the date of the publication of this notification.

