## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Ukraine

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Ukraine

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-UKRAINE of 2008

  * Published on 16 May 2008 
  * Commenced on 16 May 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 May 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and UkrainePublished vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 381(E), 16th May, 2008Ministry of External
AffairsG.S.R. 381(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of
India and Ukraine was signed at New Delhi on 30th October, 2002; and the
exchange of the Instruments of Ratification of the Treaty took place at New
Delhi on 19th December, 2006 and has entered into force from 19th January,
2007 in terms of Article 22, and which Treaty provides as follows :The
Republic of India and Ukraine hereinafter referred to as Contracting
Parties;Desirous of making more effective the corporation of the two countries
in the suppression of crime in general and organized crime in particular by
making provision for the reciprocal extradition offenders;Have agreed as
follows :Article 1Duty to ExtraditeThe Contracting Parties agree to extradite
to each other, pursuant to the provisions of this Treaty, any person, who is
accused or charged with or convicted of an extraditable offence, by the
competent authorities of the requesting Contracting Party, whether such
offence was committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty, as
well as if it is committed in a third State by a national of the requesting
Contracting Party and the requesting Contracting Party bases its jurisdiction
on the nationality of the offender.Article 2Extradition Offences

### 1. An extradition offence for the purposes of this Treaty is constituted
by conduct, which under the laws of each Contracting Party is punishable by a
term of imprisonment for a period of at least one year.

### 2. An offence may be an extradition offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation or revenues or is one of a purely fiscal character.

### 3. While arriving at a decision of what constitutes an extradition
offence, due regard shall be paid to the substantive aspects of the offence,
rather than the terminology used.

Article 3Composite OffencesExtradition shall be available in accordance with
this Treaty for an extradition offence, notwithstanding that the conduct of
the person sought occurred wholly or in part in the territory of the requested
Contracting Party, if this conduct and its effects, or its intended effects,
taken as a whole, would be regarded as constituting the commission of an
extradition offence under the laws of both the Contracting Parties.Article
4Refusal of Extradition of NationalsThe nationals of one of the Contracting
Parties shall not be extradited to the other Contracting Party. The requested
Contracting Party shall submit the material and evidence to its competent
authorities for prosecution if the act committed is considered as on offence
under the laws of both the Contracting PartiesArticle 5The Political Offence
Exception

### 1\. The requested Contracting Party may refuse extradition, if the
offence, for which it is requested, is considered as offence of a political
character.

### 2\. For the purpose of this Treaty the following offences shall not be
regarded as offences of a political character:

(a)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, opened for signature at the Hague on 16
December, 1970;(b)an offence within the scope of the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, opened for
signature at Montreal on 23 September 1971;(c)an offence within the scope of
the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against
Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents, opened for
signature at New York on 14 December, 1973;(d)an offence within the scope of
the International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, opened for
signature at New York on 18 December, 1979;(e)an offence within the scope of
the Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, opened for signature
at New York on 12 January, 1998;(f)any other offence provided in an
international treaty/convention to which both countries are parties;(g)murder
or incitement to murder;(h)culpable homicide;(i)assault occasioning actual
bodily harm, or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous
bodily harm whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or
otherwise;(j)the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property;(k)the making or possession of an explosive
substance by a person who intends either himself or through another person to
endanger life or cause serious damage to property;(l)the possession of a
firearm or ammunition by a person who intends either himself or through
another person to endanger life;(m)the use of a firearm by a person with
intent to resist or prevent the arrest or detention of himself or another
person;(n)damaging property whether used for public utilities or otherwise
with intent to endanger life or with reckless disregard as to whether the life
of another would thereby be endangered;(o)kidnapping, abduction, unlawful
deprivation of liberty including unlawful confinement or hostage taking;(p)a
conspiracy or an attempt to commit any of the foregoing offences or
participation as an accomplice of a person who commits or attempts to commit
such an offence; and(q)any other offence related to terrorism.Article
6Offences of conspiracy, incitement and attempt, and Extra-territorial
jurisdiction

### 1\. It shall be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting Parties
for any person to abet, conspire or attempt to commit, or incite or
participate as an accomplice in the commission of, any extradition offence.

### 2\. It shall also be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting
Parties, for any citizen of a Contracting Party to commit any offence in any
place beyond its territory.

Article 7Extradition and Prosecution

### 1\. The requested Contracting Party may refuse to extradite the person
sought if the competent authorities of such Contracting Party are proceeding
against him in respect of the offence or offences for which extradition is
requested.

### 2\. Where the requested Contracting Party refuses a request for
extradition for the reasons as provided in paragraph 1 of this Article, it
shall submit the case to its competent authorities for prosecution. Those
authorities shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any
serious offence of a similar nature under the law of that Contracting Party.

### 3\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in such a case,
the request for extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance with this
Treaty.

Article 8Grounds for refusal of ExtraditionExtradition shall not be granted if
:(a)the person is a citizen of the requested Contracting Party; or(b)on the
date when the request is received, the offence or the sentence has become
barred by lapse of time under the laws of the requested Contracting Party:
or(c)the offence of which he is accused or convicted is a military offence
which is not also an offence under the general criminal law; or(d)a person who
has been convicted of an extradition offence was sentenced to imprisonment or
other form of detention for a period of four months or less; or(e)a person if
proceeded against in the territory of the requested Contracting Party for the
offence for which his extradition is requested, be entitled to be discharged
under the laws of the requested Contracting Party relating to previous
acquittal or conviction.Article 9Postponement of Surrender and Temporary
Surrender

### 1\. If criminal proceedings against the person sought are instituted in
the territory of the requested Contracting Party, or he is lawfully detained
in consequence of criminal proceedings, the decision whether or not to
extradite him may be postponed until the criminal proceedings have been
completed or he is no longer detained, for an offence other than that for
which extradition is requested.

### 2\. A person sought may not be extradited until it has been decided in
accordance with the law of the requested Contracting Party that he is liable
to be extradited.

### 3\. The requested Contracting Party may, instead of postponing surrender,
temporarily surrender the person sought to the requesting Contracting Party in
accordance with conditions to be determined by mutual agreement between the
Contracting Parties.

Article 10Channels or Communications and Central Authorities

### 1\. The request for extradition under this Treaty shall be made through
the diplomatic channels.

### 2\. For the purposes of this Treaty the Contracting Parties shall
communicate through their Central Authorities. The Central Authority for the
Republic of India shall be the Ministry of External Affairs. The Central
Authority for Ukraine shall be the General prosecutor's Office (concerning
cases at the stage of pre-trial investigation) and the Ministry of Justice
(concerning cases at the trial stage and at the stage the sentence is carried
out).

Article 11Extradition Procedures

### 1\. The request shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by the
following:

(a)as accurate a description as possible of the person sought, together with
any other information which would help to establish his identity, nationality
and residence;(b)a statement of the facts of the offence for which extradition
is requested; and(c)the text,if any,of the law:(i)defining that offence;
and(ii)prescribing the maximum punishment for that offence.

### 2\. The request for extradition for the prosecution, besides the
information specified above, must be accompanied by the warrant of
arrest/decision on the detention or taking into custody issued by a competent
court or authority of the requesting Contracting Party, as well as by a
statement of evidence on which the extradition request is based.

### 3\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the judgement and a statement
that the person is no longer entitled to question the conviction or sentence
and showing how much of the sentence has not been carried out.

### 4. If the requested Contracting Party considers that the evidence produced
or information supplied for the purposes of this Treaty is not sufficient in
order to enable a decision to be taken as to the request, additional evidence
or information shall be submitted within a reasonable time.

Article 12Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases the person sought may, in accordance with the law of
the requested Contracting Party, be provisionally arrested on the application
of the competent authorities of the requesting Contracting Party. The
application shall contain an indication of intention to request the
extradition of that person and statement of the existence of a warrant of
arrest/decision on the detention or taking into custody or a conviction
against him, and, if available, his description and such further information,
if any, as would be necessary to justify the issue of a warrant of
arrest/decision on detention or taking into custody had the offence been
committed, or the person sought been convicted, in the territory of the
requested Contracting Party.

### 2\. A person arrested upon such an application shall be set at liberty
upon the expiration of 40 days from the date of his arrest if a request for
his extradition shall not have been received. This period will be extended by
a further period of 20 days upon the request of the requesting Contracting
Party. This provision shall not prevent the rearrest of the person sought for
the extradition if a request is subsequently received.

### 3\. A request for provisional arrest shall be sent to the competent
authorities of the requested Contracting Party either though the diplomatic
channels or directly by post or telegraph or through the International
Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) or by any other means affording
evidence in writing or accepted by the requested Contracting Party. The
requesting authority shall be informed without delay of the result of its
request.

Article 13Rule of Speciality

### 1\. The extradited person may not without consent of the requested
Contracting Party, be prosecuted or punished in the requesting Contracting
Party for an offence other than that for which extradition has been granted
and any lesser offence disclosed by the facts proved for the purposes of
securing his extradition, nor may such a person, without consent of the
requested Contracting Party, be extradited to a third State.

### 2\. The consent of the requested Contracting Party is not required if:

(a)the extradited person has not left, though he had the opportunity, the
territory of the requesting Contracting Party within 45 days after termination
of the criminal prosecution, serving of the sentence or release on any legal
ground. Such period shall not be deemed to include the period of time during
which the extradited person is unable to leave the territory of the requesting
Contracting Party for reasons beyond his control;(b)if the extradited person,
once having left the territory of the requesting Contacting Party, voluntarily
returns there.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to
offences committed after the return of the person to the requesting
Contracting Party or matters arising in relation to such offences.

### 4\. A person shall not be re-extradited to a third State, except when,
having had an opportunity to leave the territory of the State to which he has
been surrendered, he has not done so within sixty days of his final discharge,
or has returned to that territory after having left it.

Article 14Recognition of Documents and Evidence

### 1\. Documents issued or certified and statements recorded by competent
courts or other authorities in the prescribed form in the territory of one
Contracting Party as per its laws shall not require any form of authentication
in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

### 2\. Documents considered as public in the territory of one of the
Contracting Parties shall have the evidential force of public documents also
in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

Article 15Competing RequestsIf extradition is requested concurrently by more
than one State, either for the same offence or for different offences, the
requested Contracting Party shall make its decision having regard to all the
circumstances and especially the relative seriousness and place of commission
of the offences, the respective dates of the requests, the nationality of the
person sought and the possibility of subsequent extradition to another
State.Article 16Capital PunishmentIf under the law of the requesting
Contracting Party the person sought is liable to the death penalty for the
offence for which his extradition is requested, but the law of the requested
Contracting Party does not provide for the death penalty in a similar case,
extradition may be refused unless the requesting Contracting Party gives such
assurance as the requested Contracting Party considers sufficient that the
death penalty will not be carried out.Article 17Surrender of Persons

### 1\. The requested Contracting Party shall inform the requesting
Contracting Party of its decision with regard to the extradition.

### 2\. If extradition is granted, the person sought shall be sent by the
authorities of the requested Contracting Party to such convenient point of
departure from its territory as the requesting Contracting Party shall
indicate.

### 3\. The requesting Contracting Party shall remove the person sought from
the territory of the requested Contracting Party within one month or such
longer period as may be permitted under the law of the requested Contracting
Party. If he is not removed within that period, the requested Contracting
Party may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.

### 4\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Contracting Party from
surrendering or taking over the person to be extradited, it shall

notify the other Contracting Party. The two Contracting Parties shall agree on
a new date for surrender.Article 18Surrender of Articles

### 1\. When a request for extradition is granted, the requested Contracting
Party shall, upon request and so far as its law allows, hand over to the
requesting Contracting Party Articles (including sums of money) which may
serve as proof or evidence of the offence.

### 2\. If the Articles in question are liable to seizure or confiscation in
the territory of the requested Contracting Party, the latter may, in
connection with pending proceedings, temporarily retain them or hand them over
on condition that they are returned.

### 3\. These provisions shall not prejudice the rights of the requested,
Contracting Party or any person other than the person sought. When these
rights exist the Articles shall on request be returned to the requested
Contracting Party without charge as soon as possible after the end of the
proceedings.

Article 19Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting Party shall,
to the extent permitted by its law, afford the other the widest measure of
mutual assistance in criminal matters in connection with the offence for which
extradition has been requested.Article 20Language of DocumentsThe request,
supporting documents and the other communications to be produced according to
this Treaty, shall be accompanied by a translation in English.Article
21ExpensesExpenses incurred in the territory of the requested Contracting
Party in connection with extradition shall be born by that Party.Article
22Final Provisions

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible at a place and on a date
mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties. It shall enter into force thirty
(30) days after the date of the exchange of instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting Parties may terminate this Treaty at any
time by given a written notice to the other Contracting Party through the
diplomatic channels; and if such notice is given the Treaty shall cease to
have effect six months after the receipt of such notice by the other
Contracting Party.

Done at New Delhi this Thirty Day of October 2002 in two originals, each in
Hindi, Ukrainian and English, all text being equally authentic. In case of any
divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore,
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 1 of the Section 3 of the
Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that
the provisions of the said Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to Ukraine
from the dated of the publication of this notification.

