## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Australia

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Australia

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-AUSTRALIA of 2011

  * Published on 7 March 2011 
  * Commenced on 7 March 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 March 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and AustraliaPublished vide
Notification New Delhi, the 7th March, 2011Act2250Ministry of External
AffairsOrderG.S.R. 192(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the
Republic of India and Australia was signed at Canberra on 23rd June, 2008; and
the Treaty entered into force with effect from 20th January, 2011 in
accordance with Article 20.1 and which Extradition Treaty provides as
follows:Extradition Treaty Between The Republic of India and AustraliaThe
Republic of India and Australia (hereinafter referred to as the 'Contracting
States')Desiring to make more effective the co-operation of the two countries
in the suppression of crime, including offences related to terrorism, by
concluding a treaty on extradition.Have Agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation
To ExtraditeEach Contracting State agrees to extradite to the other, in
accordance with the provisions of this Treaty, any person who are wanted for
trial, or the imposition or enforcement of a sentence, in the Requesting State
for an extraditable offence.Article 2Extraditable Offences

### 1. For the purposes of this Treaty, extraditable offences are offences,
however described, which are punishable under the laws of both Contracting
States by imprisonment for a maximum period of at least one year or by a more
severe penalty. Where the request for extradition relates to a person
convicted of such an offence who is wanted for the enforcement of a sentence
of imprisonment, extradition shall be granted only if a period of at least six
months of such penalty remains to be served.

### 2. For the purpose of this Article, in determining whether an offence is
an offence against the law of both Contracting States:

(a)it shall not matter whether the laws of the Contracting States place the
acts or omissions constituting the offence within the same category of offence
or denominate the offence by the same terminology; and(b)the totality of the
acts or omissions alleged against the person whose extradition is sought shall
he taken into account and it shall not matter whether, under the laws of the
Contracting States, the constituent elements of the offence differ.

### 3. An offence may be an extraditable offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation, customs duties, foreign exchange control or other revenue
matters, or is one of a purely fiscal character. Extradition may not be
refused on the ground that the law of the Requested State does not impose the
same kind of tax or duty or does not contain a tax, duty, customs, or exchange
regulation of the same kind as the law of the Requesting State.

### 4. Where the offence has been committed outside the territory of the
Requesting State, extradition shall be granted if the law of the Requested
State provides for the punishment of an offence committed outside its
territory in similar circumstances. Where the law of the Requested State does
not so provide the Requested State may, in its discretion, grant extradition.

### 5. Extradition shall be granted pursuant to the provisions of this Treaty
irrespective of whether the offence for which extradition is sought was
committed before or after entry into force of this Treaty, provided in all
cases that

(a)it was an offence in the Requesting State at the time of the acts or
omissions constituting the offence are alleged to have occurred; and(b)the
acts or omissions alleged would, if they had taken place in the territory of
the Requested State at the time of the making of the request for extradition,
have constituted an offence against the law in force in that State.Article
3Composite OffencesExtradition shall also be available in accordance with this
Treaty for an extraditable offence, notwithstanding that the conduct of the
person sought occurred wholly or in part in the Requested State, if under the
law of that State this conduct and its effects, or its intended effects, taken
as a whole, would be regarded as constituting the commission of an
extraditable offence in the territory of the Requesting State.Article 4Grounds
of Refusal

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted if:

(a)the offence of which a person is accused or convicted is a military offence
which is not also an offence under the general criminal law;(b)If the person
whose extradition is sought has, according to the law of the Requesting State,
become immune from prosecution of punishment by reason of lapse of time;(c)if
the offence with which the person sought is accused or convicted or any other
offence for which that person may be detained or tried in accordance with this
Treaty, carries the death penalty under the law of the Requesting State,
unless the extradition request includes an undertaking that the death penalty
will not be imposed or, if imposed, will not be carried out.

### 2\. Extradition may be refused if the offence of which it is requested is
an offence of a political character. For the purposes of this Treaty the
following offences shall not be regarded as offences of a political character:

(a)an offence in respect of which the Contracting States have an obligation to
extradite or submit the case to their competent authorities for prosecution,
under a multilateral/international treaty or convention to which both
Contracting States are parties;(b)an offence in respect of the taking or
attempted taking of the life of a Head of State, Head of Government, or a
member of that person's family;(c)murder, culpable homicide or
manslaughter;(d)an offence, involving firearms, explosives, incendiaries,
destructive devices or substances, causing death, grievous bodily harm of
serious damage to property;(e)any other offence related to terrorism which at
the time of the request is, under the law of the Requested State, not to be
regarded as an offence of a political character; or(f)conspiracy or attempt to
commit, or participation in, or abetment of, any of the foregoing offences.

### 3\. Extradition may be refused in any of the following circumstances:

(a)if the person has been tried and finally dealt with in respect of the
offence for which extradition is sought;(b)if the Requested State has
substantial grounds to believe that the request for extradition has been made
for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person on account of that
person's race, sex, religion, nationality or political opinion or that the
person's position may be prejudiced for any of those reasons;(c)if the person
whose extradition is requested has been sentenced or would be liable to be
tried or sentenced in the Requesting State by an extraordinary or ad hoc court
or tribunal;(d)if the Requested State believes that the surrender is likely to
have exceptionally serious consequences for the person whose extradition is
sought, including because of the person's age or state of health.Article
5Extradition of NationalsThe nationals of one Contracting State may be
extradited to the other Contracting State. If extradition is not granted, the
Requested State shall, on the request of the Requesting State, submit the case
to its competent authorities for prosecution in accordance with the provisions
of this Treaty and the laws of the Requested State.Article 6Extradition and
Prosecution

### 1\. The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested State if
the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the extradition
offence in the courts of that State.

### 2\. Where the Requested State refuses a request for extradition for the
reason set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall submit the case to its
competent authorities so that prosecution may be considered. Those authorities
shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any offence of
a serious nature under the law of that State.

### 3\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute the request for
extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance with this Treaty.

Article 7Extradition Procedures

### 1\. The request for extradition under this Treaty shall be made in writing
and communicated through diplomatic channels.

### 2\. All documents submitted in support of a request for extradition shall
be authenticated in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 9. Three copies of
the request and supporting documents shall also be provided. However, the
copies need not be authenticated.

### 3\. The request shall be accompanied by:

(a)the details necessary to establish the identity and nationality of the
person sought including, where possible, photographs and fingerprints;(b)a
statement of the current location of the person, if known;(c)a statement of
each offence for which extradition is sought;(d)a statement of the acts and
omissions which are alleged against the person in respect of each offence for
which extradition is sought;(e)the text of the laws creating each offence and
describing the penalty which may be imposed; and(f)a statement as to whether
there is any limitation in respect of proceedings or punishment.

### 4\. If the request relates to an accused person, it must also be
accompanied by a warrant of arrest, or a copy thereof, issued by a Judge,
Magistrate, or other competent authority in the territory of the Requesting
State and such documents or other information required by the Requesting State
as would reasonably establish that the person sought has committed the offence
for which extradition is requested and to establish that the person requested
is the person to whom the warrant refers.

### 5\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall also be accompanied by:

(a)a certificate of conviction and sentence; and(b)a statement that the
sentence is enforceable and how much of the sentence remains to be served.

### 6. If the Requested State considers that the documents or other
information supplied for the purposes of this Treaty are not sufficient in
order to enable a decision to be taken as to the request, additional documents
or other information shall be submitted within such time as the Requested
State may require.

### 7. If in any particular case the Requested State so requires, the
Requesting State shall supply a translation of any document submitted in
accordance with the provisions of this Treaty.

Article 8Consent To SurrenderIf the person sought consents to surrender to the
Requesting State, the Requested State may, subject to its laws, surrender the
person as expeditiously as possible without further proceedings.Article
9Evidence Authentication

### 1\. A document that, in accordance with Article 7, accompanies a request
for extradition shall be admitted in evidence, if authenticated, in any
extradition proceedings in the territory of the Requested State.

### 2\. A document is authenticated for the purposes of this Treaty if:

(a)it purports to be signed or certified by a Judge, Magistrate or an official
in or of the Requesting State; and(b)it purports to be authenticated by the
official seal of a Minister of Government, or of a Department or official of
the Requesting State; or(c)it has been authenticated in such other manner as
may be permitted by the law of the Requested State.

### 3\. Documents described in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be admitted
in evidence whether they originated in the Requesting State or in a third
State.

Article 10Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In case of urgency, a Contracting State may request the provisional
arrest of the person sought, pending presentation of the request for
extradition. A request for provisional arrest may be transmitted through
diplomatic channels.

The facilities of the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol)
may be used to transmit such a request.

### 2\. The application for provisional arrest shall contain;

(a)a description of the person sought;(b)the location of the person sought, if
known;(c)a brief statement of the facts of the case, including, if possible,
the time and location of the offence;(d)a description of the laws
violated;(e)a statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest, or a finding
of guilt or judgment of conviction against the person sought; and(f)a
statement that a request for extradition for the person sought will follow.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall be notified without delay of the action
taken on its application and the reasons for any denial.

### 4\. A person who is provisionally arrested may be released from custody on
the expiration of sixty (60) days from the date of provisional arrest pursuant
to this Treaty if the executive authority of the Requested State has not
received the formal request for extradition and the supporting documents
required in Article 7.

### 5\. The fact that the person sought has been released from custody
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article shall not prejudice the subsequent re-
arrest and extradition of that person, if the extradition request and
supporting documents are delivered at a later date.

Article 11Concurrent Requests

### 1\. Where requests are received from two or more States for the
extradition of the same person, the Requested State shall determine to which
of those States the person is to be extradited and shall notify the Requesting
States of its decision.

### 2\. In determining to which State a person is to be extradited, the
Requested State shall have regard to all relevant circumstances and, in
particular, to :

(a)if the requests relate to different offences the relative seriousness of
the offences;(b)the existence of an extradition treaty with the other State or
States;(c)the time and place of commission of each offence;(d)the respective
dates of the requests;(e)the nationality of the person; and(f)the ordinary
place of residence of the person.Article 12Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State shall, as soon as a decision on the request for
extradition has been made, communicate that decision to the Requesting State.

### 2\. Where extradition is granted, the Requested State shall surrender the
person at a time, and from a point of departure in its territory as may be
decided in consultation with the Requesting State.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall remove the person from the territory of the
Requested State within such reasonable period as the Requested State may
specify and, if the person is not removed within that period, the Requested
State may refuse to extradite that person for the same offence.

### 4\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Contracting State from
surrendering or removing the person to be extradited it shall notify the other
Contracting State. The two Contracting States shall agree upon a new date of
surrender, and the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall apply.

Article 13Surrender of Property

### 1\. To the extent permitted under the law of the Requested State all
property found in the Requested State that has been acquired as a result of
the offence or may be required as evidence shall be surrendered if extradition
is granted and the Requesting State so requests.

### 2\. Subject to paragraph 1 of this Article, the above mentioned property
shall, if the Requesting State so requests, be surrendered to the Requested
State even if the extradition cannot be carried out.

### 3\. Where the law of the Requested State or the rights of third parties so
require, any articles so surrendered shall be returned to the Requested State
free of charge if that State so requests.

Article 14Postponment of Extradition and Temporary Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State may postpone the surrender of a person in order to
proceed against that person, or so that the person may serve a sentence, for
an offence other than the offence for which extradition is sought. In such a
case the Requested State shall advise the Requesting State accordingly.

### 2\. When the person is serving a sentence in the territory of the
Requested State for an offence other than the offence for which extradition is
sought, the Requested State may temporarily surrender the person to the
Requesting State to be prosecuted for an offence for which extradition is
sought. The person so surrendered shall be kept in custody in the Requesting
State and shall be returned to the Requested State after proceedings against
the person have concluded, in accordance with written conditions to be
mutually determined by the Contracting States.

Article 15Rule of Speciality

### 1\. Any person who is returned to the territory of the Requesting State
under this Treaty shall not be detained or tried or subjected to any other
restriction of her or his personal liberty, within the territory of the
Requesting State for or in respect of any offence committed before he was
returned to that territory other than:

(a)the offence in respect of which the person was returned;(b)any other
extraditable offence disclosed by the facts upon which the request for
extradition was based, provided that the offence does not carry a penalty
which is more severe than that which could be imposed for the offence in
respect of which the person was returned; or(c)any other extraditable offence
in respect of which the Requested State may consent to the person being dealt
with.

### 2\. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be extradited to a third
State for an offence committed prior to his extradition unless the Requested
State consents.

### 3\. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the present Article shall not apply if the
person has had an opportunity to leave the Requesting State and has not done
so within 45 days of final discharge in respect of the offence for which that
person was extradited or if the person has voluntarily returned to the
territory of the Requesting State after leaving it.

### 4\. A request for the consent of the Requesting State under the present
Article shall be accompanied by such of the documents as mentioned in Article
7 of the present Treaty as may be sought by the Requesting State.

Article 16Transit

### 1\. Where a person is to be extradited to a Contracting State from a third
State through the territory of the other State, the State to which the person
is to be extradited shall request the other State to permit the transmit of
that person through its territory. This does not apply where air transport is
used and no landing in the territory of the other State is scheduled. A person
in transit may be held in custody during the period of transit.

### 2\. Upon receipt of such a request, which shall contain relevant
information the Requested State shall deal with this request expeditiously
pursuant to procedures provided by its own law.

### 3\. In the event of an unscheduled landing, the State to be requested to
permit transit may, at the request of the escorting officer, hold the person
in custody, subject to its law, pending receipt of the transit request to be
made in accordance with paragraph 1 of the present Article.

Article 17Expenses

### 1\. The Requested State shall make all necessary arrangements for and meet
the cost of any proceedings arising out of a request for extradition and shall
otherwise represent the interests of the Requesting State.

### 2\. The Requested State shall bear the expenses incurred in its territory
in relation to the arrest and detention of the person whose extradition is
sought until that person is surrendered to the Requesting State.

### 3\. The Requesting State shall bear the expenses incurred in conveying the
person from the territory of the Requested State.

Article 18Consultation

### 1\. The Contracting States shall, at the request of either, consult
concerning the interpretation and application of this Treaty.

### 2\. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may consult each
other directly in connection with the processing of individual cases and in
furtherance of maintaining and improving procedures for the implementation of
this Treaty.

Article 19Obligations Under International Conventions/TreatiesThe present
Treaty shall not affect the rights and obligations of the Contracting States
arising from International Conventions/Treaties to which they are
parties.Article 20Entry Into Force

### 1\. The Contracting States shall inform each other in writing of the
completion of their internal procedures required for entry into force of this
Treaty. The Treaty shall enter into force thirty days after the date of the
later communication.

### 2\. Either of Contracting States may terminate this Treaty at any time by
giving notice to the other through diplomatic channels, and if such notice is
given the Treaty shall cease to have effect six months after receipt of the
notice.

In witness whereof, the undersigned being duly authorised thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Treaty.Done in duplicate at Canberra
this the twenty third day of June, two thousand and eight, in English and
Hindi, both languages being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of
interpretation, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Extradition Act,
1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to Australia from the date of
the publication of this notification, by repleasing the extradition
arrangement between the two countries vide Order G.S.R. 1381 of 30th August,
1971.

