## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Sultanate of Oman

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Sultanate of Oman

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-SULTANATE-OF-
OMAN of 2006

  * Published on 1 June 2006 
  * Commenced on 1 June 2006 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 June 2006.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Sultanate of
OmanPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 341(E), dated 1st June 2006Ministry
of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 341 (E). - Whether the Extradition Treaty
between the Republic of India and the Sultanate or Oman was signed at Muscat,
on 26th December, 2004, and the instruments of ratification were exchanged at
New Delhi on 14th September, 2005 in accordance with Article 28 of the Treaty
and which treaty provides as follows :The government of the Republic of India
and the government of the Sultanate of Oman, hereinafter referred to as the
Contracting States;Recalling the traditional friendly relations between the
two countries;Deeply concerned by the magnitude of and rising trend in acts of
international terrorism and organized crime;For the necessity of strengthening
and reinforcing the effective legitimate methods for the cooperation between
the two countries in the field of criminal matters; and,Endeavouring to
achieve the common intent of cooperation in crime combat, as to reflect the
friendly bilateral relations between the two countries,Have agreed as
follows:Article 1The Contracting States shall extradite any person found in
their respective territories who is accused or convicted of an extraditable
offence in the territory of the other Contracting State.The Contracting States
shall commit themselves to extradition for offences committed before or after
the entry into force of this Treaty,Article 2The following persons shall be
extradited:

### 1. Persons accused of an offence punishable under the laws of both

Contracting States by imprisonment for not less than one year or for more
severe punishment,

### 2. Persons sentenced by the Courts of the Requesting State with for six
months or more in respect of an extraditable offence.

Article 3The crimes punishable by death penalty in both countries shall be
extraditable. Where any crime for which the extradition is sought is not
punishable by death penalty in the Requested State, extradition shall not be
granted unless the Requesting State gives such an assurance that the death
penalty will not be imposed or if imposed will not be executed.Article 4An
offence may be extraditable notwithstanding its relation to taxation, revenue
or is one of purely fiscal nature.Article 5An attempt or conspiracy to commit,
incite or participate in committing an extraditable offence, shall also be
regarded as an extraditable offence if the same is an offence in both
Contracting States.Article 6Extradition shall not be refused on the ground
that the person sought is a national of the Requested State.Article 7

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted by the Requested State in respect of an
extraditable offence committed outside its territory but within the
jurisdiction of the Requesting State provided that the Requested State would,
in similar circumstances, have jurisdiction over such offence. In such cases,
the Requested State shall observe all the circumstances of the case including
the serious ness of the offence.

### 2\. Extradition shall be granted for an extraditable offence if it is
committed in a third State by a national of the Requesting State provided that
it is an extraditable offence under the laws of the Requested State had it
been committed therein.

### 3. Extradition shall also be granted for an extraditable offence
notwithstanding that the acts of the person sought occurred wholly or partly
in the Requested State, if under the law of that State his acts and effects or
intended effects thereof, as a whole, would constitute an extraditable offence
in the territory of the Requesting State.

Article 8Extradition may be refused:

### 1\. If the offence for which the extradition is requested is a political
offence or an offence of political nature. In the application of this Treaty,
as political offences or offences of a political nature:

a. Assault or attempted assault against the Head of the State, Head of the
Government, Vice Presidents, any member of their families, members of the
Royal Family of the Sultanate of Oman, members of the Council of Ministers,
any persons holding the rank of a Minister of either Contracting States or any
member of their families;b. Murder, culpable homicide, robbery and theft comes
accompanied by coercion whether committed by one or several persons against an
individual, government, local authorities or against the means of
communication and transportation;c. Terrorism offences, including murder,
manslaughter, assault causing bodily harm; kidnapping, hostage-taking,
offences involving serious damage to property or disruption of public
facilities, and offences related to fire-arms, other weapons, explosives or
dangerous substances;d. Any offence under an international convention to which
both the Contracting States are parties and which obligates the parties to
prosecute or grant extradition;e. An attempt,conspiracy to commit, incite or
participate in the commission of any of the above-mentioned offences.

### 2\. If the person sought to be extradited was previously tried for the
same offence for which extradition is requested and was acquitted or convicted
and had served the sentence or was serving it.

### 3\. If the criminal proceedings have abated or the sentence is time barred
under the law of either Contracting State, when the request for extradition is
received.

### 4. If the offence is committed by an alien outside the territory of the
Requesting State, and it is not an offence under the law of the Requested
State.

### 5. If the offence for which the extradition is requested Was committed ill
the Requested State, provided the Requested State prosecutes the person.

### 6. If a person whose extradition is sought is being investigated or tried
in the Requested State for the same offence for which his extradition is
requested.

Article 9Where the Requested State rejects a request for extradition for the
reasons set out under this Treaty it shall submit the case to its competent
authorities for prosecution in accordance with procedures applicable in such
cases in the Requested State and notify the Requesting State of the
results.Article 10The request for extradition shall be made ill writing and
served through the diplomatic channels accompanied by the following documents
and particulars:a. Particulars as to identity, description and photograph of
the person to be extradited, if possible:b. The warrant of arrest, remand or
any document having the same effect, issued by a competent authority, if the
person to be extradited is an accused.c. The date, the place of the commission
of the acts for which extradition is requested, the legal characterization of
those offences, and a certified copy of the appllcable legal provisions, and
statement by .the prosecuting authorities as to evidence against the person to
be extradited.d. In case of a convicted offender, an official copy of the
judgement passed.e. Such other evidence as according to the laws of the
Requested State, would justify the offender's arrest and committal for trial
had the offence been committed within the jurisdiction of the Requested
State.All documents referred to above shall be translated into English and
authenticated by the Requesting State:Article 11

### 1\. In case of urgency a person to be extradited may be provisionally
arrested and detained until the request for extradition, together with the
documents referred to in the preceding Article are received.

### 2\. The provisional request shall be communicated in writing to the
competent authority of the Requested State, either by post, telegram or any
similar means including the International Criminal Police Organisation
(INTERPOL).

### 3\. The same request shall be confirmed through the diplomatic channels,
and shall contain a reference to the existence of any of the documents
enumerated in the preceding Article, and intimating the intention of the
Requesting State to transmit a request for extradition, a statement of the
offence for which extradition is requested, the sentence specified for that
offence or the sentence inflicted, the time and place of the commission of the
offence and a detailed description of the person to be extradited as far as
possible. The Requesting State shall forthwith be notified or any action taken
in respect of the request.

### 4\. The provisional arrest shall be executed in accordance With the legal
procedures of the Requested State.

Article 12

### 1\. If the documents required under this treaty are not delivered, within
ninety days from the date of the arrest of the person to be extradited, the
competent authority in the Requested State may release that person.

### 2\. The person to be extradited may at any time be released on bail, if
the Requested State takes all necessary measures to prevent his escape; The
release of such person shall not prevent his re-arrest and extradition if the
request for extradition is completed afterwards.

Article 13If the Requested State needs additional clarifications to ensure the
compliance with the conditions embodied in this Treaty, it shall notify the
Requesting State through the diplomatic channels and/or Interpol, before
rejecting the request, and may fix-a reasonable period for receiving such
clarifications.Article 14If the extradition of the same person whether for the
same offence or different offences is requested by a Contracting State and a
third State with which the Requested State has extradition agreement, the
Requested State shall determine to which State the person shall be extradited
taking into consideration and giving priority to the State whose security or
interest or its nationals or their interest are affected by the offence, and
then to the State on whose territory the offence is committed, and lastly to
the State of which the person is to be extradited is a national. If the
circumstances are identical the State which made the first request shall have
preference. If the requests for extradition the for several offences, the
preponderance is accorded to the circumstances of the offence and gravity of
the offence.Article 15

### 1\. Without prejudice to the right of others acting in good faith and to
the laws in force in the Requested State, anything found in possession of the
person to be extradited at the time of his arrest remand or at a later stage,
provided that these things are proceeds of the offence or used in the
commission thereof, or connected with it, or may be relevant as evidence of
the offence, shall be attached and may be handed over to the Requesting State,
even if the person concerned is not extradited due to his death or absconding.

### 2\. If the seized materials referred to in para 1 of this Article are
still required for the investigation of the crime pending in the Requested
State, then the delivery of these materials may be delayed, or they may be
delivered provided that they should be returned after the settlement of the
case and proceedings in the Requesting State.

Article 16

### 1\. The competent authorities in each of the Contracting States shall
determine the requests for extradition in accordance with their domestic laws
in force at the time of the request, provided that they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Treaty.

### 2\. The Requested State shall communicate to the Requesting State the
decision taken in respect of extradition request, through diplomatic channels
without any delay.

### 3\. In the event of approval of the extradition request, the Requesting
State shall be notified of the date and place of extradition.

### 4\. The Requesting State shall within thirty days from the date of the
above notification of extradition, receive the person to be extradited,
otherwise the Requested State may discharge him, and in such event no second
request for extradition for the same person may be accepted for the same
offence.

### 5\. Where extradition is approved under this Treaty, the Requesting State
shall ensure that the person extradited is brought to trial within six months
of the extradition and if the trial has not commenced within six months, the
Requesting State shall bring the person extradited before its appropriate
courts for bail to be considered pending trial and to fix a trial date for
charges for which the extradition was approved.

Article 17

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is under investigation, standing trial
or convicted in the Requested State for an offence other than that for which
his extradition is requested, the Requested State shall decide on the request
and communicate the decision to the Requesting State.

### 2\. If the request for extradition is approved, then the extradition of
such person shall be postponed until his trial in the Requested State is
completed and the punishment passed is executed.

Article 18

### 1\. In any proceeding for extradition, the competent authorities of the
Requested State shall admit as evidence any statement taken on oath or by
affirmation, statement made before an investigating officer, warrant and any
certificate or judicial document stating a conviction, if it is authenticated
in the following manner:

a. By signature in case of a warrant, and in case of any original document by
certification by a judge, magistrate or other competent authority of the
Requesting State; andb. In case of dispositions or statements either by oath,
testimony by witness or by the official seal of the appropriate minister of
the Requesting State; orc. In such other manner as may be permitted by the law
of the Requested State.

### 2\. The evidence prescribed in para 1 shall be admissible in extradition
proceeding in the Requested State whether adduced on the or corroborated in
the Requesting State or in a third State.

Article 19

### 1\. The person to be extradited shall not be tried or punished in the
Requesting State except for the offence for which his extradition is sought,
offences connected therewith, offences committed after his extradition or if
the nature of the offence is modified during the proceedings against him.

### 2\. If the person extradited has the liberty and means to leave the
territory of the State to which he has been extradited and he has not left
within thirty days subsequent to his final release or has left during that
period, but voluntarily returned, he may be tried for the other offences.

Article 20

### 1\. The Contracting State to which the person is extradited shall not
extradite him to a third State, without the consent of the other Contracting
State.

### 2\. The person may be extradited to a third State, if he has not left the
territory of the State to which he has been extradited within thirty days of
his final release or has left during that period but voluntarily returned to
it.

Article 21The present Treaty shall not prejudice the rights and obligations of
the Contracting States arising from international conventions or treaties to
which they are parties.Article 22The term of provisional detention shall be
deducted from any sentence passed in the Requesting State against the person
to be extradited.Article 23

### 1\. Each of the Contracting States shall grant the person to be extradited
from a third State passage through its territory upon request made through the
diplomatic channels.

### 2\. The request shall be supported by documents pertaining to an offence
for which extradition can be granted under the provisions of this Treaty.

Article 24

### 1\. The Requesting State shall bear the expenses related to the
translation of documents and the transportation of the person extradited. The
Requested State shall pay all other expenses incurred in that State in
connection with the extradition proceedings.

### 2\. The Requesting State shall pay the return expenses of an extradited
person to the place where he was at the time of extradition if his commission
of the offence or complicity therein is not proved.

Article 25Both Contracting States, in accordance with their domestic laws and
the bilateral Treaty, shall spare no effort in mutual cooperation in criminal
matters relating to the crime for which the extradition is requested.Article
26Either of the two Contracting States may submit a request for amendment to
this Treaty.The request for amendment shall be submitted via diplomatic
channels. The amendment shall only be valid after the agreement of the other
State.Article 27The Contracting States shall maintain the confidentiality of
information and documents exchanged under this Treaty.Article 28This Treaty
shall be ratified in accordance with the, legal procedures in force in each
State, and shall come into force after one month from the date of exchange of
the instruments of ratification.Article 29Either of the two Contracting States
may terminate this Treaty at any time by giving the other State a six-month
notice, provided that the procedures commenced by either State shall proceed
to the end.Done in Muscat on this 26th day of December of 2004 in two
originals each in the Hindi, Arabic and English languages all the texts being
equally authentic. In the event of any differences the English text shall
prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1)
of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government
hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act, other than Chapter III,
shall apply to the Sultanate of Oman with effect from the date of publication
of this notification.

