## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Republic of Poland

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Republic of Poland

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-
POLAND of 2008

  * Published on 16 May 2008 
  * Commenced on 16 May 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 May 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Republic of
PolandPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 382(E), 16th May, 2008Ministry of
External AffairsG.S.R. 382(E). - Whereas the Extradition Treaty between the
Republic of India and the Republic of Poland was signed at New Delhi, on 17th
February, 2003; and the instruments of ratification were exchanged at Warsaw
(Poland) on 4th April, 2005, and which treaty provides as follows:The Republic
of India and the Republic of Polandhereinafter referred to as Contracting
StatesDesiring to make more effective the cooperation between the two States
in the suppression of crime, including terrorism, by concluding a treaty for
the extradition of offenders,Have agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation to
extradite

### 1. Each Contracting State undertakes to extradite to the other Contracting
State, in the circumstances and subject to the conditions specified in this
Treaty, any person who is wanted prosecution for, or is convicted of an
extraditable offence, as specified in Article 2, committed within the
territory of the Requesting State, and is found within the territory of the
Requested State.

### 2. Extradition shall also be granted in respect of an extraditable
offence, as specified in Article 2, committed outside the territory of the
Requesting State but in respect of which the requesting State has
jurisdiction, if the laws of the Requested State provide for the punishment
for such an offence committed outside its territory in similar circumstances.

### 3. Extradition may also be granted in respect of an extraditable Offence,
as specified in Article 2, committed wholly or partly in the territory of the
Requested State, over which the Requesting State has jurisdiction.

### 4. Extradition shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of this
Treaty, irrespective of when the offence in relation to which extradition is
sought was committed, provided that:

a) it was an offence under the laws of both the Contracting States at the time
of the acts or omissions constituting the offence; andb) it was an offence
under the laws of both the Contracting States at the time the request for
extradition was made.Article 2Extradition Offences

### 1\. An extradition offence for the purposes of this Treaty is constituted
by act which under the laws of each Contracting State is punishable by a term
of imprisonment for a period of at least one year.

### 2\. An offence shall also be an extradition offence if it consists of an
attempt to commit, abetment or participation in the commission of an offence
specified in paragraph 1. Conspiracy to commit an offence specified in
paragraph 1, as provided by the laws of the Republic of India and
participation in an association or an organized group to commit offences
specified in paragraph 1, as provided by the laws of the Republic of Poland,
shall also be extradition offences.

### 3\. An offence shall be an extradition offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation or revenue or is one of a purely fiscal character. Where
extradition is sought for an offence against laws relating to taxation,
customs duties, foreign exchange or other revenue matter, extradition may not
be refused only on the ground that the laws of the Requested State do not
impose the same kind of tax or duty or do not contain a tax, duty, customs, or
exchange regulation of the same kind as the laws of the Requesting State.

Article 3ApplicationThis Treaty shall apply to offences committed before as
well as after the date it enters into force.Article 4Grounds for Refusal of
Extradition

### 1\. A person shall not be extradited if:

(a)he is a citizen of the Requested State;(b)the person claimed has, according
to the laws of either the Requesting or the Requested State, become immune, by
reason of lapse of time, from prosecution or the execution of
punishment;(c)extradition is inadmissible under the laws of the Requested
State; or(d)the offence in respect of which he is wanted for prosecution or is
convicted is a military offence which is not an offence under ordinary
criminal law.

### 2\. A person shall also not be extradited if in respect of the offence for
which his extradition is requested, he has been previously proceeded against
in the Requested State and convicted or acquitted with final effect.

### 3\. Where it appears to the Requested & State that extradition would be
totally incompatible with humanitarian considerations, in particular the state
of health or old age of the person sought, the Contracting States shall
consult to mutually determine whether the extradition request should continue.

Article 5Political Offences

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted if the offence for which extradition
is requested is an offence of a political character.

### 2\. For the purposes of this Treaty, the following offences shall not be
considered to be of a political character:

(a)murder or any other offence against the person of the Head of State, the
Head of Government of either of the Contracting States or members of their
families;(b)an offence for which both Contracting States have the obligation
pursuant to a multilateral international agreement to extradite the person
sought or to submit the case to their competent authorities for decision as to
prosecution;(c)murder, manslaughter, malicious wounding, or inflicting
grievous bodily harm or other grievous injury to health;(d)an offence
involving kidnapping, abduction or any form of unlawful detention, including
the taking of a hostage;(e)placing or using an Explosive, incendiary or
destructive device capable of endangering life, of causing substantial bodily
harm or of causing substantial property damage; and(f)an attempt to commit, or
participation in the commission of any of the foregoing offences as well as
conspiracy to commit these offences, as provided by the laws of the Republic
of India and participation in an association or an organized group to commit
these offences, as provided by the laws of the Republic of Poland.Article
6Consequences of Refusal of Extradition

### 1\. If an extradition request is refused under paragraph 1 sub-paragraph
(a) of Article 4, the Requested State shall transmit the case to its competent
authorities in order to initiate criminal proceedings in accordance with the
laws of the Requested State. For this the Requesting State shall transfer to
the Requested State the relevant documents and evidence.

### 2\. The provision of paragraph 1 shall apply in other cases also where a
request for extradition is refused, if the initiation of criminal proceeding
is not excluded under the laws of the Requested State.

### 3\. In case the extradition is refused on the ground of existence of
jurisdiction (Article 1 paragraph 3) and according to the decision of the
investigating authority the trial is not found feasible in the Requested
State, the request for extradition may be resubmitted.

Article 7Postponement of Extradition and Temporary Extradition

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is being prosecuted or serving sentence
for another crime in the territory of the Requested State, the extradition may
be postponed till the end of the criminal proceedings of the case, or
completion of sentence, which shall be advised to the Requesting State.

### 2\. If the postponement of extradition can result in immunity by the
reason of lapse of time or impede the investigation, the person can be
extradited temporarily under a special request of the Requesting State.

### 3\. The temporarily extradited person must be returned to the Requested
State immediately after the end of the proceedings of the case.

Article 8Extradition Procedures

### 1\. The request for extradition shall be made through diplomatic channels.

### 2\. The request shall be accompanied by :

(a)the name and surname of the person whose extradition is requested,
information on his citizenship, place of residence or whereabouts and other
pertaining data, as well as, if possible, the description of the person's
appearance, his photograph and fingerprints;(b)a statement of the facts of the
offence for which extradition is requested; and(c)the text of the
laws:(i)defining the offence and(ii)prescribing punishment for that offence.

### 3\. The request for extradition for the prosecution, besides the
information specified above, must be accompanied by the original or a
certified copy of the warrant of arrest issued by a competent court of the
Requesting State and such information or statements as would justify the
committal for trial of the person had the offence been committed in the
Requested State.

### 4\. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the judgement and a statement
that the judgement is final and enforceable and showing how much of sentence
still remains to be undergone.

### 5. If the Requested State considers that the material or information
supplied for the purposes of this Treaty is not sufficient in order to enable
a decision to be taken as to the request, it shall request the necessary
supplementary material or information and may fix a reasonable time limit for
the receipt thereof.

Article 9Provisional arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases the person sought may, in accordance with the laws of
the Requested State, be provisionally arrested on the application of the
competent authorities of the Requesting State. The application shall contain
an indication of intention to request the extradition of that person and a
statement of existence of a warrant of arrest or a conviction against him,
such information as may be necessary to identify him and such other
information as would be necessary for the issue of a warrant of arrest in the
Requested State. The application shall also state for what offence extradition
will be requested.

### 2\. A person arrested upon such an application shall be set at liberty
upon the expiration of 60 days from the date of his arrest if a request for
his extradition shall not have been received. This provision shall not prevent
institution of further proceedings for the extradition of the person sought if
a request is subsequently received.

Article 10Rule of Speciality

### 1\. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be detained, prosecuted,
sentenced or punished in the Requesting State for offences except for:

(a)an offence for which extradition has been granted or a differently
denominated offence based on the same facts on which extradition was granted,
provided such an offence is extraditable or is a lesser form of such
offence;(b)an offence committed after the extradition of the person; or(c)an
offence for which the competent authority of the Requested State has consented
to the person's detention, prosecution, sentencing, or punishment.For the
purpose of this sub-paragraph:(i)the Requested State may require the
submission of the documents specified in Article 8; and(ii)unless the
Requested State objects in writing, the person extradited may be detained by
the Requesting State for 90 days, or for such longer period of time as the
Requested State may authorise, while the request is being processed.

### 2\. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be extradited to a third
State for an offence committed prior to the surrender unless the surrendering
State consents.

### 3\. Paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article shall not prevent the detention,
prosecution, sentencing or punishment of an extradited person, or the
extradition of that person to a third State if:

(a)that person leaves the territory of the Requesting State after extradition
and voluntarily returns to it; or(b)that person does not leave the territory
of the Requesting State within 30 days of the day on which that person is free
to leave.Article 11Admissibility of DocumentsThe documents which accompany an
extradition request shall be received and admitted as evidence in extradition
proceedings if:(a)in the case of a request from the Republic of India, they
are certified by the proper diplomatic or consular representative of the
Republic of Poland in the Republic of India;(b)in the case of a request from
the Republic of Poland, they are certified by the principal diplomatic or
consular officer of the Republic of India resident in the Republic of Poland;
or(c)they are certified or authenticated in any other manner accepted by the
laws of the Requested State.Article 12Competing RequestsIf extradition of the
same person whether for the same offence or for different offences is
requested by a Contracting State and a third State, the Requested State shall
determine the State to which the person shall be extradited. In making its
decision, the Requested State shall take into consideration factors including
existence or non-existence of extradition treaty with the states requesting
extradition, place of the commission of offences, gravity of offences,
nationality of the offender and chronological order of the requests
received.Article 13Death SentenceIf under the laws of the Requesting State the
person sought is liable to the death penalty for the offence for which his
extradition is requested, but the law of the Requested State does not provide
for death penalty in a similar case, extradition may be refused, unless the
Requesting State gives such assurances as the Requested State considers
sufficient that the death sentence will not be carried out.Article 14Transfer

### 1\. The modalities of transfer of the person to be extradited, including
the time and the place, shall be agreed upon by the competent authorities of
both the Contracting States.

### 2\. The Requesting State shall take delivery of the person sought from the
territory of the Requested State within 30 days of the date on which the
Requesting State was notified of the extradition decision. If he is not
removed within that period, the Requested State may refuse to extradite him
for the same offence.

### 3\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Contracting State from
timely surrendering or taking delivery of the person to be extradited, it
shall notify the other Contracting State before the expiration of the time
limit. In such a case the competent authorities of the Contracting States may
agree upon a new date for the surrender and for taking delivery.

Article 15Seizure and Surrender of Property

### 1\. To the extent permitted under its laws, the Requested State may seize
and surrender to the Requesting State all articles, documents and evidence
connected with the offence in respect of which extradition is granted. The
items mentioned in this Article may be surrendered, to the extent permitted
under the laws of the Requested State, even when extradition cannot be
effected due to the death, disappearance, or escape of the person sought.

### 2\. The Requested State may condition the surrender of the property upon
satisfactory assurances from the Requesting State that the property will be
returned to the Requested State as soon as practicable. The Requested State
may also defer the surrender of such property if it is needed as evidence in
the Requested State.

### 3\. The rights of third parties in such property shall be duly respected.

Article 16Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting State shall,
to the extent permitted by its laws, afford the other Contracting State the
widest measure of mutual assistance in criminal matters in connection with the
offence for which extradition has been requested.Article 17Extradition
expensesThe Requesting State shall bear the expenses related to the
translation of documents and the transportation of the person surrendered. The
Requested State shall pay all other expenses incurred in that State by reason
of the extradition proceedings.Article 18LanguagesWhile complying with the
present Treaty, the Contracting States shall use their national language
attaching the translation in the national language of the other Contracting
State or in the English language.Article 19Obligations under International
TreatiesThe present Treaty shall not affect the rights and obligations of the
Contracting States arising from other international Treaties to which the
Contracting States are parties.Article 20Ratification and Termination

### 1\. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification and the instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged New Delhi or Warsaw. It shall enter into force
on the date of exchange of instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting States may terminate this Treaty at any time
by giving notice to the other through the diplomatic channel; in such a case,
the Treaty shall cease to have effect six months after receipt of the notice.

In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorised thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Treaty.Done at New Delhi this day of
17 February 2003 in duplicate in Hindi, Polish and English languages, all
texts being equally authentic. In case of any interpretational difference the
English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), and
in suppression of notification of Government of India, if any existing,
relating to an extradition treaty or arrangement applicable in respect of the
Republic of Poland, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the said Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to the Republic of Poland
with effect from the date of the publication of this notification.

