## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the French Republic

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the French Republic

## Rule EXTRADITION-AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-FRENCH-REPUBLIC of 2007

  * Published on 31 May 2007 
  * Commenced on 31 May 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 May 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French RepublicPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.
409(E), 31st May, 2007Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 409(E). -
Whereas the Extradition Agreement Treaty between the Republic of India and the
French Republic was signed at Paris on 24th of January, 2003; and the
Agreement has entered into force with effect from 1st August, 2005 and which
Agreement provides as follows:The Government of the Republic of IndiaAndThe
Government of the French RepublicHereinafter designated as the Contracting
States, desiring to provide for effective cooperation between the two
States.In the suppression of crime and, specifically, to facilitate
extradition have agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation to Extradite

### 1. The Contracting States undertake to surrender to each other, subject to
the provisions and conditions laid down in this Agreement, all persons against
whom the competent authorities of the Requesting State are proceeding for an
offence or who are wanted by the said authorities for the carrying out of a
sentence of imprisonment.

Article 2Extraditable Offences

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted in respect of offences punishable, under
the laws of the two Contracting States, by imprisonment of at least two years.

### 2. Where on conviction a prison sentence has been awarded on account of an
extraditable offence in the territory of the requesting State, the duration of
the penalty remaining to be served must amount at least to nine months.

### 3. Even regarding offences related to fiscal matters, customs duties or
currency exchange, extradition shall be granted in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement.

### 4. If the request for extradition includes several separate offences each
of which is punishable under the laws of the two Contracting States by a
sentence of imprisonment, but some of which do not fulfil the condition with
regard to the duration of the sentence which may be awarded, the Requested
State shall also have the right to grant extradition for the latter offences.

Article 3Political Offences

### 1\. Extradition shall not be granted if the offence in respect of which it
is requested is regarded by the Requested State as a political offence, or as
an offence connected with such an offence.

The Requested State may decide not to regard as a political offence or as an
offence connected with political offence or as an offence inspired by
political motives a serious offence involving an act of violence against the
life, physical integrity or liberty of a person(s) or a serious offence
involving an act against property if the act created a collective danger for a
person(s).The same shall apply to an attempt to commit any of the foregoing
offences or participation as an accomplice of a person who commits or attempts
to commit such an offence.When evaluating the character of the offence, the
Requested Party shall consider any particularly serious aspect of the offence,
including :(a)whether it created a danger to the life, physical integrity or
liberty of a person(s); or(b)whether it affected persons not connected to the
motives behind it; or(c)whether cruel or vicious means were used in the
commission of the offence.

### 2\. This article shall not affect any obligations which the Contracting
States may have undertaken or may undertake under any other international
convention of a multilateral character.

### 3\. Extradition shall also not be granted if the Requested State has
substantial grounds for believing that a request for extradition has been made
for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person on account of his or her
race, religion, nationality or political opinion, or that the position of the
person sought may be prejudiced for any of these reasons.

Article 4Military OffencesExtradition for offences under military law which
are not offences under ordinary criminal law is excluded from the application
of this Agreement.Article 5Extradition of Nationals

### 1\. Neither of the Contracting States shall extradite its own nationals.
Nationality shall be determined as at the time of the commission of the
offence for which extradition is requested.

### 2\. If, pursuant to paragraph 1, the Requested State does not surrender
the person claimed for the sale reason of nationality, it shall, in accordance
with its laws and at the request of the Requesting State, submit the case to
its competent authorities in order that proceedings may be taken if they are
considered appropriate. If the Requested State requires additional documents,
such documents shall be provided free of charge. The Requesting State shall be
informed of the result of its request through the channels provided for in
Article 9.

Article 6Other Compulsory Refusals of ExtraditionExtradition shall not be
granted if:

### 1\. final judgement has been passed by the competent authorities of the
Requested State upon the person claimed in respect of the offence or offences
for which extradition is requested;

### 2\. the person claimed has become immune, by reason of lapse of time, from
prosecution or punishment, according to the law of either State;

### 3\. pardon has been granted either in the territory of the Requesting
State or in the territory of the Requested State, provided, in the latter
case, that the Requested State was competent to prosecute according to its
domestic law.

Article 7Optional RefusalsExtradition may be refused:

### 1\. when the offence for which extradition is requested is regarded by the
law of the Requested State as having been committed in whole or in part in its
territory or in a place treated as its territory;

### 2\. when the offence for which extradition is requested has been committed
outside the territory of the Requesting State and the law of the Requested
State does not allow prosecution for the same category of offence when
committed outside its territory.

### 3\. if the person claimed is being prosecuted by the Requested State in
respect of the offence or offences for which extradition is requested, or if
the judicial authorities of the Requested State have discontinued, in
accordance with the law of that State, the criminal proceedings for the
offence for which extradition is requested;

### 4\. when the person claimed has been tried and finally acquitted or
convicted in a third State in respect of the offence or offences for which
extradition is requested;

### 5. If the surrender is likely to have dire consequences for the person
claimed, namely on the grounds of his age or health.

Article 8Capital PunishmentIf the offence for which extradition is requested
is punishable by death under the law of the Requesting State, and if in
respect of such offence the death penalty is not provided for by the law of
the Requested State or is not normally carried out, extradition may be refused
unless the Requesting State gives such assurance as the Requested. State
considers sufficient that the death penalty will not be awarded or, if
awarded, shall not be carried out.Article 9Transmission of Requests and
Supporting Documents

### 1\. The request for extradition shall be in writing and shall be
transmitted through the diplomatic channel.

### 2\. The request shall be supported by :

(a)the original or a true certified copy of the conviction and sentence, or of
the warrant of arrest or other order having the same effect and issued in
accordance with the procedure laid down in the law of the Requesting
State;(b)a statement of the offences for which extradition is requested, the
time and place of their commission, their legal description, and a reference
to the relevant legal provisions, including those pertaining to lapse of time,
as well as a copy of those provisions;(c)particulars of the remaining duration
of the sentence to be carried out when the person is claimed for the purpose
of serving a sentence of imprisonment;(d)as accurate a description as possible
of the person claimed, together with any other information which will help to
establish his identity and, if possible, his location.Article 10Additional
EvidenceIf the information communicated by the Requesting State is found to be
insufficient to enable the Requested State to make a decision in pursuance of
the present Agreement, the latter State shall request the necessary
supplementary information and may fix a time limit for the receipt thereof.
This time limit may be extended by the Requested State upon a duly reasoned
request being made by the Requesting State.Article 11Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In case of urgency, the competent authorities of the Requesting State
may apply for the provisional arrest of the person sought; the competent
authorities of the Requested State shall take a decision on it in accordance
with their daw.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest shall include a brief statement of
the facts of the case; it shall also state that one of the documents mentioned
in Article 9, paragraph 2 (a), exists and that it is intended to send a
request for extradition. It shall also state for what offence extradition will
be requested and when and where such offence was committed and shall so far as
possible give a description of the person sought.

### 3\. A request for provisional arrest shall be sent to the competent
authorities of the Requested State either through the diplomatic channel or
direct by post or telegraph or through the International Criminal Policy
Organization (Interpol) or by any other means affording evidence in writing or
accepted by the Requested State. The requesting authority shall be informed
without delay of the result of its request.

### 4\. Provisional arrest may be terminated if, within a period of 60 days
after arrest, the Requested State has not received the request for extradition
and the documents mentioned in Article 9. The possibility of provisional
release at any time is not excluded, but the Requested State shall take any
measures which it considers necessary to prevent the escape of the person
sought.

### 5\. Release shall not prejudice re-arrest and extradition if a request for
extradition is received subsequently.

Article 12Request for Extradition by Several States

### 1\. If extradition is requested concurrently by more than one State,
either for the same offence or for different offences, the Requested State
shall make its decision having regard to all the circumstances and especially
the relative seriousness and place of commission of the offences, the
respective dates of the request, the nationality of the person claimed and the
possibility of subsequent extradition to another State.

### 2\. If the Requested State reaches a decision at the same time on
extradition to one of the Requesting States, and on re-extradition to another
Requesting State, it shall communicate that decision on re-extradition to each
of the Requesting States.

Article 13Decision

### 1\. The Requested State shall promptly communicate to the Requesting State
through diplomatic channels its decision on the request for extradition.

### 2\.

The Requested State shall convey to the Requesting State the reason for any
complete or partial refusal of the request for extradition.Article 14Postponed
or Conditional Surrender

### 1\. The Requested State may, after making its decision on the request for
extradition, postpone the surrender of the person claimed in order that he may
be proceeded against by that State or, if he has already been convicted in
order that he may serve his sentence in the territory of that State for an
offence other than that for which extradition is requested.

### 2\. The Requested State may, instead of postponing surrender, temporarily
surrender the person claimed to the Requesting State in accordance with
conditions to be determined by mutual agreement between both States.

Article 15Surrender of the Person Sought

### 1\. If extradition is agreed to, the Requesting State shall be informed of
the place and date of surrender and of the length of time for which the person
claimed was detained with a view to surrender.

### 2\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, if the
person claimed has not been taken over on the appointed date, he may be
released after the expiry of 15 days and shall in any case be released after
the expiry of 30 days. The Requested State may refuse to extradite him for the
same offence.

### 3\. If circumstances beyond its control prevent one of the Contracting
States from surrendering or taking over the person to be extradited, it shall
notify the other State. The two States shall agree upon a new date for
surrender and the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply.

Article 16Rule of Speciality

### 1\. A person who has been extradited shall not be proceeded against,
sentenced or detained with a view to the carrying out of a sentence or
detention order for any offence committed prior to his surrender other than
that for which he was extradited, nor shall he be for any other reason
restricted in his personal freedom, except in the following cases:

(a)when the State which surrendered him consents. A request for consent shall
be submitted, accompanied by the documents mentioned in Article 9 and a legal
record of any statement made by the extradited person in respect of the
offence concerned. Consent shall be given when the offence for which it is
requested is itself subject to extradition in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement;(b)When that person, having had an opportunity to leave the
territory of the State to which he has been surrendered, has not done so
within 45 days of his final discharge, or has returned to that territory after
leaving it.

### 2\. The Requesting State may, however, take any measures necessary to
remove the person from its territory, or any measures necessary under its law,
including proceedings by default, to prevent any legal effects of lapse of
time.

### 3\. When the legal description of the offence for which a person has been
extradited is altered this person shall only be proceeded against or sentenced
if the offence under its new description:

(a)can give rise to extradition pursuant to this Agreement;(b)relates to the
same facts on which extradition was granted.

### 4\. When the modification of the legal description of the offence for
which a person has been extradited may result in a lessening of the sentence
to be awarded, the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall apply.

Article 17Re-Extradition to a Third StateExcept as provided for in Article 16,
paragraph 1(b), the Requesting State shall not, without the consent of the
Requested State, surrender to a third State a person surrendered to it and
sought by the said third State in respect of offences committed before his
surrender. The Requested State may request the production of the documents
mentioned in Article 9 as well as a legal record in which the person claimed
states that he accepts or refuses re-extradition.Article 18Information on the
Result of the Criminal ProceedingsThe Requesting State shall inform the
Requested State, upon demand by the latter, of the outcome of the criminal
proceedings being conducted in respect of the extradited person and send a
copy of the final and binding decision.Article 19Surrender of Property

### 1\. Upon the request of the Requesting State and to the extent permitted
under the laws of the Requested State, all articles which may serve as
evidence or which have been acquired as a result of an offence and which at
the time of apprehension are found in the possession of the person sought
shall be surrendered if extradition of the person sought is granted. Surrender
of such articles shall be possible even without any special request and, if
possible, at the same time as the person sought is surrendered.

### 2\. The property specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be handed
over even of extradition, having been agreed to, cannot be carried out owning
to the death or escape of the person claimed.

### 3\. Insofar as the rights of the Requested State or of third parties to
the articles are to be respected, the Requested State may refuse surrender or
condition surrender upon a satisfactory assurance from the Requesting State
that the articles will be returned to the Requested State as soon as possible.

Article 20Transit

### 1\. Transit through the territory of either of the Contracting States
shall be granted upon request transmitted through the diplomatic channel,
provided that the offence concerned is an extraditable offence under this
Agreement.

### 2\. The State requested to grant transit may refuse to comply when the
person concerned is its national.

### 3\. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this article, it shall be
necessary to produce the documents mentioned in article 9, paragraph 2.

### 4\. If air transport is used, the following provisions shall apply:

(a)When no landing is scheduled, the Requesting State shall notify the State
over whose territory the flight is to be made and shall certify that one of
the documents mentioned in Article 9, paragraph 2 (a) exists. In the case of
an unscheduled landing, such notification shall have the effect of a request
for provisional arrest as provided for in Article 11 and the Requesting State
shall submit a formal request for transit;(b)When a landing is scheduled, the
Requesting State shall submit a formal request for transit.Article
21ProcedureExcept where this Agreement otherwise provides, the procedure with
regard to extradition and provisional arrest shall be governed solely by the
law of the Requested State.Article 22Languages to be UsedThe documents
transmitted in application of this Agreement shall be in the language of the
Requesting State and be accompanied by a translation in the language of the
Requested State.Article 23Expenses

### 1\. Expenses incurred in the territory of the Requested State until the
surrender of the person claimed are borne by that State.

### 2\. Expenses incurred on the transit of a person claimed through the
territory of the State requested to allow the transit, are borne by the
Requesting State.

Article 24Ratification Entry into Force; Denunciation

### 1\. Each of the States shall notify the other of the fulfilment of the
procedures required by its constitution for the entry into force of the
present Agreement.

### 2\. The present Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the
second month following the date of receipt of the last notification.

### 3\. Either State may terminate the present Agreement at any time by giving
to the other written notice of termination through diplomatic channels; in
that case, termination shall take effect six months from the date of receipt
of that notice.

Done at Paris on 24th of January 2003 in triplicate in Hindi, French and
English languages, all three texts being equally authentic.Now, therefore, in
exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (2) of Section 12 of the
Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that
the provisions of the said Act, other than Chapter II, shall apply to the
French Republic with effect from the date of the publication of this
notification.

