## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and the Republic of
Tajikistan

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and the Republic of
Tajikistan

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-
TAJIKISTAN of 2009

  * Published on 11 June 2009 
  * Commenced on 11 June 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 June 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and the Republic of
TajikistanPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 524(E), dated 11th June
2009Ministry of External AffairsG.S.R. 524(E). - Whereas the Extradition
Treaty between the Republic of India and the Republic of Tajikistan was signed
at Dushanbe on 14 November, 2003; and the Instruments of Ratification also
exchanged at Dushanbe on 18th February, 2009 and as per Article 21 of the
Treaty, it has entered into force on the date of exchange of the instruments
of ratification, and which Treaty provides as follows :The Republic of India
and the Republic of Tajikistan; hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting
Parties";Desiring to make more effective the cooperation of the two Parties in
the suppression of crime by making further provision for the reciprocal
extradition of offendrs;Recognizing that concrete steps are necessary to
combat terrorism;Have agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation to Extradite

### 1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to extradite to the other Contracting
Party in the circumstances and subject to the conditions specified in this
Treaty, any person who being accused or convicted of an extradition offence as
described in Article 2 of the Treaty, committed within the territory of the
Requesting Party, is found within the territory of the Requested Party,
whether such offence was committed before or after the entry into force of
this Treaty.

### 2. Extradition shall also be available in respect of an extradition
offence as described in Article 2 of this Treaty committed outside the
territory of the Requesting Party but in respect of which it has jurisdiction,
if the Requested Party would, in corresponding circumstances, have
jurisdiction over such an offence. In such circumstances the Requested Party
shall have regard to all the circumstances of the case including the
seriousness of the offence.

### 3. Extradition shall also be available for an extradition offence as
described in Article 2 of this Treaty, if it is committed in a third state by
a citizen of the Requesting Party and it bases its jurisdiction on the
citizenship of the offender, subject to the provisions under Article is of the
Treaty.

Article 2Extradition Offences

### 1\. An extradition offence for the purposes of the Treaty is constituted
by conduct which under the laws of each Contracting Party is punishable by a
term of imprisonment for a period of at least one year.

### 2\. An offence may be an extradition offence notwithstanding that it
relates to taxation or revenue or is one of a purely fiscal character.

Article 3Composite OffencesExtradition shall be available in accordance with
this Treaty for an extradition offence, notwithstanding that the conduct of
the person sought occurred wholly or in part in the Requested Party, if this
conduct and its effects, or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be
regarded as constituting the commission of an extradition offence under the
laws of both the Contracting Parties.Article 4Offences of conspiracy,
incitement and attempt, and extra-territorial jurisdiction

### 1\. It shall be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting Parties
for any person to abet, conspire or attempt to commit or incite or participate
as an accomplice in the commission of, any extradition offence.

### 2\. It shall also be an offence under the laws of both the Contracting
Parties, for any citizen of a Contracting Party to commit any offence in any
place beyond its territory.

Article 5Grounds for Refusal of Extradition

### 1\. A person may not be extradited if:

1.1he is a citizen of the Requested Party; or1.2he satisfies the Requested
Party that he might, if extradited, be prejudiced at his trial or be punished,
by reason of his race, religion, nationality or political opinions; or1.3he
satisfies the Requested Party that it would, having regard to all the
circumstances, be unjust or oppressive to extradite him by reason of:1.3.1the
expiry of the limitation-period for initiating the criminal proceedings under
the legislation of the Requested Party or for execution of a sentence, or on
other legal grounds;1.3.2the accusation against him having not been made in
the interests of justice; or1.4the extradition is not permitted according to
the laws of the Requested Party;1.5the offence of which he is accused or
convicted is a military offence which is not also an offence under the general
criminal law.

### 2\. A person shall also not be extradited if in respect of the offence for
which his extradition is requested, he has been previously proceeded against
in the Requested Party, and convicted or acquitted.

### 3\. The request for extradition may be refused by the Requested Party if
the person whose extradition is sought may be tried for the extradition
offence in the courts of that Party.

Article 6Obligation to Prosecute

### 1\. Where the Requested Party refuses a request for extradition for the
reason set out in paragraph 3 of Article 5 of this Treaty, it shall submit the
case to its competent authorities for prosecution.

### 2\. If the competent authorities decide not to prosecute in such a case,
the request for extradition shall be reconsidered in accordance with this
Treaty.

Article 7Consequences or Non-extradition of own citizensIf according to
paragraph 1.1 of Article 5 of this Treaty, extradition is refused, the
Requested Party, shall initiate criminal prosecution against such person for
the same offence according to its laws. For this the Requesting Party shall
transfer to the Requested Party the relevant documents and evidence.Article
8Postponement to Extra Temporary Extradition

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is being prosecuted or serving sentence
for another crime in the territory of the Requested Party, the extradition may
be postponed till the end of the proceedings of the case, end of sentence or
release, which shall be advised to the Requesting Party.

### 2\. If the postponement of extradition can cause the expiration of the
limitation or impede the investigation, the person can be extradited
temporarily under a special request of the Requesting Party.

### 3\. The temporarily extradited person must be returned to the Requested
party immediately after the end of the proceedings of the case.

Article 9Extradition Procedures

### 1\. The request for extradition shall be made through diplomatic channels.

### 2\. The request shall he accompanied by :

2.1the name and surname (petronym) of the person whose extradition is
requested, information on his citizenship, place of residence or whereabouts
and, other pertaining data, as well as, if possible, the description of the
person's appearance, his photographs and fingerprints;2.2a statement of the
facts of the offence for which extradition is requested; and2.3the text, of
the corresponding law:2.3.1. defining that offence; and2.3.2. prescribing the
punishment for that offence.

### 3\. The request for extradition for the prosecution, besides the
information specified above, must be accompanied by the warrant of arrest
issued by a competent court or authority of the Requesting Party.

### 4. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it
shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the judgement and a statement
that the person is no longer entitled to question the conviction or sentence
and showing how much of sentence has not been carried out.

### 5. If the Requested Party considers that the evidence produced or
information supplied for the purposes of this Treaty is not sufficient in
order to enable a decision to be taken as to the request, additional evidence
or information shall be submitted within a reasonable time.

Article 10Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases a person may be provisionally arrested by the
Requested Party, in accordance with its law, on the request of the competent
authorities of the Requesting Party, made either through Diplomatic Channels
or the National Central, Bureau of International Criminal Police Organisation
- INTERPOL, before the receiving of the request for extradition. The request
shall contain an indication of intention to request the extradition of, that
person and a statement of existence of a warrant of arrest or a conviction
against him; and if available, the data specified in paragraphs 2.1 and 2.3 of
Article 9 of this Treaty and such further information, if any, as would be
necessary to justify the issue of a warrant of arrest had the offence been
committed, or the person been convicted, in the territory of the Requested
Party.

### 2\. A person arrested upon such a request shall be set at liberty upon the
expiration of 60 days from the date of his arrest if a request for his
extradition shall not have been received. This provision shall not prevent the
institution of further proceedings for the extradition of the person sought if
a request for extradition is subsequently received.

Article 11Rule of Speciality

### 1\. The extradited person may not without consent of the Requested Party,
be prosecuted or punished in the Requesting Party for the offence other than
that, for which extradition has been granted and any lesser offence disclosed
by the, facts proved for the, purpose of securing his extradition, nor may
such a person, without consent of the Requested Party, be extradited to third
State;

### 2\. The consent of the Requested Party is not required if:

2.1the extradited person has not left, though had the opportunity, the
territory of the Requesting Party within 30 days after termination of the
criminal prosecution, serving of the sentence or release on any legal ground.
Such period shall not be deemed to include the period of time during which the
extradited person is unable to leave the territory of the Requesting Party for
reasons beyond his control;2.2if the extradited person, once having left the
territory of the Requesting Party, voluntarily returns there.

### 3\. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to
offences committed after the return of person to the Requesting Party or
matters arising in relation to such offences.

Article 12Recognition of Documents and Evidence

### 1\. Documents issued or certified and statements recorded by competent
Courts or other authorities in the prescribed form in the territory of one
Contracting Party as per its laws shall not require any form of authentication
in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

### 2\. Documents considered as public in the territory of one of the
Contracting Parties shall have the evidential force of public documents also
in the territory of the other Contacting Party.

Article 13Competing RequestsIf extradition of the same person whether for the
same offence or for different offences is requested by a Contracting Party and
a third State with which the Requested Party has an extradition arrangement,
the Requested Party shall determine the State to which the person shall be
extradited, and shall not be obliged to give preference to the Contracting
Party.Article 14Capital PunishmentIf under the law of the Requesting party the
person sought is liable to the death penalty for the offence for which his
extradition is requested, but the law of the Requested Party does not provide
for the death penalty for the same offence, extradition may be refused unless
the Requesting Party gives such assurances as the Requested Party considers
sufficient that the death penalty will not be carried out.Article 15Transfer

### 1\. The modalities of transfer of the person to be extradited shall be
agreed upon by the competent authorities of both the Contracting Parties as
mutually convenient.

### 2\. The Requesting Party shall take the person sought from the territory
of the Requested Party within one month of the consent of Requested Party to
extradite or such longer period as may permitted under the law of the
Requested Party. If the person is not removed within that period, the
Requested Party may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.

Article 16Transfer of Articles connected with Crime

### 1\. The Requested Party shall, within the limits of its legislation,
transfer by the request of Requesting Party the Articles used for committing
crime by the person being extradited, Articles bearing crime traces or crime
proceeds.

### 2\. The above Articles shall be transferred also in cases when the
extradition cannot be effected if the person died, fled or due to other
reasons.

### 3\. The Requested Party may temporarily postpone the transfer of the
Articles referred to the paragraph 1 of this Article if they are required for
proceedings instituted in connection with another criminal case till the end
of such proceedings.

### 4\. The rights of third persons to the articles transferred to the
Requesting Party shall remain in force. Upon termination of the Requesting
Party shall return these Articles to their owners in its territory. If the
owners are in the territory of the Requested Party the articles are to be
returned to it for the transfer to them. If the owners are in the territory of
a third country the articles shall be returned to them by the Requesting party
without charge.

### 5\. The transfer of the Articles and of money shall be effected within the
limits provided for by the legislation of the Requested party.

Article 17Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting Party shall,
to the extent permitted by its law, afford the other the widest possible
measure of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters in connection with the
offence for which extradition has been requested.Article 18Expenses on
ExtraditionAll expenses related to the extradition shall be borne by the
Contracting Party in whose territory the same occurred. The expenses caused by
the transit transportation of the extradited person by one of the Contracting
Parties from a third State through the territory of the other Contracting
Party shall be borne by the Contracting Party effecting the transit.Article
19LanguagesWhile complying with the present Treaty, the Contracting Parties
shall use their national language attaching the translation in the national
language of the other Contracting Party or in the English language.Article
20International Conventions/TreatiesThe present Treaty shall not affect the
rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties arising from other
International Conventions/Treaties to which the Contracting Parties are
signatories.Article 21Ratification and Termination

### 1\. This Treaty is subject to ratification and it shall enter into force
on the date of exchange of the instruments of ratification.

### 2\. Either of the Contracting Parties may terminate this Treaty at any
time by giving notice to the other Contracting Party through the diplomatic
channel; and if such notice is given the Treaty shall cease to have effect six
months after the receipt of the notice.

In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorized thereto by their
respective Authorities, have signed this Treaty.Done in duplicate at Dushanbe
this 14th November 2003 in Hindi, Tajik, Russian and English languages, each
version being equally authentic. In case of any interpretation difference, the
English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section 1 of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the
Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act, other
than Chapter III, shall apply to the Republic of Tajikistan with effect from
the date of the publication of this notification.

