## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Arab Republic of
Egypt

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Arab Republic of
Egypt

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-ARAB-
REPUBLIC-OF-EGYPT of 2011

  * Published on 31 October 2011 
  * Commenced on 31 October 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 October 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Arab Republic of
EgyptPublished vide Notification New Delhi, the 31st October,
2011Act2323Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 789(E). - Whereas the
Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Arab Republic of
Egypt was signed at New Delhi on 18th November, 2008 and the Treaty entered
into force with effect from 8th July, 2010 in accordance with Article 20.1 and
which Extradition Treaty will provide as follows :-Extradition Treaty Between
The Government of the Republic of India And The Government of the Arab
Republic of EgyptThe Government of the Republic of India and the Government of
the Arab Republic of Egypt;Desiring to make more effective the cooperation of
the two countries in the suppression of crime by making further provision for
the reciprocal extradition of offenders;Recognizing that concrete steps are
necessary to combat terrorism;Have agreed as follows:Article 1:Obligation to
ExtraditeThe Contracting States shall extradite any person found in their
respective territories who is accused or convicted of an extraditable offence
in the territory of the other Contracting State, in accordance with the rules
and stipulations contained in the subsequent Articles, whether such offence
was committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty.Article
2:Extraditable Offences(1) An extraditable offence for the purposes of this
Treaty is constituted by conduct which under the laws of each Contracting
State is punishable by a term of imprisonment for a period of at least one
year.(2) Where on conviction a prison sentence has been awarded on account of
an extraditable offence in the territory of the Requesting State, the duration
of the penalty remaining to be served must amount at least to six months.(3)
Even regarding offences related to fiscal matters customs duties or currency
exchange, extradition shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of
this Treaty.(4) An offence shall also be an extraditable offence if it
consists of an attempt or a conspiracy to commit, aid or abet the commission
of or being an accessory before or after the fact to, any offence described in
paragraph (1).(5) If the request for extradition includes several separate
offences each of which is punishable under the laws of the two Contracting
States by a sentence of imprisonment, but some of which do not fulfill the
condition with regard to the duration of the sentence which may be awarded,
the requested state shall also have the right to grant extradition for the
latter offences.(6) Extradition shall be available in accordance with this
Treaty for an extradition offence, notwithstanding that the conduct of the
person sought occurred wholly or in part in the Requested State, if under the
law of that State this conduct and its effects, or its intended effects, taken
as a whole, would be regarded as constituting the commission of an extradition
offence in the territory of the Requesting State.Article 3:Extradition of
Nationals(1) Neither of the Contracting States shall extradite its own
nationals. Nationality shall be determined as at the time of the commission of
the offence for which extradition is requested.(2) If, pursuant to paragraph
(1), the Requested State does not surrender the person claimed for the sole
reason of nationality, it shall, in accordance with its laws and at the
request of the Requesting State, submit the case to its competent authorities
in order that proceedings may be taken if they are considered appropriate. If
the Requested State requires additional documents, such documents shall be
provided free of charge. The Requesting State shall be informed of the result
of its request through the channels provided for in Article 7.Article
4:Grounds of RefusalExtradition shall not be granted:(1) If the offence for
which extradition is requested is regarded by the Requested State as an
offence of a political nature. However, for the purposes of this Treaty the
following offences shall not be regarded as offences of a political nature;(a)
An offence within the scope of multinational international treaty to which
both Contracting States are parties and which imposes on them;(b) assault
against the Heads of State or any of their families;(c) murder, robbery;(d)
manslaughter or culpable homicide;(e) assault occasioning actual bodily harm,
or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm,
whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous substance or otherwise;(f) the
causing of an explosion likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to
property;(g) the making or possession of an explosive substance by a person
who intends either himself or through another person to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property;(h) the possession of a firearm or ammunition by a
person who intends either himself or through another person to endanger
life;(i) the use of a firearm by a person with intent to resist or prevent the
arrest or detention of himself or another person;(j) damaging property whether
used for public utilities or otherwise with intent to endanger life or with
reckless disregard as to whether the life of another would thereby be
endangered;(k) kidnapping, abduction, false imprisonment or unlawful
detention, including the taking of a hostage;(l) incitement to murder;(m) any
other offence related to terrorism which at the time of the request is, under
the law of the Requested state, not to be regarded as an offence of a
political character;(n) an attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the
foregoing offences or participation as an accomplice of a person who commits
or attempts to commit such an offence.(2) If the offence for which extradition
is requested is an offence under military law which is not also an offence
under the general criminal law.(3) If there has been a final judgment rendered
against the person in the Requested State in respect of the offence for which
the person's extradition is requested.(4) If the person whose extradition is
requested has, under the law of either Party, become immune from prosecution
or punishment for any reason, including lapse of time or amnesty, the offence
is of trivial nature or the accusation made is not in good faith or in the
interests of justice.(5) If the Requested Party has substantial grounds to
believe that the request has been made for the purpose of prosecuting or
punishing a person on account of race, religion, nationality, or that the
position of the said person at his trial may be prejudiced for any of these
reasons.Article 5:Obligation to Prosecute(1) Where the Requested State refuses
a request for extradition of an accused, it shall submit the case to its
competent authorities so that prosecution may be considered. Those authorities
shall take their decision in accordance with the law of that State.Article
6:Postponed or Conditional Surrender(1) The Requested State may, after making
its decision on the request for extradition, postpone the surrender of the
person claimed in order that he may be proceeded against by that State or, if
he has already been convicted, in order that he may serve his sentence in the
territory of that State for an offence other than that for which extradition
is requested.(2) The Requested State may, instead of postponing surrender,
temporarily surrender the person claimed to the Requesting State in accordance
with conditions to be determined by mutual agreement between both
States.Article 7:Extradition Procedures(1) The request for extradition under
this Treaty shall be made through the diplomatic channel.(2) The request shall
be accompanied by :(a) as accurate a description as possible of the person
sought, together with any other information which would help to establish his
identity, nationality and residence;(b) a statement of the facts of the
offence for which extradition is requested, and(c) the text, if any, of the
law:(i) defining that offence; and(ii) prescribing the maximum punishment for
that offence.(3) If the request relates to an accused person, it must also be
accompanied by a warrant of arrest issued by a judge, magistrate or other
competent authority in the territory of the Requesting State and by such
evidence as, according to the law of the Requested State, would justify his
committal for trial if the offence had been committed in the territory of the
Requested State, including evidence that the person requested is the person to
whom the warrant of arrest refers.(4) If the request relates to a person
already convicted and sentenced, if shall also be accompanied:(a) by a
certificate of the conviction and sentence;(b) by a statement that the person
is not entitled to question the conviction or sentence and showing how much of
the sentence has not been carried out.(5) If the Requested State considers
that the evidence produced or information supplied for the purposes of this
Treaty is not sufficient in order to enable a decision to be taken as to the
request, additional evidence or information shall be submitted within such
time as the Requested State shall require.Article 8:Provisional Arrest(1) In
urgent cases the person sought may, in accordance with the law of the
Requested State, be provisionally arrested on the application of the competent
authorities of the Requesting State. The application shall contain an
indication of intention to request the extradition of that person and
statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest or a conviction against him,
and, if available, his description and such further information, if any, as
would be necessary to justify the issue of a warrant of arrest had the offence
been committed, or the person sought been convicted, in the territory of the
Requested State.(2) A person arrested upon such an application shall be set at
liberty upon the expiration of sixty days from the date of his arrest if
request for his extradition shall not have been received. This provision shall
not prevent the institution of further proceedings for the extradition of the
person sought if a request is subsequently received.Article 9:Rule of
speciality(1) A person extradited under the present Treaty shall not be
proceeded against, sentenced, detained, re-extradited to a third State, or
subjected to any other restriction of personal liberty in the territory of the
requesting State for any offence committed before surrender other than:(a) an
offence for which extradition was granted;(b) any other offence in respect of
which the requested State consents. Consent shall be given if the offence for
which it is requested is itself subject to extradition in accordance with the
present Treaty.(2) A request for the consent of the requested State under the
present article shall be accompanied by the documents mentioned in paragraph 2
of Article 7 of the present Treaty and a legal record of any statement made by
the extradited person with respect to the offence.(3) Paragraph 1 of the
present article shall not apply if the person has had an opportunity to leave
the requesting State and has not done so within 60 days of final discharge in
respect of the offence for which that person was extradited or if the person
has voluntarily returned to the territory of the requesting State after
leaving it.Article 10:Extradition to a Third StateA person shall not be re-
extradited to a third State, except when, having had an opportunity to leave
the territory of the State to which he has been surrendered, he has not done
so within sixty days of his final discharge, or has returned to that territory
after having left it.Article 11:EvidenceDocuments, in support of an
extradition request, shall be received and admitted as evidence in extradition
proceedings, provided the documents are certified by a judge, magistrate, or
officer to be the original documents or true copies of such documents and are
authenticated by the official seal of the court or competent authority.Article
12:Competing RequestsIf extradition of the same person whether for the same
offence or for different offences is requested by a Contracting State and a
third State with which the Requested State has an extradition arrangement, the
Requested State shall determine to which State the person shall be extradited,
and shall not be obliged to give preference to the Contracting State.Article
13:Surrender(1) If extradition is granted, the person sought shall be sent by
the authorities of the Requested State to such mutually agreed point of
departure from the territory of that State.(2) The Requesting State shall
remove the person sought from the territory of the Requested State within one
month or such longer period as may be permitted under the law of the Requested
State. If the person is not removed within that period, the Requested State
may refuse to extradite him for the same offence.(3) If extradition of the
requested person is obstructed because of exceptional circumstances, the
concerned party shall inform the other of these circumstances before the
expiry of the appointed date. Both States shall agree upon a new date and, if
required, a new place of extradition. In such case, the provision under
paragraph 2 of this article shall be applicable.Article 14:Surrender of
Property(1) When a request for extradition is granted, the Requested State
shall, upon request and so far as its law allows, hand over to the Requesting
State articles (including sums of money) which may serve as proof or evidence
of the offence.(2) If the articles in question are liable to seizure or
confiscation in the territory of the Requested State, the latter may, in
connection with pending proceedings, temporarily retain them or hand them over
on condition that they are returned.(3) These provisions shall not prejudice
the rights of the Requested State or any person other than the person sought.
When these rights exist the articles shall on request be returned to the
Requested State without charge as soon as possible after the end of the
proceedings.Article 15:Mutual Legal Assistance in ExtraditionEach Contracting
State shall, to the extent permitted by its law, afford the other the widest
measure of mutual assistance in criminal matters in connection with the
offence for which extradition has been requested.Article 16:Expenses(1) The
requested State shall meet the cost of any proceedings in its jurisdiction
arising out of a request for extradition.(2) The requested State shall also
bear the costs incurred in its territory in connection with the seizure and
handing over of property, or the arrest and detention of the person whose
extradition is sought.(3) The requesting State shall bear the costs incurred
in conveying the person from the territory of the requested State, including
transit costs.Article 17:Obligations under International
Conventions/TreatiesThe present Treaty shall not affect the rights and
obligations of the Contracting States arising from International
Conventions/Treaties to which they are parties.Article 18:Central and
Competent AuthoritiesFor the purpose of this Treaty, the Contracting Parties
shall communicate through their Central Authorities. The Central Authority for
the Republic of India shall be the Ministry of External Affairs and for the
Arab Republic of Egypt the Ministry of Justice.Article 19:LanguageRequests and
the supporting documents made pursuant to this Treaty shall be accompanied by
a translation into the language of the Requested Party or in a certified copy
of English Language.Article 20:Final provisions(1) The present Treaty shall
enter into force from the date of receiving the last notification by either of
the Contracting Parties through the diplomatic channels, concerning the
execution of the necessary measures for the ratification, according to the
domestic laws of either Contracting Parties.(2) Either of the Contracting
States may terminate this Treaty at any time by giving notice to the other
through the diplomatic channel; and if such notice is given the Treaty shall
cease to have effect six months after the receipt of the notice.Done in
duplicate at New Delhi this the 18th day of November 2008, in Hindi, Arabic
and English, all languages being equally authentic. In case of any divergence
of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise
of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition
Act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the
provisions of the Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to Arab Republic of
Egypt from the date of the publication of this notification.

