## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-KINGDOM-OF-SAUDI-
ARABIA of 2011

  * Published on 31 October 2011 
  * Commenced on 31 October 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 October 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty Between the Republic of India and Kingdom of Saudi
ArabiaPublished vide Notification New Delhi, the 31st October,
2011Act2324Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 790(E). - Whereas the
Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
was signed at Riyadh on 28th February, 2010 and the Treaty entered into force
with effect from 5th October, 2011 in accordance with Article 23.1 and which,
Extradition Treaty will provide as follows :-Extradition Treaty Between The
Republic of India and The Kingdom of Saudi ArabiaThe Republic of India and the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (hereinafter referred to as the Parties), in
furtherance of traditional friendly relations, desiring to strengthen mutual
cooperation in combating crimes including acts of terrorism by way of
extradition of accused and convicted individuals to either state, and assuring
respect for each others sovereignty and on the basis of equality and
reciprocity; Have agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation to ExtraditeThe
Parties undertake to extradite any person found in their respective
territories, who is accused of or convicted of an extraditable offence in the
territory of the other party in accordance with the provisions of this treaty,
for the purpose of trial or serving of sentence, whether such offence was
committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty.Article
2Extraditable Offences

### 1. An offence shall be an extraditable offence if it is punishable under
the laws of the Parties by imprisonment for at least one year or by a more
severe penalty.

### 2. Extradition shall also be available for an extraditable offence when
committed outside the territory of the requesting State in respect of which it
has jurisdiction, and in respect of which the requested State would also, in
corresponding circumstances, have jurisdiction.

### 3. In case of extradition for the purpose of serving a sentence, the
person sought must have been sentenced at least for six months for an
extraditable offence or the sentence left to be served must not be less than
six months.

Article 3Grounds for RefusalExtradition shall be refused in the following
circumstances:

### 1\. If the crime for which the extradition is sought is political in
nature. The following crimes shall not be deemed political in nature for the
purpose of this Treaty:

(a)An offence against the King, Crown Prince or their spouses, ascendants and
descendants or members of the Royal family;(b)An offence against the Head of
State, the Head of Government and the members of their families;(c)Murder,
manslaughter or culpable homicide;(d)Assault resulting in actual bodily harm,
or causing injury, maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily
harm;(e)The making of or possession of explosives and using them for unlawful
purposes, or of elements for inciting sedition and disturbance, or tools or
materials jeopardizing the safety of people or causing human or material
harm;(f)The possession or use of a firearm or ammunition by a person who
intends, either himself or through another person, to endanger life;(g)The use
of a firearm by a person with the intent to resist or prevent the arrest or
detention of himself or another person;(h)Causing damage to
property;(i)Kidnapping, abduction, unlawful detention, including the taking of
hostages;(j)Terrorism and offences related thereto;(k)Offences under
international conventions to which both contracting States area Party
and;(l)An attempt or conspiracy or incitement to commit any of the foregoing
offences, or participation as an accomplice of a person who commits or
attempts to commit such an offence.

### 2\. If the crime for which extradition is sought is a military crime, and
is not an offence under ordinary criminal law.

### 3\. If the time for trial of the offence for which extradition is sought
has lapsed in accordance with the law of the Requesting Party.

### 4. If the person sought has already been tried in respect of the offence
sought for and has been acquitted or if convicted, has served the sentence.

### 5. If the person sought is under investigation or trial in the requested
State for the same crime for which his extradition is sought.

Article 4Extradition of NationalsThe Requested Party may refuse extradition of
its own nationals, provided that the Requested Party conducts, trial of the
person sought in its own courts according to its laws in respect of the
offence sought for using, inter alia, evidence, documents, investigation
summary and information submitted by the Requesting Party.Article 5Extradition
ProceduresAn extradition request under this Treaty shall be submitted in
writing by the Central Authority of the Requesting Party to the Central
Authority of the Requested Party through diplomatic channels. The extradition
request shall be accompanied by the following documents:

### 1\. A detailed statement of the identity of the person sought, his
description, nationality and if possible his address in the requested State
and photograph.

### 2\. Arrest warrant against the person sought issued by the competent
authority, a statement of the facts of the offence and punishment for which
extradition is sought, the text of the relevant legal provisions, and
sufficient evidence for the detention of the person sought for trial.

### 3\. If the request relates to a person who is already convicted and
sentenced, it shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the conviction
and sentence, a statement that the person is not emitted to question the
conviction or sentence and showing how much of the sentence is remained to be
served.

Article 6Additional InformationIf the Requested Party needs additional
information/clarification in order to reach a decision as to an extradition
request, it may so advise to the Requesting Party. The Requesting Party will
provide the required information/ clarification within the period as may be
specified by the Requested Party.Article 7Provisional Arrest

### 1\. In urgent cases and upon request by the Competent Authority of the
Requesting Party, the person sought may be provisionally arrested for the
purpose of extradition, and temporarily detained until the receipt of a formal
extradition request under this Treaty. The request for provisional arrest
shall be submitted to the Competent Authority of the Requested Party through
diplomatic channels or through the International Police (Interpol), or any
other applicable means of communication.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest shall contain a description of the
person sought a statement that extradition is to be requested, a statement as
to the existence of the warrant of arrest, a statement of the punishment that
can be or has been imposed for the offence, including the time left to be
served and where known the location of the person sought.

### 3\. If a formal extradition request is not received within sixty days of
the date of provisional arrest, the person sought will be set free. This
provision shall not prevent the institution of further proceedings for the
extradition of the person sought if a request is subsequently received.

Article 8Waiver of ExtraditionIf the person sought, under the Treaty, consents
to surrender to the Requesting State, the Requested State may, subject to its
laws, surrender the person as expeditiously as possible without further
proceedings.Article 9Concurrent RequestIf extradition of the same person
whether for the same offence or for different offences is requested by a
Contracting Party and a third State with which the Requested Party has an
extradition arrangement, the Requested Party shall determine to which State
the person shall be extradited. In making its decision, the Requested Party
shall consider all relevant factors, including but not limited to: whether the
requests were made pursuant to a treaty; the place where each offence was
committed; the respective interests of the Requesting States; the gravity of
the offence/s; the nationality of the victim/s; and the chronological order in
which the requests were received from the Requesting States.Article
10Execution of RequestThe Requested Party shall decide the extradition
requests in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty, its law and
procedure. It shall notify the Requesting Party of its decision. Reasons for
refusing the extradition request shall be given.Article 11Surrender

### 1\. If extradition is granted, the person sought shall be sent by the
authorities of the Requested Party to such convenient point of departure from
the territory of that State as may be agreed upon by the Parties.

### 2\. The Requesting Party shall take into custody the person sought from
the territory of the Requested Party within one month or such longer period as
may be permitted under the law of the Requested Party. If he is not taken into
custody within that period, the Requested Party may refuse to extradite the
person for the same offence, and set the person free.

Article 12Postponement of Surrender

### 1\. The Requested Party may postpone the surrender of a person who is
being prosecuted or is serving a sentence in the territory of that Party. The
postponement may continue until the prosecution of the person sought has been
concluded or until such person has served any sentence imposed.

### 2\. If the extradition request is granted in the case of a person, who is
being prosecuted or is serving a sentence in the territory of the Requested
Party, that Party may, subject to its laws, temporarily surrender the person
sought to the Requesting Party for the purpose of prosecution. The person
surrendered shall be kept in custody in the territory of the Requesting Party
and shall be returned to the requested Party after the conclusion of the
proceedings against that person, in accordance with conditions to be
determined by agreement of Parties.

Article 13Seizure and Surrender of property

### 1\. To the extent permitted under the law of the Requested Party and
subject to the rights of third Parties, which shall be duly respected, all
property found in the Requested Party that has been acquired as a result of
the offence or that may be required as evidence shall, if the Requesting Party
so requests, be surrendered if extradition is granted.

### 2\. The said property may, if the Requesting Party so requests, be
surrendered to the Requesting Party even if the extradition agreed to can not
be carried out.

### 3\. When the said property is liable to seizure or confiscation in the
Requested Party, it may retain it or temporarily hand it over.

### 4\. Where the law of the Requested Party or the protection of the right of
third parties so require, any property so surrendered shall be returned to the
Requested Party, free of charge after the completion of the proceedings, if
that Party so requests.

Article 14Rule of Speciality

### 1\. The person extradited shall not be tried or punished in the Requesting
Party, except for offence/s for which that person's extradition was granted or
for offence/s connected therewith; or offence/s committed after that person's
extradition; or the offence/s to which the Requested Party consents.

### 2\. When the person extradited had the liberty and means to leave the
territory of the Party to which the person was extradited, but did not leave
within 30 days subsequent to final release or left during that period, but
voluntarily returned, the person may be tried for any other offence/s:

### 3\. Except in the situation of paragraph two (2) above, a person shall not
be re-extradited to a third State, without the consent of the Party from which
the person was extradited.

Article 15Reduction of term of sentenceThe period of detention during
extradition proceedings in the Requested State shall be deducted from any
sentence in the Requesting State against the person extradited.Article
16TransitTransit of a person, who is a subject of extradition from a third
State through the territory of a Party to the territory of the other Party,
shall be granted on submission of an advance request, in accordance with its
domestic laws. To this end, coordination shall be made through Interpol
offices of both Parties.Article 17Expenses

### 1\. The Requested Party shall meet the costs of any proceedings in its
jurisdiction arising out of a request for extradition.

### 2\. The Requested Party shall also bear the costs incurred in its
territory in connection with the seizure and handing over of the property, or
the arrest and detention of the person whose extradition is sought.

### 3\. The Requesting Party shall bear the costs incurred in conveying the
person and/or the property from the territory of the Requested Party,
including transit costs.

Article 18Central Authority

### 1\. All requests under this treaty shall be received and submitted through
the Central Authorities of the Parties.

### 2\. For the Republic of India, Central Authority will be the Ministry of
External Affairs and for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia it will be the Interpol
Riyadh, Ministry of Interior.

Article 19ConsultationA joint committee comprised of experts on the
extradition of accused persons and convicts from the two states shall be
formed. It shall discuss issues of cooperation in extradition, and make
necessary recommendations to improve the Treaty to fulfil the expectations of
the two States. It shall submit the said recommendations to the competent
authorities to take the necessary measures towards implementing them. The
committee shall convene alternately in the two States whenever the need arises
or following a request of either Party.Article 20AmendmentThis Treaty may be
amended by mutual agreement of the Contracting States. Any amendment will
enter into force by the same procedure as is applicable for the entry into
force of this Treaty.Article 21Obligations under International
Conventions/TreatiesThe present Treaty shall not affect the rights and
obligations of the Parties arising from International Conventions/Treaties to
which they are party.Article 22LanguageThe requests and supporting documents
shall be in English or shall be accompanied by a translation into
English.Article 23Final Provisions

### 1\. The Parties shall complete all the necessary legal and constitutional
procedures for entry into force of this Treaty. It shall enter into force
after thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of last communication
through diplomatic channels regarding the completion of such procedures.

### 2\. This Treaty shall remain in force for an indefinite period.

### 3\. Either Party may terminate this Treaty by writing through diplomatic
Channels to the other Party. This Treaty shall terminate after the lapse of
six months from the date of receipt of such communication. This shall have no
effect on requests submitted during the validity of the Treaty.

Done at Riyadh on 14 Rabea Alawal 1431H, corresponding to February 28, 2010,
in two originals in the Hindi, Arabic and English languages, all texts being
equally authentic. In case of difference of interpretation of the provisions
of this Treaty, the English text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of
the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition Act,
1962 (34 of 1962), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions
of the Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
from the date of the publication of this notification.

