## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
United Arab Emirates

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
United Arab Emirates

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-UNITED-ARAB-EMIRATES of 2000

  * Published on 20 July 2000 
  * Commenced on 20 July 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 July 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
United Arab EmiratesPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R. 653(E), dated 20th
July, 2000Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 653(E). - Whereas the
Extradition Treaty between the Government of the Republic of India and the
United Arab Emirates was signed at New Delhi, India on 25th October, 1999; and
the instruments of ratification exchanged at Abu Dhabi, the United Arab
Emirates on 29th May, 2000 and which Treaty provides as follows:Article-1The
Contracting States shall extradite any person found in their respective
territories who is accused or convicted of an extraditable offence in the
territory of the other contracting State, in accordance with the rules and
stipulations contained in the subsequent Articles, whether such offence was
committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty.Article-2The
following persons shall be extradited:(a) Persons accused of an offence
punishable under the laws of both the contracting States by imprisonment for a
period of at least one year or more.(b) Persons sentenced by the Courts of the
requesting State with imprisonment for at least six months in respect of an
extraditable offence.Article-3

### 1. For offences in connection with taxes, fiscal charges and customs
duties extradition shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of this
Treaty only if the said offence corresponds to an offence of a similar nature
under the law of the requested State.

### 2. An attempt or conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in the
commission of an extraditable offence shall also be regarded as an
extraditable offence.

Article-4

### 1\. Extradition shall be granted in respect of an extraditable offence
committed outside its territory but within the jurisdiction as asserted by the
requesting State if the requested State would, in corresponding circumstances,
have jurisdiction over such an offence. In such cases, the requested State
shall have regard to all the circumstances of the case including the
seriousness of the offence.

### 2\. Extradition shall be available for an extraditable offence if
committed in a third State by a national of the requesting State who is
present in the requested State and provided that it would be an extraditable
offence under the laws of the requested State had the offence been committed
in the requested State

### 3. Extradition shall also be available for an extraditable offence
notwithstanding the conduct of the person sought occurred wholly or partly in
the requested State, if under the law of that State his conduct and its
effects or its intended effects, taken as a whole, would be regarded as
constituting the commission of an extraditable offence in the territory of the
requesting state.

Article-5The nationals of the Contracting States shall not be extradited to
the other Contracting State provided that the requested State shall submit the
case to its competent authorities for prosecution if the act committed is
considered as an offence under the laws of both Contracting
States.Article-6Extradition may be refused:

### 1\. If the offence for which the extradition is requested is a political
offence In the application of this Treaty, the following shall not be regarded
as political offences:

(a)Assault against the President or the Vice President of either Contracting
State, or any member of their families, or the members of the Supreme Council
of the United Arab Emirates, or any of their families and the members of the
Council of Ministers of the two countries or any member of their
families;(b)Murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder or
robbery;(c)Offences relating to terrorism, including murder, culpable homicide
not amounting to murder, assault causing bodily harm, kidnapping, hostage-
taking, offences involving serious damage to property of disruption of public
facilities, 'and offences relating to firearms or other weapons, or
explosives, or dangerous substances;(d)Any offence within the scope of an
international Convention to which both Contracting States are parties and
which obligates the parties to prosecute or grant extradition;(e)An attempt or
conspiracy to commit or incite or participate in the commission of any of the
above offences.

### 2\. Extradition may also be refused:

(a)if the persons sought to be extradited was previously tried for the same
offence for which extradition is requested and was acquitted or was convicted
and had completed the sentence or is undergoing it;(b)if the criminal
proceedings had expired or the sentence lapsed by time, in pursuance of the
law of the requesting State, when the request for extradition was
received;(c)if the offence was committed outside the territory of the
requesting State, by an alien, and if it is not an offence under the law of
the requested State;(d)if the offence for which extradition is requested was
committed in the requested State, provided the requested State prosecutes the
person;(e)if a person whose extradition is sought is being investigated or
tried in the requested State for the same offence for which his extradition is
requested.Article-7Where the requested State refuses a request for extradition
for the reasons set out under this Treaty it shall submit the case to its
competent authorities for prosecution. Those authorities shall take their
decision in the same manner as in the case of any offence of a similar nature
under the law of that State.Article-8The request for extradition shall be made
in writing and despatched through the diplomatic channels with the
undermentioned documents and particulars appended;(a)If the request relates to
a person already convicted and sentenced, an official copy of the sentence
passed against the person to be extradited;(b)The warrant of arrest, or remand
or any document having the same effect, by a competent authority, if the
person to be extradited is under investigation;(c)Particulars as to identity,
description and a photograph of the person to be extradited, if
possible;(d)The date, the place of the commission of the acts for which
extradition is requested, the legal characterisation of those offences, and a
certified copy of the applicable legal provisions, and a statement by the
prosecuting authorities as to evidence against the person to be
extradited;(e)In case of persons not yet sentenced, such other evidence, as
according to the laws of the requested State, would justify his arrest and
committal for trial had the offence been committed within the jurisdiction of
the requested State,All documents referred to above shall be translated into
English and authenticated by the requesting State.Article-9

### 1\. In case of urgency, a person to be extradited may be provisionally
arrested and remanded in custody until the request for extradition, together
with the documents referred to in the preceding Article are received.

### 2\. The request for provisional arrest and remand shall be communicated in
writing to the competent authority of the requested State, either directly or
through the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) channels.

### 3\. The same request shall be confirmed through the diplomatic channels,
and shall contain a reference to the existence of any of the documents,
enumerated in the preceding Article, and intimating the intention of the
requesting State to transmit a request for extradition, a statement of the
offence for which extradition is requested, the sentence specified for that
offence or the sentence imposed, the time and place of the commission of the
offence and a detailed description of the person to be extradited, as far as
possible. The requesting State shall forthwith be notified of any action taken
in respect of the request.

### 4. The provisional arrest and remand shall be made in accordance with the
legal procedures of the requested State.

Article-10

### 1\. The competent authority in the requested State may, if the documents
required under this Treaty are not delivered within forty five days from the
date of the arrest of the person to be extradited, release that person.

### 2\. The period of the provisional detention shall not, in any case, exceed
sixty clays from the date of its commencement.

### 3\. The person to be extradited, may at any time be released on bail, if
the requested State takes all necessary measures to prevent his escape. The
release, of such person shall not prevent his re-arrest and extradition, if
the request for extradition is completed afterwards.

Article-11If the requested State needs additional clarifications to ensure the
compliance with the conditions embodied in this Treaty it shall notify the
requesting State through diplomatic channels, before rejecting the request,
and may fix a date for receiving such clarifications.Article-12If numerous
requests from Contracting States for extradition are made for the same
offence, priority shall be given to the State whose security or interest or
its nationals or their interests are affected by the offence, and then to the
State on whose territory the offence is committed, and lastly to the State of
which the person to be extradited is a national.If the circumstances are
identical then the State which made the first request shall have preference.
If the requests for extradition are for several offences, then preponderance
is accorded to the circumstances of the offence and its
gravity.Article-13Without prejudice, to the right of others acting in good
faith, and to the laws in force in the requested State everything found in
possession of the person to be extradited, at the time of his arrest or remand
or at a later stage, whether being the proceeds of the offence or used in the
commission of, or connected with it, or relevant as evidence, shall be
attached and may be handed over to the requesting State, even if the offender
is not extradited due to his death or his absconding.Article-14

### 1\. The competent authorities in each Contracting State shall determine
the request for extradition in accordance with the law in force at the time of
the request.

### 2\. In the event of accepting the extradition request, the requesting
State shall be notified of the date and place of the extradition.

### 3\. In case the request is rejected, the requested State shall communicate
to the requesting State, through diplomatic channels, the decision taken
giving reasons.

### 4\. The requesting State shall, within thirty days from the date of its
notification of the extradition, receive the person to be extradited,
otherwise the requested State may discharge him, and in such event no second
request for extradition may be accepted for the same offence.

### 5. If exceptional circumstances prevent a Contracting State from
surrendering or taking delivery of the person sought in good time, it shall
notify the other Contracting State prior to the expiration of the time limit.
In such a case, the competent authorities of the Contracting States may agree
upon a new date for the surrender.

Article-15

### 1\. If the person to be extradited is under investigation or standing
trial or is convicted in the requested State for an offence other than that
for which his extradition is requested, then the requested State shall decide
on the request and communicate the decision made, to the requesting State.

### 2\. If the request for extradition is accepted, then the surrender of the
person concerned, shall be postponed until his trial in the requested State is
completed and the punishment passed is executed.

### 3\. The provisions of this Article shall not preclude the possibility of
the provisional surrender of the person concerned to appear before the
judicial authorities of the requesting State, provided that the requesting
State expressly undertakes to return him to the other contracting State, after
the completion of the judicial proceedings pertaining thereto, subject to the
law of the requested State.

Article-16

### 1\. The competent authorities of the requested State shall admit as
evidence, in any proceedings for extradition, any statement taken on oath or
by way of affirmation, any warrant or any certificate or judicial document
stating the fact of conviction, if it is authenticated:

(a)In the case of a warrant being signed, or in the case of any original
document being certified by a judge, magistrate or other competent authority
of the requesting State; and(b)In the case of depositions or statements either
by oath of some witness or by being sealed with the official seal of the
appropriate authority of the requesting State; or(c)In such other manner as
may be permitted by the law of the requested State.

### 2\. The evidence described in paragraph (1) shall be admissible in
extradition proceedings in the requested State whether sworn or affirmed in
the requesting State or in some third State.

Article-17

### 1\. The person to be extradited shall not be tried or punished in the
requesting State except for the offence for which his extradition is sought or
for offences connected therewith, or offences committed after his extradition.
If the characterisation of the offence is modified during the proceedings
taken against the person extradited, he shall not be charged or tried, unless
the ingredients of the offence in its new characterisation, permit extradition
in conformity with the provisions of this Agreement.

### 2\. If the person extradited had the liberty and means to leave the
territory of the State to which he was extradited, and he did not leave within
thirty days subsequent to his final release or left during that period, but
voluntarily returned, he may be tried for the other offences.

Article-18

### 1\. The Contracting State to which the person is extradited shall not
extradite him to a third State, without the consent of the other Contracting
State.

### 2\. The person may be extradited to a third State if the conditions under
Article 17(2) exist.

Article-19The term of provisional remand shall be remitted from any sentence
passed in the requesting State against the person to be extradited.Article-20

### 1\. Transit of a person who is the subject of extradition from a third
State through the territory of a Contracting State to the territory of the
other Contracting State shall be granted on submission of a request, provided
that the offence concerned is an extraditable offence under Article 2, and
that the Contracting State requested to grant transit does not consider the
offence to be one covered by Article 3 or 4.

### 2\. Transit of a national of the requested State may be refused if, in the
opinion of that State, it is inadmissible under its law.

### 3\. The request for transit must be accompanied by documents as mentioned
in this Treaty.

### 4\. The documents mentioned in para 3 above, shall be delivered to the
Requested State within forty five days.

Article-21

### 1\. Each contracting state shall reciprocally bear all the expenses
necessitated by the extradition of the person concerned, except transportation
expenses which shall be borne by the requesting state.

### 2\. The requesting state shall pay the expenses of the return of
extradited person to the place, he was in at the time of his extradition if
his commission of the offence or complicity is not proved.

Article-22Each Contracting State shall in accordance with national laws and
bilateral, agreements afford the other the widest measure of mutual assistance
in criminal matters in connection with the offence for which extradition has
been requested.Article-23This Treaty shall be ratified in accordance with the
constitutional procedures in force in each of the Contracting
States.Article-24Either of the contracting parties may terminate this
agreement by giving six months notice thereof through diplomatic channels.
Upon the expiry of such notice, the agreement shall cease to have any force or
effect.In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by
their respective governments, have signed this agreement.done at new Delhi on
this the twenty-fifth day of October month of one thousand and nine hundred
ninety nine in two originals each in the Hindi, Arabic and english languages,
all the texts being equally authentic. In the event of any differences the
english text shall prevail.Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section(1) of section 3 of the extradition act, 1962 (34 of 1962), the
central government hereby directs that the provisions of the said act, other
than chapter III, shall apply to united Arab emirates with effect from the
date of the publication of this notification.

