## International Treaty - Act

## Extradition Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Tunisia

TREATY  
India

# Extradition Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Tunisia

## Rule EXTRADITION-TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-
AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-TUNISIA of 2004

  * Published on 19 August 2004 
  * Commenced on 19 August 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 August 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Extradition Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of TunisiaPublished vide Notification No. G.S.R.
534(E), dated 19th August, 2004Ministry of External AffairsOrderG.S.R. 534(E).
- Whereas the Extradition between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of Tunisia was signed at Tunis, Tunisia on 4th
April, 2000; and the instruments of ratification exchanged at New Delhi on
28th July, 2004 and which Treaty provides as follows:The Government of the
Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of TunisiaDesiring to
make more effective the cooperation of the two countries in the suppression of
crime and, specifically, to regulate and promote the relations between them in
matters of extradition;Recognising that concrete steps are necessary to combat
terrorism;Have agreed as follows:Article 1Obligation to Extradite(1) Each
Contracting State undertakes to extradite to the other, in circumstances and
subject to the conditions specified in this Treaty, any person who, being
accused or convicted of an extradition offence as described in Article
committed within the territory of the one State, is found within the territory
of the other State, whether such offence was committed before or after the
entry into force of this Treaty.(2) If the Requesting State asserts
jurisdiction in respect of and offence committed outside its territory the
Requested State shall grant extradition where in a similar case it would have
jurisdiction.(3) Extradition shall be granted if the offence is committed in a
third State by a national of the Requesting State.(4) Extradition shall also
be granted for an extradition Offence, if occurred in the Requested State
provided it is an offence under the law of that State punishable with
imprisonment for a term of at least one year.Article 2Extraditable Offences(1)
An offence shall be an extraditable offence only if it is punishable under the
laws of both Contracting States by imprisonment for a period of at least one
year.(2) If request for extradition relates to a person wanted for enforcement
of a sentence, extradition shall be granted only if a period of at least six
months remains to be served.(3) In determining whether an offence is
punishable Under the laws of both Contracting States, it shall not matter
whether:a - The laws of both States place the acts or omissions constituting
the offence within the same category of offence or denominate the offence by
the same terminology;b - Under the laws of the States, the constituent
elements of the offence differ; it is the totality of the acts or omissions
that shall be taken into account.(4) a - An offence may be an extradition
offence notwithstanding that it relates to taxation or revenue or is one of a
purely fiscal character.b - Where extradition is sought for an offence against
a law relating to taxation, customs, duties or other revenue matters,
extradition may not be refused on the ground that the law of the Requested
State does not impose the same kind of tax or duty.(5) If the request for
extradition includes several separate offence each of which is punishable
under the laws of both States, but some of which do not fulfil other
conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, the Requested State
may grant extradition for the latter offences provided the person is to be
extradited for at least one extraditable offence.(6) An offence shall also be
an extraditable offence if it consists of an attempt or a conspiracy to
commit, aiding or abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of, or
being an accessory before or after the fact, to any offence described in
paragraph 1 of this article.Article 3Extradition of NationalsNeither of the
Contracting States shall be bound to extradite the claimed person if that
person is its own national at the time of the commission of the
offence.Article 4The political offence exception(1) Extradition shall not be
granted if the offence in respect of which it is Requested is considered by
the Requested State as a political offence.(2) The following offences shall
not be regarded as offences of a political character:(A) Offences within the
scope of International Conventions and Treaties to which both the Contracting
states are parties;(B) The taking or attempted taking of the life of a Head of
State or members of his family or of a member of the Council of Ministers of
either Contracting State;(C) Crimes affecting human life, body, person and
property notably:a - murder;b - manslaughter or culpable homicide;c - assault
occasioning actual bodily harm, or causing injury, maliciously wounding or
inflicting grivous bodily harm whether by means of a weapon, a dangerous
substance or otherwise;d - the causing of an explosion likely to endanger life
or cause serious damage to property;e - the making or possession of an
explosive substance by a person, who intends either himself or through another
person, to endanger life or cause serious damage to property;f - the
possession of a firearm or ammunition by a person who intends either himself
or through another person to endanger life;g - the use of a firearm by a
person with intent to resist or prevent the arrest or detention of himself or
another person;h - damaging property whether used for public utilities or
otherwise with intent to endanger life or with reckless disregard as to
whether the life of another would thereby be endangered;i - kidnapping,
abduction, false imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the' taking of
a hostage;j - incitement to murder;k - any other offence related to terrorism
which at the time of the request is, under the law of the Requested Party, not
to be regarded as an offence of a political character.Article 5Extradition and
prosecutionIf a request for extradition is refused only on one of the grounds
mentioned in Article 3 and Article 6 (a, b), the Requested State shall, if
asked to do so by the Requesting State, take all possible measures in
accordance with its own law to prosecute the person claimed. For this purpose,
the files, documents and exhibits relating to the offence shall be transmitted
to that State. The Requesting State shall be informed of the result of the
prosecution.Article 6Grounds for refusal of extraditionExtradition shall not
be granted in any of the following circumstances:a - When there are
substantial grounds for believing that a request for extradition for an
ordinary criminal offence has been made for, the purpose of prosecuting or
punishing a person on account of that persons race, religion, nationality or
political opinions or that the person's position may be prejudiced for any of
these reasons;b - If the Requested State asserts jurisdiction in respect of
the offence for which extradition is requested;c - If, according to the Law of
the Requesting State, that State has no jurisdiction in respect of the offence
for which extradition is requested;d - If, according to the law of either
State, the person claimed has become immune by reason of lapse of time from
prosecution or punishment;e - If an amnesty has been granted in either State
before the extradition request has been made in respect of the offence or
offences for which the extradition is sought;f - If the person claimed, has
already been tried and finally acquitted or convicted in respect of the
offence or offences for which extradition is sought;g - If the person claimed
is the subject of proceedings in the Requested State in respect of the offence
for which extradition is Requested;h - If extradition would be incompatible
with humanitarian considerations in view of age or health;i - when the offence
for which extradition is requested is a military offence, which is not also an
offence under the ordinary criminal law of the Contracting States.Article
7Rule of speciality(1) A person extradited under this Treaty shall not be
proceeded against, sentenced, detained, or subjected to any other restriction
of personal liberty in the territory of the Requesting State for any offence
committed before surrender other than;a - an offence for which extradition was
granted;b - Any other offence in respect of which the Requested State
consents.c - Any lesser offence disclosed by the facts proved for the purposes
of securing his return other than an offence in relation to which an order for
his return could not lawfully be made.(2) A request for the consent of the
Requested State under this Article shall be accompanied by the documents
mentioned in paragraph 3 or 4 of Article 11 and a legal record of any
statement made by the extradited person with respect to the offence.(3)
Paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply if the person has had an
opportunity to leave the Requesting State and has not done so within 45 days
of final discharge in respect of the offence for which that person was
extradited or if the person has voluntarily returned to the territory of the
Requesting State after leaving it.Article 8Re-extradition(1) The Contracting
State to which a person has been extradited under this treaty shall not re-
extradite him to a third State without the consent of the Contracting State
that extradited him.(2) The request for consent to re-extradition shall be
accompanied by original or certified copied of the extradition documents of
the third State.(3) Such consent is not required under the conditions set out
in paragraph 3 of Article 7.Article 9Concurrent requests(1) If requests are
received from the Requesting State and from one or more other States for the
extradition of the same person, the Requested State shall determine to which
of those States the person is to be extradited and shall notify the Requesting
State of its decision.(2) In determining to which State a person is to be
extradited, the Requested State shall have regard to all the circumstances
and, in particular to :a - If the requests relate to different offences-the
relative seriousness of the offences;b - The time and place of commission of
each offence;c - the respective dates of the requests;d - the nationality of
the person;Article 10Notification of decision(1) The Requested State shall
inform as soon as possible the Requesting State through the diplomatic
channels of its decision with regard to the request for extradition.(2)
Reasons shall be given for any complete or partial rejection.Article 11Channel
of communication and required documents(1) The request for extradition shall
be made in writing and transmitted through the diplomatic channel.(2) The
request shall be accompanied in all cases by:a - as accurate a description as
possible of the person sought, and any other information which will help to
establish that person's identity, nationality, and location;b - a Statement of
the pertinent facts of the case including the date and place of commission of
the offence;c - the legal description of the offence and a statement of the
maximum penalties therefor and the text of all provisions of the law of the
Requesting State applicable to the offence.(3) If the request relates to a
person charged with an offence, it must also be accompanied by:a - the
original or a certified copy of the warrant for arrest or the equivalent order
issued by a competent authority of the Requesting State for producing that
person before the court;b - such evidence as, according to the law of the
Requested State, would justify the arrest and the committal for trial of the
claimed person if the offence had been committed in the territory of the
Requested State.(4) When the request relates to a convicted person, it shall
also be supported:a - by the original or a certified copy of the judgment of
conviction; andb - if a sentence has been imposed, by the original or a
certified copy of the sentence and a statement of the extend to which it has
been carried out and that it is immediately enforceable.Article 12Form of
evidence(1) A document that, in accordance with Article 11, accompanies a
request for extradition shall be admitted in evidence in any extradition
proceedings, if duly authenticated, in the territory of the Requesting
State.(2) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of this Treaty
if:a - in the case of a warrant it is signed, and in any other case its
authenticity is certified, by a Judge, Magistrate or other competent authority
in the Requesting State; andb - it is sealed with the official seal of an
appropriate Minister of the Requesting State.(3) The evidence mentioned in
paragraph 1 shall be admissible in extradition proceedings in the Requested
State if it is established in accordance with the law of the Requesting State,
or any third State.Article 13Additional informationIf the Requested State
considers that the evidence or information provided in a request of
extradition is not sufficient to enable it to decide on the request,
additional evidence or information shall be submitted to it within such
reasonable time as the Requested State shall specify.Article 14Waiver of
extradition proceedingsIf the person claimed consents to surrender to the
Requesting State, the Requested State may, subject to its laws, surrender the
person as expeditiously as possible without further proceedings.Article
15Mutual legal assistance in extraditionEach Contracting State shall, to the
extent permitted by its law, afford the other widest measure of mutual
assistance in criminal matters in connection with the offence for which
extradition has been requested.Article 16Surrender of the person(1) If
extradition is granted, the Contracting States will decide the place and date
of surrender and the Requesting State shall be informed of length of time for
which the person claimed was detained with a view to surrender.(2) Subject to
the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, if the person claimed has not
been taken over on the appointed date, he may be released after the expiry of
40 days and the Requested State may refuse to extradite him for the same
offence.(3) If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Contracting State
from surrendering or taking over the person to be extradited within the time
stipulated in paragraph 2, it shall notify the other Contracting State. The
two States shall agree on a new date. for surrender and the provisions of
paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply.Article 17Postponement of surrenderThe
Requested State may postpone the surrender of a person claimed if that person
is being proceeded against, or is serving a sentence in posed for an offence
other than that for which extradition is sought and shall so inform the
Requesting State.Article 18Surrender of property(1) If extradition is granted,
all articles including property of any kind and money found in the possession
of the person claimed that may be required as evidence or that have been
acquired as a result of the offence shall, to the extend permitted by the law
of the Requested State, be surrendered by the Requested State.(2) The property
mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be handed over even if
extradition, having been agreed to, cannot be carried out owing to the death
or escape of the person claimed.(3) When the said property is liable to
seizure or confiscation in the territory of the Requested State, the latter
may, in connection with pending criminal proceedings, temporarily retain it or
hand it over on condition that it be returned.(4) Any right which the
Requested State or any other State or party may have acquired in the said
property shall be preserved. Where these rights exist, the property shall be
returned without charge to the Requested State as soon as possible after the
trial.Article 19Provisional arrest(1) In case of urgency, a Contracting State
may request the provisional arrest of a person sought.(2) The request for
provisional arrest shall be made through the diplomatic channel or through
Interpol. The request may be transmitted by post or telegraph or by any other
means affording evidence in writing.(3) The request shall contain:a - A
description of the person sought;b - A statement of the nature of the offence
and of the time at which and the place where it is alleged to have been
committed;c - A statement of the existence of one of the documents referred to
in paragraph 3 (a) or 4 of Article II; andd - A statement that it is intended
to send a request for extradition.(4) On receipt of such a request, the
Requested State shall take the appropriate steps to secure the arrest of the
person claimed. The Requesting State shall be promptly notified of the result
of its request.(5) The person arrested shall be set at liberty upon the
expiration of 60 days from the date of his arrest if a request for his
extradition supported by the relevant documents shall not have been
received.(6) This provision shall not prevent rearrest and institution of the
extradition proceedings if the request is subsequently received.Article
20Transit(1) Where a person is to be extradited to a Contracting State from a
third State through the territory of the other Contracting State, the State to
which the person is to be extradited shall request the other State to permit
transit through its territory.(2) The request of transit shall be transmitted
through diplomatic channels and be accompanied by the documents mentioned in
paragraph 3 (a) or 4 of Article 11 and the description of the person being
transported and a brief statement of the facts of the case.(3) The Requested
State shall grant such a request expeditiously unless its sovereignty,
security or public order would be prejudiced thereby.(4) The State of transit
shall ensure legal provisions enabling the person to be held in custody during
transit.(5) If an air transportation, that doesn't plan a landing in the
territory of the Requested State, is going to be used, it's not necessary to
send a request of transit.(6) Nevertheless, in that case, a notice shall be
given to the State the territory of which will be flown over, about the
existence of the documents mentioned in the paragraph 2 of this Article. This
notice will have the effect of a request of provisional arrest in the event of
an unscheduled landing pending receipt of the transit request.Article
21LanguageDocuments submitted under this Treaty shall be accompanied by a
translation in English.Article 22ExpensesExpenses incurred in the territory of
the Requested State shall be borne by that State. However, the Requesting
State shall bear the expenses incurred in respect of conveying the person
claimed to the Requesting State and any expenses incurred in respect of
transit.Article 23Obligation under International Conventions and TreatiesThe
present Treaty shall not affect the rights and the obligations of the
Contracting States, arising from International Conventions and Treaties to
which they are parties.Article 24Applicable LawsExcept where this Treaty
otherwise provides, proceedings with regard to provisional arrest, extradition
and transit shall be governed by the law of the Requested State and the
International Conventions and Treaties to which both Contracting States are
parties.Article 25Ratification, Entry into Force and Termination(1) This
Treaty shall be subject to ratification and the instruments of ratification
shall be exchanged as soon as possible. It shall enter into force on the date
of the exchange of instruments of ratification.(2) Either Contracting State
may terminate this Treaty at any time by giving notice in writing to the other
State through the diplomatic channel, and the termination shall become
effective six months after the receipt of the notice.In witness whereof the
undersigned being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments,
have signed this Treaty.Done in duplicate at Tunis this fourth day of April,
2000 in Hindi, Arabic and English languages. In case of any interpretational
difference, the English text shall prevail.Now therefore, in exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Extradition Act, 1962
(34 of 1962), the Central Government directs that the provisions of the said
Act, other than Chapter III, shall apply to the Republic of Tunisia with
effect from the date of publication of this notification.

