## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Framing of Schemes Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Framing of Schemes Rules

## Act 170 of 1960

  * Published on 26 November 1960 
  * Commenced on 26 November 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 November 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Framing of Schemes RulesPublished vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 4851,
Revenue, dated 26th November, 1960 - SRO No. A-170 of 1960Original rules
published in Part V of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 21st December I960
(Page 681).G. O. Ms. No. 4851, Revenue, dated 26th November, 1960 - SRO No.
A-170 of 1960. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 64 and 65 of
the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu
Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules,
namely:-

### 1.

These Rules may be called the Framing of Schemes Rules.

### 2.

The consultation required under sub-sections (1), 5(a) and 5(b) of section 64
shall be made in the following manner:-(a)When the [Joint Commissioner or
Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 506, C. T. & R. E., dated
the 13th December 1991.] proposes on his own motion to take action under sub-
section (1) or 5(a), or (5) (b) of section 64 in respect of any institution
coming under that section or where an application under sub-section (1) is
received by him, he shall give notice of his proposal or the application, as
the case maybe, to the trustee or the trustees [and the Assistant
Commissioner, if any] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 506, C. T. & R. E., dated
the 13th December 1991.], having jurisdiction over the institution and the
persons having interest calling upon them to submit any representations they
may wish to make before a date to be specified in such notice, which shall not
be less than two months from the date of its issue.(b)If, after a
consideration of the objections, or suggestions, if any, received by him, he
has reason to believe that a scheme should be settled, or modified or
cancelled, he shall give notice to the trustee or the trustees, Assistant
Commissioner, if any, having jurisdiction over the institution and the persons
having interest, of his intention to settle, modify or cancel a scheme of
administration for the institution and call upon to submit in writing any
objections or suggestions they may wish to make before the date specified in
such notice for an enquiry.(c)The notice under sub-rules (a) and (b) shall be
sent by registered post to the trustee or the trustees and to the Assistant
Commissioner concerned and the persons having interest. A copy of the notice
shall be affixed on the notice board or front door of the temple and in the
case of a specific endowment attached to a temple, on the notice board or
front door of the temple to which the specific endowment is attached, on the
notice board of the [Joint Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted
by G. O. Ms. No. 506, C. T. & R. E., dated the 13th December 1991.], and on
the notice board of the office of the Assistant Commissioner within whose
division the institution is situate, and on the notice board of the office of
the Municipal Council including the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or village chavadi concerned. Such affixture shall be
deemed to be sufficient intimation to persons having interest. All
representations submitted in time by the trustee or the Assistant
Commissioner, or persons having interest shall be taken into consideration by
the Joint Commissioner/Deputy Commissioner in settling, modifying or
cancelling the scheme.

### 3.

While considering the modification or cancellation of a scheme in force
settled or modified by the Court in a suit under sub-section (1) of section 70
or on an appeal under sub-section (2) of that section or of a scheme in force
deemed to have been settled or modified by the Court under clause (1) of sub-
section (2) of section 118, the Joint/Deputy Commissioner shall give notice of
the modifications or the reasons for cancellation proposed by him to the
trustee or the trustees and the Assistant Commissioner, if any, having
jurisdiction over the institution and persons having interest calling upon
them to submit any representations, they may wish to make before a date to be
specified in such notice which shall not be less than two months.

### 4.

Every order of the Joint/Deputy Commissioner settling or modifying or
cancelling a scheme under section 64 shall be published as follows:-(i)by
affixture on the-(a)notice board or front door of the institution concerned,
and in the case of a specific endowment, on the notice board or front door of
the institution to which the specific endowment is attached;(b)notice board of
the office of the Municipal Council, including the Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or village chavadi concerned;(c)notice
boards of the offices of the Assistant Commissioner and the Joint/Deputy
Commissioner concerned;(d)any other conspicuous place in the locality in which
the institution is situated;(ii)by publication in the-(a)District Gazette in
the language of the district concerned in the case of an institution situated
in the district.(b)Tamil Nadu Government Gazette in the case of a specific
endowment attached to temples in more than one district or in the case of an
institution situated in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] or in the case of a specific endowment attached to one or more
institutions in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] and one or more institutions in one or more districts.

### 5.

The consultation required under sub-section (1), 4(a) and 4(b) of section 65
shall be made in the following mariner:-(a)When the Commissioner proposes, on
his own motion, to take action under sub-section (1) or 4(a) or 4(b) of
section 65 or where an application under sub-section (1) is received by him,
he shall give notice of his proposal or the application, as the case may be,
to the trustee or the trustees and the persons having interest calling upon
them to submit any representations they may wish to make before a date to be
specified in such notice which shall not be less than two months from the date
of its issue.(b)If, after considering the objections or suggestions, if any,
received by him, he has reason to believe that a scheme should be settled,
modified or cancelled, he shall give notice to the trustee or the trustees and
the persons having interest, of his intention to settle, modify or cancel a
scheme of administration for the math or a specific endowment attached to a
math and call upon them to submit in writing any objection or suggestion they
may wish to make before the date specified in such notice for an
enquiry.(c)The notice under sub-rules (a) and (b) shall be sent by registered
post to the trustee or the trustees and to the Assistant Commissioner
concerned. A copy of the notice shall be affixed on the notice board or the
front door of the math and in the case of a specific endowment attached to a
math, on the notice board or front door of the math to which the specific
endowment is attached, on the notice board of the office of the Joint
Commissioner/Deputy Commissioner, within whose division the math is situate,
and on the notice board of the Municipal' Council including the Corporation of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or village chavadi concerned.
Such affixture shall be deemed to be sufficient intimation to persons having
interest. All representations submitted in time by the trustee or the trustees
or the Assistant Commissioner, if any, or the persons having interest shall be
taken into consideration by the Commissioner in settling, modifying or
cancelling the scheme.

### 6.

While considering the modification or cancellation of a scheme in force
settled or modified by the Court in a suit under sub-section (1) of section 70
or on an appeal under sub-section (2) of that section or of a scheme in force
deemed to have been settled or modified by the Court under clause (a) of sub-
section (2) of section 118, the Commissioner shall give notice of the
modifications or reasons for the cancellation proposed by him to the trustee
or the trustees and the persons having interest calling upon them to submit
any representation they may wish to make before a date to be specified in such
notice which shall not be less than two months.

### 7.

Every order of the Commissioner, settling, modifying or cancelling a scheme
under section 65(5) shall be published as follows:-(i)by affixture on the
-(a)notice board or front door of the institution concerned, and in the case
of a specific endowment on the notice board or front door of the institution
to which the specific endowment is attached;(b)notice board of the office of
the Municipal Council, including the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or village chavadi concerned;(c)notice boards of the
offices of the Assistant Commissioner and the Joint/Deputy Commissioner
concerned;(d)any other conspicuous place in the locality in which the
institution is situated.(ii)by publication in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.

### 8.

(1)The powers of the Joint/Deputy Commissioner under section 64(5) (a) or the
Commissioner under section 65(4)(a), respectively, to modify or to cancel a
scheme settled or deemed to have been settled by a Court, shall be subject to
the condition that the Joint/Deputy Commissioner or the Commissioner, as the
case may be shall satisfy himself that such modification or cancellation is
necessary under all or any of the following circumstances, namely:-

### 1\. Where the provisions already contained in the scheme could not be
worked out properly in the interests of the institution concerned.

### 2\. Where the provisions though ordinarily precise and complete had become
under altered circumstances unsuitable to carry out the intentions and objects
of the provisions.

### 3\. Where a scheme framed by the Court itself ha.d in like manner become
unsuitable for the purpose.

### 4\. Where it is necessary to provide sufficient safeguards for the
protection of the properties of the institutions and for realisation of the
income therefrom.

### 5\. Where it is felt necessary to eliminate or minimise the difficulties
which may arise in the matter of nomination or election of trustee or trustees
or other procedure, if any, contemplated in such scheme.

