## Union of India - Act

## Governors (Emoluments, Allowances And Privileges) Act, 1982

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Governors (Emoluments, Allowances And Privileges) Act, 1982

## Act 43 of 1982

  * Published on 29 March 2018 
  * Commenced on 29 March 2018 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 March 2018.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by THE GOVERNORS (EMOLUMENTS, ALLOWANCES AND PRIVILEGES) AMENDMENT ACT, 2014 (Act 08 of 2014) on 4 March 2014] 

Governors (Emoluments, Allowances And Privileges) Act, 1982(Act 43 of
1982)Last Updated 30th December, 2019An Act to determine the emoluments,
allowances and privileges of Governors.BE it enacted by Parliament in the
Thirty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short Title, Extent And Commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Governors (Emoluments, Allowances and
Privileges) Act, 1982.(2)It extends to the whole of India [***] [The words
'except the State of Jammu and Kashmir' omitted by Act No. 34 of 2019, s. 95
and the Fifth Schedule (w.e.f. 31-10-2019)].(3)It shall come into force on
such date the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint. [* * *] [ With effect from 1st April, 1987, GSR 342(E) dated 30th
March, 1987]

### 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires.

-[(a) "ex-Governor" means a person who has been the Governor of a State or two or more States; [Substituted by No. 8 of 2014](aa)"Governor" means the Governor, or any person discharging the functions of the Governor, of any State or of two or more States;](b)"maintenance":-(i)in relation to official residences, includes the provisions of electricity, gas and water;(ii)in relation to motor vehicles, includes the pay and allowances of chauffeurs and the provision of oil and petrol and other fuel;(c)"members of the family", in relation to a Governor, means spouse, dependent children and the dependent parents of the Governor;(d)"official residences", in relation to a Governor means such residences as may be specified by the President, by notification in the Official Gazette, as the official residences of the Governor and includes the staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant thereto and the gardens thereof;(e)"rules" means rules made under this Act;(f)"state" does not include a Union Territory.

### 3. Emoluments.

\- There shall be paid to every Governor emoluments at the rate of [rupees
[three lakh fifty thousand] [Substituted by Act 1 of 2009 and made effective
from 1st January, 2006.] per mensem].Provided that if a Governor, at the time
of his appointment: -(a)is in receipt of a pension (other than disability or
wound pension) in respect of any previous service under the Government of
India or any of its predecessor Governments or under the Governments of a
State or any of its predecessor Governments, his emoluments shall be
reduced:-(i)by the amount of that pension; and(ii)if he has, before such
appointment, received in lieu of a portion of the pension due to him in
respect of such previous service, the commuted value thereof, by the amount of
that portion of the pension; or(iii)[ * * * *] [Omitted by Act 1 of 1994](b)is
in receipt of any benefit by way of contributory provident fund, his
emoluments shall be reduced by the pension equivalent of such benefit.

### 4. Leave Allowance.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf, the President shall grant such
leave to a Governor as he may consider necessary.(2)Where a Governor is
granted leave by the President he shall, during the period of such leave, be
paid leave allowance at such rate as the President may by order
determine.Provided that such leave allowance shall be reduced to that extent,
if any, to which the emoluments of the Governor are liable to be reduced under
the proviso to Section 3.

### 5. Use And Maintenance Of Official Residences.

\- A Governor shall be entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of his
official residences throughout his term of office and no charge fall on the
Governor personally in respect of furnishing or the maintenance of such
residences.

### 6. Household Establishment.

\- Subject to any rules made in this behalf, no charge shall fall on a
Governor personally in respect of pay, allowances or pension or other
emoluments paid to, or facilities provided for, the members of the household
establishment provided to the Governor.

### 7. Medical Treatment.

\- Subject to any rules made in this behalf, a Governor and the members of his
family shall be entitled during the term of his office and thereafter also, to
free medical attendance, accommodation and treatment in the hospitals
maintained by the Central Government or the Government of any State.

### 8. Conveyance.

(1)A Governor shall be entitled to use without payment of rent or hire, such
number of motor vehicles as the President, may by order determine.(2)No charge
shall fall on a Governor personally in respect of the maintenance of such
motor vehicles referred to in sub-section (1).(3)The use of motor vehicles
referred to in sub-section (1) by the members of the family of a Governor
shall be regulated by rules made in this behalf.

### 9. Travelling Allowance On Assumption Or Vacation Of Office.

\- Subject to any rules, made in this behalf, a Governor shall be entitled to
travelling allowance for himself and members of his family and for the
transport of his and his family's effects -(a)in respect of the journey for
assuming office from the place where he is ordinarily residing to the place of
his duty; and(b)in respect of the journey on relinquishing office from the
place of his duty to the place where he would ordinarily reside thereafter or
if he is to take up any other office under the Government (including the
office of the Governor of another State) after such relinquishment, to the
place of duty with respect to such other office.

### 10. Allowances For Renewing Furnishings And For Maintenance Of Official
Residences.

\- Subject to any rules made in this behalf, a Governor shall be entitled to
such allowances for renewing the furnishings and for the maintenance of the
official residences, as the President may by order determine.

### 11. Other Privileges And Allowances.

\- For the purpose of enabling a Governor to discharge conveniently and with
dignity the duties of his office, he shall be -(i)entitled to such other
privileges as may be prescribed by rules made in this behalf, and(ii)paid,
subject to any rules made in this behalf, such amount, as the President may,
by general or special order, determine by way of the following namely:
-(a)entertainment allowance;(b)hospitality grant;(c)household establishment
expenses;(d)office expenses;(e)contract allowance, i.e. an allowance for
miscellaneous expenses;(f)tour expenses; and g) such other allowances or
expenses as may be provided for by the rules.

### 12. Additional Expenses.

\- The amount authorised under this Act by way of any allowances or for
meeting any expenses with respect to any matter requires to be increased or
that a need has arisen to sanction expenses with respect to any matter for
which provision, though permissible, has not been made in the rules made under
this Act, he may by special order increase such amount or sanction such
expenses to such extent as may be specified in such order.(2)An order may be
made under sub-section (1) so as to have retrospective effect.(3)Every order
made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before both houses of parliament.

### 12A. [ Entitlement of ex-Governor to secretarial assistance. [Substituted
by No. 8 of 2014]

\- Subject to any rules made in this behalf, the ex-Governor shall, for the
remainder of his life, be entitled to secretarial assistance of one Personal
Assistant on reimbursement basis :Provided that where such ex-Governor is re-
appointed to the office of the Governor or elected to Parliament or the State
Legislature or appointed to any office of profit under the Union or a State
Government, he shall not be entitled for such secretarial assistance for the
period during which he holds such office.]

### 13. Power To Make Rules.

(1)The President may by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular,
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :-(a)grant of leave to
a Governor under Section 4;(b)matters relating to the household establishment
provided to a Governor under Section 6;(c)medical attendance, accommodation
and treatment of a Governor and the members of his family under Section
7;(d)the use of motor vehicles by the members of the family of a Governor
under subsection 3 of Section 8;(e)the travelling allowance on assumption or
vacation of office of a Governor under Section 9;(f)allowances for renewing
the furnishing and for the maintenance of the official residences under
Section 10;(g)the privileges to which a Governor is entitled and the
allowances or expenses payable to a Governor under Section 11.(h)[ the manner
of providing secretarial assistance and reimbursement under section 12A.]
[Substituted by No. 8 of 2014].(3)Every rule made by the President under this
Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before, each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days, which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making modification in the
rule or both the Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 14. Validation.

(1)Every special order issued, before the commencement of this Act, by the
President in regard to the allowances, expenses (including medical expenses)
or privileges of any Governor (other than the Governor of Nagaland) shall,
notwithstanding that such order was made with retrospective effect, or is
inconsistent with any general order issued under any law with respect to those
matters, be as valid and effective as if such special order formed part of
this sub-section and this sub-section had been in force at all material
times.(2)Every general or special order issued, before the commencement of
this Act, by the President in regard to the allowances, expenses (including
medical expenses) or privileges of the Governor of Nagaland shall,
notwithstanding that such order was made with retrospective effect, be as
valid and effective as if it formed part of this sub-section and this sub-
section had been in force at all material times.

### 15. Saving.

\- Nothing contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder shall have
effect so as to diminish the emoluments and allowances of any Governor during
his term of office.

