## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974

TAMILNADU  
India

# Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974

## Rule GUDALUR-JANMAM-ESTATES-ABOLITION-AND-CONVERSION-INTO-RYOTWARI-
RULES-1974 of 1974

  * Published on 7 December 1974 
  * Commenced on 7 December 1974 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 December 1974.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1974Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 695, Commercial Taxes and
Religious Endowments Department, dated 7th December 1974 -SRO A/18/75Published
in Part III-Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated 8th
January 1975.G.O. Ms. No. 695, Commercial Taxes and Religious Endowments
Department, dated 7th December 1974 -SRO A/18/75. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 60 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969), the Governor
of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"Act" means the
Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969);(2)"Authorised Officer" means the Assistant
Settlement Officer having jurisdiction over the area or the Tahsildar of
Gudalur taluk after the introduction of ryotwari settlement in that
taluk;(3)"Form" means a form appended to these rules;(4)"Government Irrigation
work" in respect of a land means the irrigation work (belonging to
constructed, or maintained), by or on behalf of the Government under which the
land has been registered as wet at the settlement;(5)"Section" means a section
of the Act;(6)"Settlement dry assessment" in respect of a land means the dry
assessment appropriate to the soil classification assigned to the land at the
settlement;(7)"Settlement wet assessment" means the.assessment on wet lands
under the settlement notification appropriate to the soil classification
assigned to the land at the settlement;(8)"Settlement estate assessment" in
respect of a land means the estate assessment appropriate to the soil
classification assigned to the land at the settlement;(9)"Settlement
notification" in relation to a land means the settlement notification
published under sub-section (1) of section 20 in respect of the janmam estate
or part thereof in which the land is situated;(10)"Settlement Officer"
includes the Assistant Settlement Officer or Settlement7 Tahsildar wherever
the powers of the Settlement Officer have been delegated to the Assistant
Settlement Officer or Settlement Tahsildar by the Settlement Officer in
writing;(11)"Tahsildar" means the Tahsildar of Gudalur Taluk or any other
officer of the rank of Tahsildar specially appointed in this behalf by the
District Collector.

### 3. Procedure for taking possession of a janmam estate.

(1)The officer authorised by the Government to take possession of a janmam
estates on their behalf under clause (d) of section 3, shall take charge of
only such of the accounts, registers, pattas, muchilikas, maps, plans and
other documents relating to the janmam estates, as are in his opinion
necessary for the administration of the janmam estate. He shall prepare a
detailed inventory of those documents in the presence of the janmi or any
person authorised in writing by the janmi in that behalf and give a copy of
such inventory to the janmi or his authorised representative. Certified copies
of the documents shall be made and given to the janmi, if so required by him
or by his authorised representative.(2)Where the officer referred to in sub-
rule (1) has reason to believe that there are other documents in the
possession or custody of the janmi and is of the opinion that such documents
are essential for the administration of the janmam estate, he may summon the
janmi to produce, all such documents and the janmi shall be bound to produce
them.

### 4. Procedure for taking possession of land in a janmam estate.

(1)Before taking possession of any land in a janmam estate in cases falling
under the proviso to clause (d) of section 3, the Tahsildar shall examine
whether any person or janmi holding the land is prima facie entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of that land or not.(2)If the Tahsildar considers
that the occupant of a land on the appointed day is, prima facie entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of that land, he shall tentatively allow such
occupation to continue, subject to the pay- merit of assessment on the extent
occupied, payable prior to ryotwari settlement and subject to the condition
that the payment of such assessment shall not confer any right of
occupancy.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, occupation for part of
a fasli year shall be deemed to be occupation for the whole of a fasli
year.(3)(a)If the Tahsildar considers that the occupant of a land on the
appointed day is, prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of
that land and that the occupation is objectionable, he shall cause a notice in
Form No. 1 to be served on him calling upon him to show cause why he should
not be dispossessed of the land.(b)The Tahsildar shall examine the
representations, if any, made on the date fixed for the enquiry and, after
such further enquiry as he may consider necessary, shall pass order, either
holding that the occupant prima facie is entitled or is not entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of the land. If the Tahsildar considers that the
occupant is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta and that the occupation
is objectionable, he shall cause a notice in Form No. 2 to be served on the
occupant.(c)On the expiry of the time allowed for filing an appeal or revision
petition or, if an appeal or revision petition has been filed, after the
disposal of such appeal or revision petition, and if the decision in the
appeal or revision is that the occupant is prima facie not entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of the land, an officer not, lower in rank than a
Revenue Inspector duly authorised in this behalf, may formally enter upon the
hand in question and take possession of it and record a certificate of the
village officers and of at least an occupant of the village in which the
janmam estate is situated that the land has been taken possession of by the
Government.(4)If the decision is that the occupant of a land on the appointed
day is, prima facie, not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land,
but that the occupation is not objectionable, the occupation may be allowed
subject to the payment by the occupant of the assessment on the land payable
prior to ryotwari settlement, until the ryotwari settlement of the land is
effected under section 20 or until the land is required by the Government for
any purpose, whichever is earlier. The payment of such assessment shall not
confer on the occupant any occupancy right. Every decision of the Tahsildar in
this regard shall be communicated to the occupant concerned in Form No. 3.

### 5. Period within which appeal against the order under the proviso to
section 3(d) can be filed.

(1)Every appeal against an order under the proviso to clause (d) of section 3,
for deciding the question whether a tenant or a janmi or a cultivator is prima
facie entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of a land or not, shall be
referred to the Revenue Divisional Officer of the division within thirty days
from the date of such order or within such further time as the Revenue
Divisional Officer may, in his discretion, allow:Provided that an order passed
in appeal by the Revenue Divisional Officer shall be subject to revision by
the District Collector and any order passed in revision by the District
Collector shall be subject to a further revision by the [Board of Revenue]
[The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue
Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.]:Provided further that any such order passed in revision by the
Commissioner of Land Administration shall be subject to a further revision by
the Government either suo motu or on application.(2)A revision petition under
sub-rule (1) above shall be preferred within 30 days from the date of
communication of such order or within such further time as the authority may,
in its discretion, allow.

### 6. Revision petition to the Settlement Officer.

\- Any person aggrieved by any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the
Assistant Settlement Officer or the Officer who is exercising the powers
delegated by the Settlement Officer in writing other than those in respect of
which an appeal lies to the Tribunal, may prefer a revision petition to the
Settlement Officer within thirty days from the date of service of the order or
proceedings sought to be revised.

### 7. Revision petition to the Director of Settlements.

(1)Every petition under sub-section (2) of section 5 for cancellation or
revision of any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the Settlement Officer,
shall be preferred to the Director of Settlements within 30 days from the date
of service of such orders or proceedings of the Settlement Officer:Provided
that the Director of Settlements may admit a petition preferred after the
period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient cause
for not preferring the petition within the said period.(2)Revision petition to
the Commissioner, Land Administration.-Any person aggrieved by any of the
orders, acts or proceedings of the Director of Settlements or of the District
Collector including those passed, done or taken in the exercise of revisional
powers may prefer a revision petition to the Commissioner, Land
Administration.(3)Every such petition shall be preferred within thirty days
from, the date of service of the order or proceedings of the Director of
Settlements or of the District Collector, as the case may be:Provided that the
Commissioner, Land Administration may admit a petition preferred after the
expiry or the period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the petitioner has
sufficient reason for not preferring the petition within the said period.

### 8. Enquiry into claims under section 8, 9 or 10.

(1)Every application for grant of ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
section 8,9 or 10 shall be in Form No. 4 and shall be either presented in
person or sent by registered post, to the Settlement Officer, within six
months from the appointed day.(2)Every such application shall be signed and
verified by the applicant and restricted to lands in the holdings in a single
village.(3)If, in respect of any land, no person has applied for patta under
sub-rule (1), the Settlement Officer shall proceed to enquire into the nature
and history of the land suo motu and determine if any person is prima facie
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land.(4)The Settlement Officer
shall, then, fix a date for the enquiry and shall cause a notice in Form No. 5
to be served on each janmi or tenant or cultivator who has applied for
ryotwari patta or who, in the opinion of the Settlement Officer, is prima
facie entitled to a ryotwari patta, to produce any record or make any
representation which he may wish to make at the enquiry. A copy of the notice
shall also be sent to the Tahsildar of the Taluk.(5)The Settlement Officer
shall also publish a notice in Form No. 6 requiring any person who has any
objection to any of the proposal to grant ryotwari patta, to file before him a
statement of his objections, within a week from the date of the notice and
also requesting all interested persons to be present at the enquiry either in
person or through an authorised representative and make their representations.
Copies of the notice shall also be affixed on the notice board of the offices
of the Settlement Officer and of the Assistant Settlement Officer.(6)The date
of the enquiry shall not be earlier than fifteen days from the date of the
publication of the notice referred to in sub-rule (5).(7)The enquiry shall be
summary. The Settlement Officer shall hear the parties and afford them a
reasonable opportunity for adducing any oral or documentary evidence.(8)The
decision of the Settlement Officer shall be published in Form No. 7. A copy of
the decision shall be made available to the party concerned in person or sent
to him by registered post. A copy of the decision shall also be sent to the
Tahsildar of the Gudalur Taluk and to the Director of Settlements.

### 9. Appeal to the Tribunal.

(1)On receipt of an appeal preferred under sub-section (3) of section 12, the
Tribunal shall cause a notice in Form No. 8 to be published requiring all
persons who have applied to the Settlement Officer under section 8,9 or 10 or
filed a statement before the Settlement Officer in the course of the enquiry
under such section, to appear before it.(2)A copy of the notice shall be
served on the applicant, the Tahsildar of the Gudalur taluk and every other
person affected by the appeal, by sending the notice to the individual
concerned by registered post.(3)A copy of the final order of the Tribunal
shall be communicated to the appellant, the respondents and the Tahsildar of
Gudalur Taluk.

### 10. Vesting of buildings.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall enquire into the claims of any person for a
decision as to in whom the building shall vest under section 14 of the
Act.(2)The provisions of rule 8 as in enquiry shall apply mutatis mutandis in
regard to such claims.(3)The power of the Settlement Officer specified in sub-
rule (1) shall "be exercisable also by the Assistant Settlement Officer
subject, to revision by the Settlement Officer, the Director of Survey and
Settlement and the Commissioner of Land Administration. Such revision
petitions, other than, the revision to the Commissioner of Land
Administration, shall be preferred with in thirty days from the date of
communication of the order sought to be revised and the revision petition to
the Commissioner of Land Administration shall be preferred within sixty days
from the date of communication of the order sought to be revised. The
Commissioner of Land Administration may, at any time in his discretion, suo
motu call for, examine and revise, if necessary, any order passed or
proceeding recorded by the Assistant Settlement Officer, the Settlement
Officer or the Director of Survey and Settlement:Provided that the Assistant
Settlement Officer, the Settlement Officer, the Director of Survey and
Settlement or the Commissioner of Land Administration shall not pass any order
prejudicial to any person unless he has had a reasonable opportunity of making
his representations.

### 11. Eviction of occupation of land not entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of it consequent on decision under section 12 or 14.

\- In cases in which the Settlement Officer, the Tribunal, the Special
Appellate Tribunal, the Director of Settlements or the Commissioner, l.and
Administration decides that the occupant of a land is not actually entitled to
a ryotwari patta in respect of that land, the Tahsildar shall serve on him a
notice in Form No. 9. The Tahsildar shall also take such further steps as are
necessary to evict him. Any such eviction shall be carried out in accordance
with the provisions of clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of rule 4:Provided that if
the occupation is unobjectionable and if the occupant states, in writing, that
he accepts the decision of the Settlement Officer, the Tribunal, the Special
Appellate Tribunal, the Director of Settlements or the Commissioner, Land
Administration as the case may be, that he is not entitled to a ryotwari patta
in respect of the land in his occupation and that he will surrender the
possession thereof to the Government when required, if the land is not
assigned to him under the darkhast rules, his petition being treated as his
darkhast application, he need not be evicted. The Tahsildar may allow the
occupation in such cases to continue, subject to the payment of assessment on
the land as determined under section 20, until orders are passed on the
darkhast application or the land is required by the Government for any
purpose, whichever is earlier.

### 12. Liability of an unauthorised occupant of land to be proceeded against
under any law.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall be construed as exempting any person
unauthorisedly occupying land from liability to be proceeded against under any
law for the time being in force.

### 13. Procedure to be followed in cases falling under section 14,15,16,17 or
18.

\- The provisions of rule 11 shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases, in which
the occupant of any land is not entitled, under section 14,15,16,17 or 18, as
the case may be, to remain in occupation of the land.

### 14. Delegation of powers.

\- The powers specified in column (2) of the Schedule below which are
conferred on the Government by the sections of the Act specified in the
corresponding entry in column (1) of the said Schedule may be exercisable also
by any of the authorities or officers specified in the corresponding entry in
column (3) thereof, subject to such control as may be specified in the said
column (3) and also subject to revision by the Government.The Schedule

Section of the Act | Powers |  Authorities or officers by whom the powersshould be exercised  
---|---|---  
Section 3(d) | Power to take possession of janmam estate. |  Collector of the district or such one of thefollowing officers as may be specified by the Collector orRevenue Divisional Officer of the Division or Tahsildar of talukand any other officer of Government not below the rank of aRevenue Inspector.  
Section 9, second proviso |  Power to direct that a person admitted topossession of any land on or after 1st June 1961 be entitled toryotwari patta. | Settlement Officer.  
Section 15, second proviso |  Power to specify rights which a person admittedinto possession of any land for non-agricultural purpose on orafter 1st June 1961 shall be entitled to. | Settlement Officer.  
Section 16 | Power to issue direction under this section. | Settlement Officer.  
Section 17(l)(a) |  Power to terminate any right created before theappointed day by the janmi. | Director of Settlements.  
Section 17(2) |  Power to impose reasonable restrictions on theexercise of any right continued under section 17(1) (a). | Director of Settlements.  
Section 18 (2) (a) |  Power to terminate any right created before 1stJune 1961, for a period exceeding one year. | Director of Settlements.  
Section 18(3) |  Power to impose reasonable restrictions on theexercise of any right continued under section 18 (2) (a). | Director of Settlements.  
  
Explanation. - The Commissioner, Land Administration shall have power to pass
orders suo motu or on application for revision. A further revision shall lie
to Government against the orders of the Commissioner, Land Administration.
Revision petitions to the Commissioner, Land Administration or the Government
shall be presented within sixty days of the date of the communication of the
order sought to be revised.(2)The powers of the Settlement Officer specified
in column (2) of the Schedule below under the sections of the Act specified in
the corresponding entry in column (1) thereof, may be exercisable also by the
officers specified in column (3) thereof.The Schedule

Section of the Act | Powers |  Authorities or officer by whom the powersshould be exercised  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
Section 12 read with section 8 |  To decide the claim of the Janmi for the issueof Ryotwari patta. | Assistant Settlement Officer.  
Section 12 read with section 9 or 10 |  To decide the claim of the tenant or the personbased on personal cultivation for grant of ryotwari patta. |  Assistant Settlement Officer or SettlementTahsildar.  
Section 53 | To decide the question regarding forests. | Assistant Settlement Officer.  
  
### 15. Determination of rent in cases falling under section 24(2).

(1)In cases falling under sub-section (2) of section 24, where the rent which
would have been payable to the janmi in respect of the fasli year in which the
appointed day falls, is in kind or is a share of the produce, the quantity of
such rent shall be determined by the District Collector or any officer
authorised by him, on local enquiries made and with reference to the village
accounts.(2)The rent so determined shall be commuted into cash in accordance
with the prices notified by the Board of Revenue and prevailing on the data on
which the land revenue became payable:Provided that where no such price has
been notified, the rent shall be commuted in accordance with the price which
the District Collector may, after making such local enquiry as he deems fit,
fix as the price prevailing on the date on which the land revenue became
payable.

### 16. Procedure for determination of fair rent.

(1)In respect of lands falling under section 25 (2) (a) where fair rent under
the Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929 (Tamil Nadu XIV of 1930), is not fixed, the
Tahsildar of the, taluk will determine the fair rent in accordance with the
provisions of that Act.(2)Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
Tahsildar may prefer a revision petition to the District Collector.(3)Any such
petition shall be preferred within thirty days from the date of communication
of the order of the Tahsildar:Provided that the District Collector may admit a
petition after the period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the petitioner
had sufficient cause for not preferring the petition within the said period.

### 17. Application for a copy of the data and communication of the order,
determining the basic annual sum.

(1)An application for a copy of the data, on the basis of which the Director
of Settlements proposes to determine the basic annual sum, shall be made by
the Janmi or other persons interested, within two months from such date as may
be notified by the Director of Settlements in this behalf.(2)The Director
shall communicate every order passed under sub-section (1) of section 29 to
every janmi concerned and also to every applicant under sub-section (2) of
section 29 in the manner specified below:-(a)by sending the order free of
cost, by registered post acknowledgement due; or(b)by getting the order served
through the Tahsildar, Gudalur taluk;In cases, where, the order is to be
served on any janmi or any applicant, the Director shall send the order in
duplicate to the Tahsildar who shall arrange to serve one copy on the person
concerned after obtaining his acknowledgement of the duplicate and return the
duplicate copy to the Director within fifteen days from the date of receipt of
the order. Such service on the person shall be effected by giving or tendering
the order to the person concerned or by affixture on his last known place of
residence or of business or by giving or tendering the same to an adult member
of his family.

### 18. Form of payment of compensation.

(1)The compensation payable in respect of every janmam estate shall be paid in
full either in cash or in bonds or partly in cash and partly in bond issued by
the Government.(2)(a)If the basic annual sum in respect of a janmam estate
does not exceed Rs. 5,000, the compensation shall be paid in one lump
sum.(b)If the basic annual sum in respect of a janmam estate exceeds Rs.
5,000, but does not exceed Rs. 25,000, the compensation shall be paid in three
equal annual instalments and in other cases where the basic annual sum exceeds
Rs. 25,000, the compensation shall be paid in five equal annual instalments.

### 19. Period within which compensation in lump-sum or first instalment need
be paid.

\- The compensation in respect of the janmam estate, where it is payable in
one lump sum and the first instalment of the compensation where, it is payable
in instalments, shall be paid not later than nine months from the date on
which the settlement operations in respect of the janmam estate are completed
or where the date is earlier than the date of expiry of the period of
agricultural years referred to in section 26, not later than nine months from
the latter date:Provided that where the amount of the total compensation
stands altered as a result of any order under section 29, or otherwise, after
the payment or payments referred to above have been made, the amount or the
amounts of any deficiency in the payment or payments already made may be paid
at any time, and as soon as may be after the said alteration, and the amount
or amounts of any excess in the payment or payments already made by way of
deposit under sections 31 and 40 may be withdrawn at any time and as soon as
may be after the said alteration.

### 20. Apportionment of compensation and interim payment.

(1)As soon as may be after any amount is deposited under sections 31 and 40 in
the office of the Tribunal, the Director of Settlements shall publish the fact
of such deposit in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, with particulars of the
amount is deposited, the date of deposit and name of the janmam estate to
which it relates.(2)As soon as may be after such publication is made, the
Tribunal shall publish on the notice board of its office, both in English and
Tamil, a copy of the notification as published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(3)The fact of such deposit shall also be published on the notice
board of the Taluk Office of the taluk, in which the janmam estate is situated
and also in the headquarters village of the janmam estate by affixing a copy
of the notice in the village chavadi or in some other conspicuous public place
in the village and also by beat of tom-tom.(4)If there are persons, whose
claims to any amount deposited previously in respect of the same janmam
estate, have been recognised by the Tribunal, it shall give notice to all such
persons and the expenses for issue of such notice shall be distributed among
all the claimants who are before the Tribunal, within the time specified in
section 32.(5)The Tribunal shall pass no orders regarding the apportionment of
any amount so deposited with it until after the expiry of one month from the
date of publication of the notification in respect of the deposit on its
notice board.(6)No claim shall be allowed by the Tribunal except on a claim
petition made to it.(7)The claimants and other persons interested may appear
before the Tribunal in person or through Pleaders duly authorised by them in
this behalf.(8)In the case of a janmam estate, not being an impartible tarwad
governed by section 35, the value of the respective interests in the janmam
estates of the janmi and the other persons mentioned in section 34(1) shall be
ascertained in accordance with the following provisions.(9)In the case of any
such janmam estate, the Tribunal shall, first determine the compensation
payable in respect of the janmam estate and then proceed in accordance with
sub-rule (10) in respect of the compensation payable to the principal
janmi.(10)(a)The Tribunal shall determine the aggregate compensation payable
to all the following persons considered as a single group:-(i)the members of
the tarwad (who are hereinafter called "sharers"); and(ii)other persons, who,
immediately before the appointed day, were entitled to maintenance out of the
janmam estate and its income under any decree or order of a Court, award or
other instrument in writing or contract or family arrangement, which is
binding on the janmi (who are hereinafter called, "maintenance holders"):
Provided that no such maintenance-holder shall be entitled to any portion of
the aggregate compensation aforesaid if, before the appointed day, his claim
for maintenance or the claim, of his branch of the family for maintenance had
been settled, or discharged in full.(b)The Tribunal shall next determine which
creditors, if any, are lawfully entitled to have their debts paid, from and
out of the assets of the janmam estate and the amount, to which each of them
is so entitled; and only the remainder of the aggregated compensation shall be
divisible among the shares and maintenance-holders as hereinafter
provided.(c)(i)The Tribunal shall, in determining the amount of the
compensation payable to the maintenance-holders and apportioning the same
among them, have regard, as far as possible, to the following considerations,
namely:-(1)the compensation payable in respect of the janmam estate;(2)the
number of persons to be maintained out of that estate;(3)the nearness or
relationship of the persons claiming to be maintained;(4)the other sources of
income of the claimant;(5)the circumstances of the family of the
claimant;(ii)for the purpose of securing that the amount of compensation,
payable to the maintenance-holders is apportioned among them on an equitable
basis, the Tribunal shall have power, wherever necessary, to reopen any.
arrangement already made in respect of the maintenance, whether by a decree or
order of Court, award or other instrument in writing or contract or family
arrangement.(d)The balance of the aggregate compensation shall, subject to the
provisions of section 36, be divided among the shares as if they owned such
balance as a Marumakkattayam tarwad and a partition thereof had been effected
among them on the appointed day.(11)In respect of cases governed by section
38, rules 9 and 10 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

### 21. Appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Every appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be in Form No. 10 and
shall be signed by the appellant or his advocate and presented by such
appellant or his advocate or the registered clerk of the advocate at the
office of the Registrar of High Court, Madras, during working hours.(2)It
shall set forth briefly the grounds of objection to the decision appealed
against.(3)It shall be accompanied by a vakalatnama duly executed, if the
appellant appears by advocate, and by a certified copy of the order appealed
against and by as many authenticated copies thereof as there are respondents,
together within the prescribed process fee:Provided that in the case of an
appeal preferred under sub-rule (4), the process fee, shall be paid within
three days, after the delay is condoned under sub-rule (5).(4)Where an appeal
is preferred after the period of limitation prescribed therefor in sub-section
(1) of section 41, it shall be accompanied by a petition for condoning the
delay. The petition shall be supported by an affidavit setting forth the
grounds on which the applicant relies to satisfy the Tribunal that he had
sufficient reason for not preferring the appeal within such period.(5)The
petition shall then be posted for orders before the judges, nominated for the
purpose under sub-section (1) of section 41.(6)As soon as the appeal is
numbered, it shall be placed before the Registrar for orders as to issue of
notice and preparation of the record for the hearing of the appeal.(7)The
record of the case for the use of the Special Appellate Tribunal shall consist
of all material papers on which either party proposes to rely at the hearing
of the appeal.(8)Unless otherwise ordered by the judges or the Registrar at
the instance of a party, the record shall be translated, if need be, and typed
at the office of the Registrar and the charges therefor shall be calculated at
the rates prescribed in the Appellate Side Rules of the High Court.(9)In case
the record is to be prepared at the office of the Registrar, the appellant
shall, within two weeks after the receipt of an office memorandum to that
effect, pay into the Registrar's office such charges, as may be specified in
the said office memorandum.(10)The respondent shall, within three weeks from
the date of service of the notice of appeal on him, obtain the direction of
the Registrar as to the preparation of the record and shall pay the charges
therefor within such time, as may be fixed by the Registrar.

### 22. Award of costs.

(1)No costs, by way of process fee, pleader's fee and witness batta shall be
allowed in proceedings before a Tribunal and Special Appellate Tribunal in
cases where the claim is uncontested or is decreed on admission or
compromised.(2)Where a claim is contested before a Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal, but is allowed in whole or in patt, costs shall be allowed
to the claimant or the appellant in proportion to his success against contest
and the contesting party or the respondent shall pay such costs to the
claimant or the appellant.(3)In the event of any claim before a Tribunal or
the Special Appellate Tribunal being dismissed wholly or in part, costs shall
be allowed to the contesting party or the respondent in proportion to his
success.(4)In cases of frivolous or vexations claims or defences, costs shall
be allowed also by way of compensation as laid down in section 35-A of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).(5)Where costs are
awarded by a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, the order for costs
shall be executable by Civil Court having jurisdiction over the area with
reference to which the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal gave its
decision, as if it were a decree passed by that Court.

### 23. Procedure to be adopted in the case of proceedings before the Judges
of High Court.

\- The provisions of rules 21 and 22 shall, as far as may be, apply to the
proceedings before Judge or Judges of the High Court hearing a case under
subsection (2) of section 41.

### 24. Mode of entertaining appeal or revision petitions, enquiry thereof and
grant of stay.

(1)Every appeal or revision petition under the Act or these rules shall be
accompanied by a duly authenticated copy of the order appealed against or
sought to fee revised.(2)In respect of any order passed under the Act, which
is subject to appeal or revision, the appellate or revisional authority, as
the case may be, may suspend the execution of the order, pending its decision
on the appeal or in revision.(3)Notice of hearing of any appeal or revision as
the case may be, shall be given to the appellant or revision petitioner and
the respondent or respondents and to the other persons interested, if
any.(4)Before passing orders on every appeal, or revision petition, the
parties concerned shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)A
copy of the final order in any appeal or revision shall be communicated to the
appellant or revision petitioner and the respondent or respondent and other
persons interested, if any, or the counsel concerned, if any of them is
represented by counsel, by registered post and also the Tahsildar of the taluk
and the Settlement Officer.Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule
"persons interested" means the janmi of the janmam estate or part thereof in
which the land is situated and includes any other person claiming an interest
in the compensation payable for the janmam estate or part thereof.

### 25. Time barred application, appeal or revision petition to be dismissed.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act and these rules, every application
made and every appeal and revision petition presented to the authorities or
officers having, jurisdiction under the Act and these rules, after the period
of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these rules, shall be
dismissed although limitation has not been set up as a defence.(2)No such
application made or appeal and revision petition filed shall be admitted after
the prior of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these rules on the
ground that the applicant or the appellant or the petitioner had sufficient
cause for not preferring the application or appeal or petition within such
period.

### 26. Extend or boundaries of land covered by orders of any authority under
Act.

\- The extent of boundaries of the land covered by any order passed by any
authority or officer in any proceedings under the provisions of this Act shall
be subject to any changes, consequent on the determination of the fair area
and map plotting by the survey authorities.

### 27. Power to issue summons.

\- The Settlement Officer, the Assistant Settlement Officer, the Tahsildar and
any other Officer working under the Settlement Officer, Assistant Settlement
Officer and the Tahsildar shall have powers to issue summons to any person
either for appearance or for production of documents in connection with the
enquiries into questions pending before such officer under the Act and such
person shall be bound to obey such summohs. The form of summons shall be that
used by Revenue Courts.

### 28. Manner of service and publication of notices and orders under the Act
or the rules.

(1)Any notice or order issued or made under the Act or under these rules shall
be served on the person concerned in the following manner, namely:-(a)by
delivering or tendering the notice or order to the person concerned or his
counsel or authorised agent or an adult member of his family; or(b)by sending
the notice or order to the persons concerned by registered post
acknowledgement due; or(c)if none of the aforesaid modes of service is
practicable, by affixing the notice or order in some conspicuous part of the
last known place of residence or business of the person concerned.(2)Any
notice or order, which is intended for publication, for general information
shall, in addition to the Special modes of publication prescribed in these
rules, also be published by affixture in the village chavadi of the village in
which the janmam estate is situated and if there is no village chavadi, in any
conspicuous public place in the village, and by announcing the fact of such
publication by beat of tom-tom in the village. The village officer shall
certify to the place and date of publication and the said date shall be deemed
to be the date of communication of the notice or order, as the case may be,
within these rules to the parties concerned.

### 29. Deposit in District Court of unclaimed and un-disbursed amount
deposited with the Tribunal.

(1)-(a) All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 31 and sub-sections (4) and (7) of section 40 and remaining
unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been made within the time
specified in sub-section (1) of section 32 or no application for payment has
been made within the time specified in section 44; and(b)all amounts deposited
as aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of disposals of the application under section 44 shall be
withdrawn by the Tribunal and be deposited in the District Court having
jurisdiction over the janmam estate.(2)As soon as any amount is withdrawn by
the Tribunal from its personal deposit or other account and deposited in the
District Court having jurisdiction under sub-section (1) of section 45, the
Tribunal shall publish the fact of such deposit in the District Gazette
concerned in Form No. 11.The Tribunal shall also cause a copy of the notice
board of its office. It shall also send a copy of the notification to the
District Judge, the Settlement Officer, the District Collector and the
Tahsildar, who shall cause it to be affixed on the notice boards of their
respective offices and send a certificate of such publication to the
Tribunal.(3)On the transfer of the amount from the personal deposit or other
account of the Tribunal to the Account of the District Court, it shall be
charged off as an expenditure in the account of the Tribunal.

### 30. Form in which claim should be made.

\- Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against, any amount held in
deposit by the District Court shall apply in Form No. 12.

### 31. Levy of process fee, award of costs, etc.

\- In respect of the levy of process fees, the award of costs including costs
by way of compensation for frivolous or vexatious claims or defences, the
pleader's fee and witness batta, the District Court shall follow the rules
applicable to the Tribunals.

### 32. Procedure for dealing with amounts transferred to deposit of the
District Court.

\- The amount transferred to the deposit of the District Court shall be
finally dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in rules 51 to
60 in Chapter III of Part I of the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders
(Volume II).

### 33. Application for a copy of the data by pattadar, etc.

\- Every application for a copy of the data on the basis of which the
Settlement Officer proposes to determine the contribution payable by each
pattadar shall be made by any pattadar or other person interested, within two
months from the date of publication in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, of a
notification by the Settlement Officer that he proposes to determine the
contribution payable.

### 34. Publication of fact of determination of contribution.

\- As soon as may be after the determination of the contribution payable by a
Pattadar under section 47 of the Act, the Settlement Officer shall publish the
fact of such determination in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, with full
particulars of the contribution.

### 35. Recovery of contribution.

\- The annual instalments of contribution payable by every' pattadar shall be
payable to the Tahsildar in cash in the first kist month of every fasli year.
The first annual instalment shall be payable in the first kist month of the
fasli year succeeding that in which the Settlement Officer determines the
contribution payable by? the pattadar under section 47.

### 36. Transfer of title.

\- Notice shall be given in Form No. 13 to the Settlement Officer or Tahsildar
of Gudalur taluk on introduction of settlement by every transferor and
transfers under sub-section (1) of section 50 of the Act or by any person to
whom the title of a deceased person shall be transferred as heir or otherwise
under sub-section (2) of that section.

### 37. Decision of questions regarding forests.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall determine questions regarding forests under
section 53 either suo motu or an application.(2)Any person requiring a
decision under section 53 shall apply to the Settlement Officer in Form No.
14.(3)Except, where the application is on behalf of Government, it shall be
signed and verified by the applicant.(4)Every such application shall be
restricted to the lands in a holding of a janmam estate in a single
village.(5)Every such application shall be presented in person or sent by
registered post.(6)As many copies of the application, as there are respondents
with one additional copy for the Tahsildar of the Taluk in which the land is
situated, shall be filed with the application(7)On receipt of the application,
the Settlement Officer shall fix a date for hearing and issue notice in Form
No. 15 to the applicant, the respondents and the Tahsildar of the Taluk. A
copy of the application shall be sent along with the notice.(8)The Settlement
Officer shall make a summary enquiry into the application and give his
decision in writing, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity for
adducing evidence(9)A copy of the order shall be served on the applicant and
on each of the respondents. A copy shall also be sent to the Officer
immediately superior to the Officer making the enquiry and to the Tahsildar of
the taluk.

### 38. Appeal to Director of Survey and Settlements.

(1)Every appeal against an order of the Settlement Officer under section 53
shall be presented to the Director of Survey and Settlement within thirty days
from the date of receipt of the order.(2)On receipt of the appeal, the
Director of Survey and Settlement shall fix a date for hearing and issue
notice in Form No. 16 to the parties concerned. He shall give them a
reasonable opportunity of being heard before passing orders.(3)[ The Director
of Survey and Settlement, Madras, may of his own motion, call for and examine
the record of the Settlement Officer in respect of any proceedings under
section 53 of the Act, to satisfy himself as to the regularity of such
proceedings, or the correctness, legality or propriety of any decision passed
or order made therein; and, if, in any case, it appears to the Director of
Survey and Settlement that any such decision or order should be modified,
omitted, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, he may pass order
accordingly.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1, C. T. & R. E., dated the 2nd January
1986.]

### 39. Revision by the Commissioner, Land Administrations.

(1)Every revision against the orders of the Director of Survey and Settlements
under section 53 shall be preferred to the Commissioner, Land Administrations
within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order.(2)On receipt of the
revision petition, the Commissioner, Land Administrations shall fix a date for
hearing and issue notice in Form No. 17 to the parties concerned. He shall
give them a reasonable opportunity of being heard before passing orders.(3)[
The Commissioner of Land Administration may of his own motion call for and
examine the record of the Settlement Officer/Director of Survey and Settlement
in respect of any proceedings under section 53 of the Act to satisfy himself
as to the regularity of such proceedings, or the correctness, legality or
propriety of any decision passed or order made therein; and, if, in any case,
it appears to the Commissioner of Land Administration that any such decision
or order should be modified, omitted, reversed or remitted for
reconsideration, he may pass order accordingly.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1, C.
T. & R. E., dated the 2nd January 1986.]

### 40. Court-fees and process fees payable.

(1)The Court-fee of the documents specified in column (2) of the table below,
under the section specified in column (1) of the said table, shall be the
amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) thereof:-The Table

Section | Description of document | Court-fee (Rs.)  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
Section 6(c) |  Revision petition to the Commissioner, LandAdministrations | 2  
Section 12 |  Application to the Settlement Officer Appeal tothe Tribunal. Application to the Tribunal Vakkalatnama to theTribunal | 0.75 2.00  
Sections 9,14, 15 and 16 | Application to the Settlement Office |   
Section 29(6) |  Appeal to the Commissioner, LandAdministrations. | 2  
Section 41(1) |  Memorandum of appeal to the Special AppellateTribunal- |   
| (a) if the claim does not exceed Rs. 3,000 | 15  
|  (b) if the claim exceed Rs. 3,000 but does notexceed Rs. 10,000 | 100  
|  (c) if the claim exceeds Rs. 10,000Interlocutory application to the Special Appellate Tribunal | 2  
| Vakkalatnama to the Special Appellate Tribunal | 3  
Section 45(3) | Application to the District Court - | 5  
| (a) if the claim does not exceed Rs. 100 |   
| (b) if the claim exceeds Rs. 100 | 10  
Section 53 | Application to the Settlement Office | 0.75  
| Appeal to the Director of Settlements | 1  
|  Revision petition to the Commissioner, Land Administrations. | 1.5  
  
Explanation. - No Court-fee need be paid in the case of appeals filed on
behalf of the Government.(2)In proceedings before the Tribunal, process fees
shall be paid at the rates prescribed for the District Court on processes
issued at the instance of parties. In proceedings before the Special Appellate
Tribunal, process fees shall be paid in accordance with the process fees
prescribed under section 80 of the Tamil Nadu Court-Fees and Suits Valuation
Act, 1955. The rates of process fees leviable for service of notice and
summons on respondents and witnesses and for production of records shall be as
follows:-

(i) |  for service of notice or summons on a singleperson. | 1.5  
---|---|---  
(ii) |  for service of notice or summons on everyadditional person residing in the same village if applied for atthe same time | 0.75  
  
### 41. Fees to pleaders.

\- The following principles shall be adopted in fixing the fees to pleaders
for work connected with the proceedings under the Act before the Special
Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal:-(1)Fees payable to pleaders for
appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal. - The Special Appellate
Tribunal shall, for taxation, fix the fees payable to pleaders, for work
connected with the proceedings before it, in the same manner in which the High
Court fixes advocate's fee for taxation in appeals against the orders of lower
Courts, irrespective of the fact whether it allows costs to any of the
contesting parties or not:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected
cases, in which the results are determined by a single case, only one
regulation fee shall be fixed.(2)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance
before the Tribunal. -(a)The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to pleaders
for work connected with the following original proceedings before them so as
not to exceed 500 in ordinary cases and Rs. 1,000 in important
cases;(i)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of compensation under
section 34;(ii)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of interim payment
under sub-section (4) of section 40;(iii)Proceedings connected with the
division of the lands in respect of which a ryotwari patta has to be granted
under section 37:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected cases in
which the result is determined by a single case, only one regulation fee shall
be fixed.(b)(i)The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to Pleaders for work
connected with proceedings under the other provisions of the Act on the
following basis, namely: -(1)for appearance before the Tribunal and for
preparation of the case- A fixed fee of Rs. 15 for each case in respect of
appeals under sub-section (3) of section 12.(2)for appearance before the
Tribunal for arguments in respect of appeals under sub-section (3) of section
12 -(a)if the time taken does not exceed 3 hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 15 for
each case;(b)if the time taken exceeds three hours, but does not exceed 6
hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 30 for each case; and(c)if the time taken exceeds 6
hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 50 for each case:Provided that in respect of a batch
of connected cases under sub-section (3) of section 12, in which the result is
determined by a single case, the Tribunal shall fix one regulation fee
only.(ii)The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to each of the Pleaders, by
its orders irrespective of the fact whether it allows any costs to any of the
contesting parties or not.(3)Fees to Law Officers before the Special Appellate
Tribunal. - The Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix the Advocates' fee for
taxation in the same manner in which the High Court does in the case of
appeals against the orders of the lower Courts.The Special Appellate Tribunal
shall fix the fee payable to the pleaders in each case in its order
irrespective of the fact whether it allows costs or not.Form No. 1[See rule
4(3) (a) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Office of the Tahsildar ofGudalur TalukDateCurrent
No............................ToThiru...........residing
at.........village...........taluk.Whereas you are reported to be in
occupation-of the land specified in the Schedule hereunder which Vests in the
Government under section 3(b) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969) and whereas
there are grounds to believe that you are not prima facie entitled to a
ryotwari patta in respect of the said land and that your occupation is
objectionable, you are hereby given notice that if you so desire, you may
appear before me on [(date)] [The date should be at least seven days after the
date of service of the notice.] at ..........(time) at......(place), or show
cause, in writing before that date, why you should not be dispossessed of the
said land under the proviso to section 3(d) of the said Act.Tahsildar.The
Schedule

District and Taluk | Name of Janmam Estate | Name of village |  Survey No. and subdivision Number, if surveyed orlocal name, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey Number or subdivision | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North. East. Southand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of occupant  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Tahsildar.Form No. 2[See rule 4(3)(b) of the Gudalur Janrnam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Proceedings of the
Tahsildar of Gudalur Taluk

No ......................... | Date .............................  
---|---  
  
Whereas the land specified in the Schedule hereunder has been under the
occupation of Thiru.........residing at.........And Whereas in pursuance of
rule 4(3)(b) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1974.1,......, Tahsildar of Gudalur Taluk do hereby consider
that the said occupant is not prima facie entitled to a ryotwari patta in
respect of the said land; andAnd Whereas I Tahsildar of Gudalur Taluk consider
that the occupation is ............. objectionable, the said occupant will be
dispossessed of the said land after the lapse of the time limit in rule
4(3)(c).The Schedule

District and Taluk | Name of Janmam Estate | Name of village |  Survey No. and subdivision Number, if surveyed orlocal name, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey Number or subdivision | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North. East. Southand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of occupant  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Tahsildar.Form No. 3[See rule 4(4) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Proceedings of the Tahsildar of
Gudalur Taluk

No. .............. | Date ......................  
---|---  
  
Whereas the land specified in the Schedule hereunder has been under the
occupation of Thiru ............................. residing at
.................................;And Whereas in pursuance of rule 4(4) of the
Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974.
I, ................................., Tahsildar of Gudalur Taluk do hereby
declare that the said occupant, namely, Thiru ...........is not primafacie
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of the said land;And Whereas I,
....................................the Tahsildar of Gudhlur taluk consider
that the occupation is not objectionable, the occupant Thiru will be allowed
to be in occupation of the land, subject to the payment of assessment on the
land, until the ryotwari settlement of the land under section 20 or until the
land is inquired by the Government for any purpose, whichever is
earlier.Explanation. - The payment of the assessment shall not confer on the
occupant any right of occupancy in respect of the land.The Schedule>

District and Taluk | Name of Janmam Estate | Name of village |  Survey No. and subdivision Number, if surveyed orlocal name, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey Number or subdivision | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North. East. Southand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Assessment | Name of occupant  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Tahsildar.Form No. 4[See rule 8(1) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Form of Application:Name of the
Janmam Estate:Name of the Janmi/tenant/cultivator:Address of the
Janmi/tenant/cultivator:(List of lands in respect of which the janmi
/tenant/cultivator claims ryotwari patta)-

### 1\. Serial Number:

### 2\. Name of district:

### 3\. Name of Taluk:

### 4\. Name of village:

### 5\. Local name, if any, of the land:

### 6\. Survey number and sub-division (if surveyed):

### 7\. Extent (in acres and cents or local measurements):

### 8\. Classification, whether wet or dry:

### 9\. Survey Numbers of adjacent lands:

North:East:South:West:

### 10\. Provision of law under which the claim is preferred:

### 11\. Summary of the evidence proposed to be adduced:

### 12\. Remarks:

Place:Date: | Signature of janmi/tenant/cultivator.  
---|---  
  
Note. - A separate form should be used for each village in the janmam
estate.Form No. 5[See rule 8(4) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Notice is hereby given to
Thiru..............Janmi/tenant/cultivator of Janmam estate that the Assistant
Settlement Officer/Settlement Officer ...........will hold an enquiry into the
nature and history of the land mentioned in the Schedule below, in respect of
which it is proposed to decide his claim for the grant of ryotwari patta on
(date) at (time) in (place), and on subsequent dates at time and place that
will be intimated. He may produce any record or make any representation which
he may wish to make, before the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Officer at the enquiry.Assistant Settlement
Officer._________________________Settlement Officer.The ScheduleName of the
District:Name of the Taluk:Name of the Village:Name of the Janmam Estate:

Survey Number and subdivision number | Classification | Extent (Acre.) | Boundaries | Name of the claimant |  Section of the Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969 underwhich patta is proposed to be given |  Section of the Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969 underwhich the claim is to be dealt with  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToThiru ........................ Janmam/tenant/cultivator in duplicate through
the Tahsildar of............................taluk, for causing service, at
least, fifteen days prior to the date of hearing obtaining acknowledgement and
returning the original before the date of hearing.The Tahsildar
of.............taluk (in duplicate) for causing publication in the
village...........at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by
affixture in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous, public place in the
village which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tomtom
and for returning the original with the following
certificates:-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing
a copy thereof in the village chavadi (or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on and in token
thereof signature of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | [Signature of the Village Headman] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].[Signature of the Karnam] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].  
---|---  
  
Form No. 6[See rule 8(5) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1974]Notice is hereby given to all those to
whom it may concern that in respect of the land mentioned in the Schedule, it
is proposed to decide the claim for the grant of ryotwari patta to the person
and under the section of the Gudalur Jan-mam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969) specified against each
land. The Assistant Settlement Officer/ Settlement Officer will hold an
enquiry into the nature and history of the lands
on.........................(date) at.................(time)
in............................ (place) and on subsequent dates at time and
place that will be intimated.Any person who has any objection to any of the
proposals to grant ryotwari patta may file before the Assistant Settlement
Officer/Settlement Officer, a statement of his objection within a week from
the date of this notice. The objections should be supported by a summary of
evidence and all available documents.All persons interested are hereby advised
to be present at the enquiry, either in persons or through an authorised
representative, and make their representations All such objections and
representations and other available records and evidence will he taken into
consideration and suitable orders will be passed by the Assistant Settlement
Officer/Settlement Officer.In the absence of any such objection or
representation, the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Officer will
conduct such enquiry as he may deem necessary on the basis of the available
records and evidence. In the event of the absence of any interested person,
the enquiry, will be conducted and decided ex parte. The [village headman]
[Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative
Officers are appointed.] and [the karnam] [Now these posts were abolished and
in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.] shall be
present at the enquiry.

Place:Date: | Assistant Settlement Officer.  
---|---  
  
Name of the District:Name of the Taluk:Name of the Village:Name of the Janmam
Estate:

Survey Number and sub-division | Classification | Extent (Acres) | Boundaries | Name of the claimant |  Section of the Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969 underwhich patta is proposed to be given  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
ToThiru..........(name of party) (in duplicate) through the Tahsildar of
Gudalur Taluk for causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date of
hearing, obtaining acknowledgement and returning the original before the date
of hearing.The Tahsildar of taluk (in duplicate) for causing publication in
the village.......at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by
affixture in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the
village which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tomtom
and for returning the original with the following
certificates:-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing
a copy thereof in the village chavadi...........(or some conspicuous place to
be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on and in token
thereof signature of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | [Signature of the Village Headman] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].[Signature of the Karnam] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].  
---|---  
  
Form No. 7[See rule 8(8) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]It is hereby notified for the
information of all concerned that under section read with section of the
Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969), the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Officer has decided that in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule,
the persons specified against each land in column (5) of the Schedule is
entitled to ryotwari patta. Any person aggrieved by this decision may prefer
an appeal to the Tribunal within three months, a revision to the Settlement
Officer/Director of Settlements within thirty days from the date of
decision.Assistant Settlement Officer.Settlement Officer.The ScheduleName of
the DistrictName of the TalukName of the VillageName of the Janmam Estate

Survey Number and sub-division | Classification | Extent (Acres) | Boundaries | Name of the persons to whom ryotwari patta is allowed |  Section of the Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969 under whichpatta is proposed to be given  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
ToThe Tahsildar of Gudalur taluk (in duplicate) for causing publication by
affixture in the village chavadi or in some conspicuous public place in the
village which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom
and for returning the original with the following
certificates:-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing
a copy thereof in the village chavadi (or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on............; and,
in token thereof signature of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | [Signature of the Village Headman] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].[Signature of the Karnam] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].  
---|---  
  
Form No. 8[See rule 9(1) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Notice is hereby given that an appeal
from the decision of the Settlement Officer under section 12(1) of the Gudalur
Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu
Act 24 of 1969) has been presented by and admitted by the Tribunal and has
been posted for hearing on the day of 20 at (place);All persons who have
preferred claims before the Settlement Officer/Assistant Settlement Officer
under section 8, 9 or 10 or filed statements during the enquiry before him are
hereby called upon to appear before this Tribunal on the date at the place
specified above and file their further statements, if any, in the matter.A
copy of the appeal petition is appended
hereto.Tribunal.To....................................................................................The
appellant in duplicate through the Tahsildar of Gudalur taluk for causing
service at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing, obtaining the
acknowledgement and returning the original before the date of hearing.The
Tahsildar of Gudalur taluk (in duplicate) for causing publication in the
village of...........at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by
affixture in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the
village, which should be specified, announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom and
returning the original with the following certificate:-CertificateCertified
that the notice was published by affixing copy thereof in the village chavadi
(or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat
of tom-tom on .....; and, in token thereof signatures of villagers have been
obtained.

Place:Date: | [Signature of the Village Headman] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].[Signature of the Karnam] [Now these posts were abolished and in their place Village Administrative Officers are appointed.].  
---|---  
  
Form No. 9[See rule 11 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Office of the Tahsildar of Gudalur
talukPlace:Dated:ToThiru..............residing
at........village............taluk..............Where as it has been decided
by the Assistant Settlement Officer/ Settlement Officer/Tribunal/Special
Appellate Tribunal/Director of Settlements/[Board of Revenue] [The Board of
Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G.
O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] that you are not
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of the land in your occupation
mentioned in the Schedule hereunder, you are hereby required to vacate the
land within seven days from the date of service of this notice failing which
you will be evicted from the land.Take notice also that the Revenue Inspector,
............ Firka.is hereby authorised to carry out the orders of eviction
and to take possession of the land.The Schedule

District and Taluk | Name of Janmam Estate | Name of village |  Survey No. and subdivision Number, if surveyed orlocal name, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey Number or subdivision | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North. East. Southand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of occupant  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
| Tahsildar,  
---|---  
Copy to the Revenue Inspectorfor eviction and report. | Firka.  
  
Form No. 10[See rule 21(1) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Form of Memorandum of appeal under the
Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969)Before the Special Appellate TribunalAppeal
No...................................of 20
..............(A.B.)................................................Appellant(C.D.)
etc.....................................................The above named
appeals to the Special Appellate Tribunal from the decision of the Tribunal
No.................... dated the and in Application/Petition No.............of
20 and set forth the following grounds of objections to the said decision
appealed from, viz.(Here set out the grounds).Signature of the appellant.Form
No. 11[See rule 29(2) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Particulars of amounts deposited in the District
Court of by the Tribunal under section 45(1) ofthe Gudalur Janmam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969)

1\. Name of the Janmam Estate. |   
---|---  
2\. Nature of the amount deposited (whethercompensation or Interim payment). |   
3\. Amount deposited. |   
4\. Date of original deposit with the Tribunal. |   
5\. (1) Whether unclaimed or undisbursed ? |   
(2) If undisbursed - |   
(a) Number and date of the order in which the payment was orderedby the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal. |   
(b)Name of the person, in whose favour the order for payment wasmade; and |   
(c) Amount ordered for payment. (Rs. P.) |   
6\. Remarks: |   
  
Place:Date:Form No. 12[See rule 30 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Form of Application to be Made to
the District Court Under Section 45(3) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969)

1\. Name of the applicant and full address. |   
---|---  
2\. Name of the janmam estate, to which the claimrelates. |   
3\. Date and page of the District Gazette, inwhich the notification regarding the deposit of the amount withthe District Court was published. |   
4\. (a) Nature of theamount in deposit (whether compensation or interim payment).(b) Whether the application is in respect of unclaimed amount orundisbursed amount. |   
5\. Nature of interest held. |   
6\. Details of claim and the provision of lawunder which the applicant is entitled to the amount held indeposit. |   
7\. The amount claimed out of the total amountdeposited in the District Court by the Tribunal. |   
8\. Reasons for the delay in preferring the,application, if any. |   
9\. In the case ofundisbursed amounts, particulars of orders passed by theTribunal, the Special Appellate Tribunal in respect of which anapplication for payment under section 44 should have beenprepared.(i) Number and date of order of Tribunal or Special AppellateTribunal.(ii) Nature of the amount (compensation or interim payment),(iii) Amount ordered for payment.(iv) Name of the person in whose favour an order of payment waspassed.(v) Remarks. | (Rs. P.)  
10\. Is the original or a certified copy of theorder of the Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal enclosed? |   
11\. Summary of the evidence proposed to beadduced in support of the claim. |   
12\. Any other information relevant to thisapplication. |   
  
Place:Date: | Signature of the applicant  
---|---  
  
Form No. 13[See rule 37(2) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Form of Notice to be Given Under Section
so of the Act

1\. Name of the Janmam Estate |   
---|---  
2\. Name and address of the transferor |   
3\. Local Name, if of the transferee |   
4\. Nature of the transfer - |   
(a) Whether by way of transfer falling under section 50(1) of theAct |   
(b) Whether by succession falling under section 50(2) of the Act |   
5\. The particulars of land involved in thetransfer: |   
Serial Number |  Survey Number orsub-division No. | Extent |  Assessment of thefield |  Classification of theland  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5  
|  |  |  |   
6\. Particulars of documents evidencing suchtransfer or succession |   
7\. Remarks |   
  
Place:Date: | Signature of transferor.Signature of transferee.  
---|---  
  
ToThe Settlement Officer/Tahsildar, Gudalur taluk.Form No. 14[See rule 37(2)
of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1974]Form of Application Under Section 53 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969)

1 | Name of the applicant and his address. |   
---|---|---  
2 |  Name of the janmam estate in which the land orforest in dispute lies. |   
3 |  Local Name, if any, of the land or forest indispute. |   
4 | Extent. |   
5 | Nature of the dispute' and relief sought. |   
  
Place:Date: | Signature of the applicant.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 15[See rule 37(7) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Before the Settlement OfficerName and
address of the applicant.............................Name and address of
respondent.....................................Application, dated
............................................Take notice that the applicant
mentioned above has applied to me for a decision under section 53 of the
Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969) in respect of the land mentioned in the copy of
the application which is sent herewith. The application is posted for hearing
on..............(date) at (time) (place). You are hereby required to appear
before me, in person or by-pleader, at the time, and place aforesaid, failing
which orders are liable to be passed ex parte.

Place:Date: | (Seal) | Settlement Officer.  
---|---|---  
  
Form No. 16[See rule 38(2) of the Gudalur Janmam Elates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Before the Director of SettlementsName
and address of the applicant.....................................Name and
address of the respondent....................................Notice, is hereby
given that an appeal against the decision of the Settlement Officer under
section 53 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969) has been presented by
............. and admitted by the Director of Settlements and has been posted
for hearing on (date) at.................... (time) in
................................... (place).All persons, who have applied to
the Director of Settlements under section 53 of the said Act or filed
statements during the appeal before him are hereby called upon to appear
before the Board of Revenue at the time and place specified above and file
their further statement, if any, in the matter.

Place:Date: | (Seal) | Director of Settlements.  
---|---|---  
  
Form No. 17[See rule 39(2) of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1974]Before the Commissioner, Land
AdministrationName and address of the
applicant................................Name and address of the
respondent.................................Notice is hereby given that a
revision against the decision of the Director of Settlements under section 53
of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act,
1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1969) has been presented by and admitted by the
Commissioner, Land Administration and has been posted for hearing on section
53 of the said Act or filed statements during the enquiry before him are
hereby called upon to appear before the Director of Settlements at the time
and place specified above and file their further statement, if any, in the
matter.All persons who have applied to the Settlement Officer under (date) at
(time) in...........................................................(place).

Place:Date: | (Seal) | Commissioner, Land Administration.  
---|---|---

