## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Hindu Marriage (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1967

TAMILNADU  
India

# Hindu Marriage (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1967

## Act 21 of 1967

  * Published on 20 January 1968 
  * Commenced on 20 January 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 January 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Hindu Marriage (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1967(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1967)Received the assent of the President on 17th day of January 1968 and
first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated 20th
January 1968.An Act further to amend the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, in its
application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas
it is necessary to render valid Suyamariyathai of Seerthiruththa marriages;And
Whereas it is expedient further to amend the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (Central
Act 25 of 1955), in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] for the purposes hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted
by the Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] in the Eighteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Hindu Marriage [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Amendment) Act, 1967.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].

### 2. Insertion of new section.

\- A in Central Act 25 of - After section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955
(Central Act 25 of 1955), the following section shall be inserted, namely:-

### 7A. Special provision regarding suyamariyathai and seerthiruththa
marriages. - (1) This section shall apply to any marriage between any two
Hindus, whether called suyamariyathai marriage or seerthiruththa marriage or
by any other name, solemnized in the presence of relatives, friends or other
persons -

(a)by each party to the marriage declaring in any language understood by the
parties that each takes the other to be his wife or, as the case may be, her
husband; or(b)by each party to the marriage garlanding the other or putting a
ring upon any finger of the other; or(c)by the tying of the
thali.(2)(a)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, but subject to
the other provisions of this Act, all marriages to which this section applies
solemnized after the commencement of the Hindu Marriage [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment) Act, 1967, shall be good and valid in
law.(b)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7 or in any text, rule or
interpretation of Hindu law or any custom or usage as part of that law in
force immediately before the commencement of the Hindu Marriage ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment) Act, 1967, or in any other law in force
immediately before such commencement or in any judgment, decree or order of
any Court, but subject to sub-section (3), all marriages to which this section
applies solemnized at any time before such commencement shall be deemed to
have been, with effect on and from the date of the solemnization of each such
marriage, respectively, good and valid in law.(3)Nothing contained in this
section shall be deemed to-(a)render valid any marriage referred to in clause
(b) of sub-section (2), if before the commencement of the Hindu .Marriage
l[Tamil Nadu] Amendment) Act, 1967,-(i)such marriage has been dissolved under
any custom or law; or(ii)the women who was a party to such marriage has,
whether during or after the life of the other party thereto, lawfully married
another; or(b)render invalid a marriage between any two Hindus solemnized at
any time before such commencement, if such marriage was valid at that time;
or(c)render valid a marriage between any two Hindus solemnized at any time
before such commencement, if such marriage was invalid at that time on any
ground other than that it was not solemnized in accordance with the customary
rites and ceremonies of either party thereto:Provided that nothing contained
in this sub-section shall render any person liable to any punishment
whatsoever by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by him before such
commencement.(4)Any child of the parties to a marriage referred to in clause
(b) of sub-section (2) born of such marriage shall be deemed to be their
legitimate child:Provided that in a case falling under sub-clause (i) or sub-
clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (3), such child was begotten before
the date of the dissolution of the marriage or, as the case may be, before the
date of the second of the marriages referred to in the said sub-clause (ii).

