## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Holding of Inquiries Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Holding of Inquiries Rules

## Act 895 of 1961

  * Published on 30 August 1961 
  * Commenced on 30 August 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 August 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Holding of Inquiries RulesPublished vide Notification No. SRO No. A-895 of
1961Original rules Published in Part V, of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated
30th August, 1961.SRO No. A-895 of 1961. - In exercise of the powers conferred
by clause (iii) of sub-section (2) of section 116 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu
Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely:-

### 1.

These Rules may be called the Holding of Inquiries Rules.

### 2.

An Assistant Commissioner acting under the powers delegated to him under sub-
section (3) of section 14 or vested in him under any of the provisions of the
Act or the rules made thereunder, [xxx] [Words 'or Commissioner after
obtaining the approval of the Government' were omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 3347,
Revenue, dated the 23rd November 1963.] [the Joint Commissioner, Deputy
Commissioner, the Commissioner, the Government, as the case may be,] [Added by
G. O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E., dated the 15th July 1997.] (hereinafter
referred to as the appropriate' authority) acting under the powers vested in
it by any of- the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder may, in
any proceedings taken by or instituted before it under the provisions of the
Act, issue notice to the trustees or the Executive Officer of the religious
institution concerned or the respondent in any application filed before it to
show cause against any action applied for or proposed to be taken.

### 3.

Where any such proceeding is taken on the application of a trustee or a person
having interest and it is deemed necessary by the appropriate authority that
notice of the application shall be given to any other person, the applicant
shall pay charges in cash for the issue of notice at such rate [as may be
fixed, from time to time] [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E.
dated the 17th April 1989.], by the Government for preparation of process and
postal expenses for issue of registered notice to each respondent. If owing to
non- service or any other reason, a notice has to be issued again, the
applicant shall pay the charge for such re-issue at the said rate.

### 4.

Where a party to a proceeding is served with notice and appears or fails to
appear, he shall not be entitled to any further notice except where the
proceeding is taken up on a date prior to the date to which it is posted and
is re-posted to another date or where the Issue of a fresh notice is required
by the Act or the rules made thereunder.

### 5.

Final orders made in such proceeding shall be communicated to the parties or
their pleaders, if any, by post.

### 6.

At any stage during the course of any proceeding, the appropriate authority
may, on his or1 their own motion or at the request of any party, issue summons
to any person to give evidence as a witness or to produce any document in his
possession and may examine him as a witness or require him to produce such
document.

### 7.

Every summons for the attendance of a person to give evidence or to produce a
document shall specify the time and place at which and the date on which he is
required to attend and also whether his attendance is required for the purpose
and any particular document, which the person summoned is called upon to
produce, shall be described with reasonable accuracy.

### 8.

Whoever is summoned to appear and give evidence in a proceeding shall attend
at the time and place mentioned in the summons for that purpose and whoever is
summoned to produce a document shall either attend to produce it or cause it
to be produced at such time and place or cause such document to be sent by
registered post so as to reach the authority who summoned him at such time and
place.

### 9.

The summons, shall be sent by registered post acknowledgement due. If the
appropriate authority is satisfied that the person to whom a summons is sent
wilfully absents himself from his residence or refuses to receive the summons,
he may order that the summons shall be affixed on the front door or other
conspicuous place in his usual place of residence. If the person has changed
his residence, the notice shall be sent to the changed address, if it is known
or a copy of the notice shall be affixed on the front door or other
conspicuous place of the last known residence. On such affixture, he may
declare that there has been sufficient service.

### 10.

Service shall, in all cases, be made in sufficient time before the time
specified in the summons for the attendance of the persons summoned, to allow
him a reasonable time for preparation and for travelling to the place at which
attendance is required.

### 11.

A person summoned either to give evidence or to produce a document shall,
along with the summons, be given such batta and travelling allowance with the
rate fixed in the Civil Rules of Practice framed under the Code of Civil
Procedure by the High Court of judicature at Madras.

### 12.

No summons shall be issued at the instance of a party unless the party first
pays to the appropriate authority such sum as in his opinion is sufficient to
defray the travelling and other expenses of the person summoned in passing to
and from the place at which attendance is required and for one day's
attendance or where the summons is for sending a document through post, the
charges for so sending the document and the charges for transmitting the
amount to witness by postal money order.

### 13.

Where it is necessary to detain the person summoned for a longer period than
one day, the party at whose instance he was summoned shall pay to the
appropriate authority such sum as he or they may fix to defray the expenses of
such detention for such further period and, in default of such deposit, the
person summoned shall be discharged without being required to give evidence.

### 14.

(1)Where a witness is about to leave the jurisdiction of the appropriate
authority or other sufficient cause is shown to the satisfaction of the
appropriate authority why his evidence should be taken immediately, the
appropriate authority may, on the application of any party or of the witness,
at any time after the institution of the proceeding, take the evidence of such
witness.(2)Where such evidence is not taken forthwith and in the presence of
the parties, if any, such notice, as the appropriate authority thinks
sufficient, of the day fixed for the examination, shall be given to the
parties, if any.

### 15.

The appropriate authority may, at any stage of an enquiry, recall any witness
who has been examined and may put such questions to him, as the appropriate
authority may think fit.

### 16.

(1)The appropriate authority may, in his or their discretion, upon the
application of any of the parties to a proceeding, send for, either from his
or their own records or from any other public officer the record of any
proceedings and inspect the same.(2)Every application made under this rule
shall be supported by an affidavit showing how the record is material to the
proceeding in which the application is made, and that the applicant cannot
without unreasonable delay or expense obtain a duly authenticated copy of the
record or of such portion thereof as the applicant requires, or that the
production of the original is necessary for the purpose of justice. If the
application is granted, the appropriate authority shall address a letter of
request to the officer or the Court in whose custody the record is.(3)The
applicant shall deposit in cash the expenses for transmission of the letter of
request and for sending for, and the return of, the record.

### 17.

All persons who appear in response to the notice issued or published in
proceedings under sections 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 69, 71 and 72 shall, within the
time fixed in the notice or within such further time as may be granted, file
written statements containing their objections or suggestions. The Deputy
Commissioner, Joint Commissioner or the Commissioner, as the case may be, may,
however, permit any person who has not filed a written statement to make
representations at the time of inquiry.

### 18.

Any party to the proceedings shall have a right to appear in person or by
pleader, to adduce oral and documentary evidence and to apply for summoning
witnesses or documents.

### 19.

The Deputy Commissioner, [Joint Commissioner] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 275, C.
T. & R. E., dated the 16th July 1997.] or the Commissioner, as the case may
be, shall record the oral evidence of witness in his own handwriting.

### 20.

The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908)
and the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders shall apply, as far as
practicable, to appearance of pleader and to affidavits, production of
documents, examination of witnesses, taking of oral evidence, proof by
affidavits, filling of exhibits, issue of commissions, return of documents not
admitted in evidence, and other connected matters, and the inquiry shall be
made, as far as practicable, in the manner laid down in the said Code for the
trial of suits.

### 21.

(1)Any person whether a party or not, desirous of receiving back any document
produced by him in proceedings before the Deputy Commissioner, [Joint
Commissioner or the Commissioner, as the case may be] [Substituted by G O. Ms.
No. 275, C. T. & R. E., dated the 16th July 1997.], shall, unless the
documents have been impounded, be entitled to receive back the same, -(a)where
the proceeding is one in which the order made is not liable to be questioned
by a suit in a Court, but is one in respect of which an appeal to the
Commissioner or to the Government, as the case may be, is allowed, when the
time for preferring the appeal has elapsed without the appeal being preferred
or when the appeal, having been preferred has been disposed of; and(b)where
the proceeding is one in which the order made is liable to be questioned by a
suit in a Court, if the time for filing the suit has elapsed without the suit
being filed or if a suit has been filed when the suit or an appeal from the
decree therein has been disposed of:Provided that a document may be returned
at any time earlier than that prescribed by this rule if the person applying
thereof delivers to the Joint/ Deputy Commissioner [Joint Commissioner or the
Commissioner, as the case may be] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E.,
dated the 16th July 1997.], a certified copy to be substituted for the
original and undertakes to produce the original, if required.(2)An application
for the return of a document shall give the date and description of the
document, the number of the proceeding in which and the date on which it was
produced and the exhibit mark it bears. On the return of a document, a receipt
shall be given by the person receiving it.

