## Union of India - Act

## Indian Nursing Council (Diploma in Public Health Nursing) Regulations, 2020

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Indian Nursing Council (Diploma in Public Health Nursing) Regulations, 2020

## INDIANNURSINGCOUNCIL F-NO-11-1-2019-INC- of 2022

  * Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary on 7 October 2022 
  * Commenced on 7 October 2022 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 October 2022.] 

.No. 11-1 /2019 -INC . –In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section
(1) of Section 16 of Indian Nursing Council Act , 1947 (XLVIII of 1947 ), as
amended from time to time , the Indian Nursing Council hereby makes the
following regulations , namely :

### 1. SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT

i. These Regulations may be called the Indian Nursing Council (Diploma in
Public Health Nursing ), Regulations ,2020.ii . These shall come into force on
the date of its notification in the Official Gazette of India.

### 2. DEFINITIONS

In these Regulations , unless the context otherwise requires,i. ‘the Council
'means the Indian Nursing Council constituted under the Act ;ii. ‘RN & RM '
means a Registered Nurse and Registered Midwife (RN & RM) and denotes a nurse
who has completed successfully ,recognized Bachelor of Nursing (B.Sc. Nursing
) or Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM ) course , as prescribed by
the Council and is registered in a SNRC as Registered Nurse and Registered
Midwife ;iii. 'RANM ' means a Registered Auxiliary Nurse Midwife and denotes
an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife who has completed successfully , recognized
Auxiliary Nurse Midwifery (ANM ) course as prescribed by the Council and is
registered in a SNRC as Registered Auxiliary Nurse Midwife ;iv . 'RLHV ' means
a Registered Lady Health Visitor and denotes a Lady Health Visitor who has
completed successfully ,recognized Lady Health Visitor (LHV ) course as
prescribed by the Council and is registered in a SNRC as Registered Lady
Health Visitor.

### 3. INTRODUCTION

India is a vast country with a huge population .Though ,there is a recent
shift from the villages to cities and towns , most of the people of India
still live in the rural areas .Health Sub Centers and Primary Health Centers
are the primary focal point of delivery of health care services of the
community . The health care of the rural and urban masses rest on the
shoulders of the ANM (MPHWs ), LHV and the Public Health Nurses (PHNs ). They
are the liaison between thecommunity health care system and institutional
health care system .These health work forces are expected to provide a wide
range of important comprehensive health services to the community.Provision of
Comprehensive Primary Health Care (CPHC) is the main focus of the National
Health Policy ,2017 , pertaining to primary health care , through
establishment of Health and Wellness Centers (HWCs). The Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare (MoH & FW ), Government of India envisages competent
nursing personnel to be placed at these centers as well as in Primary Health
Centers to organize and provide health care . MoH & FW and the Council have
examined the career path for in -service cadre of nursing personnel working in
the public health department .Under the National Health Mission (NHM ),task
shifting is recommended to the cadre of service providers . The Council has
committed itself to develop a structured career path for ANMs . LHVs and GNMs
.It was recommended that the LHVs with four years of service and an additional
one year of training will be eligible to become Block Public Health Nurses .In
view of improving the standards of Public Health Nursing , the Council has
prepared this syllabus for promotional training for LHVs /GNMs .It is
envisioned that this would help in the development of a competent nursing
workforce in the community for universal access to good quality health care
services and thereby enabling our country to attain the sustainable
development goals.

### 4. PHILOSOPHY

The Council believes that the LHVs and GNMs need to be further trained to
become the Block PHNs to function in various emerging public health areas of
practice and the training should be competency based. This one year of
additional training program would prepare the LHVs with skills and knowledge
to deliver competent, intelligent and appropriate care to individuals,
families and communities in the block level.

### 5. CURRICULAR FRAMEWORK

The Diploma in Public Health Nursing (DPHN ) is a one year training program
and its curriculum is conceptualized encompassing foundational short courses
and major specialty courses for public health nursing and management.The
foundations to public health nursing such as applied microbiology and
pathology, Nutrition and food safety, Information, Education and Communication
including individual and family education and counselling and the major
specialty courses are organized under Community Health Nursing -I & Community
Health Nursing -II.Community Health Nursing -1 comprises of introduction to
community health nursing , organization of public health care delivery system
, Comprehensive primary health care services , Epidemiology , Health
Information Management System (HIMS ) and National Health programs.Community
Health Nursing -II comprises of Reproductive Child Health including Adolescent
health (RMNCH + A ), Population dynamics and control , Specialized role of
public health nurses : Geriatric Health care, Palliative care , Oncology
nursing , Rehabilitation nursing , School health nursing , Occupational health
nursing ,Quality Assurance in Community health nursing practice , Emergency
and disaster management , Community health nursing administration : Management
and supervision , leadership and resource management are the short courses
that aim to provide the trainees with the knowledge , attitude and
competencies essential to function as accountable , safe and competent public
health nurses .

### 6. AIM

This program aims to prepare LHVs to function in the capacity of Public Health
Nurses enabling them to provide comprehensive health care to individuals ,
families and communities at the block level . It further aims to equip
themselves as public health nurses in the Primary Health Care centers and
Health Wellness Centers . This additional training program also prepares them
to be efficient managers at the middle level as well as at the district level
in monitoring and supervising the activities of MPHWs and Lady Health Visitors
, in the efficient implementation of national health programs and policies ,
collect , analyze , manage and utilize public health data and to promote
harmony and efficiency within the health team to improve the quality of health
care .

### 7. . COMPETENCIES

On completion of the program , the trainees (Block Public Health Nurse ) will
be able to :i. Apply basic sciences in the assessment ,diagnosis and treatment
of the physiological, physical, psychological, social and spiritual problems
of individuals and their families with various communicable and non-
communicable diseases.ii . Relate the influence of environmental factors and
sanitation on health and diseaseiii. Identify the importance of food safety in
prevention of food borne diseasesiv . Provide health education /counseling to
individuals and families applying the principles and techniques of behavior
change appropriate to community settingsv . Communicate effectively with
individuals , families and professional colleagues fostering mutual respect
and shared decision making to enhance health outcomesvi . Use epidemiological
approach in community diagnosisvii . Provide reproductive maternal newborn and
child health care including adolescent careviii . Demonstrate specialized
practice competencies /skills relevant in providing community based care to
patients with diseases and disordersix . Demonstrate skills in implementing
various national health programs in the communityx . Participate actively in
the special roles such as school health nurse , occupational health nurse
,disaster nursexi . Understand the role of a block public health nurse in
health information management and manages public health data effectivelyxii .
Demonstrate understanding of leadership and resource management strategies and
use them in public health care settings promoting collaborative and effective
teamworkxiii . Demonstrate skill in managing the sub center , primary health
center /community health center /first referral units , and health wellness
centersiv. Demonstrate skills in the supervision of other health workers and
members of health team in the field practice areaxv . Conduct special clinics
and organize special programs in the community as per the emerging need.

### 8. SCOPE OF PRACTICE

On completion of the program and certification ,the Lady Health Visitors
should be employed in the public health system as a public health nurse in the
block level.

### 9. GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF PROMOTIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM FOR LADY
HEALTH VISITORS

### 1\. The program can be offered at

Government School of Nursing /Public Health Oriented Training Centre

### 2\. Faculty :

a. Qualification and Experience of
Teachers![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-27%20at%2012-04-44%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-10-10%20-%20239558.pdf.png)b
. Full time teaching faculty in the ratio of 1:10C. Guest faculty : multi
-disciplinary in relation to the subjects /courses .

### 3\. Budget :

a. There should be separate budgetary provision for staff salary , honorariums
for guest faculty and part time teachers , clerical assistance , library and
contingency expenditure for the program in the overall budget of the
institution.

### 4\. Physical and learning resources :

a. Class room /conference room 1b. Teaching aids :c. Community Health Nursing
Skill lab for simulated learning at the instituted. Library and computer with
internet facilitye.C.a .i. OHPii. LCD projector with laptopiii . Manikins and
simulators for learning Office :i. Services of DEO and MTSii. Computer with
printer ,Xerox machineiii. Telephone facilities

### 5\. Clinical facilities :

a. The institution should have adopted at least 30,000 rural population and
20,000 urban population .b. Permission to utilize the Government Primary
Health Centers /Community Health Centers and Sub Centers.c. Residential
facilities at the PHC /CHC.

### 6\. Admission Terms and Conditions :

A candidate should havei. Undergone the LHV course with minimum of four years
of service experience .ii. RN & RM or equivalent with 5 years ' service
experience .iii. Age Limit :Should be less than 50 years .iv . Be physically
fit.b . Selection should be made based on the seniority -cum -merit .C. Number
of seats 20-30 as per the availability of community field practice area .

### 7\. Salary /stipend :

a . In -service candidates will get their regular salary

### 10. EXAMINATION GUIDELINES

Examinations would be conducted by the examination board or university .

### 1\. Eligibility for appearing in the exam :

a . Attendance :theory and practical - 100 %b . Internal examination :not less
than 50 % in theory and
practical![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-27%20at%2012-12-13%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-10-10%20-%20239558.pdf.png)For
each subject the marks required for qualifying shall be 50 % in Theory and
Practical separately ineach semester . 80 % of the total marks should be
termed as distinction .

### 11. CERTIFICATION

### 150.

Marks be given for internal assessment , for Theory & Practical .Internal
assessment should be done by tests , assignment throughout the session
.Practical Internal assessment should be based on Clinical experience , field
Experience .Students must secure minimum 50 % marks in the Theory Paper
(external ) to pass and 50 % marks inthe Practical exam (external ).A
candidate has to pass in theory and practical exam separately in each of the
paper .If a candidate fails in either theory or practical paper he /she has to
re -appear for both the papers (Theoryand Practical ) along with next batch .

### 3\. Practical examination :

a . OSCE : Objective Structured Clinical Examination type of examination
should be followed for 50 % ofthe marks alongside viva in the internal and
final examination .b . Maximum number of students per day : 10 students .C.
Examination should be held in the clinical area only .d . The team of
practical examiners would include one internal and one external examiner .
Teachers of theDiploma in Public Health Nursing program is preferred .A
candidate who fails to pass in 3 attempts will be discontinued from the course
i.e. a candidate will getan opportunity to pass the semester examination in 3
attempts including first attempt .The course is compulsorily a residential
program .

### 80. % attendance in theory and 100 % in practical & field training is
compulsory for eligibility to appear

for the examination .

### 4\. Standard of passing :

The candidate should obtain at least 50 % marks separately in internal
assessment and externalexamination in each of the theory and practical papers
.Less than 60 % is second division .

### 60. % to 75 % is first division .

More than 75 % is distinction .Students will be given opportunity of maximum 3
attempts for passing .

### 12. PROGRAM STRUCTURE :

### 1\. Title : Diploma in Public Health Nursing

### 2\. A diploma is awarded on the successful completion of the prescribed
study program which will state that :

a. Candidate has completed the prescribed course of study.b. Candidate has
completed 100 % requirements of the clinical experience.C. Candidate has
passed the prescribed examination.d. Any type of leave taken by the candidate
during the course period should be compensated before the completion of the
course for the award of the
Diploma.![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-27%20at%2012-13-51%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-10-10%20-%20239558.pdf.png)Course
break -up :TotalweeksinayearVacation (AL + CL + SL + public holidays )Exam
preparation and examinatioTheory and practical experienceImplementation of
curriculum :Block classes 2 weeks × 40 hoursResidency of 42 weeks × 45 hours
per weekTotal:52 weeks= 6 weeks

### 2\. weeks

### 44. weeks= Theory

Lab/SkillLab Hours-

### 110. 30

### 200. hours 40 weeks

ClinicalExperience

### 40. \+ 720 hours

= 80 hours= 1890 hours= 1970 hoursBlock classes (Theory and Skill lab
experience ) = 2 weeks × 40 hours per week (80 hours )(Theory = 74 hours ,
Skill lab = 6 hours , total 80 hours )(1 + 16 weeks )Clinical practice
including theory and skill lab = 42 weeks x 45 hours per week (1890 hours
)(Theory = 126 hours , Skill lab = 34 hours , Clinical = 1730 hours )Theory =
200 hours , Skill lab = 40 hours , Clinical = 1730 hours (10 % : 90 % )Field
experience

### 23.

### 1730. hours (38

weeks )Field experience should start after 70 % of the theory is completed
.Students should be posted in the Community Health Center /Block PHC /PHC for
residential posting .C. Students should be posted for 8 hour duty during the
day .PlacementsThe students will be posted to the under mentioned clinical
area during their training period.For course description details visit -
https://ia801507.us.archive.org/16/items/in.gazette.central.e.2022-10-10.239558/239558.pdf

