## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1960

TAMILNADU  
India

# Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1960

## Act 24 of 1960

  * Published on 21 October 1960 
  * Commenced on 21 October 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 October 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1960(Tamil
Nadu Act 24 of 1960)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Industrial Employment
(Standing Orders) Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of l969).
- In section 2(c) of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
(Central Act XX of 1946), the Certifying Officer is defined as "the Labour
Commissioner wherever he exists, or in his absence, an officer appointed by
the appropriate Government by notification in the Official Gazette to exercise
in such area as may be specified in the notification the functions of a
Certifying Officer under this Act". In this State, the Commissioner of Labour
is functioning as the Certifying Officer under the Act. The Industrial
Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, applies to establishments wherein 100
or more workmen are employed. With the application of that Act to all
factories as defined, in the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act 63 of 1948),
about 4,546 additional factories will submit standing orders for
certification. It is necessary and desirable that the certification of
standing orders of all these factories is completed as expeditiously as
possible. If the Commissioner of Labour alone were to be the Certifying
Officer, it will take a long time to complete the work of certification. It
is, therefore, necessary to amend the Act suitably making provision therein
for appointment of additional officers.There is at present no provision in the
Act enabling the State Government to prescribe any fee for the certification
of standing orders or for the modification thereof. As it is considered
necessary to levy a small fee, it is proposed to amend section 15 of the Act
suitably to empower the State Government to make rules prescribing the fee.The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV-A, pages 158-159
of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th April
1960.Received, the assent of the President on the 21st October 1960 and first
published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 2nd November 1960.An Act
further to amend the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, in its
application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended, by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient
further to amend the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
(Central Act XX of 1946), in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended, by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] for the purpose hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted in the
Eleventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act maybe called the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended, by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment Act, 1960.(2)It extends to the whole of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended, by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of section 2 Central act XX of 1946.

\- To clause (c) of section 2 of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders)
Act, 1946 (Central Act XX of 1946), the following proviso shall be added,
namely:-"Provided that the State Government may, in relation to industrial
establishments in respect of which it is the appropriate Government, appoint,
by notification in the Official Gazette, any officer subordinate to the Labour
Commissioner to exercise, in such area as may be specified in the
notification, the functions of a Certifying Officer under this Act, and any
officer appointed as aforesaid may exercise those functions, whether or not
the Labour Commissioner is absent."

