## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Industrial Disputes (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Industrial Disputes (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1963

## Act 9 of 1963

  * Published on 26 May 1963 
  * Commenced on 26 May 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 May 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Industrial Disputes (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1963(Tamil Nadu Act 9 of
1963)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Industrial Disputes (Tamil Nadu
Amendment) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1963). - Under section 2(n)(vi) of
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947), the appropriate
Government can declare only those industries specified in the First Schedule
to the Act as public utility services. The leather and the oxygen and
acetylene industries have not been included in that Schedule. The Government
have received representations requesting that the leather industry may be
declared as a public utility service under the said Act. The process of
leather tanning consist of various stages stretched over a period of thirty
days and if the process at one stage were to be interrupted even for a few
hours the skins and hides would get damaged, and consequently the threat of
strikes with little or on notice to the managements should be eliminated. It
has also been represented that the oxygen and acetylene industry is vital for
the defence and economy of the country and that any sudden interruption in the
production and distribution of their products will seriously dislocate
important industries and institutions. It is therefore, considered that the
First Schedule to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, should be amended to
include the leather and the oxygen and acetylene industries so as to enable
the Government to declare the said industries as public utility services.2\.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Please see Part IV-Section 3, page
62 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th March
1963.Received the assent of the Governor on the 26th May 1963 and first
published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 29th May 1963.An Act
further to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in its application to the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Be it enacted by the Legislature of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Industrial Disputes [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the words 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Amendment Act, 1963.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].

### 2. Amendment of the First Schedule to Central Act XIV of 1947.

\- In the First Schedule to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV
of 1947), after item 10, the following items shall be added, namely:-"11.
Leather.

### 12. Oxygen and acetylene."

