## Union of India - Act

## Industrial Park Scheme, 2008

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Industrial Park Scheme, 2008

## Rule INDUSTRIAL-PARK-SCHEME-2008 of 2008

  * Published on 8 January 2008 
  * Commenced on 8 January 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 January 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Industrial Park Scheme, 2008Notification No S.O. 51(E). Dated 8.1.2008

### 1155.

Government of IndiaMinistry of FinanceDepartment of Revenue[Central Board of
Direct Taxes]Notification New Delhi, The 8th January, 2008S.O. 51(E). - in
Exercise Of The Powers Conferred By Clause (Iii) Of Sub-Section (4) Of Section
80-Ia Of The Income-Tax Act, 1961 (43 Of 1961), The Central Government Hereby
Frames The Following Scheme For Industrial Parks, Namely:-

### 1. Short title, commencement and application.

(1)This Scheme may be called the Industrial Park Scheme, 2008.(2)It shall come
into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.(3)The
scheme shall be applicable for any undertaking which develops, develops and
operates or maintains and operates an industrial park.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)“Act” means the
Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);(b)“allocable area” means area available for
allocation to the units for industrial activity or commercial activity and
shall exclude the area utilized for providing common facility or
infrastructure facility;(c)“associated enterprise” shall have the same meaning
as assigned to it in section 92A of the Act;(d)“commercial activity” means any
activity which is not an industrial activity;(e)“common facility” means
facilities required for proper functioning of industrial park and commonly
shared by all the units located in the industrial park and include facilities
like lifts, corridors, industrial canteens, convention/ conference halls,
parking, travel desks, security service, first aid centre, ambulance, safety
service training facilities;(f)“date of commencement” means the date of
obtaining the completion certificate or occupation certificate, as the case
may be, from the relevant local authority, certifying thereby that all the
required development activities for the project have been completed;(g)“Form”
means a form appended to this Scheme;(h)“industrial park” means a project in
which plots of developed space or built up space or a combination, with common
facilities and quality infrastructure facilities, is developed and made
available to the units for the purposes of industrial activities or commercial
activities in accordance with this scheme;(i)“infrastructure facility” means
facilities required for development, operation and maintenance of the
industrial park and include roads (including approach roads), water supply,
sewerage and effluent treatment facilities, solid waste management facilities,
telecom network, generation and distribution of power, air
conditioning;(j)“industrial activity” means manufacturing activity as defined
in section D of the National Classification, 2004, Code issued by the Central
Statistical Organisation, Department of Statistics;(k)“industrial unit” means
a unit which is,-(i)located in the Industrial Park;(ii)a separate and distinct
entity assessable to tax under the provisions of the Act having a separate
Permanent Account Number (PAN); and(iii)carrying out industrial
activity;(l)words and expressions used in this Scheme and not defined but
defined in the Act, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them
in the Act.

### 3. Procedure for approval.

(1)Any undertaking which develops, develops and operates or maintains and
operates an industrial park may make an application for notification under
clause (iii) of sub-section (4) of section 80-IA of the Act, in the prescribed
form, IPS-I, to the Secretary (ITA-1 section), Central Board of Direct Taxes,
Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, North Block, New Delhi.(2)The
Central Board of Direct Taxes shall process the application for approval and
notification by the Central Government and for this purpose it may call for
reports from other Departments or agencies, as it may deem fit.

### 4. Criteria for approval.

\- An undertaking shall be considered for notification under clause (iii) of
sub-section (4) of section 80-IA of the Act, if it fulfills all of the
following conditions, namely:-(1)The date of commencement of the Industrial
Park should be on or after the 1st day of April 2006 and not later than 31st
of March 2009;(2)The area allocated or to be allocated to industrial units
shall not be less than ninety per cent of the allocable area;(3)There shall be
a minimum of thirty industrial units located in a industrial park;(4)For the
purpose of computing the minimum number of industrial units; all units of a
person and his associated enterprises will be treated as a single unit.(5)The
minimum constructed floor area shall not be less than 50,000 square
meters;(6)No industrial unit, along with the units of an associated
enterprise, shall occupy more than twenty five per cent of the allocable
area;(7)The industrial park should be owned by only one undertaking;
and(8)Industrial units shall undertake only manufacturing activity as defined
in section D of the National Classification, 2004, Code issued by the Central
Statistical Organisation, Department of Statistics.

### 5. General Conditions.

(1)The industrial park shall be construed as developed on the date of
commencement.(2)Tax benefits under the Act will be available to the
undertaking only after minimum number of thirty units are located in the
Industrial Park.(3)The tax benefits under the Act will be available to the
undertaking only if the undertaking and the industrial park have been notified
by Central Board of Direct Taxes under section 80-IA of the Act.(4)The tax
benefits under the Act will be available only to the undertaking notified by
the Central Government and not to any other person who may subsequently
develop, develops and operates or maintains and operates the notified
industrial park, for any reason.(5)The undertaking must keep separate book of
accounts for the industrial park and must file its income tax returns by the
due date to the Income-tax department.(6)An industrial park approved under
Industrial Park Scheme, 2002 will continue to be governed by the provisions of
that Scheme to the extent it is not in contravention with the provisions of
Act, as amended from time to time.(7)The undertaking shall electronically
furnish an annual report to the Central Board of Direct Taxes in Form IPS-II.

### 6. Withdrawal of approval.

\- The Central Government may withdraw the approval given to an undertaking
under this Scheme if the undertaking fails to comply with any of the
conditions listed in paragraph 4 and 5 of this Scheme:Provided that before
withdrawal of approval, the undertaking shall be given an opportunity of being
heard by the Central Government.FORM IPS-I(See Paragraph 3 of the
Scheme)Application For Consideration Under The Industrial Park Scheme,2008I.I
Name and address of the Undertaking (Indian or International) in full (Block
Letters):(a)Registered Address:Name of the
Undertaking_____________________________Name of the contact
person____________________________Postal
Address______________________________________Pin
Code____________________________Tel. No._____________________________
Telex_____________Fax No._____________________________Cable______________E-
mail_____________________________________(b)Address for correspondence (if
different from (a) above):Name of the
Undertaking_____________________________Name of the contact
person____________________________Postal
Address______________________________________Pin
Code____________________________Tel. No._____________________________
Telex_____________Fax No._____________________________Cable______________E-
mail_____________________________________II. Registrar of Companies
Registration No._______________(If registered)III. Status of
Undertaking(1)Central Government Undertaking(2)State Government
Undertaking(3)State Industrial Government Corporation(4)Cooperative
Undertaking(5)Joint Sector Undertaking(6)Private Sector
Undertaking(7)Individual Promoter(8)Foreign or Non Resident Indian or OCB
Company(9)Foreign or Non Resident Indian Individual(10)Partnership
Firm(11)Registered Societies(12)Any other (please specify)IV. Equity structure
in the undertaking:-(a)Total Equity of the undertaking (in Rs.
Crores)_________________(b)Equity structure (Give brief details of entities
holding the equity in the undertaking)S. No. Details of entity Percentage of
equity held(a)Public holding(b)Private holdingTotal(c)Details of entities
holding more than 20 per cent. of equity in the
undertaking:-Name_______________________________Post
address_________________________Pin Code_____________________________Tel.
No.______________________________Fax
No.______________________________Email________________________________Permanent
Account No._________________Percentage of proposed equity
holding___________________2.1Proposed location of the Industrial ParkAddress
of location of Industrial Park (Indicate complete address):-Plot
No._____________________________Name of the Building (if
any)__________________Survey
Number_____________________________Village____________________________________Taluka
or
Tehsil_______________________________District_______________________________________State________________________________________Pin
Code______________________________________2.2Details of the proposed
Industrial Park(a)Total proposed constructed floor area (in square
metres)____________(b)Total allocable area (in square
metres)__________________(c)Proposed allocable area for industrial use (in
square metres)_______(d)Proposed allocable area for commercial use (in square
metres)________(e)Allocable area earmarked for industrial use
(percentage)________(f)Allocable area earmarked for commercial
use(percentage)________2.3Details of manufacturing activities to be undertaken
by industrial units:2.4(a)Minimum number of industrial units to be
located______________(b)Employment likely to be generated -Details Direct
Indirect Totali) Skilledii) Semi-skillediii) Unskillediv) Total2.5(a)Proposed
investment (Amount in rupees in lakhs)(b)Investment on Infrastructure
Development (Amount in rupees in lakhs)(c)Percentage of (b) to (a)(d)Complete
details of infrastructure facilities proposed to be provided in the industrial
parkS. No. Item of infrastructure Investment (Rs. In lakhs)2.6Total foreign
equity existing (Amount in rupees in lakhs) _________2.7Expected or Actual
Date of Commencement of Industrial Park _______3.1Whether the industrial park
is located or developed as a separate identifiable area3.2Whether the
industrial park is independent of other projects or is an extension or part of
any other project3.3The nature of title the undertaking holds on the land on
which the project is situated3.4Whether the project is developed under any
agreement and if yes, the address ______________of other parties (other than
applicant)______________to such an agreement ______________3.5Whether the
applicant undertaking has powers to allow industrial and commercial units as
proposed in the application to operate from the industrial park mentioned in
the application.(If there is any type of restrictions in thisregard please
indicate the same)3.6Whether all the criteria as mentioned in para 4 of the
Industrial Park Scheme, 2008 are met or not:(a)The date of commencement of the
Industrial Park should be on or after the 1st day of April 2006 and not later
than the 31st of March 2009;(b)The area allocated or to be allocated to
industrial units shall not be less than ninety per cent of the allocable
area;(c)There shall be a minimum of thirty industrial units located in a
industrial park;(d)For the purpose of computing the minimum number of
industrial units; all units of a person and his associated enterprises will be
treated as a single unit.(e)The minimum constructed floor area shall not be
less than 50,000 square meters;(f)No industrial unit, along with the units of
an associated enterprise, shall occupy more than twenty five per cent of the
allocable area;(g)The industrial park should be owned by only one undertaking;
and(h)Industrial units shall undertake only manufacturing activity as defined
in Section D of the National Classification, 2004 Code issued by the Central
Statistical Organisation, Department of Statistics.DeclarationI/We hereby
undertake to continue to operate the Industrial Park during the period in
which the benefits under sub-section 4(iii) of the section 80-IA of the
Income-tax Act, 1961 are to be availed.I/We hereby certify that the above
statements are true and correct to the best of my/our knowledge and
belief.(Signature of Applicant)(Name in Block Letters)(Designation of the
Signatory)Place:_____________Date:______________List of Enclosures

### 1\.

__________________

### 2\.

__________________

### 3\.

__________________

### 4\.

__________________

### 5\.

__________________

### 6\.

__________________

### 7.

__________________

### 8.

__________________FORM IPS-II(See paragraph 5 (g) of the Scheme)

### 1\. Name of the Undertaking:

### 2\. Equity structure (Give brief details of entities holding the equity in
the undertaking)

S.No. Details of entity Percentage of equity held(a)Public holding(b)Private
holdingTotal

### 3\. Details of entities holding more than 20 per cent. of equity in the
undertaking:-

Name__________________________________________________________Post
address_____________________________________________________Pin
Code_______________________________________________________Tel.
No.________________________________________________________Fax
No.________________________________________________________Email__________________________________________________________Permanent
Account No.___________________________________________Percentage of proposed
equity holding________________________________

### 4\. Address of location of Industrial Park (Indicate complete address)–

Plot No.________________________________________________________Name of the
Building (if any)_______________________________________Survey
Number__________________________________________________Village_________________________________________________________Taluka
or
Tehsil__________________________________________________District_________________________________________________________State___________________________________________________________Pin
Code_______________________________________________________

### 5\. Important details

S. No. Items Proposed Actual ReasonsI Capital outlay for the Industrial Park
(Rs. In lakhs)II Total Foreign equity existing (Rs. in lakhs)III Allocable
area of the Industrial Park (in square metres)IV Number of industrial units in
the projectV Employment Generation Direct Indirect Direct Indirecti)
Skilledii) Semi-skillediii) Unskillediv) TotalVI Allocable area for Industrial
use (percentage)VII Allocable area for commercial use (percentage)VIII
Expenditure on Infrastructure developmentIX Details of infrastructure
facilities in the park with amount of investment(Rs. In lakhs)S. No. Item of
infra-structure (Rs. in lakhs (Rs. in lakhs)X Date of commencement of
Industrial Park

### 6\. Detail of industrial units located in the park:

S. No. Name Permanent Account Number (PAN) Nature of manufacturing activity
Allocable area

### 7\. List the names of industrial units out of ____________names listed at
6 above, who are associated ______________entrepreneurs in terms of section
92A of the _________________

