## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Inspection of Documents and Levy of Fees Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Inspection of Documents and Levy of Fees Rules

## Act 653 of 1961

  * Published on 2 June 1971 
  * Commenced on 2 June 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 June 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Inspection of Documents and Levy of Fees RulesPublished vide Notification No.
G.O. Ms. No. 2322, Revenue, dated 2nd June 1971 - SRO No. A-653 of
1961Original Rules published in Part V of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated
21st June, 1961 (Page 670).G.O. Ms. No. 2322, Revenue, dated 2nd June 1971 -
SRO No. A-653 of 1961. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (iv) of
sub-section (2) of section 116 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely:-

### 1.

These Rules may be called the Inspection of Documents and the Levy of Fees
Rules.

### 2. [ [Rule 2 was substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 275, C.T.& R.E., dated the
16th July 1997.]

Any party to a proceeding pending before the Government, the-Commissioner, the
Joint Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner
desirous of inspecting any record of such proceeding or any other proceeding
connected therewith, may apply to the Secretariat to the Government of the
Department concerned or to the Commissioner, the Joint Commissioner, the
Deputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner, as the case may be, for
permission to inspect such record.]

### 3.

Every application for such inspection shall specify the number of the
proceeding and shall contain all information necessary to identify the records
required for inspection. It shall also state the purpose for which inspection
is sought.

### 4.

It shall be in the discretion of the authority concerned to grant or with-hold
permission for inspection of all or any part of the record required for
inspection.

### 5.

If permission for inspection is granted, the inspection shall be made in the
presence of an officer authorised in this behalf and a fee of Re. 1 in cash
shall be paid for each day or part of a day spent on inspection.

### 6.

When the record of the proceeding which is sought to be inspected is not
pending and relates to a previous year, a search fee of Re. 1 shall be paid in
cash.

### 7.

These rules shall not apply to inspection by a party to a proceeding under
Chapters V, VI and VII of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959).

### 8.

Any person having interest may apply to the Secretary to Government of the
Department concerned, to [the Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy
Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner as the case may be] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 275, C.T.& R.E., dated the 16th July 1997.], for permission to
inspect the record of any proceeding which has been disposed of, whether he
was a party thereto or not. Such application shall be supported by an
affidavit stating his interest and specifying the purpose for which the
inspection is sought. The provisions of rules 3 to 6 shall apply to such
applications.

