## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Installation, Safeguarding and Accounting of Hundials Rules, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# Installation, Safeguarding and Accounting of Hundials Rules, 1975

## Rule INSTALLATION-SAFEGUARDING-AND-ACCOUNTING-OF-HUNDIALS-RULES-1975 of
1975

  * Published on 21 October 1975 
  * Commenced on 21 October 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 October 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Installation, Safeguarding and Accounting of Hundials Rules, 1975Published
vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 1231, C. T. & R. E., dated 21st October
1975G.O. Ms. No. 1231, C. T. & R. E., dated 21st October 1975. - In exercise
of the powers conferred under clause (xxvii) of sub-section (2) of section 116
of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil
Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
Rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title.

(1)These Rules may be called the Installation, Safeguarding and Accounting of
Hundials Rules, 1975.(2)These Rules shall apply to every hundial and other
receptacle either permanently embedded in the religious institution or
temporarily used during the festivals and other occasions.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Appropriate
Authority" means -

(i) |  in relation to Religious Institutions whoseassessable annual income is less than rupees ten thousand. | The Assistant Commissioner;  
---|---|---  
(ii) |  in relation to Religious Institutions whoseassessable annual income exceeds Rs. 10,000 but does not exceedRs. 10 lakhs. | The Joint/Deputy Commissioner;  
(iii) | in all other cases | The Commissioner.  
  
(b)"Executive Authority" means the Chairman, Board of Trustees, or a Trustee
including the hereditary trustee and the Executive Officer appointed to the
Religious Institution.

### 3. Permanent.

(1)Every permanent hundial or receptacle shall be embedded in the floor
properly secured by masonry construction and shall be located at such place as
may be approved by the appropriate authority and serially numbered.(2)Every
permanent hundial or receptacle shall be kept under double lock with locks of
at least two different patterns.(3)The keys of one lock shall be with the
Executive Officer if he has been appointed and the keys of the other lock
shall be with the Chairman, Board of Trustees or if there is no Chairman with
any one of the Trustees including the hereditary trustee as appointed by the
appropriate authority.(4)When there is no Executive Officer, the keys of one
lock shall be with the Chairman, Board of Trustees and the keys of the other
lock shall be with any one of the trustees (hereditary of non-hereditary)
approved by the appropriate authority. If there is no Chairman, but more than
one trustee, the keys of each lock shall be with two different trustees
(hereditary or non-hereditary) as may be approved by the appropriate
authority.(5)If there is only one trustee and if there is no Executive
Officer, the key of one lock shall be with the trustee (hereditary or non-
hereditary) and the keys of the other lock shall be deposited in the office of
the appropriate authority.(6)Every permanent hundial or receptacle shall be
opened once in a month where the monthly collection from the hundials and
receptacle is Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) and more and in other
cases as often as may be necessary. The hundials shall be opened and the cash
or other valuables in them shall be counted or accounted in the presence of an
officer of the department deputed by the appropriate authority.Notice of the
proposal to open the hundials shall be given to the appropriate authority at
least two weeks before the date of opening. The hundials shall, after the
opening of each lock, be locked in the presence of the Chairman, Board of
Trustees or other trustees including the hereditary trustee, as the case may
be, the Executive Officer and the officer of the department authorised by the
appropriate authority and sealed with the departmental seal by the said
officer.

### 4. Temporary hundial.

\- Every temporary hundial or receptacle installed for festivals or other
occasion shall be sealed by the inspector or other officer deputed by the
appropriate authority before they are actually installed and the keys of the
same shall be put in a bag and the bag sealed with the departmental seal and
handed over to the concerned Executive Authorities of the religious
institutions. The bag shall be opened in the presence of those present at the
time of opening of hundials or receptacles by the officer of the department
authorised by the appropriate authority. The provisions of rule 3(6) in so far
as they relate to the opening and counting of permanent hundials and
receptacles and their closures and sealing shall apply to the temporary
hundials referred to in this rule. The temporary hundials shall be serially
numbered and a record of the same kept in the religious institutions.

### 5. Maintenance of register.

\- The contents of all the hundials and other receptacles shall be recorded in
the Hundial Assortment Register and signed by the concerned Executive
Authorities and the Officer of the Department authorised in this behalf,
besides members of the public, if any, present. At least two members of the
public present shall sign in the Hundial Assortment Register. The proceeds of
the hundials and other receptacles shall be immediately credited to the
accounts of the institution and remitted into the Bank. In respect of big
temples, due publicity should be given to the public regarding the date of
counting.Explanation I. -"Big temple" means a religious institution whose
hundial receipt exceeds Rs. 50,000 (Rupees fifty thousand only) per
annum.Explanation II. - "Due publicity" means announcement of the date of
opening of hundials by publishing a notice on the notice board of the
Devasthanam, the interval between the date of such publication and the date of
opening and counting the hundial being not more than 7 days and not less than
3 days.(G. O. Ms. No. 775 C.T. & R.E., dated 6th July 1982)

### 6. Arrangements for sealing of hundials.

\- On and from the date of coming into force of these Rules, the appropriate
authority shall take steps to have the hundial and other receptacles in the
institutions which have not so far sealed, affixed with the seal of the
department by an officer of the department and the executive authority of
every such institution all officers and servants working under him or any
other person concerned, shall afford such assistance and facilities as may be
necessary or reasonably required in regard to the sealing of the hundials.

### 6A. Power to direct installation of hundials.

\- It shall be lawful for the appropriate authority to direct the Executive
Officer or other executive authority of religious institutions to install a
hundial or hundials where there is none or to install additional hundial or
hundials where there is already one or more hundials.

### 7. Installation of hundials for specific purposes.

\- Hundials for specific purposes such as Thiruppani, etc., shall be installed
only after getting the approval of appropriate authority and with the
concurrence of the Trust Board and the rules applicable to the other hundials
or receptacles installed will apply to these hundials also.

### 8. Prevention from theft, fire, etc.

\- All preventive steps shall be taken by the executive authority to safeguard
the hundials from theft, fire, etc.

### 9. Arrangement for opening of hundials in cases of emergencies.

\- In case of an emergency like fire, accident, attempted theft or non co-
operation between the executive authority and in other similar cases, the
appropriate authority may use his discretion in the matter of opening and
crediting the proceeds thereof in the bank account in the name of the temple,
closing the seal of the hundials and report the fact to the Commissioner for
approval.

