## Union of India - Act

## Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations, 2024

## Rule F-NO-IRDAI-REG-2-196-2024 of 2024

  * Published on 22 January 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 January 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (ic), clause (jd) and clause
(je) of sub-section (2) of Section 114A, read with Section 31B, 40, 40B and
40C of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), and sub-section (1) and clause (e)
of sub section (2) of section 14 and section 26 of the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), the Authority, in
consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, hereby makes the following
Regulations, namely-**Objective** \- To enable and provide flexibility to the
insurers to manage their expenses, including commissions, within the overall
limits as specified by the Authority to optimally utilize their resources for
enhancing benefits to policyholders and to improve insurance
penetration.**Part - I**

### 1. Short title and Commencement.

(1) These regulations may be called the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India (Expenses of Management, including Commission, of Insurers)
Regulations, 2024.(2) The Regulations shall be applicable to Insurers
transacting Life Insurance Business, General Insurance Business or Health
Insurance Business in India.(3) These Regulations shall come into force from
1st April, 2024.(4) These Regulations shall be reviewed once in every three
years from the date of notification, unless the review or repeal or amendment
is warranted earlier.

### 2. Definitions.

(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires -(a) _"Act"_
means the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938).(b) _"Authority"_ means the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India established under sub-
section (1) of Section 3 of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Act, 1999 (41 of 1999).(c) _"Charges"_ means charge against profits such as
income tax and other taxes like Goods and Service Tax (GST) borne by the
insurer and other charges which are levied against the profits.(d)
_"Commission"_ means any compensation including remuneration, or reward, by
whatever name called, paid by an insurer to an Insurance agent, Intermediary
or Insurance intermediary, as applicable, for soliciting or procuring or
transacting insurance business.(e) _"Duration of Business"_ means the duration
of an insurer's business reckoned from the beginning of the financial year of
commencement of business if the date of commencement is in the first half of
the financial year, and from the beginning of the immediately succeeding
financial year if the date of commencement is in the second half of the
financial year.(f) _"Expenses of Management"_ shall include:(i) all expenses
in the nature of operating expenses of life or general or health Insurance
business.(ii) commission to the Insurance agents, Intermediaries or Insurance
Intermediaries.(iii) commission and expenses on reinsurance inward, which are
charged to Revenue Account.Provided that, it shall not include the charges as
defined in these Regulations.(g) _"Insurtech expenses"_ means expenses
incurred towards technology-enabled innovation in insurance services
(policyholder oriented) that could result in new business models,
applications, processes or products.(h) _"Insurance awareness"_ means
awareness creation through (i) direct campaigns including through branch
offices, social media campaign and/or (ii) supporting Life Insurance Council
or General Insurance Council, as applicable to educate their customers and
public at large in making the right choices based on their insurance
requirements and role of the Insurance agents, Intermediaries or Insurance
intermediaries;Provided that it shall not include Insurance Advertisements as
defined under the relevant Regulations as notified by the Authority.(2) All
words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the
Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) or in the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), or in any Rules or Regulations made
thereunder, shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in those Acts
or Rules or Regulations.**Part - II** Board Approved Policy and Business Plan

### 3. Board Approved Policy for Expenses of Management.

Every insurer shall have a well-documented policy approved by its Board on an
annual basis for Expenses of Management, which shall, at the minimum
specify:(1) Measures to bring cost effectiveness in the conduct of business
and reduction of the expenses of management on an annual basis;(2) Manner of
transfer of benefits, arising from reduction of expenses and/or from the
directly sourced business to the policyholders by way of reduction in the
premium;(3) Manner in which the compliance with computation of additional
allowance as per Regulations 10 and 11 shall be ensured;(4) Manner of
allocation and apportionment of expenses of management amongst various
business segments including the following parameters, at the minimum:(a)
Expenses which shall be allocated;(b) Basis of allocation;(c) Expenses which
shall be apportioned;(d) Basis of such apportionment;(5) Manner in which the
compliance with the policy shall be ensured.Provided that any revision in the
policy along with its implication on various business segments shall be
disclosed under notes to accounts forming part of the financial statements.The
Appointed Actuary and the Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for the
allocation and apportionment of the expenses of management in accordance with
the Board approved policy.

### 4. Board Approved Policy for Payment of Commission.

(1) Every insurer shall have a written policy approved by the board for the
payment of commission;(2) While framing the policy on payment of commission,
the insurer shall at the minimum take into consideration the following
that:(a) It includes the structure of commission payable;(b) it is in the
interest of the policyholders;(c) it increases insurance penetration and
density in the country;(d) it is commensurate with the nature and tenure of
the insurance policy;(e) it protects the interest of the Insurance agent,
Intermediary or Insurance intermediary and enhances their performance;(f) it
is commensurate with its business strategy;(g) it is simple to administer and
cost effective.(3) The Board approved policy shall be reviewed
periodically;(4) The policy for payment of commission may be subsumed in the
Board approved policy for Expenses of Management.

### 5. Business Plan.

(1) Every insurer shall formulate a business plan prior to the commencement of
the financial year, on an annual basis, which shall be approved by the Board.
The plan shall at the minimum cover the various parameters as laid down in the
format specified by the Authority from time to time and at the minimum,
clearly specify the following:(a) the projected requirements of capital during
the said financial year;(b) projection of solvency margin on a quarterly
basis;(c) the projection of expense of management (in rupees as well as
percentage of gross premium written in India) and the compliance or otherwise
with the limits of expenses of management.(2) The Business plan as above shall
be monitored by the Board at regular intervals.**Part - III** Limit of
Expenses of Management

### 6. Limit of expenses of management in General Insurance Business or Health
Insurance Business.

(1) No insurer carrying on General Insurance Business in India shall incur
expenses of management in excess of 30 percent of gross premium written in
India in a financial year.(2) No insurer exclusively carrying on Health
Insurance Business in India shall incur expenses of management in excess of 35
percent of gross premium written in India in a financial year.

### 7. Limit of expenses of management in Life Insurance Business.

No insurer carrying on Life Insurance Business in India, shall incur expenses
of management in a financial year, an amount exceeding the sum of -(1) the
amount of commission paid to Insurance agents, Intermediaries or Insurance
intermediaries in respect of their business transacted in the financial
year;(2) commission and expenses reimbursed on reinsurance inward; and(3)
operating expenses of life insurance business.Provided that the sum of (7(1)),
(7(2)) and (7(3)) above shall not exceed an amount computed on the basis of
percentages in respect of various segments of business transacted during a
financial year as specified in Regulation 8.

### 8. No insurer shall, in respect of the life insurance business transacted
by it in India, incur as expenses of management in any financial year an
amount exceeding the aggregate sum of-

(1) Five percent of all single premiums received during the year on policies
granting:(a) immediate annuity; or(b) deferred annuity;(2) Five per cent of
all premiums received on other single premium policies during the year
excluding:(a) Group Pure Risk policies;(b) Individual Pure Risk policies;(c)
Group Fund based policies; and(d) Policies covered under sub regulation (1)
above;(3) Ten percent of all single premiums received during the year on group
pure risk policies;(4) Fourteen percent of all single premiums received during
the year on individual pure risk policies;(5) Group Fund based policies:
Allowance shall be based on the average of Assets under Management (AUM) of
Group Fund based policies at the beginning and at the end of the financial
year as under:

**Average Asset under Management (AUM)** | **Allowable Expenses of Management**  
---|---  
Up to Rs.10,000 crore | 1 percent  
In excess of Rs.10,000 crore | 0.80 percent  
  
(6) Fifteen percent of all premiums received on one-year renewable group
policies, other than group fund based policies;(7) Fifteen per cent of all
first year's premiums and six per cent of all renewal premiums, received
during the year on policies (other than group policies) granting deferred
annuity and pension in consideration of more than one premium;(8) Three fourth
of one per cent of all annuities paid during the year;(9) One-tenth of one per
cent of the average of the total sums assured of paid up policies on which no
further premiums are payable at the beginning and end of the year;(10) One-
fiftieth of one per cent of the average of the total sums assured of lapsed
policies under the revival period at the beginning and end of the year;(11) An
amount computed on the basis of the percentage of regular premium pure risk
business as under:

Heading 1 | Heading 2  
---|---  
Content 1 | Content 2  
  
(12) The allowance shall be computed on the basis of the percentage of premium
received other than premiums referred to in sub regulation (1) to (11) above;
during the year as under:

Heading 1 | Heading 2  
---|---  
Content 1 | Content 2  
  
### 9.Group insurance business with regular premium plans with limited premium
payment term and/or predetermined policy term shall be treated as regular
business with due classification into first year premium and renewal premium.
Plans other than those mentioned above shall be treated as Single Premium
plans.

**Part - IV** Additional Allowable Expenses

### 10. Expenses incurred towards the Insurtech and Insurance Awareness.

An insurer shall be allowed an additional allowance towards both Insurtech
expenses and insurance awareness expenses to the extent of five percent of
allowable expenses of management computed under Regulation 6 or Regulation 8,
as applicable, to widen customer reach.

### 11. In addition to the expenses limits as specified under sub-regulation
(1) and (2) of Regulation 6, or Regulation 8, as applicable, the insurer shall
be allowed the following additional expenses:

(1) Head Office Expenses: General Insurer or Health Insurer or Life Insurer
having his principal place of business in India and having branch outside
India or having International Financial Service Centre (IFSC) Insurance Office
(IIO) shall be allowed an additional allowance towards share of Head Office
expenses.Such allowance for a General Insurer or a Health Insurer shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross premium income written outside India through
such branch office or International Financial Service Centre Insurance Office
(IIO) during the year.Such allowance for a Life Insurer shall not exceed 5 per
cent of the gross premium income written direct outside India through such
branch office or International Financial Service Centre Insurance Office (IIO)
during the year.(2) Expenses incurred towards Rural sector business, Pradhan
Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY),
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima
Yojana (PMJJBY) or such other schemes as specified by the Authority.A General
Insurer or Health Insurer reporting growth in the gross direct premium sourced
from Rural Sector, PMJAY and PMFBY or such other schemes as specified by
Authority shall be allowed an additional allowance and a Life Insurer
reporting growth in the gross direct premium sourced from Rural Sector, or
such other schemes as specified by Authority shall be allowed an additional
allowance.Provided that such allowance shall not exceed 15 per cent of the
incremental premium over the previous financial year, sourced from the rural
sector and the above specified schemes.Provided further that in no case, such
allowance shall exceed the actual expenses of management incurred for the
rural sector and the abov specified schemes during the previous financial
year.Provided also that in case of PMSBY or PMJJBY or such other schemes as
are specified by Authority, such allowance shall not exceed 15 per cent of the
gross direct premium sourced during the year from such schemes.For the
purposes of this Regulation, 'Rural Sector' shall have the meaning specified
under the relevant Regulations as amended from time to time.**Part - V**

### 12. Commission payable to Insurance Agent, Intermediaries or Insurance
intermediaries by insurers.

(1) The total amount of commission payable for general insurance products,
including health insurance products offered by general insurers and health
insurance products offered by standalone health insurers shall not exceed the
Expense of Management limits specified under these regulations, as amended
from time to time.(2) The total amount of commission payable for life
insurance products including health insurance products offered by life
insurers shall not exceed the Expense of Management limits specified under
these regulations, as amended from time to time.**Part - VI** Return of
Expenses of Management and payment of Commission by the insurer

### 13. Return of Expenses of Management.

(1) All insurers transacting Life Insurance business, or General insurance
business or Health Insurance business, at the expiration of each financial
year, shall prepare with reference to that year a Return of Expenses of
Management as per the format at schedule I (Life Insurance Business) and
Schedule II (General Insurance Business or Health Insurance Business). The
Return shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer and Appointed Actuary of the Insurer.(2)
The return filed under sub regulation (1) shall be certified by the Statutory
Auditor of the Insurer and the certificate duly signed by at least one of the
statutory auditors shall be filed in the format as specified by the Authority
from time to time.(3) The return along with the Statutory Auditor's
certificate shall be reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being placed for
approval of the Board of the Insurer.(4) The return duly adopted by the Board
along with the certified true copy of the minutes of the meetings wherein the
Audit committee and/or Board of the insurer has approved these documents,
shall be filed with the Authority along with returns provided in sub-section
(1) of Section 15 of the Act in the manner and within the time specified
therein.

### 14. Return on payment of Commission by the insurer.

(1) All insurers, within 45 days of the expiration of each financial year,
shall submit to the Authority the Board approved returns on payment of
commission by the insurer to the Insurance agent, Intermediary or Insurance
Intermediary.(2) The formats for such information and data shall be specified
by the Authority from time to time.(3) These returns shall be reviewed by the
Audit Committee prior to being placed for approval of the Board of the
insurer.**Part - VII** Power to exercise forbearance in case of excess
Expenses of Management

### 15. General or Health Insurers.

The Authority may exercise forbearance in case a General Insurer or Health
insurer exceeds the limits of expenses of management. Such forbearance may be
exercised on a case to case basis in respect of insurers having 'duration of
business' up to 5 years.

### 16. Life Insurers.

The Authority may exercise forbearance in case a Life insurer exceeds the
limits of expenses of management on an overall basis in the Participating and
Non-Participating (including Linked) business. Such forbearance may be
exercised on a case to case basis in respect of insurers having 'duration of
business' up to 5 years.

### 17 In case of an insurer having actual expenses of management more than
the allowable expenses of management for the financial year 2023-24, the
Authority, having regard to the business model of the insurer, may grant
forbearance subject to the confirmation by its board that it shall bring its
actual expenses within the allowable limits, within a period of 2 years i.e.
by the end of financial year 2025-26.

Provided that no such direction shall be issued by the Authority unless a
representation detailing the business plan has been furnished by the Insurer
to the Authority.**Part - VIII** Reporting Segments: Life Insurers

### 18. Reporting Segments.

(1) Linked policies:(i) Life;(ii) General Annuity and Pension;(iii)
Health;(iv) Others as specified by the Authority.(2) Non-linked:(a) Non-
participating policies:(i) Life;(ii) General Annuity and Pension;(iii)
Health;(iv) Others as specified by the Authority.(b) Participating
Policies:(i) Life;(ii) General Annuity and Pension;(iii) Health;(iv) Others as
specified by the Authority.(3) Variable insurance shall be allocated to Life,
General Annuity and Pension and Health under the Linked and Non-Linked
segments, as applicable**Part - IX** Compliances

### 19. General or Health Insurer.

Insurers carrying on General Insurance Business or Health Insurance Business
shall ensure that its expenses of management are within the allowable limits
on the overall basis. Where the General Insurer or Health Insurer has exceeded
the limit of expenses of management, excess of such expenses shall be charged
to Profit & Loss Account.

### 20. Life Insurer.

(1) Insurers carrying on life insurance business shall ensure that its
expenses of management are within the allowable limits on the Participating
policies on an overall basis. Where the Life Insurer has exceeded the overall
limits of expenses of management for Participating policies, excess of such
expenses shall be charged to Profit & Loss Account.(2) In case of Non-
participating (including Linked) policies, the Life Insurer shall ensure that
its expenses of management are within the allowable limits on an overall
basis. Where the Life Insurer has exceeded the limits of expenses of
management on overall basis for Non-participating (including Linked) policies,
the excess of such expenses shall be charged to Profit & Loss Account.Such
allowable limits on an overall basis shall be calculated on the basis of
specific limits stipulated in Regulation 8.

### 21. Life or General or Health Insurer.

In case the actual expenses of management of an insurer exceeds by 10 percent
or more of the projected expenses of management levels as per the Business
plan formulated in terms of Regulation 5, no variable pay shall be payable to
Managing Director (MD) / Chief Executive Officer (CEO) / Whole-Time Directors
(WTD) and Key Management Persons (KMPs) for the said financial year. The
Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall ensure the compliance of the
same.Provided that this regulation shall not be applicable to the insurer
where the duration of business is up to 5 years.

### 22. Additional compliance.

(1) In case an Insurer exceeds the limits of expenses as specified in these
regulations or is not in compliance with the directions issued by the
Authority in this regard; it may be subject to one or more of the
following:(a) Excess to be charged to Profit and Loss Account;(b) Restrictions
on opening of new places of business;(c) Administer a warning to the
insurer;(d) Cause a valuation of the insurer to evaluate its financial health
and soundness;(e) Penal action under section 102 of the Act;(f) Restriction of
performance incentive to Managing Director (MD) / Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) / Whole Time Director (WTD) and Key Management Personnel (KMPs);(g)
Removal of Managerial Personnel and / or appointment of Administrator;(h) Any
other action as specified in the Act.(2) The Authority may, apart from taking
action as enumerated in sub regulation (1), also direct the insurer not to
underwrite new business in one or more segments in case of repeated breach of
the limits of expenses or violation of any directions issued by the Authority
under these Regulations.Notwithstanding such directions, the insurer shall
continue to service the existing policyholders in such segments.

### 23. Power to remove difficulties.

The Chairperson of the Authority shall have the powers to issue any
clarifications in order to remove difficulties in the interpretation or
implementation of these Regulations. The interpretation of the Chairperson
shall be final and binding on the insurers.

### 24. Repeal and Savings.

(1) Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management of Insurers transacting General or Health Insurance Business)
Regulations, 2023 shall be repealed from the date these Regulations come into
force.(2) Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management of Insurers transacting Life Insurance Business) Regulations, 2023
shall be repealed from the date these Regulations come into force.(3)
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Payment of
Commission) Regulations, 2023 shall be repealed from the date these
Regulations come into force.(4) Unless otherwise provided by these
Regulations, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done
or taken in respect of the Regulations mentioned in sub-regulation (1), (2)
and (3) shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provisions of these regulations.Schedule - I**Return of Expenses of Management
of Life Insurance Business****(refer Regulations 13(1))** 1 Name of the
Insurer2 Registration No.3 Year of inception and duration of business4
Financial Year

Amount (Rs. In lakh)  
---  
  
Heading 1 | Heading 2  
---|---  
Content 1 | Content 2  
  
It is hereby certified that:a) the computations given above (including
computation of additional allowance) are in accordance with the provisions of
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations, 2024;b) the
company has complied with the provisions pertaining to formulation and
implementation of the Board approved policy and business plan as specified
under Regulation 3 and 5 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India (Expenses of Management, including Commission, of Insurers)
Regulations, 2024; andc) the company has complied with Regulation 20 and
Regulation 21 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(Expenses of Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations,
2024.Chief Executive OfficerChief Financial OfficerChief Compliance
OfficerAppointed ActuaryDate:Place:Schedule - II**Return of Expenses of
Management of General or Health Insurance Business****(refer Regulation
13(1))** 1\. Name of the Insurer:
...............................................................2\.
Registration No.
.....................................................................3\. Year
of Operation & Duration of Business ....................................4\.
Financial year:
......................................................................

**S. No.** | **Particulars** | **Amount (Rs. in Lakh)**  
---|---|---  
1 | Gross Premium written in India (GWP) |   
A. Gross direct premium written in India |   
B. Premium on Reinsurance accepted / Inward reinsurance premium |   
2 | Actual Expenses |   
A. Operating Expenses |   
B. Commission |   
3 | Total Actual Expenses of Management |   
4 | Allowable Expenses of Management |   
A. Allowable expenses as per sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 6 |   
B. Additional Allowance |   
(a) as per Regulation 10 |   
(b) as per sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 11 |   
(c) as per sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 11 |   
5 | Total Allowable Expenses of Management |   
6 | Difference (5-3) |   
7 | Overall Excess of Actual expenses of management overall allowable charged to Profit and Loss Account. |   
  
It is hereby certified that:a) the computations given above (including
computation of additional allowance) are in accordance with the provisions of
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Expenses of
Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations, 2024;b) the
company has complied with the provisions pertaining to formulation and
implementation of the Board approved policy and business plan as specified
under Regulation 3 and 5 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India (Expenses of Management, including Commission, of Insurers)
Regulations, 2024; andc) the company has complied with Regulation 19 and
Regulation 21 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(Expenses of Management, including Commission, of Insurers) Regulations,
2024.Chief Executive OfficerChief Financial OfficerChief Compliance
OfficerAppointed ActuaryDate:Place:

