## Union of India - Act

## International Financial Services Centres Authority (Payment Services)
Regulations, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# International Financial Services Centres Authority (Payment Services)
Regulations, 2024

## Regulation FSCA-GN-2024-001 of 2024

  * Published on 2 February 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 February 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 12 read with
sub- section 1 of section 28 of the International Financial Services Centres
Authority Act, 2019 (50 of 2019), the International Financial Services Centres
Authority hereby makes the following regulations namely: -

## Chapter I Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1) These regulations may be called the International Financial Services
Centres Authority (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024.(2) They shall come
into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
defined herein shall bear the meanings as assigned to them below, and their
cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly -_(a) "account issuance
service" means any of the following services:_ i. the service of issuing a
payment account to a payment service user;ii. the service required for
operating a payment account, and includes:(a) the service (other than a
cross?border money transfer service) that enables money to be placed in a
payment account; or(b) the service (other than a cross?border money transfer
service) that enables money to be withdrawn from a payment account;_(b) "Act"
means the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 (50 of
2019);__(c) "agent" means any person who acts on behalf of a payment service
provider in relation to the payment services provided by him;__(d) "applicable
funds" means-_ i. funds received by a payment service provider from, or for
the benefit of, a payment service user for the execution of a payment
transaction; andii. funds received by a payment service provider from another
payment service provider for the execution of a payment transaction on behalf
of a payment service user;_(e) "Authority" means the International Financial
Services Centres Authority established under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of
the Act;__(f) "certificate of authorisation" means the certificate containing
the details of the authorisation granted by the Authority to a payment service
provider under regulation 10;__(g) "company" means a company as defined in
sub-section 20 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);__(h)
"control" means control as defined in sub-section 27 of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)__(i) "cross-border money transfer service"
means either of the following services:_ i. accepting money from a person in
IFSC, whether as principal or agent, for the purpose of transmitting, or
arranging for the transmission of, the money to any person outside IFSC;ii.
receiving money from a person outside IFSC or arranging for the receipt of
money from a person outside IFSC whether as principal or agent, for the
purpose of transmitting or arranging for the transmission of the money to any
person in IFSC or any person outside IFSC.;_(j) "e-money" means any
electronically stored monetary value that -_ i. is denominated in any
specified foreign currency;ii. has been paid for in advance to enable the
making of payment transactions through the use of a payment account;iii. is
accepted by a person other than its issuer; andiv. represents a claim on its
issuer.Explanation. - The term "e-money" does not include deposit from any
person._(k) "e-money issuance service" means the service of issuing e-money to
a payment service user for the purpose of allowing a payment service user to
make payment transactions;__(l) "escrow service" means the service provided by
a payment service provider, under an agreement, whereby money is held by such
payment service provider in an escrow account with an IFSC Banking Unit
('IBU') or an IFSC Banking Company ('IBC') on behalf of two parties that are
in the process of completing a transaction;__(m) 'group entities' means an
arrangement involving two or more entities related to each other through any
of the following relationships:_(i) subsidiary - parent (as defined in Ind-AS
110/Accounting Standard 21);(ii) joint venture (as defined in Ind-AS
28/Accounting Standard 27);(iii) associate (as defined in Ind-AS 28/Accounting
Standard 23);(iv) common brand name or(v) investment in equity shares of 20
per cent and above;_(n) "holding company", means a company as defined in sub-
section 46 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);__(o) "IFSC"
or "International Financial Services Centre" shall have the meaning assigned
to it in clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;__(p) "key
managerial personnel" shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section 50
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and any other person whom
the payment service provider may declare as key managerial personnel;__(q)
"merchant" means and includes all persons, in or outside IFSC, who accept
payments for goods and services provided by them, through electronic/online
payment modes;__(r) "merchant acquisition service" means any service of
accepting and processing a payment transaction for a merchant under an
agreement between the payment service provider and the merchant, which results
in a transfer of money to the merchant pursuant to the payment transaction,
regardless of whether the payment service provider comes into possession of
any money in respect of the payment transaction;__(s) "money" includes e-money
but excludes virtual digital asset and any excluded digital representation of
value as may be specified by the Authority.__(t) "nodal bank" means an IFSC
Banking Unit ('IBU') or an IFSC Banking Company ('IBC') identified by a
payment service provider for maintenance of security deposits, if so specified
by the Authority, or for holding of funds in escrow account or for any other
purposes.__(u) "nth-party service provider" means a service provider that is
part of a third- party service provider's supply chain and supports the
ultimate delivery of services to one or more payment service providers;__(v)
"payment account" means an account or facility (either in physical or
electronic form) held in the name of one or more payment service users and is
used for initiation of a payment order or execution of payment transactions or
both;__Explanation. - The term "payment account" includes bank account, debit
card, credit card and charge card.__(w) "payment instrument" means any written
direction, personalised device or set of procedures through which a payment
service user initiates a payment order;__(x) "payment order" means any
instruction by a payment service user to the payment service provider
requesting the execution of a payment transaction;__(y) "payment services"
means any of the activities that is specified in Part A of Schedule I of these
regulations but does not include activities specified in Part B of Schedule I
of these regulations;__(z) "payment service provider" means a company
authorised by the Authority, under these regulations, to provide one or more
of the Payment Services;__(aa) "payment service user" means any person, in
IFSC or outside IFSC, that makes use of a Payment Service provided by a
Payment Service Provider in the capacity of a payer or a payee, or both;__(ab)
"payment system" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (i) of sub-
section (1) of section 2 of Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (51 of
2007);__(ac) "payment transaction" means the act of placing, transfer or
withdrawal of money, whether for the purpose of paying for goods or services
or for any other purpose, with or without any underlying obligations between
the payer and payee;__(ad) "regular payment service provider" means a Payment
Service Provider, authorised under regulation 10 of these regulations, other
than significant payment service provider;__(ae) "safeguarding institution"
means an IFSC Banking Unit ('IBU') or an IFSC Banking Company ('IBC'), as
defined in clause (ec) and (eb), respectively, of sub-regulation (1) of
regulation 2 of the International Financial Services Centres (Banking)
Regulations, 2020.__(af) "significant payment service provider" means any
Payment Service Provider, who is designated as such under sub-regulation 4 of
regulation 4 of these regulations;__(ag) "specified foreign currency" means
the currencies specified in the First Schedule of the International Financial
Services Centres Authority (Banking) Regulations, 2020 or any other regulation
issued by the Authority;__(ah) "subsidiary" means a company as defined in sub-
section 87of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);__(ai) "third-
party service provider" means any person that provides services to one or more
Payment Service Provider either directly or indirectly as part of the supply
chain of another service provider;__(aj) "third-party service relationship"
means a formal arrangement for the provision of one or more services, or parts
thereof, in the form of activities, functions, processes and tasks, to a
Payment Service Provider by a third party including:__(i) arrangements for the
provision of services to a Payment Service Provider by an intra-group service
provider;__(ii) services supporting transactions between a Payment Service
Provider with their employees, customers or counter parties_ _(ak) "virtual
digital asset" shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section 47A of
section 2 of the Income Tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961);__(2) Words and expressions
used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act or Acts
mentioned in the First Schedule to the Act or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
2013) or any rules or regulations made thereunder shall have the same meanings
respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any
statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be._

## Chapter II Authorisation to Payment Service Providers

### 3. Requirement of authorisation for commencing or carrying on Payment
Services.

Any person seeking to provide Payment Services in or from IFSC shall require
certificate of authorisation under these regulations.

### 4. Application for authorisation for providing Payment Services.

(1) Any person desirous of providing Payment Services in or from IFSC
(hereinafter referred to as "the Applicant") shall submit an application to
the Authority, for grant of authorisation as a Payment ServiceProvider, in the
format and in the manner as may be specified by the Authority;Provided that
the persons specified in Schedule IV of these regulations shall be exempted
from the requirement of obtaining authorisation under these regulations.(2)
The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee as may be specified by the Authority.(3) A person
authorised as a Payment Service Provider may provide one or more of Payment
Services, as specified in Part A of the Schedule I to these regulations.(4)
Notwithstanding sub-regulation (3), a person shall be designated as a
Significant Payment Service Provider, if in addition to satisfying the
condition of sub-regulation (3), it satisfies the conditions in Part C of
Schedule I to these regulations.

### 5. Legal form.

An Applicant making an application for authorisation under regulation 4 shall
be required to be incorporated as a Company with its registered office in
IFSC.

### 6. Minimum Net worth requirement.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall, inter-alia, comply with the minimum net
worth requirements, as specified in Schedule V of these regulations, on an
ongoing basis.(2) The minimum net worth requirement of a Payment Service
Provider shall be reviewed by the Authority from time to time to ensure their
continued effectiveness and relevance and the Authority may also make
adjustments to the minimum net worth requirements as needed to address
emerging risks and changes in the financial landscape in which the Payment
Service Provider is operating.(3) Requirement of additional net worth, if any,
as a result of the review undertaken under sub-regulation (2), shall be
satisfied by a Payment Service Provider, within 180 days from the date of
communication by the Authority about the additional net worth requirement.(4)
The Authority may establish a framework for prompt corrective action in case
the net worth of a Payment Service Provider falls below the requirements
specified in sub-regulation (1) and (2) above.(5) The Authority may require a
Payment Service Provider to undertake stress tests on their net worth to
assess their ability to withstand adverse economic scenarios.

### 7. Fit and Proper requirement.

(1) An Applicant or a Payment Service Provider shall ensure that its
directors, Key Managerial Personnel and persons exercising control over it
(hereinafter collectively referred to as "Relevant Persons") satisfy the "fit
and proper requirements" ('FPR'), specified in Schedule II of these
regulations.(2) The Authority may undertake an evaluation of any Relevant
Person(s) under the FPR during the time of processing the request for
authorisation as a Payment Service Provider or any time thereafter.(3) In case
of any variance in the outcome of the evaluation under the FPR undertaken by
an Applicant or a Payment Service Provider and that undertaken by the
Authority, the outcome of the evaluation undertaken by the Authority shall
prevail.

### 8. Authorisation requirements.

While evaluating an application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4, the
Authority shall take into account all matters which it deems relevant for
grant of authorisation, including, whether:a. Relevant persons of the
Applicant possess adequate experience, including an existing authorisation to
provide similar services in any other jurisdiction, in the activities that it
seeks to provide as a Payment Service Provider;b. the applicant possesses the
necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment, communication
facilities and manpower to effectively discharge its activities;c. the
Applicant satisfies the net worth requirement, as specified in these
regulations;d. the financial soundness of the Applicant;e. the Applicant and
Relevant Persons satisfy the "fit and proper" requirements;f. the Applicant or
its Group Entities have in the past been refused authorisation by the
Authority and if so, the ground for such refusal;g. the Applicant or the
Relevant Persons are not subject to any proceeding for breach of law by the
Authority; andh. the interests of Payment Services Users, including the terms
and conditions governing their relationship with a Payment Service Provider
shall be adequately protected if such authorisation is granted.

### 9. Issuance of if-principle approval.

(1) After considering an application for authorisation, if the Authority is
satisfied that the said application, prima facie, satisfies the conditions for
granting authorisation, the Authority may issue an "in-principle approval"
letter to the Applicant and shall require the Applicant to satisfy such
conditions as may be specified by the Authority in the "in-principle approval"
letter before grant of authorisation.(2) Grant of authorisation to an
Applicant who has been issued "in-principle approval" shall be at the sole
discretion of the Authority and the issue of "in-principle approval" by the
Authority shall not automatically entitle the Applicant to be granted an
authorisation under regulation 10.(3) The Applicant shall intimate to the
Authority about any change of ownership or control of the Applicant during the
period when an "in-principle approval" is in force.(4) The Authority, after
receipt of intimation under sub-regulation (3) or when it otherwise becomes
aware of any change of ownership or control of the Applicant to whom an "in-
principle approval" has been issued, shall undertake a review of its decision
to grant "in-principle approval" to the Applicant.(5) The outcome of the
review undertaken at sub-regulation (4) shall be communicated to the
Applicant.(6) If as a result of the review under sub-regulation (4), the
Authority decides to revoke the "in-principle approval" granted to the
Applicant, the Authority shall provide a reasonable opportunity of hearing to
the Applicant before taking a final decision in the matter.

### 10. Grant of authorisation.

(1) The Authority may, on being satisfied that the Applicant has complied with
the conditions laid down in these regulations and is eligible to act as a
Payment Service Provider, grant a Certificate of Authorisation to the
Applicant subject to such conditions as the Authority may deem fit.(2) The
Certificate of Authorisation granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid
unless revoked by the Authority or surrendered by the Payment Service
Provider.(3) Every application for authorisation shall be processed by the
Authority as soon as possible and an endeavour shall be made to dispose of
such application within six months from the date of filing such
application.(4) The Authority may, if it so desires, either at the time of
grant of authorisation or at any other time thereafter, require a Payment
Service Provider to maintain security deposit of such amount and in such form
as may be specified by the Authority.(5) A Payment Service Provider shall
identify an IFSC Banking Unit or an IFSC Banking Company as its Nodal Bank and
intimate the same to the Authority along with a concurrence of the said bank
to act as the "Nodal Bank" as part of the requirement under sub-regulation (1)
of regulation 10.(6) The Payment Service Provider shall, at any time after the
grant of authorisation under sub-regulation (1), intimate to the Authority of
any material change in the information or particulars previously furnished.(7)
The Authority may modify one or more conditions for commencing or carrying on
Payment Services under these regulations.

### 11. Refusal of Authorisation.

(1) If the Authority is of the opinion that the authorisation cannot be
granted due to certain deficiencies, it shall communicate the same to the
Applicant advising it to rectify those within thirty days from the date of
communication.(2) If the Applicant fails to rectify such deficiencies within
the specified time, the Authority shall refuse to grant authorisation and
communicate the same to the Applicant.Provided that no such refusal shall be
made without giving the Applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(3)
The application filed under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of these
regulations, may be withdrawn by the Applicant at any time before the grant of
authorisation.(4) The Applicant whose application is refused under sub-
regulation (2) above or withdrawn under sub-regulation(3) above, may submit a
fresh application for authorisation after a period of six months from the date
of communication of refusal of the application by the Authority under sub-
regulation (2) or the date of withdrawal of the application under sub-
regulation (3).

### 12. Revocation of authorisation.

(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a Payment Service Provider has failed
to comply with any of the conditions of the authorisation, provision/s of
these regulations, orders or directions of the Authority, or that the activity
of the Payment Service Provider is being carried on in a manner prejudicial to
the interests of the Payment Service Users, it may revoke the authorisation
granted to such Payment Service Provider(2) The order for revocation of the
authorisation shall be issued after giving a reasonable opportunity of hearing
to the concerned Payment Service Provider.

### 13. Surrender of Authorisation.

(1) A Payment Service Provider may file an application with the Authority, in
compliance with the conditions and in the format provided in Schedule III, for
surrender of the authorisation granted to it.(2) After consideration of the
application made under sub-regulation (1), and on being satisfied that the
surrender of authorisation is unlikely to cause any material adverse effect to
the financial ecosystem of the IFSC or the interests of the Payment Service
Users, the Authority may permit surrender of such authorisation subject to
such conditions as it deems fit.(3) The Authority may, by an order in writing,
specify the date from which the authorisation shall cease to have effect.

### 14. Appropriation of security deposit on revocation or surrender of
authorisation.

(1) Where a Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the
authorisation of a Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority,
the Authority may apply the security deposit, if any, mentioned in sub-
regulation (4) of regulation 10, to pay any sums outstanding and claimed by
Payment Service Users who are customers of the Payment Service Provider.(2)
Where a Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the
authorisation of a Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority,
the Authority shall release the security deposit, if any, mentioned in sub-
regulation (4) of regulation 10 or any balance thereof if it is satisfied
that:(a) there is no outstanding claim by any Payment Service User who is a
customer of the Payment Service Provider; and(b) the Payment Service Provider
has satisfied all conditions for surrender of authorisation under these
regulations.(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, in
order to meet any legitimate outstanding claim or dues, the security deposit
shall be released after a period of one year from the date of approval for
surrender of authorisation or revocation of authorisation by Authority.

## Chapter III

### 15. Commencement of operations.

(1) The Payment Service Provider shall commence its operations within six
months from the date of issuance of Certificate of Authorisation.(2) The
Payment Service Provider may submit an application for extension of time, if
instructed to do so by way of a resolution passed by its board of directors,
for commencing operations at least two months before the latest date of
commencement as stipulated under sub-regulation (1).(3) The application under
sub-regulation (2) shall, inter-alia, include complete details of the reasons
behind the request for extension, duration of extension sought, steps being
undertaken to overcome the delay and any other information which, in the
opinion of the Payment Service Provider, is relevant to the request for
extension.(4) On receipt of the application under sub-regulation (2), if the
Authority is satisfied that Payment Service Provider cannot commence its
operation within stipulated time period, it may extend the time period by such
further period, as it thinks fit, but not exceeding three (3) months:Provided
that any extension of the time period under this regulation shall not be
granted more than once.

## Chapter IV Governance

### 16. Governance arrangements.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall comprehensively and clearly document its
governance arrangements i.e., the framework under which its Board and senior
management shall function.(2) The governance arrangements shall, at minimum,
include the following components namely:a. role and composition of the Board
and any committees or sub-committees;b. senior management structure;c.
reporting lines between management and the Board;d. ownership structure;e.
internal governance policy;f. design of risk management and internal
controls;g. procedures for the appointment of board members and senior
management;h. processes for ensuring performance accountability.(3) A Payment
Service Provider shall not undertake activities other than providing Payment
Services without the prior permission of the Authority and subject to such
conditions as may be specified by the Authority.Provided that the Authority
may, by general or special permission, permit a Payment Service provider to
carry out activities other than providing Payment Services(4) A Financial
institution, set up as a company and authorised by the Authority under
applicable regulatory framework, may seek authorisation to act as a Payment
Service Provider under these regulations.(5) A Payment Service Provider shall
formulate clear and comprehensive rules and procedures for the Payment
Services provided by it and shall provide sufficient information to enable
Payment Service Users to have an accurate understanding of the risks, fees and
other material costs they shall incur by availing such Payment Service(s).

### 17.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall develop a policy for management of risks
including risk management policies, procedures, and systems that enable it to
identify, measure, monitor, and manage the range of risks that arise in or are
borne by it while providing payment service(s). Such policy shall be subject
to periodic review by the Board of the Payment Service Provider.(2) A Payment
Service Provider shall establish a robust operational risk-management
framework with appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls to
identify, monitor, and manage operational risks.(3) A Payment Service Provider
that establishes a link, with one or more Payment Systems, shall identify,
monitor and manage link-related risks.

## Chapter V Risk management of third-party service relationships

### 18. Identification of critical services and assessment of criticality.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall put in place a risk-based framework to
assess the criticality of services that they receive or plan to receive from a
Third-party Service Provider.(2) Such assessment shall be undertaken at the
time of commencement of operations and at regular intervals thereafter to
identify critical services.(3) The framework under sub-regulation (1) shall
consider various factors relevant to identifying a service as "critical"
including:a. the financial, operational and strategic importance of the
service to the Payment Service Provider.b. the level of tolerance for
disruption acceptable to the Payment Service Provider regarding critical
business operations that rely or plan to rely on the Third-party Service
Provider.c. the nature of any data or information shared by the Payment
Service Provider with the Third-party Service Provider under a Service
Relationship.d. the ease of substitutability of a service or lack thereof.

### 19. On boarding and ongoing monitoring.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall conduct appropriate planning and due
diligence before entering into a Third-Party Service Relationship arrangement
for a critical service while ensuring that the level of due diligence is
proportionate to the criticality of the relevant service.(2) Factors that are
to be considered in the due diligence process shall, inter-alia, include:a.
Operational and technical capability and track record, including (if
applicable) drawing on any prior engagement between the Payment Service
Provider and the Third-party Service Provider (in general or in connection
with the service to be provided);b. Financial soundness of the Third-party
Service Provider to the extent it can affect the delivery of its services;c.
Internal controls and risk management, including the Third-party Service
Provider's ability to manage Information and Communications Technology (ICT),
cyber security and other operational risks;d. Management of supply chain
risks, including use and oversight of Nth-Party Service Providers;e.
Geographic dependencies and management of related risks;f. Key personnel
involved in the delivery of the relevant service and their competency;g.
Potential conflicts of interest;h. Existence of any recent or pending relevant
complaints, investigations or litigation against the Third- party Service
Provider and (if relevant) Nth-Party Service Providers;i. Ability to deliver
the critical service in a way that allows the Payment Service Provider to
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations;j. Ability to support the
Payment Service Provider's business strategy and plans;k. Level of
substitutability of the service and Third-party Service Provider.(3) The
services being received by a Payment Service Provider shall be procured
through legally binding arrangements between the Payment Service Provider and
a Third-party Service Provider.(4) The legal arrangements under sub-regulation
(3), shall, inter-alia, include a provision of sharing of information by the
Third-party service provider with the Authority.(5) A Payment Service Provider
shall establish processes for ongoing monitoring of the Third-party Service
Provider's ability to deliver the critical services in line with its
contractual obligations.

### 20. Exit strategies.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall identify, document and to the extent
practically feasible, test their strategy for exiting Third-party Service
Relationship involving critical services.(2) Such strategy shall cover a range
of scenarios including planned migration of services, but also include adverse
events like:(a) Violation or breach of applicable laws, regulations or
contractual terms;(b) Deterioration in the quality of the services
provided;(c) Weaknesses in the Third-party Service Provider's governance,
financial condition, resilience or risk management that could reasonably
impact the delivery of critical services;(d) Extended disruption to critical
services that cannot be managed through other business continuity measures.

### 21. Reporting of incidents.

The Payment Service Provider shall require the Third-party Service Providers
to have clearly defined processes for identifying, investigating, remediating
and notifying Payment Service Provider in a timely manner of incidents that
impact the Third-party Service Provider's ability to deliver agreed-upon
services.

### 22. Record of third-party service relationships.

The Payment Service Provider shall maintain complete, up-to-date records of
their Third-Party Service Relationship that are identified under sub-
regulation 1 of regulation 18.

## Chapter VI Duties of the Payment Service Provider

### 23. Duty to protect Applicable Funds.

(1) The Payment Service Provider shall safeguard Applicable Funds including
but not limited to compliance with the directions specified in Schedule VI.(2)
The Payment Service Provider shall at all times, keep Applicable Funds
segregated from any other types of funds that it holds.

### 24. Duty to comply with International Financial Services Centres Authority
(Anti Money Laundering, Counter

Terrorist Financing and Know Your Customer) Guidelines, 2022 (AML, CTF &KYC
Guidelines)(1) The Payment Service Provider shall ensure compliance with
AML,CTF & KYC Guidelines and other provisions of Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 and the Rules made thereunder including any statutory
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force.(2) The
Payment Service Provider using agents for providing its services shall:(a)
maintain an up-to-date list of such agents;(b) include such agents in their
AML/CTF programmes and monitor them for compliance with these programmes.(3) A
Payment Service Provider shall be responsible and accountable for the
transactions/actions undertaken by their authorised agents.(4) A Payment
Service Provider shall maintain a log of all the transactions undertaken for
at least ten years. This data shall be made available for scrutiny to the
Authority or any other agency / agencies as may be directed by the Authority.

### 25. Duty to comply with laws.

The Payment Service Provider shall comply with all applicable laws in India as
well all applicable laws of any jurisdiction/s outside India where it provides
services or where the Payment Service Users are based.

### 26. Duty of co-operation with the Authority.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall deal with the Authority in an open and
co-operative manner. A Payment Service Provider shall keep theAuthority duly
informed of any significant event(s) relating to the Payment Service
Provider.(2) Any proposed major change, such as change in product
features/process, structure or operation of the payment services, etc., shall
be communicated to the Authority with complete details.(3) A Payment Service
Provider shall obtain prior approval of the Authority before entering into any
transaction of merger, consolidation, re-organisation, scheme of arrangement
or compromise with its shareholders or effect any scheme of amalgamation or
reconstruction.(4) The Authority may, for the purpose of carrying out its
functions under these Regulation, conduct or get conducted audits and
inspections of a Payment Service Provider and a Third-Party Service Provider
and it shall be the duty of the Payment Service Provider and a Third-Party
ServiceProvider to assist the Authority to carry out such audit or inspection,
as the case may be.

### 27. Duty towards Payment Service Users.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall ensure that due regard is given to
protecting the interests of Payment Service Users and the relevant information
is communicated to them in a clear and fair manner that minimises the
possibility of them getting misled.(2) A Payment Service Provider shall comply
with the disclosure requirements as specified in Schedule VII of these
regulations.

### 28. Duty to secure the information technology systems and other
infrastructure.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall secure its information technology systems
and other infrastructure used for providing Payment Services from unauthorised
access and manipulation.(2) A Payment Service Provider shall prepare and
maintain a written document outlining the security policies and procedures put
in place tofulfil the duty at sub-regulation (1).(3) The Authority may, if it
feels necessary to do so, issue directions to the Payment Service Providers
about the procedures to be followed for securing the information technology
systems and other infrastructure used for providing Payment Services.(4) The
Authority may, if it feels necessary to do so, direct a Payment Service
Provider to submit certificate (s) issued by independent professionals
confirming the compliances under sub-regulations (1) and (2) and with the
directions issued under sub-regulation (3).

### 29. Redressal of grievances and dispute resolution.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall depute adequate staff at its permanent
place of business or registered office in IFSC to address any queries,
complaints or grievances from a Payment Service User that uses one or more of
the payment services provided by the Payment ServiceProvider and shall do so
within a period of thirty days from receipt of a complaint or a grievance.(2)
Payments Service Users shall be provided with one or more channels - web-based
or paper-based complaint form, IVR, mobile application, call centre, SMS,
through branches or offices, etc. - for raising queries and for lodging
complaints and grievances.(3) Disputes between a Payment Service User and a
Payment Service Provider, which could not be resolved by the internal
grievance redressal mechanism in sub-section (1), shall be resolved by
harnessing online conciliation and/or online arbitration in the manner as
specified by the Authority.(4) A Payment Service Provider shall maintain
records regarding queries, complaints and grievances received by it and
redressal of such complaints and grievances.

### 30. Action in case of default.

The Authority may initiate appropriate enforcement action in case a Payment
Service Provider contravenes any of the provisions of these regulations,
direction or order made thereunder.

## Chapter VII

### 31. Place of business or registered office.

(1) A Payment Service Provider shall have its place of business and registered
office in IFSC.(2) A Payment Service Provider who wants to carry on some
activities relating to a payment service from a place of business other than
from IFSC shall seek prior approval from the Authority.

## Chapter VIII Returns, Documents and Other Information

### 32. Submission of returns, documents or other information etc.

Every Payment Service Provider shall submit requisite documents and
information in such format and in such manner as may be specified by the
Authority.

### 33. Furnishing of accounts and Balance Sheet.

Every Payment Service Provider shall submit to the Authority, a copy of the
audited financial statements, which includes Balance-sheet, Profit and Loss
statement, Cash or Fund flow statement along-with the auditor's report thereon
within three (3) months from the date of its finalisation to the Authority,
along with the remarks or observations of the auditor, if any, on the conduct
of the business, state of accounts, etc., and a suitable explanation on
auditor's observations/remarks.Provided that the Authority may, on an
application made by the Payment Service Provider, extend the said period of
three months for furnishing of returns by a further period not exceeding one
month.

### 34. Maintenance of books of accounts, records and other documents.

Every Payment Service Provider shall, inter-alia, maintain and preserve the
following books of accounts, records and documents, in a format suitable for
electronic retrieval, for a minimum of ten (10) years from the date of
commencement of operations, namely: -(a) a copy of the balance sheet at the
end of each accounting period;(b) a copy of profit and loss account for each
accounting period;(c) a copy of the auditor's report on the accounts for each
accounting period;(d) a statement of net worth for each quarter;(e)
documentation relating to compliance with International Financial Services
Centres Authority (Anti Money Laundering, Counter-Terrorist Financing and Know
Your Customer) Guidelines, 2022;(f) documents relating to account opening of
each client and any power of attorney or signature authority forms of the
clients;(g) relevant records and documents relating to its activities in
capital markets;(h) such other books of accounts, records and documents as may
be specified by the Authority from time to time.

## Schedule I

**Payment Services, Thresholds and Conditions** _[Regulation 4(3) and
4(4)]_**Part A****Activities which are Payment Services** 1\. The following
activities, except the activities specified in Part B, are Payment Services
for the purposes of these regulations:(a) account issuance service (including
e-money account issuance service);(b) e-money issuance service;(c) escrow
service;(d) cross border money transfer service;(e) merchant acquisition
service.**Part B****Activities which are not Payment Services** 2\. The
following activities are not Payment Services for the purposes of these
regulations -(a) payment transactions on behalf of the payer or the payee, if
performed by an agent authorised to negotiate or conclude the sale or purchase
of goods or services on behalf of the payer or the payee, as the case may
be;(b) payment transactions based on any of the following documents, each
being a document drawn on a person with a view to placing money at the
disposal of the payee;(i) cheque, cashier's order, drawing voucher, dividend
warrant, demand draft, remittance receipt, traveller's cheque or gift
cheque;(ii) paper postal order;(c) payment transactions carried out within a
payment or securities settlement system between Payment Service Providers and
settlement agents, central counterparties, clearing houses, central banks or
other participants in the system;(d) payment transactions related to
securities asset servicing, including dividends, income or other
distributions, or redemption or sale, carried out by persons referred to in
sub-paragraph (c);(e) payment transactions carried out between Payment Service
Providers, or their agents or branch offices, for their own account;(f)
payment transactions and related services between a Holding company and its
subsidiary or between subsidiaries of the same Holding company, without any
intermediary intervention by a Payment Service Provider other than Group
Entities;(g) transporting currency, including the collection, processing and
delivery of the currency, where the service is carried on as a business;(h)
services provided by technical service providers, being an entity that
supports the provision of payment services, without being in possession of the
funds to be transferred at any time, including the services of:(i) processing
and storage of data;(ii) trust and privacy protection services;(iii) data and
entity authentication;(iv) information technology;(v) communication network
provision; and(vi) provision and maintenance of terminals and devices used for
payment services;(i) services based on specific payment instruments that can
be used only in a limited way and meet one of the following conditions:(i)
allow the holder to acquire goods or services only in the premises of the
issuer of the payment instrument;(ii) are issued by an issuer and allow the
holder to acquire goods or services only within a limited network of service
providers which have direct commercial agreements with the user;(iii) may be
used only to acquire a very limited range of goods or services;**Part
C****Thresholds and Conditions for designation as a Significant Payment
Service Provider** 3\. The following are the thresholds and conditions to be
met by a Regular Payment Service Provider to be designated as a Significant
Payment Service Provider -(a) the Regular Payment Service Provider carries on
a business of providing one or more of the payment services (other than
e-money account issuance service) mentioned in Part A of this schedule and(i)
the monthly average, over a calendar year, of the total value of all payment
transactions that are accepted, processed, executed exceeds -(A) $2 million
(or its equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency), for any one of the
payment services (other than e-money account issuance service) mentioned in
Part A of this schedule or;(B) $4 million (or its equivalent in a Specified
Foreign Currency), for two or more of the payment services (other than e-money
account issuance service) mentioned in Part A of this schedule;(b) if the
Regular Payment Service Provider intends to carry or carries on a business of
providing an e-money account issuance service and(i) the average daily value,
over a calendar year, of all e-money that is stored in any payment account
issued by the Regular Payment Service Provider exceeds $3 million (or its
equivalent in a specified foreign currency);(c) if the applicant or the
Regular Payment Service Provider carries on a business of providing an e-money
issuance service and(i) the average daily value, over a calendar year, of the
total value in one day of all e-money that is intended to be issued or issued
by the Regular Payment Service Provider exceeds $3 million (or its equivalent
in a Specified Foreign Currency);

## Schedule II

_[See Regulation 7(1)]_**Fit and Proper Requirements** 1\. This schedule sets
out the fit and proper criteria applicable to all Relevant Persons. The
Authority expects a Relevant Person to be competent, honest, to have integrity
and to be of sound financial standing.2\. The criteria provided in this
schedule are not meant to be exhaustive or a substitute for any legal
provisions and are to be read in conjunction with any applicable legislation
and any written instructions, notifications, standards, and additional
guidelines that the Authority may issue from time to time.3\. A Payment
Service Provider shall establish effective systems and controls to ensure that
all the Relevant Persons meet the 'fit and proper' criteria.4\. A Payment
Service Provider shall carry out 'fit and proper' evaluation, in the format
specified in the annex to this schedule of all Relevant Persons, both at the
time of their appointment and at reasonably regular frequency thereafter.5\. A
Relevant Person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person if, based on the
evaluation undertaken under 3 or any other information available with it, a
Payment Service Provider is satisfied -(a) such person has a record of
fairness and integrity, including but not limited to:(i) financial
integrity;(ii) good reputation and character; and(iii) honesty.(b) such person
has not incurred any of the following disqualifications -(i) the person has
been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or any
economic offence or any offence against securities laws;(ii) a recovery
proceeding has been initiated against the person by a financial regulatory
authority and is pending;(iii) an order for winding up has been passed against
the person for malfeasance;(iv) the person has been declared an undischarged
insolvent(v) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person from
accessing, providing or dealing in financial products or financial services,
has been passed by any regulatory authority, and a period of three (3) years
from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order has not
elapsed;(vi) any other order against the person, has been passed by the
Authority or any other regulatory authority, and a period of three (3) years
from the date of the order has not elapsed;(vii) the person has been found to
be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and the finding is in
force;(viii) the person is financially not sound or has been categorised as a
wilful defaulter;(ix) the person has been declared a fugitive economic
offender; or(x) any other disqualification as may be specified by the
Authority** _Annex to Schedule II_**

**Sr. No.** | **Particulars**  
---|---  
1 | Whether any of the functionaries or any of the entities associated with the functionary have been refused a Registration/ Authorisation/ License by the Authority or any other regulatory authority or their Registration/ Authorization/ License has been suspended at any time prior to this application.(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect)._(for this clause , a person is said to be 'associated with' an entity if he/she is/ was a functionary of the entity)_  
2 | Whether the functionary or any of the companies/ entities in which the functionary is/ was associated with1, is in default or have defaulted in the past in respect of credit facilities obtained from any entity or bank?(If yes, please furnish information about the default and the name of the lending institution)  
3 | Whether any of the functionaries have been disqualified to act as promoter/ director/ key managerial personnel under any law in any jurisdiction where the applicant entity or the group companies of the applicant entity are operating?If yes, please furnish details.  
4 | Name/s of the companies, firms, partnership firms, in which any of the functionaries hold substantial interest.  
5 | Whether the Applicant/Group or any of the functionaries are/ were undergoing/ involved in any investigation/ disciplinary action/ legal or regulatory violations/ criminal case by any law enforcement/ regulatory agencies?If yes, please furnish details.  
6 | Whether any order has been passed by any bankruptcy/ resolution authority against any company/ entity with which any of the functionaries are/ were associated1?If yes, please furnish details.  
7 | Whether any of the functionaries have been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against securities laws?If yes, please furnish details.  
8 | Whether a recovery proceeding has been initiated against any of the functionaries by a financial regulatory authority and is pending?If yes, please furnish details.  
9 | Whether an order for winding up has been passed against any of the functionaries for malfeasance?If yes, please furnish details.  
10 | Whether an order restraining, prohibiting or debarring any of the functionaries from accessing or dealing in financial products or financial services, has been passed by any regulatory authority/ courts, and a period of five years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed?If yes, please furnish details.  
11 | Whether any other order against any of the functionaries, which has a bearing on the securities market, has been passed by any regulatory authority, and a period of five years from the date of the order has not elapsed?If yes, please furnish details.  
12 | Whether any of the functionaries(i) have been declared insolvent and not discharged?If yes, please furnish details.(ii) have been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and the finding is in force?If yes, please furnish details.(iii) are financially not sound or have been categorized as a wilful defaulter?If yes, please furnish details.(iv) have been declared a fugitive economic offender?If yes, please furnish details.  
  
## Schedule III

_[See Regulation 13(1)]_**Surrender of Authorisation****A. For a Payment
Service Provider that has commenced operations** 1\. A Payment Service
Provider that has commenced operations and wishes to surrender the
authorisation issued to it shall submit the following documents to the
Authority:a. A request in writing by its authorised signatory along with a
copy of the resolution of its Board of Directors approving a proposal to
surrender such authorisation along with the reason for and intent behind such
surrender.b. A certificate from its Chartered Accountant about the number of
customer accounts and amounts held in such accounts as on the date of the
resolution in 1(a). Such statement should also indicate the name of its Escrow
account details, outstanding Escrow amount, and liabilities A note outlining
the process proposed to be followed by the Payment Service Provider and the
timeline for extinguishing/ repaying the liabilities to the Payment Service
Users, Merchants or any other parties.c. An undertaking duly signed, by its
authorised signatory, and clearly stating that it would not incur any fresh
liability during the process of surrender of authorisation and closing down
the business.2\. A request for surrender of authorisation shall be considered
by the Authority on the merits of the request.3\. The Authority shall process
such a request communicate its decision to the Payment Service Provider.4\.
The Authority may advise the Payment Service Provider to initiate certain
actions including:a. Issue a public notice in English, Hindi and a vernacular
language, in print/visual media, on 3 different occasions, informing the
Payment Service Users / Merchants about its intent to surrender its payment
services provider operations. Such public notice shall, inter-alia,
indicate:i. That the Payment Service Users may either use the balances in
their e-wallets or obtain refund, by credit to a bank account, within a
stipulated period by making a request to the Payment Service Provider.ii. The
manner of sending of such requests for redemption.iii. Name, contact address,
phone number and email id of a Nodal officer of the Payment Service Provider
to whom such requests are to be sent by the customer.iv. Time period within
which the company would redeem the balance after receipt of request from the
customer.b. Submit a monthly progress report on the progress in extinguishing
the liabilities of the Payment Service Users /Merchants.5\. On completing the
process of extinguishing the liability to the Payment Service Users/
Merchants, the Payment Service Provider shall submit a 'No liability'
certificate issued by its statutory auditor.6\. The Payment Service Provider
shall submit the original Certificate of Authorisation to the Authority for
cancellation.**B. For a Payment Service Provider that has yet to commence
operations** 1\. A Payment Service Provider that is yet to commence operations
and wishes to surrender the authorisation issued to it shall submit the
following documents to the Authority:a. A request in writing by its authorised
signatory along with a copy of the resolution of its Board of Directors
approving a proposal to surrender such authorisation along with the reason for
and intent behind such surrender.b. A certificate from a Chartered Accountant
to the effect that the Payment Service Provider has not commenced operations
for which it had received authorisation from the Authority.c. Copy of the
latest audited balance sheet of the Payment Service Provider.d. Request for
surrender of authorisation shall be considered by the Authority on the merits
of the request.2\. The Authority shall process such a request and communicate
its decision to the Payment Service Provider.3\. The Payment Service Provider
shall submit the original Authorisation certificate to the Authority for
cancellation.

## Schedule IV

_[See Regulation 4 (1)]_**Persons Exempted From Authorisation** 1\. An IFSC
Banking Company (IBC) or an IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) licensed or permissioned
under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949).2\. A person licensed to
carry on the business of issuing credit cards in IFSC.3\. Any other person or
class of persons, as may be specified by the Authority.

## Schedule V

_[See regulation 6(1)]_**Minimum Net Worth Requirements** 1\. A Regular
Payment Service Provider shall have a minimum net-worth of USD 100,000 (or
equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) on the date of commencement of
operations. A Regular Payment Service Provider shall achieve a minimum net-
worth of USD 200,000 (or equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) by the
end of the third financial year (i.e., March 31) from the year of commencement
of operations.2\. A Significant Payment Service Provider shall achieve a
minimum net-worth of USD 250,000 (or equivalent in a Specified Foreign
Currency) within ninety days of the date of being so designated by the
Authority. A Significant Payment Service Provider shall achieve a minimum net-
worth of USD 500,000 (or equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) by the
end of the third financial year (i.e., March 31) from the year of designation
as a Significant Payment Service Provider.3\. Net-worth shall consist of paid-
up equity capital, preference shares that are compulsorily convertible to
equity, free reserves, balance in share premium account and capital reserves
representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of assets but not reserves
created by revaluation of assets adjusted for accumulated loss balance, book
value of intangible assets and deferred revenue expenditure, if any.
Compulsorily convertible preference shares can be either non-cumulative or
cumulative, and they should be compulsorily convertible into equity shares and
the shareholder agreements should specifically prohibit any withdrawal of this
preference capital at any time.

## Schedule VI Safeguarding of money received from Payment Service User

[See Regulation 23(1)](1) The directions in clause (2) below shall apply to
every Regular Payment Service Provider and Significant Payment Service
Provider that carries on a business of providing any of the following payment
services:(a) a cross-border money transfer service;(b) a merchant acquisition
service;(c) any other payment service that may be specified by the
Authority.(2) A Regular Payment Service Provider and a Significant Payment
Service Provider mentioned above, shall ensure that no later than the next
business day after any applicable funds is received from, or on account of, a
Payment Service User, the whole or such part, as may be specified , of the
applicable funds, is safeguarded through one of the following means:(a) by an
undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be fully liable to the
customer for the applicable funds ;(b) by a guarantee given by a safeguarding
institution for the amount of the applicable funds ;(c) by depositing the
relevant money in a trust account maintained with a safeguarding
institution;(d) in such other manner as may be specified by the Authority.(3)
The directions in clause (4) below, shall apply to every Regular Payment
Service Provider and Significant Payment Service Provider that carries on a
business of providing either of the following payment services:(a) an e-money
issuance service;(b) any other payment service that may be specified by the
Authority.(4) A Regular Payment Service Provider and a Significant Payment
Service Provider mentioned in clause (3) above, shall ensure that from the
time any applicable funds are received from, or on account of, a customer, the
whole or such part, as may be specified , of the relevant money is safeguarded
in one of the following manners:(a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding
institution, to be fully liable to the customer for the relevant money;(b) by
a guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the amount of the relevant
money;(c) by depositing the relevant money in a trust account maintained with
a safeguarding institution;(d) in such other manner as may be specified by the
Authority.(5) A Regular Payment Service Provider and a Significant Payment
Service Provider shall hold the applicable funds in an escrow account with an
IBU. Separate escrow accounts shall be opened for holding applicable funds
pertaining to each of the payment services listed in Part A of Schedule I.(6)
A Regular Payment Service Provider and a Significant Payment Service Provider
providing e-money issuance service shall ensure that the balance in the
associated escrow account shall not, at the end of the day, be lower than the
value of outstanding e-money issued and payments due to Payments Service
Users.(7) Credits to the escrow account shall be permitted for amounts
received towards issue, load / reload of e-money wallets and refunds received
for failed / disputed / returned / cancelled transactions;(8) Debits to the
escrow accounts shall be permitted for payments to Merchants/Payment Service
Providers for the services obtained by the Payment Service User , payment to
the IBU or IBC for processing funds transfer instructions of the payment
service user, payments towards applicable taxes, refunds towards cancellation
of transactions resulting in loading/reloading of balances and any other
payments due to the Payment Service Provider as per the terms of contract
entered into with the Payment Service User.(9) The agreement between the
Payment Service Provider and the IBU maintaining escrow account shall include
a clause enabling the bank to use the money in the escrow account only for
purposes mentioned in these regulations.(10) A Regular Payment Service
Provider and a Significant Payment Service Provider providing e-money issuance
service shall not :(a) issue e-money at a premium or discount, i.e., issue
e-money that has a monetary value different than the funds received;(b) use
the funds collected in exchange of e-money issued to extend loans or financing
to any person;(c) extend credit to the customer or any other person, or pay
interest, profit or any other form of returns on the e- money balances, that
would add to the monetary value of the e-money; and(d) associate, link or use
the e-money scheme or platform to conduct dubious or illegal activities.(e)
permit the e-money stored in e-wallets to be withdrawn in the form of cash

## Schedule VII

Mandatory Disclosure Requirements[See Regulation 27(2)]1\. A Payment Service
Provider must provide the information through following statement to all
customers and potential customers in the manner specified in clause 2 below:"<
Name of Payment Service Provider > is authorised by the International
Financial Services Centres Authority to provide payment services . Please note
that this does not mean you will be able to recover the all the funds that you
paid to the "< Name of Payment Service Provider > if the "< Name of Payment
Service Provider >'s business fails"2\. The statement referred to in clause 1
above must :a. be published at least once in publicly available material
issued by the Payment Service Provider;b. be provided to a potential customer
prior to the potential customer using the payment services provided by the
Payment Service Provider;c. be provided at least once in writing to any
customer where such a customer was not provided the statement in the manner
set out in (b);d. not be obstructed or obscured, or embedded within other
unrelated writing;e. be of a reasonable size and typeface.3\. Where a Payment
Service Provider makes a representation in respect of the scope of its
regulation by the Authority in any publicly available material, the Payment
Service Provider shall at all times ensure that the representation is accurate
and not false or misleading.4\. A Payment Service Provider shall ensure that
materials provided to customers or potential customers, are clear, complete,
accurate, understandable and not misleading, regardless of the delivery
channel.5\. Any advertisement or promotional material developed by the Payment
Service Provider, regardless of its delivery channel, shall include:a. The
identity and contact information of the Payment Service Provider;b. A
statement to the effect that the Payment Service Provider is authorised by the
Authority;c. A summary of the main terms and conditions associated with the
Payment Service ;d. The qualifying criteria for participating in the
promotion, and the duration of the promotion; ande. The contact information of
the Payment Service Provider's dispute resolution mechanism6\. A Payment
Service Provider shall provide a summary of details of a transaction prior to
the Consumer approving the transaction. The summary of details shall at a
minimum include:a. Information that identifies the beneficiary of the
transaction such as name and telephone number;b. The transaction amount;c. The
fees and charges as a result of the transaction;d. A caution statement
indicating time limits relevant for execution of the transaction and the point
of time from which the time limits count, including the instance of finality
and irrevocability of the transaction;e. Where applicable, the average
interbank exchange rate published7\. A Payment Service Provider shall issue,
free of charge, a confirmation to a Payment Service User for every transaction
undertaken by the Payment Service User. The confirmation shall at a minimum,
contain the following:a. Name of beneficiary (if applicable);b. Transaction
amount;c. Date transaction was completed;d. The beneficiary's account or
wallet number (if applicable);e. The originating source of transaction (if
applicable);f. The contact information of the Payment Service Provider's
dispute resolution mechanism.

