## United Nations Conventions

## International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination

UNITED NATIONS  
India

# International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination

## GENERALASSEMBLY 1 of 1965

  * Published in United Nations on 21 December 1965 
  * Commenced on 21 December 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 December 1965.] 

The States Parties to this Convention,Considering that the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights proclaims that all human beings are born free and
equal in dignity and rights and that everyone is entitled to all the rights
and freedoms set out therein, without distinction of any kind, in particular
as to race, colour or national origin,Considering that all human beings are
equal before the law and are entitled to equal protection of the law against
any discrimination and against any incitement to discrimination,Considering
that the United Nations has condemned colonialism and all practices of
segregation and discrimination associated therewith, in whatever form and
wherever they exist, and that the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples of 14 December 1960 (General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV)) has affirmed and solemnly proclaimed the necessity of
bringing them to a speedy and unconditional end,Considering that the United
Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
of 20 November 1963 (General Assembly resolution 1904 (XVIII)) solemnly
affirms the necessity of speedily eliminating racial discrimination throughout
the world in all its forms and manifestations and of securing understanding of
and respect for the dignity of the human person,Convinced that any doctrine of
superiority based on racial differentiation is scientifically false, morally
condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous, and that there is no justification
for racial discrimination, in theory or in practice, anywhere,Reaffirming that
discrimination between human beings on the grounds of race, colour or ethnic
origin is an obstacle to friendly and peaceful relations among nations and is
capable of disturbing peace and security among peoples and the harmony of
persons living side by side even within one and the same State,Convinced that
the existence of racial barriers is repugnant to the ideals of any human
society,Alarmed by manifestations of racial discrimination still in evidence
in some areas of the world and by governmental policies based on racial
superiority or hatred, such as policies of apartheid, segregation or
separation,Resolved to adopt all necessary measures for speedily eliminating
racial discrimination in all its forms and manifestations, and to prevent and
combat racist doctrines and practices in order to promote understanding
between races and to build an international community free from all forms of
racial segregation and racial discrimination,Bearing in mind the Convention
concerning Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation adopted by
the International Labour Organisation in 1958, and the Convention against
Discrimination in Education adopted by the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization in 1960,Desiring to implement the
principles embodied in the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Al
l Forms of Racial Discrimination and to secure the earliest adoption of
practical measures to that end,Have agreed as follows:

## Part I

## Article 1

1\. In this Convention, the term "racial discrimination" shall mean any
distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour,
descent, or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of
nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal
footing, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic,
social, cultural or any other field of public life.2\. This Convention shall
not apply to distinctions, exclusions, restrictions or preferences made by a
State Party to this Convention between citizens and non-citizens.3\. Nothing
in this Convention may be interpreted as affecting in any way the legal
provisions of States Parties concerning nationality, citizenship or
naturalization, provided that such provisions do not discriminate against any
particular nationality.4\. Special measures taken for the sole purpose of
securing adequate advancement of certain racial or ethnic groups or
individuals requiring such protection as may be necessary in order to ensure
such groups or individuals equal enjoyment or exercise of human rights and
fundamental freedoms shall not be deemed racial discrimination, provided,
however, that such measures do not, as a consequence, lead to the maintenance
of separate rights for different racial groups and that they shall not be
continued after the objectives for which they were taken have been achieved.

## Article 2

1\. States Parties condemn racial discrimination and undertake to pursue by
all appropriate means and without delay a policy of eliminating racial
discrimination in all its forms and promoting understanding among all races,
and, to this end:(a) Each State Party undertakes to engage in no act or
practice of racial discrimination against persons, groups of persons or
institutions and to en sure that all public authorities and public
institutions, national and local, shall act in conformity with this
obligation;(b) Each State Party undertakes not to sponsor, defend or support
racial discrimination by any persons or organizations;(c) Each State Party
shall take effective measures to review governmental, national and local
policies, and to amend, rescind or nullify any laws and regulations which have
the effect of creating or perpetuating racial discrimination wherever it
exists;(d) Each State Party shall prohibit and bring to an end, by all
appropriate means, including legislation as required by circumstances, racial
discrimination by any persons, group or organization;(e) Each State Party
undertakes to encourage, where appropriate, integrationist multiracial
organizations and movements and other means of eliminating barriers between
races, and to discourage anything which tends to strengthen racial
division.2\. States Parties shall, when the circumstances so warrant, take, in
the social, economic, cultural and other fields, special and concrete measures
to ensure the adequate development and protection of certain racial groups or
individuals belonging to them, for the purpose of guaranteeing them the full
and equal enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. These measures
shall in no case en tail as a con sequence the maintenance of unequal or
separate rights for different racial groups after the objectives for which
they were taken have been achieved.

## Article 3

States Parties particularly condemn racial segregation and apartheid and
undertake to prevent, prohibit and eradicate all practices of this nature in
territories under their jurisdiction.

## Article 4

States Parties condemn all propaganda and all organizations which are based on
ideas or theories of superiority of one race or group of persons of one colour
or ethnic origin, or which attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and
discrimination in any form, and undertake to adopt immediate and positive
measures designed to eradicate all incitement to, or acts of, such
discrimination and, to this end, with due regard to the principles embodied in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights expressly set forth
in article 5 of this Convention, inter alia:(a) Shall declare an offence
punishable by law all dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or
hatred, incitement to racial discrimination, as well as all acts of violence
or incitement to such acts against any race or group of persons of another
colour or ethnic origin, and also the provision of any assistance to racist
activities, including the financing thereof;(b) Shall declare illegal and
prohibit organizations, and also organized and all other propaganda
activities, which promote and incite racial discrimination, and shall
recognize participation in such organizations or activities as an offence
punishable by law;(c) Shall not permit public authorities or public
institutions, national or local, to promote or incite racial discrimination.

## Article 5

In compliance with the fundamental obligations laid down in article 2 of this
Convention, States Parties undertake to prohibit and to eliminate racial
discrimination in all its forms and to guarantee the right of everyone,
without distinction as to race, colour, or national or ethnic origin, to
equality before the law, notably in the enjoyment of the following rights:(a)
The right to equal treatment before the tribunals and all other organs
administering justice;(b) The right to security of person and protection by
the State against violence or bodily harm, whether inflicted by government
officials or by any individual group or institution;(c) Political rights, in
particular the right to participate in elections-to vote and to stand for
election-on the basis of universal and equal suffrage, to take part in the
Government as well as in the conduct of public affairs at any level and to
have equal access to public service;(d) Other civil rights, in particular:(i)
The right to freedom of movement and residence within the border of the
State;(ii) The right to leave any country, including one's own, and to return
to one's country;(iii) The right to nationality;(iv) The right to marriage and
choice of spouse;(v) The right to own property alone as well as in association
with others;(vi) The right to inherit;(vii) The right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion;(viii) The right to freedom of opinion and
expression;(ix) The right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association;(e)
Economic, social and cultural rights, in particular:(i) The rights to work, to
free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work, to
protection against unemployment, to equal pay for equal work, to just and
favourable remuneration;(ii) The right to form and join trade unions;(iii) The
right to housing;(iv) The right to public health, medical care, social
security and social services;(v) The right to education and training;(vi) The
right to equal participation in cultural activities;(f) The right of access to
any place or service intended for use by the general public, such as transport
hotels, restaurants, cafes, theatres and parks.

## Article 6

States Parties shall assure to everyone within their jurisdiction effective
protection and remedies, through the competent national tribunals and other
State institutions, against any acts of racial discrimination which violate
his human rights and fundamental freedoms contrary to this Convention, as well
as the right to seek from such tribunals just and adequate reparation or
satisfaction for any damage suffered as a result of such discrimination.

## Article 7

States Parties undertake to adopt immediate and effective measures,
particularly in the fields of teaching, education, culture and information,
with a view to combating prejudices which lead to racial discrimination and to
promoting understanding, tolerance and friendship among nations and racial or
ethnical groups, as well as to propagating the purposes and principles of the
Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, and this Convention.

## Part II

## Article 8

1\. There shall be established a Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination (hereinafter referred to as the Committee) consisting of
eighteen experts of high moral standing and acknowledged impartiality elected
by States Parties from among their nationals, who shall serve in their
personal capacity, consideration being given to equitable geographical
distribution and to the representation of the different forms of civilization
as well as of the principal legal systems.2\. The members of the Committee
shall be elected by secret ballot from a list of persons nominated by the
States Parties. Each State Party may nominate one person from among its own
nationals.3\. The initial election shall be held six months after the date of
the entry into force of this Convention. At least three months before the date
of each election the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a
letter to the States Parties inviting them to submit their nominations within
two months. The Secretary-General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order
of all persons thus nominated, indicating the States Parties which have
nominated them, and shall submit it to the States Parties.4\. Elections of the
members of the Committee shall be held at a meeting of States Parties convened
by the Secretary-General at United Nations Headquarters. At that meeting, for
which two thirds of the States Parties shall constitute a quorum, the persons
elected to the Committee shall be nominees who obtain the largest number of
votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the representatives of States
Parties present and voting.5.(a) The members of the Committee shall be elected
for a term of four years. However, the terms of nine of the members elected at
the first election shall expire at the end of two years; immediately after the
first election the names of these nine members shall be chosen by lot by the
Chairman of the Committee;(b) For the filling of casual vacancies, the State
Party whose expert has ceased to function as a member of the Committee shall
appoint another expert from among its nationals, subject to the approval of
the Committee.

## Article 9

1\. States Parties undertake to submit to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, for consideration by the Committee, a report on the legislative,
judicial, administrative or other measures which they have adopted and which
give effect to the provisions of this Convention: (a) within one year after
the entry into force of the Convention for the State concerned; and(b)
thereafter every two years and whenever the Committee so requests. The
Committee may request further information from the States Parties.

## Article 10

1\. The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.2\. The Committee
shall elect its officers for a term of two years.3\. The secretariat of the
Committee shall be provided by the Secretary General of the United Nations.4\.
The meetings of the Committee shall normally be held at United Nations
Headquarters.

## Article 11

1\. If a State Party considers that another State Party is not giving effect
to the provisions of this Convention, it may bring the matter to the attention
of the Committee. The Committee shall then transmit the communication to the
State Party concerned. Within three months, the receiving State shall submit
to the Committee written explanations or statements clarifying the matter and
the remedy, if any, that may have been taken by that State.2\. If the matter
is not adjusted to the satisfaction of both parties, either by bilateral
negotiations or by any other procedure open to them, within six months after
the receipt by the receiving State of the initial communication, either State
shall have the right to refer the matter again to the Committee by notifying
the Committee and also the other State.3\. The Committee shall deal with a
matter referred to it in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article after it
has ascertained that all available domestic remedies have been invoked and
exhausted in the case, in conformity with the generally recognized principles
of international law. This shall not be the rule where the application of the
remedies is unreasonably prolonged.4\. In any matter referred to it, the
Committee may call upon the States Parties concerned to supply any other
relevant information.5\. When any matter arising out of this article is being
considered by the Committee, the States Parties concerned shall be entitled to
send a representative to take part in the proceedings of the Committee,
without voting rights, while the matter is under consideration.

## Article 12

1\. (a) After the Committee has obtained and collated all the information it
deems necessary, the Chairman shall appoint an ad hoc Conciliation Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the Commission) comprising five persons who may or
may not be members of the Committee. The members of the Commission shall be
appointed with the unanimous consent of the parties to the dispute, and its
good offices shall be made available to the States concerned with a view to an
amicable solution of the matter on the basis of respect for this
Convention;(b) If the States parties to the dispute fail to reach agreement
within three months on all or part of the composition of the Commission, the
members of the Commission not agreed upon by the States parties to the dispute
shall be elected by secret ballot by a two-thirds majority vote of the
Committee from among its own members.2\. The members of the Commission shall
serve in their personal capacity. They shall not be nationals of the States
parties to the dispute or of a State not Party to this Convention.3\. The
Commission shall elect its own Chairman and adopt its own rules of
procedure.4\. The meetings of the Commission shall normally be held at United
Nations Headquarters or at any other convenient place as determined by the
Commission.5\. The secretariat provided in accordance with article 10,
paragraph 3, of this Convention shall also service the Commission whenever a
dispute among States Parties brings the Commission into being.6\. The States
parties to the dispute shall share equally all the expenses of the members of
the Commission in accordance with estimates to be provided by the Secretary-
General of the United Nations.7\. The Secretary-General shall be empowered to
pay the expenses of the members of the Commission, if necessary, before
reimbursement by the States parties to the dispute in accordance with
paragraph 6 of this article.8\. The information obtained and collated by the
Committee shall be made available to the Commission, and the Commission may
call upon the States concerned to supply any other relevant information.

## Article 13

1\. When the Commission has fully considered the matter, it shall prepare and
submit to the Chairman of the Committee a report embodying its findings on all
questions of fact relevant to the issue between the parties and containing
such recommendations as it may think proper for the amicable solution of the
dispute.2\. The Chairman of the Committee shall communicate the report of the
Commission to each of the States parties to the dispute. These States shall,
within three months, inform the Chairman of the Committee whether or not they
accept the recommendations contained in the report of the Commission.3\. After
the period provided for in paragraph 2 of this article, the Chairman of the
Committee shall communicate the report of the Commission and the declarations
of the States Parties concerned to the other States Parties to this
Convention.

## Article 14

1\. A State Party may at any time declare that it recognizes the competence of
the Committee to receive and consider communications from individuals or
groups of individuals within its jurisdiction claiming to be victims of a
violation by that State Party of any of the rights set forth in this
Convention. No communication shall be received by the Committee if it concerns
a State Party which has not made such a declaration.2\. Any State Party which
makes a declaration as provided for in paragraph I of this article may
establish or indicate a body within its national legal order which shall be
competent to receive and consider petitions from individuals and groups of
individuals within its jurisdiction who claim to be victims of a violation of
any of the rights set forth in this Convention and who have exhausted other
available local remedies.3\. A declaration made in accordance with paragraph 1
of this article and the name of any body established or indicated in
accordance with paragraph 2 of this article shall be deposited by the State
Party concerned with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall
transmit copies thereof to the other States Parties. A declaration may be
withdrawn at any time by notification to the Secretary-General, but such a
withdrawal shall not affect communications pending before the Committee.4\. A
register of petitions shall be kept by the body established or indicated in
accordance with paragraph 2 of this article, and certified copies of the
register shall be filed annually through appropriate channels with the
Secretary-General on the understanding that the contents shall not be publicly
disclosed.5\. In the event of failure to obtain satisfaction from the body
established or indicated in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article, the
petitioner shall have the right to communicate the matter to the Committee
within six months.6.(a) The Committee shall confidentially bring any
communication referred to it to the attention of the State Party alleged to be
violating any provision of this Convention, but the identity of the individual
or groups of individuals concerned shall not be revealed without his or their
express consent. The Committee shall not receive anonymous communications;(b)
Within three months, the receiving State shall submit to the Committee written
explanations or statements clarifying the matter and the remedy, if any, that
may have been taken by that State.7.(a) The Committee shall consider
communications in the light of all information made available to it by the
State Party concerned and by the petitioner. The Committee shall not consider
any communication from a petitioner unless it has ascertained that the
petitioner has exhausted all available domestic remedies. However, this shall
not be the rule where the application of the remedies is unreasonably
prolonged;(b) The Committee shall forward its suggestions and recommendations,
if any, to the State Party concerned and to the petitioner.8\. The Committee
shall include in its annual report a summary of such communications and, where
appropriate, a summary of the explanations and statements of the States
Parties concerned and of its own suggestions and recommendations.9\. The
Committee shall be competent to exercise the functions provided for in this
article only when at least ten States Parties to this Convention are bound by
declarations in accordance with paragraph I of this article.

## Article 15

1 . Pending the achievement of the objectives of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, the provisions of
this Convention shall in no way limit the right of petition granted to these
peoples by other international instruments or by the United Nations and its
specialized agencies.2.(a) The Committee established under article 8,
paragraph 1, of this Convention shall receive copies of the petitions from,
and submit expressions of opinion and recommendations on these petitions to,
the bodies of the United Nations which deal with matters directly related to
the principles and objectives of this Convention in their consideration of
petitions from the inhabitants of Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories and
all other territories to which General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) applies,
relating to matters covered by this Convention which are before these
bodies;(b) The Committee shall receive from the competent bodies of the United
Nations copies of the reports concerning the legislative, judicial,
administrative or other measures directly related to the principles and
objectives of this Convention applied by the administering Powers within the
Territories mentioned in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and shall express
opinions and make recommendations to these bodies.3\. The Committee shall
include in its report to the General Assembly a summary of the petitions and
reports it has received from United Nations bodies, and the expressions of
opinion and recommendations of the Committee relating to the said petitions
and reports.4\. The Committee shall request from the Secretary-General of the
United Nations all information relevant to the objectives of this Convention
and available to him regarding the Territories mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) of
this article.

## Article 16

The provisions of this Convention concerning the settlement of disputes or
complaints shall be applied without prejudice to other procedures for settling
disputes or complaints in the field of discrimination laid down in the
constituent instruments of, or conventions adopted by, the United Nations and
its specialized agencies, and shall not prevent the States Parties from having
recourse to other procedures for settling a dispute in accordance with general
or special international agreements in force between them.

## Part III

## Article 17

1\. This Convention is open for signature by any State Member of the United
Nations or member of any of its specialized agencies, by any State Party to
the Statute of the International Court of Justice, and by any other State
which has been invited by the General Assembly of the United Nations to become
a Party to this Convention.2\. This Convention is subject to ratification.
Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of
the United Nations.

## Article 18

1\. This Convention shall be open to accession by any State referred to in
article 17, paragraph 1, of the Convention. 2. Accession shall be effected by
the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. Article 19 1. This Convention shall enter into force on the
thirtieth day after the date of the deposit with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations of the twenty-seventh instrument of ratification or instrument
of accession.

## Article 19

1\. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date
of the deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the twenty-
seventh instrument of ratification or instrument of accession.2\. For each
State ratifying this Convention or acceding to it after the deposit of the
twenty-seventh instrument of ratification or instrument of accession, the
Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of the
deposit of its own instrument of ratification or instrument of accession.

## Article 20

1\. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall receive and circulate to
all States which are or may become Parties to this Convention reservations
made by States at the time of ratification or accession. Any State which
objects to the reservation shall, within a period of ninety days from the date
of the said communication, notify the Secretary-General that it does not
accept it.2\. A reservation incompatible with the object and purpose of this
Convention shall not be permitted, nor shall a reservation the effect of which
would inhibit the operation of any of the bodies established by this
Convention be allowed. A reservation shall be considered incompatible or
inhibitive if at least two thirds of the States Parties to this Convention
object to it.3\. Reservations may be withdrawn at any time by notification to
this effect addressed to the Secretary-General. Such notification shall take
effect on the date on which it is received.

## Article 21

A State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations. Denunciation shall take effect one
year after the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary General.

## Article 22

Any dispute between two or more States Parties with respect to the
interpretation or application of this Convention, which is not settled by
negotiation or by the procedures expressly provided for in this Convention,
shall, at the request of any of the parties to the dispute, be referred to the
International Court of Justice for decision, unless the disputants agree to
another mode of settlement.

## Article 23

1\. A request for the revision of this Convention may be made at any time by
any State Party by means of a notification in writing addressed to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.2\. The General Assembly of the United
Nations shall decide upon the steps, if any, to be taken in respect of such a
request.

## Article 24

The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform all States referred
to in article 17, paragraph 1, of this Convention of the following
particulars:(a) Signatures, ratifications and accessions under articles 17 and
18;(b) The date of entry into force of this Convention under article 19;(c)
Communications and declarations received under articles 14, 20 and 23;(d)
Denunciations under article 21.

## Article 25

1\. This Convention, of which the Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the
United Nations.2\. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit
certified copies of this Convention to all States belonging to any of the
categories mentioned in article 17, paragraph 1, of the Convention.

