## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1999

## Act 43 of 1999

  * Published on 3 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1999(Tamil Nadu Act 43 of
1999)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of l999). - As the value of land
increases day by day, the existing financial powers with reference to the
value of the land to be acquired, specified under section 4(1-A) (a) and (b)
of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894) in its application
to this State, to the Collector and the Commissioner of Land Administration
respectively, become inadequate and it results in delay in acquiring the
required lands. In order to acquire lands quickly, the High Level Committee
constituted under the Chairmanship of Justice Thiru G. Ramanujam has
considered this aspect and recommended that the financial powers to the
Collector and Commissioner of Land Administration may be increased. Therefore,
the Government have decided to enhance the financial powers to the Collector
and the Commissioner of Land Administration under section 4 of the said
Act.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part
IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
17th May 1999.Received the assent of the President on the 3rd December 1999
and first published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 8th December 1999.An Act further to amend the Land
Acquisition Act, 1894, in its application to the State of Tamil Nadu.BE it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fiftieth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act,
1999.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Amendment of section 4.

\- In the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, in section 4, in sub-section (1-A), for
clauses (a) and (b), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:-"(a)
the Collector in respect of land not exceeding forty acres in extent the value
of which does not exceed rupees twenty-five lakhs;(b)the Commissioner of Land
Administration in respect of land not exceeding seventy-five acres in extent
the value of which exceeds rupees twenty-five lakhs, but does not exceed
rupees fifty lakhs; and".

