## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1961

## Act 23 of 1961

  * Published on 22 June 1961 
  * Commenced on 22 June 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 June 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1961(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
1961)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu
Amendment) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of l961). - It is noticed that there
is an abnormal increase in the market value of lands in recent times in and
around the City of Madras and also in other towns. Consequent on the
industrial expansion of the country, speculative transactions in lands are
also on the increase in order to push up land prices. In order to enable the
Government to acquire lands which are required, exclusively for housing
schemes at reasonable prices, it is considered necessary to suitably modify
the principles on which compensation to be awarded for the lands will be
determined and paid. The Government have accordingly decided to lay down that
the amount of compensation to be awarded should be determined on the basis of
the actual use to which the land was put at the date of the publication of the
notification under section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act
I of 1894), and not on the basis of the suitability or adaptability of the
land for tiny use other than the use to which it was put on the date
aforesaid. With a view to exclude from consideration the steep increase in
price due to speculative transactions, it has also been decided to lay down
that the amount of compensation should be the market value of the land at the
date of publication of the notification under section 4(1) of the Act or its
average market value during the five years immediately preceding the said
date, whichever is less. Accordingly, it is proposed to suitably amend
sections 23 and 24 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. It is also proposed to
make the provisions of sections 23 and 24 as amended applicable to pending
proceedings in which awards have not been passed under section 11 of that
Act.The Bill seeks to give effect to the above objects.Published in Part IV-
Section 3, page 40-41 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
23rd February 1961.Received the assent of the President on the 22nd June 1961
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 5th July 1961.An
Act further to amend the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, in its application to the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient further to amend
the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (General Act I of 1894), in its application to
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];Be it enacted in the Twelve the Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Land Acquisition ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Amendment) Act, 1961.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government
may, by notification, appoint; and different dates may be appointed for
different areas.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires "housing scheme" means
any State Government scheme the purpose of which is increasing house
accommodation and includes any scheme by a local authority, company or body
corporate for such purpose undertaken with the previous sanction of the State
Government.

### 3. Sections 23 and 24 of Central Act I of 1894 to apply with certain
modification in respect of acquisition of lands for housing schemes.

\- Where any land is acquired for any housing scheme, the Land Acquisition
Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), as in force in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.], shall apply subject to the following modifications,
namely:-(1)In section 23 of the said Act,- (a) in sub-section (1),(i)for
clause first, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-"first, the
market value of the land at the date of the publication of the notification
under section 4, sub-section (1), or an amount equal to the average market
value of the land during the five years immediately preceding such date,
whichever is less;"(ii)in clause fifthly, the word "and" occurring at the end
shall be omitted;(iii)in clause sixthly, the word "and" shall be added at the
end; and(iv)after clause sixthly, the following clause shall be added,
namely:-"seventhly, the use to which the land was put at the date of the
publication of the notification under section 4, sub-section (1).";(b)in sub-
section (2), for the words "fifteen per centum", the words "five per centum"
shall be substituted. (2) In section 24 of the said Act,-(i)in clause sixthly,
the word "or" occurring at the end shall be omitted;(ii)in clause seventhly,
the word "or" shall be added at the end; and(iii)after clause seventhly, the
following clause shall be added, namely:-"eighthly, any increase to the value
of the land acquired by reason of its suitability or adaptability for any use
other than the use to which the land was put at the date of the publication of
the notification under section 4, sub-section (1)."

### 4. Application of the Act to pending cases of acquisition.

\- The provisions of section 3 shall apply also to every case in which
proceedings have been started before the commencement of this Act for the
acquisition of any land for the execution of any housing schemes, provided
that no award has been made by the Collector under section 11 of the Land
Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), before such commencement.

### 5. Saving of other laws.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be
in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in
force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act.

