## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1953

TAMILNADU  
India

# Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1953

## Act 12 of 1953

  * Published on 29 June 1953 
  * Commenced on 29 June 1953 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 June 1953.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Land Acquisition (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1953(Tamil Nadu Act 12 of
1953)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - For Statement of Objects and Reasons,
please see Part IV-A, page 23 of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 4th
March 1953.Received the assent of the President on the 29th June 1953 and
first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 8th July 1953.An Act
further to amend the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, in its application to the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient further to amend
the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), in its application to
the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] for the purposes hereinafter appearing;
It is hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Land Acquisition [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Amendment Act, 1953.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].

### 2. Amendment of sections 28 and 34 of Central Act I of 1894.

\- In sections 28 and 34 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of
1894),-(i)for the words "six per centum", the words "[four per centum] [Now,
nine per centum.]" shall be substituted;(ii)the following proviso shall be
added at the end namely:-"Provided that where such possession is taken before
the commencement of the Land Acquisition ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment)
Act, 1953, the foregoing provision shall have effect as if for the rate of
four per centum per annum specified therein, the rate of six per centum per
annum had been substituted.

