## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Madurai-Kamaraj University Act, 1965

TAMILNADU  
India

# Madurai-Kamaraj University Act, 1965

## Act 33 of 1965

  * Published on 19 August 1983 
  * Commenced on 19 August 1983 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022 . (Act 2 of 2023) on 10 January 2023] 

Madurai-Kamaraj University Act, 1965(Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1965)Last
Updated 28th January, 2020An Act to provide for the establishment and
incorporation of a University at Madurai.Be it enacted by the Legislature of
the State of [Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'State of Madras', by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the
Sixteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
. Preliminary.

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Madurai-Kamaraj University Act,] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'the Madurai University Act' by
section 2 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act,
1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of1978) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 22nd July 1978.] 1965.(2)It extends to the area comprising the
districts of Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari in the State
of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies to all [constituent colleges,] [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 35 of2002).]
colleges and institutions situate within the University area and affiliated to
or approved by the University in accordance with the provisions of this Act or
the statutes, ordinances and regulations made thereunder and also to all
colleges and institutions deemed to be affiliated to or approved by the
University under this Act.(4)This section and sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 50, 51, 52 and 53 shall come into force at once and the rest
of this Act shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"approved college"
means any college within University area affiliated to the University and
providing courses of study for admission to the examinations for degrees of
the University and includes a college deemed to be affiliated to the
University under this Act;(b)"approved college" means any college within the
University area approved by the University and providing courses of study for
admission to the examinations for titles and diplomas and the Pre-University
examination of the University and includes a college deemed to be approved by
the University under this Act;(bb)[ "autonomous college" means any college
designated as an autonomous college by statutes;] [This clause was inserted by
section 2 of the Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act No.
1 of 1978).](c)"college" means any college or any institution maintained or
approved by or affiliated to the University and providing courses of study for
admission to the examinations of the University [and includes constituent
colleges] [Included by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 35 of 2002).](cc)[ "constituent college " means Government
Arts College, Melur and Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women,
Madurai "] [Included by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 35 of 2002).](d)"Government" means the State
Government;(e)"hostel" means a unit of residence for the students of the
University maintained or recognised by the University in accordance with the
provisions of this. Act and includes a hostel deemed to be recognised by the
University under this Act;(f)"notified date" means the date specified in the
notification issued by the Government under sub-section(4) of section
1;(g)"post-graduate college" means a University college or an affiliated
college within the University area providing post-graduate courses of study
leading upto the post-graduate degrees of the University;(h)"prescribed" means
prescribed by this Act or the statutes, ordinances or
regulations;(i)"Principal" means the head of a college;(j)"professional
college" means a college established or maintained by the University or
affiliated to the University and providing courses of study leading upto the
professional degrees of the University;(k)"registered graduate" means a
graduate registered under this Act;(l)"statutes", "ordinances" and
"regulations" mean respectively, the statutes, ordinances and regulations of
the University made or continued in force under this Act;(m)"teachers" means
such lecturers, readers, assistant professors, professors and other persons
giving instruction in University colleges or laboratories, in affiliated or
approved colleges, or in hostels, and librarians as may be declared by the
statutes to be teachers;(n)"teachers of the University" means persons
appointed by the University to give instruction on its behalf;(o)"University"
means the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for
the expression 'the Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University
(Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978)
which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July
1978.];(p)"University area" means the area to which this Act extends under
sub-section (2) of section 1;(q)"University Centre" means any area within the
University area recognized by the Government on the recommendation of the
University and containing one or more colleges competent to engage in higher
teaching and research work and to promote University life in a manner
calculated to prepare for the institution of a new University;(r)"University
college" means a college or a college combined with a research institute
maintained by the University (whether instituted by it or not) and providing
courses of study leading upto the post-graduate and professional
degrees;(s)"University laboratory" means a laboratory maintained by the
University whether instituted by it or not and intended for the carrying on
and advancement of research work;(t)"University Lecturer", "University Reader"
or "University Professor" means Lecturer, Reader or Professor respectively
appointed as such by the University;(u)"University library" means a library
maintained by the University whether instituted by it or not.

## Chapter II  
. The University.

### 3. The University.

(1)There shall be a University [by the name "the Madurai-Kamaraj University"]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'by the name, ' the
Madurai University', by section 3 of the Madurai University (Amendment and
Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978),which was deemed
to have come into force on the 22nd July, 1978.].(2)The [Madurai-Kamaraj
University] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai
University' by section 4, of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special
Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978),which was deemed to have
come into force on the 22nd July, 1978.] shall be a body corporate, shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said
name.(3)The headquarters of the University shall be located within the town
limits of Madurai or in any place within a radius of twenty-five kilometres
around the town limits of Madurai.

### 4. Powers of the University.

\- The University shall have the following objects and powers, namely: -(1)to
provide for instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may
determine;(2)to provide for research and for the advancement and dissemination
of knowledge;(3)to institute degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions;(4)to hold examinations and to confer degrees, titles, diplomas
and other academic distinctions on persons who -(a)shall have pursued an
approved course of study in a University college or laboratory or in an
affiliated or approved college, unless exempted therefrom in the manner
prescribed by the statutes and shall have passed the prescribed examinations
of the University; or(b)shall have carried on research under conditions
prescribed;(4A)[ to confer degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions on persons who shall have pursued an approved course of study in
an autonomous college;] [This clause was inserted by section 3(1) of the
Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1978).](5)to
confer honorary degrees or other distinctions under conditions
prescribed;(6)to institute, maintain and manage institutes of research,
University colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums and other
institutions necessary to carry out the objects of the University;(7)to
affiliate colleges to the University as affiliated, professional or post-
graduate colleges under conditions prescribed and to withdraw affiliation from
colleges;(8)to approve colleges providing courses of study for admission to
the examinations for titles and diplomas and Pre-University examination of the
University under conditions prescribed and to withdraw such approval;(8A)[ to
designate any college as an autonomous college with the concurrence of the
Government in the manner and under conditions prescribed and to cancel such
designation;] [This clause was inserted by section 3 (2,) of the Madurai
University (Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1978).](9)to
institute lecturer-ships, readerships, professorships and any other teaching
post required by the University and to appoint persons to such lecturer-ships,
readerships, professorships and other teaching posts;(10)to institute and
award fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships,
bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes;(11)to establish, maintain and
manage hostels, to recognize hostels not maintained by the University and to
withdraw recognition therefrom;(12)to exercise such control over the students
of the University through the colleges as will secure their health and well-
being and discipline;(13)to hold and manage endowments and other properties
and funds of the University and to raise loans required for the purposes of
this Act;(14)to fix fees and to demand and receive such fees as may be
prescribed;(15)to make grants from the funds of the University for the
maintenance of a National Cadet Corps;(16)to institute and maintain a
University Extension Board;(17)to institute and provide funds for the
maintenance of-(a)a publication bureau;(b)an employment bureau;(c)students'
unions;(d)University athletic clubs; and(e)other similar associations;(18)to
encourage co-operation among the colleges, laboratories and institutes in the
University and co-operate with other Universities and other authorities in
such manner and for such purposes as the University may determine;(19)to
recommend to the Government the recognition of any area within the University
area as a University Centre; and(20)generally to do all such other acts and
things as may be necessary or desirable to further the objects of the
University.

### 5. Colleges not to be affiliated to any other University.

(1)No college within the University area shall be affiliated to any University
other than the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted
for the expression 'the Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai
University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38
of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.](2)[
No institution affiliated to, or associated with, or maintained by any other
University established by or under any law in force shall be recognised by the
University for any purpose except with the prior approval of the Government
and the concerned University.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force, any affiliation or recognition granted
by any other University established, by, or under any law in force, to any
institution within the University area, prior to 19th August, 1983 shall be
deemed to have been withdrawn on and from the said date.] [This clause was
inserted by the Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment)
Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act No.46 of 1983).]

### 6. Disqualification for membership.

(1)No person shall be qualified for election as a member of any of the
authorities of the University, if, on the date of nomination or election, he
is-(a)of unsound mind, [ a deaf-mute or suffering from leprosy; Omited by
Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022](b)an applicant to be
adjudicated insolvent or an undischarged insolvent;(c)sentenced by a criminal
court to imprisonment for any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)In case of
dispute or doubt the Syndicate shall determine whether a person is
disqualified under sub-section (1) and its decision shall be final.

### 7. Visitation.

(1)The Government shall have the right to cause an inspection to be made, by
such person or persons as they may direct, of the University, its buildings,
laboratories, libraries, museums, workshops, and equipment and of any
institutions maintained, recognized or approved by, or affiliated to, the
University and also of the examinations, teaching and other work conducted or
done by the University, and to cause an inquiry to be made in respect of any
matter connected with the University. The Government shall in every case give
notice to the University of their intention to cause such inspection or
inquiry to be made and the University shall be entitled to be represented
thereat.(2)The Government shall communicate to the Senate and to the Syndicate
their views with reference to the results of such inspection or inquiry and
may, after ascertaining the opinion of the Senate and the Syndicate thereon,
advise the University upon the action to be taken.(3)The Syndicate shall
report to the Government the action, if any, which is proposed to be taken, or
has been taken, upon the results of such inspection or inquiry. Such report
shall be submitted with the opinion of the Senate thereon and within such time
as the Government may direct.(4)Where the Senate or the Syndicate does not
within a reasonable time take action to the satisfaction of the Government,
the Government may, after considering any explanation furnished or
representation made by the Senate or the Syndicate, issue such directions as
they may think fit and the Senate and the Syndicate shall comply with such
directions. In the event of the Senate or the Syndicate or both not complying
with such directions within such time as may be fixed in that behalf by the
Government, the Government shall have power to appoint any person or body to
comply with such directions and make such orders as may be necessary for the
expenses thereof.

### 8. Officers of the University.

\- The University shall consist of the following officers, namely: -(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The Registrar;
and(5)Such other persons as may be declared by the statutes to be officers of
the University;

### 9. The Chancellor.

(1)The [Governor of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Governor of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1970.] shall be the Chancellor of the University. He shall, by virtue of his
office, be the head of the University and the President of the Senate and
shall, when present, preside at meetings of the Senate and at any convocation
of the University.(2)The Chancellor shall exercise such powers as may be
conferred on him by or under this Act.(3)Where power is conferred upon the
Chancellor to nominate persons to authorities, the Chancellor shall, to the
extent necessary, nominate persons to represent interests not otherwise
adequately represented.

### 10. The Pro-Chancellor.

(1)The Minister in-charge of the portfolio of education in the [State of Tamil
Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] shall be the Pro-
Chancellor of the University.(2)In the absence of the Chancellor, or during
the Chancellor's inability to act, the Pro-Chancellor shall exercise all the
powers of the Chancellor.

### 11. The Vice-Chancellor.

(1)Every appointment of the Vice-Chancellor shall be made by the Chancellor
from out of a panel of three names recommended by the Committee referred to in
sub-section (2). Such panel shall not contain the name of any member of the
said Committee.[Provided that if the Chancellor does not approve any of the
persons in the panel so recommended by the Committee, he may take steps to
constitute another Committee, in accordance with sub-section (2), to give a
fresh panel of three different names and shall appoint one of the persons
named in the fresh panel as the Vice-Chancellor.] [This proviso was inserted
by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act 1992 ( Tamil Nadu Act No. 3 of
1992).](2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), the Committee shall consist of
three persons of whom one shall be nominated by the Senate, one shall be
nominated by the Syndicate and one shall be nominated by the
Chancellor.Provided that the person so nominated shall not be a member of any
of the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall hold office
for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for not
more than two successive terms.(4)When any temporary vacancy occurs in the
office of the Vice-Chancellor or if the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of
absence or for any other reason, unable to exercise the powers and perform the
duties of his office, the Syndicate shall, as soon as possible, make the
requisite arrangements for exercising the powers and performing the duties of
the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time officer of
the University and shall be entitled to such emoluments, allowances and
privileges as may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 12. Powers and duties of the Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the academic head and the principal executive
officer of the University and shall, in the absence of the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor, preside at meetings of the Senate and at any convocation of the
University. He shall be a member ex-officio and Chairman of the Syndicate, the
Academic Council and the Finance Committee and shall be entitled to be present
at and to address any meeting of any authority of the University but shall not
be entitled to vote thereat unless he is a member of the authority
concerned.(2)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to ensure that the
provisions of this Act, the statutes, ordinances and regulations are observed
and carried out and he may exercise all powers necessary for this
purpose.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power to convene meetings of the
Senate, the Syndicate, the Academic Council and the Finance Committee.(4)(a)In
any emergency which in the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor requires that
immediate action should be taken, he may take such action with the sanction of
the Chancellor or the Pro-Chancellor, as the case may be, and shall as soon as
may be thereafter report his action to the officer or authority who or which
would have ordinarily dealt with the matter.(b)When action taken by the Vice-
Chancellor under this sub-section affects any person in the service of the
University, such person shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Syndicate
within thirty days from the date on which he has notice of such action.(5)The
Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the orders of the Syndicate regarding the
appointment, suspension and dismissal of the teachers and servants of the
University and shall exercise general control over the affairs of the
University.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise such other powers as may be
prescribed.

### 13. The Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time paid officer of the University
appointed by the Syndicate for such period and on such terms as may be
prescribed by the statutes.(2)The Registrar shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as may be prescribed.(3)In all suits and other legal
proceedings by or against the University, the pleadings shall be signed and
verified by the Registrar and all processes in such suits and proceedings
shall be issued to, and served on, the Registrar.

### 14. Authorities of the University.

\- The authorities of the University shall be the Senate, the Syndicate, the
Academic Council, the Faculties, the Finance Committee, the Boards of Studies
and such other authorities as may be declared by the statutes to be
authorities of the University.

## Chapter III  
. The Senate-Powers and Duties.

### 15. The Senate.

(a)The Senate shall consist of the following persons, namely: -Class I - Ex-
Officio Members -(1)The Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-
Chancellor;(4)[ * * * * *] [Item (4) was omitted by section 5 of the Madras
University and Madurai- Kamaraj University (Second Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil
Nadu Act No. 9 of1980).](5)The Director of Higher Education, Madras;(6)The
Director of Secondary Education, Madras;(7)The Director of Technical
Education, Madras;(7A)[ The Director of Medical Education;] [Item (7A) was
inserted by section 5 of the Madras University and Madurai- Kamaraj University
(Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 42 of1979).](8)The Principals of
affiliated colleges who have served as Principals for not less than three
years;(9)Every whole-time University Professor in charge of a Department;
and(10)Members of the Syndicate who are not other-wise members of the
Senate.[Class II - Life Members 1 and 2 omitted] [This heading and the items
thereunder were omitted by section 2(1) of the Madurai- Kamaraj University
(Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 60 of 1981)]Class III - Other
Members -(1)Fifteen members elected by registered graduates from among
themselves in accordance with the system of proportional representation by
means of the single transferable vote;(2)Five members elected by the Academic
Council from among its own body, of whom not less than three shall be teachers
of affiliated colleges;(3)Four members elected by the members of the
Legislative Assembly of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] from among themselves; and two members elected by the
members of the Legislative Council of that State from among
themselves;(4)Three members elected by the Principals of approved colleges
from among themselves in accordance with the system of proportional
representation by means of the single transferable vote;(5)One member elected
from among themselves by headmasters of high schools in each revenue district
in the University area;(6)One member elected by the Chairmen of municipal
councils and of panchayat union councils in each revenue district in the
University area from among such Chairmen and the members of municipal
councils, panchayat union councils and panchayats in such revenue district;
and(7)Ten members nominated by the Chancellor of whom not less than five shall
be nominated to secure the representation of the Scheduled Castes and Schedule
Tribes not otherwise adequately represented.(b)[(i) Save as otherwise
provided, elected and nominated members of the Senate shall hold office for a
period of three years and such members shall be eligible for re-election or
re-nomination] [This clause was substituted by Tamil Nadu Universities Law
(Amendment) Act 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 41 of 1998).].(ii)[ Where a member is
elected or nominated to the Senate to a casual vacancy, the period of office
held for not less than one year by any such member shall be construed as a
full period of three years for the purpose of this clause. [This clause was
inserted by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991
(Tamil Nadu Act No.9 of 1992)]Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause,
the expression "period" shall include the period held prior to the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette"][Provided that a member of the Senate
who is elected or nominated in his capacity as a member of a particular
electorate or body, or the holder of a particular appointment, shall cease to
be a member of the Senate from the date on which he ceases to be, a member of
that electorate or body, or the holder of that appointment as the case may
be.] [This proviso was inserted by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second
Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act .No.21 of 1992)][Provided that a member
of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu shall cease to be a
member of the Senate from the date on which he ceases to be a member of the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu.] [This proviso was inserted
by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws(Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act.
No.26 of 1991)]Provided also that where an elected or nominated member of the
Senate is appointed temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which he is
entitled to be a member of the Senate, ex-officio, he shall, by notice in
writing signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven
days from the date of his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he
will continue to be a member of the Senate by virtue of his election or
nomination or whether he will vacate office as such member and become a member
ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and the choice, shall be conclusive.
On failure to make such choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office
as an elected or nominated member.(c)When a person ceases to be a member of
the Senate he shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the
University of which he may happen to be a member by virtue of his membership
of the Senate.

### 16. The Senate to be the supreme governing body.

\- The Senate shall be the supreme governing body of the University and shall
have power to review the action of the Syndicate and of the Academic Council
save where the Syndicate and the Academic Council have acted in accordance
with powers conferred on them by this Act, the statutes, the ordinances or the
regulations and shall exercise all the powers of the University not otherwise
provided for and all powers requisite to give effect to the provisions of this
Act:Provided that if any question arises whether the Syndicate or the Academic
Council has acted in accordance with such powers as aforesaid or not, the
question shall be decided by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds
of the number of members present and voting at a meeting of the Senate and the
decision thereon shall be final.

### 17. Powers of the Senate.

\- In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by section 16, the Senate shall have the following powers,
namely:-(1)to make statutes and amend or repeal the same;(2)to modify or
cancel ordinances and regulations in the manner prescribed by this Act;(3)to
co-operate with other Universities, other academic authorities and colleges in
such manner and for such purposes as it may determine;(4)to provide for
instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may think
fit;(5)to institute and maintain institutes of research, University colleges,
University laboratories, libraries and museums;(6)to prescribe in consultation
with the Academic Council the conditions for approving colleges or
institutions in which provision is made for courses of study for admission to
the Pre-University examination or for the preparation of students for titles
or diplomas of the University and to withdraw such approval;(7)to provide for
research and advancement and dissemination of knowledge;(8)to institute, after
consultation with the Academic Council, lecturer-ships, readerships,
professorships and any other teaching posts required by the University;(9)to
prescribe in consultation with the Academic Council, the conditions for
affiliating colleges to the University and to withdraw affiliation from
colleges;(9A)[ to prescribe in consultation with the Academic Council, the
manner in which and the conditions subject to which a college may be
designated as an autonomous college and such designation may be cancelled.]
[This clause was inserted by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment)
Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1978).](10)to provide after consultation
with the Academic Council such lectures and instructions for students of
University colleges, affiliated colleges and approved colleges as the senate
may determine and also to provide for lectures and instructions to persons not
being students of colleges and to grant diplomas to them;(11)to provide for
the inspection of all colleges and hostels;(12)to institute degrees, titles,
diplomas and other academic distinctions;(13)to confer degrees, titles,
diplomas and other academic distinctions on persons who-(a)shall have pursued
an approved course of study in a University college or laboratory or in an
affiliated or approved college or have been exempted therefrom in the manner
prescribed and shall have passed the prescribed examinations of the
University; or(b)shall have carried on research under conditions
prescribed;(14)to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions on the
recommendation of not less than two-thirds of the members of the
Syndicate;(15)to establish and maintain hostels;(16)to institute, after
consultation with the Academic Council, fellowships, travelling fellowships,
scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes;(17)to
prescribe the fees to be charged for the approval and affiliation of colleges,
for admission to the examinations, degrees and diplomas of the University, for
the registration of graduates, for the renewal of such registration and for
all or any of the purposes specified in section 4;(18)to consider and take
such action as it may deem fit on the annual report, the annual accounts and
the financial estimates;(19)to institute, after consultation with the Academic
Council, a University Extension Board and to maintain it:(20)to institute
after consultation with the Academic Council, a Publication Bureau, Students'
Unions, Employment Bureau and University Athletic Clubs and to maintain
them;(21)to enter into any agreement with the Central or any State Government
or with a private management for assuming the management of any institution
and for taking over its properties and liabilities or for any other purposes
not repugnant to the provisions of this Act;(22)to make statutes regulating
the method of election to the authorities of the University and the procedure
at the meeting of the Senate, Syndicate and other authorities of the
University and the quorum of members required for the transaction of business
by the authorities of the University other than the Senate;(23)to recommend to
the Government the recognition of any area within the University area as
University Centre; and(24)to delegate such of its powers as it may deem fit to
any authority or authorities of the University constituted under this Act.

### 18. Meetings of the Senate.

(1)The Senate shall meet at least twice a year on dates to be fixed by the
Vice-Chancellor. One of such meetings shall be called the annual meeting. The
Senate may also meet at such other times as it may, from time to time,
determine.(2)Twenty members of the Senate shall be the quorum required for a
meeting of the Senate;Provided that such quorum shall not be required at a
convocation of the University or a meeting of the Senate, held for the purpose
of conferring degrees, titles, diplomas or other academic distinctions.(3)The
Vice-Chancellor may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall, upon a requisition in
writing signed by not less than thirty members of the Senate, convene a
special meeting of the Senate.

## Chapter IV  
The Syndicate

### 19. The Syndicate.

(a)The Syndicate shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the
following persons, namely:-Class I-Ex-Officio Members.(1)[ The Secretary to
Government in-charge of Education;] [Item (1) was inserted by section 6 (ii)
of Tamil nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu No. 75 of
1986).](1A)[ The Secretary to Government in-charge of Health and Family
Welfare;] [Item 1 (A) was inserted by 3 (a) (ii) of Tamil nadu Universities
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of 1986).](1AA)[ The
Secretary to Government in-charge of Law;] [Item 1 (AA) was inserted by
section 3 (a) (ii) of Tamil nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of 1986).](1AAA)[ The Director of Higher Education,
Madras; [* * *] [Item (1) was renumbered as (1-A) by section 6 (i) of the
Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Second Amendment)Act, 1979
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1980) and 1-A was renumbered as 1-AAA by section 3
(a) (i) of Tamil nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu No.
75 of 1986).] ](2)The Director of Technical Education, Madras; [* * *] [In
item 2 the word 'and' was omitted by section 3 (iii) of Tamil nadu
Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of 1986).](3)[
The Director of Medical Education] [Item 3 was inserted by 6 (iii) of the
Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil
Nadu Act No. 42 of 1979).], [and] [The word 'and' was inserted by 3(iv) of
Tamil nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of
1986).](4)[ The Director of Legal Studies] [Item 4 was inserted by 3 (v) of
Tamil nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of
1986).](aa)[ In case the Secretary to Government in-charge of Education, or
the Secretary to Government in-charge of Health and Family Welfare, or the
Secretary to Government in-charge of Law, is unable to attend the meetings of
the Syndicate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his department not
lower in rank than that of Deputy Secretary to Government to attend the
meetings.] [Item (aa) was inserted by 3 (v) (b) of Tamil Nadu Universities
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 75 of 1986).]Class II - Other
Members(1)Four members elected by the Senate from among its members;(2)Three
members elected by the Academic Council from among its members of whom two
shall be teachers of affiliated colleges and the remaining shall be a person
other than a teacher of an affiliated college; [and] [The word 'and' was
omitted by the Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment)
Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act No.7 of 1994).](3)Two members nominated by the
Chancellor;(4)Three University Professors from among the Heads of Departments
of study and research, schools of excellence or centers of advanced studies,
nominated by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor, by
rotation among such departments, schools and centres;(5)One University Reader
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, by rotation according to seniority; and(6)[
One University Lecturer nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, by rotation
according to seniority.] [This clause was inserted by Madras University and
Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act No.7 of
1994).](b)[(i) Save as otherwise provided, elected and nominated members of
the Syndicate shall hold office for a period of three years and such members
shall be eligible for re-election or re-nomination.] [This clause was
substituted by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil
Nadu Act No.41 of 1998).](ii)[ Where a member is elected or nominated to the
Syndicate to a casual vacancy, the period of office held for not less than one
year by any such member shall be construed as a full period of three years for
the purpose of this clause. [This clause was inserted by the Tamil Nadu
Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act No.9 of
1992).]Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the expression "period"
shall include the period held prior to the date of the publication of the
Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991 in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette".][Provided that a member of the Syndicate who is elected
or nominated in his capacity as a member of a particular electorate or body,
or the holder of a particular appointment, shall cease to be a member of the
Syndicate from the date on which he ceases to be a member of that electorate
or body, or the holder of that appointment as the case may be.] [This clause
was inserted by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act No.21 of 1992).]Provided further, that where an elected or
nominated member of the Syndicate is appointed temporarily to any of the
offices by virtue of which he is entitled to be a member of the Syndicate ex-
officio, he shall, by notice in writing signed by him and communicated to the
Vice-Chancellor within seven days from the date of his taking charge of his
appointment, choose whether he will continue to be a member of the Syndicate
by virtue of his election or nomination or whether he will vacate office as
such member and become a member ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and
the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such choice, he shall be
deemed to have vacated his office as an elected or nominated member;[* *******
] [Omitted by the Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment)
Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act No.7 of 1994)](c)When a person ceases to be member
of the Syndicate, he shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of
the University of which he may happen to be a member by virtue of his
membership of the Syndicate.

### 20. Powers of the Syndicate.

\- The Syndicate shall have the following powers, namely:-(1)to make
ordinances and amend or repeal the same;(2)to hold, control and administer the
properties and funds of the University;(3)to direct the form, custody and use
of the common seal of the University;(4)to regulate and determine all matters
concerning the University in accordance with this Act, the statutes, the
ordinances and the regulations;(5)to frame the financial estimates of the
University and submit the same to the Senate;(6)to administer all properties
and funds placed at the disposal of the University for specific purposes;(7)to
appoint the University Lecturers, University Readers, University Professors
and the teachers and the servants of the University, fix their emoluments, if
any, define their duties and the conditions of their services and provide for
filling up of temporary vacancies;(8)to suspend and dismiss the University
Lecturers, University Readers and University Professors and the teachers and
the servants of the University;(9)to accept on behalf of the University
endowments, bequests, donations, grants and transfers of any movable and
immovable properties made to it provided that all such endowments, bequests,
donations, grants and transfers shall be reported to the Senate at its next
meeting;(10)to raise on behalf of the University loans from the Central or any
State Government or the University Grants Commission or the public or any
corporation owned or controlled by the Central or any State Government
required for the purposes of this Act;(11)to affiliate colleges within the
University area to the University and to recognise colleges as approved
colleges;(11A)[ to designate any college as an autonomous college with the
concurrence of the Government and to cancel such designation;] [This clause
was inserted by section 5 of the Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1978).],(12)to recognise hostels not maintained by
the University and to suspend or withdraw recognition of any hostel which may
not be conducted in accordance with the ordinances and the conditions imposed
thereunder;(13)to arrange for and direct the inspection of all University
colleges, affiliated and approved colleges and hostels;(14)to prescribe, in
consultation with the Academic Council, the qualifications of teachers in
University colleges, affiliated and approved colleges and hostels;(15)to award
fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, bursaries,
exhibitions, medals and prizes in accordance with the statutes;(16)to charge
and collect such fees as may be prescribed;(17)to conduct the University
examinations and approve and publish the results thereof;(18)to make
ordinances regarding the admission of students to the University or
prescribing examinations to be recognised as equivalent to University
examinations;(19)to appoint members to the Boards of Studies;(20)(i)to appoint
examiners after consideration of the recommendations of the Boards of Studies;
and(ii)to fix their remuneration;(21)to supervise and control the residence
and discipline of the students of the University and make arrangements through
the colleges for securing their health and well-being;(22)to manage University
centers, University colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums, institutes
of research, and other institutions established or maintained by the
University;(23)to manage hostels instituted by the University;(24)to regulate
the working of the University Extension Board;(25)to manage any publication
bureau, students' unions, employment bureau and University athletic clubs
instituted by the University;(26)to review the instruction and teaching of the
University;(27)to promote research within the University and to require
reports from time to time of such research;(28)to exercise such other powers
and perform such other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by this
Act, or the statutes, ordinances or regulations; and(29)to delegate any of its
powers to the Vice-Chancellor, to a committee from among its own members or to
a committee appointed in accordance with the statutes.

### 21. Annual Report.

\- The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate and
shall be submitted to the Senate on or before such date as may be prescribed
by the statutes and shall be considered by the Senate at its next annual
meeting. The Senate may pass resolutions thereon and communicate the same to
the Syndicate, which shall take action in accordance therewith. The Syndicate
shall inform the Senate of the action taken by it. A copy of the report with a
copy of the resolutions thereon, if any, of the Senate shall be submitted to
the Government for information.

### 22. Annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate
and shall be submitted to such examination and audit as the Government may
direct.(2)The University shall settle objections raised in such audit and
carry out such instructions as may be issued by the Government on the audit
report.(3)The accounts when audited shall be published by the Syndicate in
such manner as may be prescribed by the ordinances and copies thereof shall be
submitted to the Senate at its next meeting and to the Government within three
months of such publication.(4)The Syndicate shall also prepare before such
date as may be prescribed by the statutes the financial estimates for the
ensuing year.(5)The annual accounts and the financial estimates prepared by
the Syndicate shall be placed before the Senate with the remarks of the
Finance Committee for approval at its annual meeting and the Senate may pass
resolutions with reference thereto and communicate the same to the Syndicate
which shall take action in accordance therewith.

## Chapter V  
. The Academic Council, The Faculties, The Boards of Studies, The Finance
Committee and Other Authorities.

### 23. The Academic Council.

\- The Academic Council shall be the academic authority of the University and
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, have the
control and general regulation of teaching and examination within the
University and be responsible for the maintenance of the standards thereof and
shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed.

### 24. Constitution of the Academic Council.

(a)The Academic Council shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of
the following persons, namely:-Class I-Ex-officio members -(1)The Director of
Higher Education, Madras;(2)The Director of Secondary Education, Madras;(3)The
Director of Technical Education, Madras;(3A)[ The Director of Medical
Education;] [This Item (3-A) was inserted by section 7 (i) of the Madras
University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 42 of 1979).](4)The heads of University Departments of Study and
Research;(5)Members of the Syndicate who are not otherwise members of the
Academic Council;(6)The Librarian of the University Library;(7)The Principals
of post-graduate colleges and professional colleges excluding training
colleges;(8)The Principals of all other affiliated colleges excluding training
colleges, who have served as principals for not less than three years;[Class
I-A-Life members- [Class 1-A was inserted by section 7(ii) of the Madras
University and Madurai- Kamaraj University (Amendment)Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 42 of1979)]Such number of persons not exceeding ten as may be
nominated by the Chancellor to be life members from among the Fellows of the
Madurai- Kamaraj University Tamil Academy in such manner as may be prescribed
by the statutes.Provided that whenever a vacancy arises among the life members
of the Academic Council, such vacancy shall be filled up in such manner as may
be prescribed by the statutes]Class II - Other members -(1)Two members elected
by the Senate from among its members who are not engaged in teaching;(2)Two
members elected by the teachers of affiliated training colleges including
principals and physical directors but excluding tutors, demonstrators and
physical instructors of such colleges, from among themselves;(3)Two members
elected by the teachers of approved colleges including principals and physical
directors but excluding tutors, demonstrators and physical instructors of such
colleges, from among themselves;(4)One member from each post-graduate college
who is not the principal of such college elected by the teachers of the
college including physical directors but excluding the principal, tutors,
demonstrators and physical instructors, from among themselves;(5)One member
from each professional college who is not the principal of such college
elected by the teachers of the college including physical directors but
excluding the principal, tutors, demonstrators and physical instructors, from
among themselves;(6)One member elected by headmasters of high schools in each
revenue district in the University area from among themselves;(7)Six members
nominated by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor to
represent Tamil, Sanskrit, Hindi and other languages;(8)One member nominated
by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor to represent
physical education; and(9)Such number of members not exceeding five as may be
nominated by the Chancellor from among the teachers of colleges other than
post-graduate and professional colleges in the University area.(b)[(i) Save as
otherwise provided, elected and nominated members of the Academic Council
shall hold office for a period of three years and such members shall be
eligible for re-election or re-nomination.] [This clause was substituted by
the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 41
of 1998).](ii)[ Where a member is elected or nominated to the Academic Council
to a casual vacancy, the period of office held for not less than one year by
any such member shall be construed as a full period of three years for the
purpose of this clause. [This clause was inserted by the Tamil Nadu
Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1992).]Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the expression "period"
shall include the period held prior to the date of the publication of the
Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1991 in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.][Provided that a member of the Academic Council who is
elected or nominated in his capacity as, a member of a particular electorate
or body, or the holder of a particular appointment, shall cease to be a member
of the Academic Council from the date on which he ceases to be a member of
that electorate or body, or the holder of that appointment as the case may
be.] [This proviso was inserted by the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Second
Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act No.21 of 1992).]Provided further that
where an elected or nominated member of the Academic Council is appointed
temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which he is entitled to be a
member of the Academic Council ex-officio, he shall by notice in writing
signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from
the date of his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he will
continue to be a member of the Academic Council by virtue of his election or
nomination or whether he will vacate office as such member and become a member
ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On
failure to make such choice he shall be deemed to have vacated his office as
an elected or nominated member;Provided also that a member elected under
clause (1) of Class II of sub section (a) shall cease to be a member of the
Academic Council if he subsequently becomes engaged in teaching.(c)When a
person ceases to be a member of the Academic Council, he shall cease to be a
member of any of the authorities of the University of which he may happen to
be a member by virtue of his membership of the Academic Council.

### 24A. Restriction for election or nomination to Senate, Syndicate and
Academic Council in certain cases.

\- [(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 15,19 or 24, any person
who has completed two terms of three years each, continuously in any one or
two of the following authorities of the University namely:-(i)the
Senate,(ii)the Syndicate, and(iii)the Academic Councilshall be eligible after
a period of three years has elapsed from the date of his ceasing to be such
member, for election or nomination to any of the above mentioned
authorities.Provided that for the purpose of this sub-section, if a person was
elected or nominated to one authority and such person became a member of
another authority by virtue of the membership in the first mentioned
authority, the period for which he held office in the first mentioned
authority alone shall be taken into account] [This clause was substituted by
the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act No.41
of 1998)].(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall have application in respect
of-(i)ex-officio members referred to in section 15 (a) Class I, but not
including members of the Syndicate who are not otherwise members of the Senate
referred to in item (10);(ii)ex-officio members referred to in section 19 (a)
Class I and(iii)ex-officio members referred to in section 24 (a) Class I; but
not including members of the Syndicate who are not otherwise members of the
Academic Council referred to in item (5)."

### 25. Powers of the Academic Council.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Academic Council shall have the
following powers, namely: -(a)to make regulations and amend or repeal the
same;(b)to advise the Senate and the Syndicate on all academic matters;(c)to
make proposals to the Senate and the Syndicate for the institution of
lecturer-ships, readerships, professorships or other teaching posts and in
regard to the duties and emoluments thereof;(d)to make regulations regarding
the special courses of study or division of subjects in University colleges
and laboratories and affiliated and approved colleges;(e)to make regulations
for the encouragement of co-operation and reciprocity among University
colleges and laboratories and affiliated and approved colleges with a view to
promoting academic life;(f)to make regulations regarding courses of study,
examinations and the conditions on which students of University colleges and
laboratories and of affiliated and approved colleges shall be admitted to
examinations of the University;(g)to constitute Faculties in Arts, Science,
Law, Medicine, Engineering, Technology, Teaching, Agriculture, Commerce,
Indian and other languages, Indian System of Medicine, Fine Arts, Veterinary
Science and such other subjects as may be prescribed;(h)to make proposals to
the Syndicate for the framing of ordinances for the management of University
colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums and institutes of research,
hostels instituted by the University and other institutions established by the
University;(i)to recommend to the Senate schemes for the constitution or
reconstitution of departments of teaching;(j)to advise the Syndicate on the
promotion of research in the University;(k)to receive and to call for and to
consider reports from the Syndicate reviewing the instruction and teaching of
the University and the research work done in the University; and(l)to appoint
a standing committee of which not less than one-third shall be members of the
Academic Council who are principals or teachers of affiliated colleges and to
delegate to it such of its powers as it may deem fit.

### 26. Constitution and functions of Faculties.

(1)The University shall include Faculties of Arts, Science, Law, Medicine,
Engineering, Technology, Teaching, Agriculture, Commerce, Indian and other
languages, Indian System of Medicine, Veterinary Science, Fine Arts, and such
other Faculties as may be prescribed by the statutes.(2)Each Faculty shall
comprise such departments of teaching as may be prescribed by the
ordinances.(3)The constitution and functions of the Faculties shall in all
other respects be such as may be prescribed by the regulations:Provided that
not less than three-fourths of the total number of members of every Faculty
shall be members of the Academic Council.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (3), the Academic Council may, on the recommendation of the
Syndicate, appoint any teacher of the University as a member of a Faculty.

### 27. The Boards of Studies.

\- There shall be Boards of Studies attached to each Department of teaching.
The constitution and powers of the Boards of Studies shall be such as may be
prescribed by the ordinances.

### 28. Constitution of other authorities.

\- The constitution of such other bodies as may be declared by the statutes to
be authorities of the University shall be provided for in the manner
prescribed.

### 29. Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following five members,
namely:-(i)The Vice-Chancellor;(ii)[ The Secretary to Government in-charge of
Finance or any officer nominated by him;] [Item (ii) was substituted by
Section 7 of the Madras University and Madurai-Kamaraj University (Second
Amendment) Act, 1979(Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1980).](iii)Three members
nominated by the Syndicate from among its members.(2)If for any reason the
officer referred to in clause (ii) of sub-section (1) is unable to attend any
meeting of the Finance Committee, he may depute any officer of the Department
to attend such meeting. The officer so deputed shall have the right to take
part in the discussions of the Committee and shall have the right to
vote.(3)(i)The Syndicate shall, in the manner prescribed by the ordinances,
prepare the financial estimates of the University and place the same before
the Finance Committee.(ii)The Finance Committee shall then scrutinise the said
estimates and may make such modifications therein as it considers
necessary.(iii)The said estimates, as modified by the Finance Committee, shall
then be laid before the Syndicate for consideration. The Syndicate may accept
the modifications made by the Finance Committee and place the estimates as so
modified before the Senate for approval or it may refuse to accept the
modifications, in which case, it shall place before the Senate the estimates,
the modifications made or the objections raised by the Finance Committee and
the reasons for the non-acceptance. The Senate shall consider the estimates so
laid before it and shall sanction the same either without modification or with
such modifications as it thinks fit:Provided that the Senate shall not make
any modifications in the estimates which have the effect of increasing the
estimates of expenditure or reducing the estimates of income.

## Chapter VI  
. Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations.

### 30. Statutes.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely-(a)the constitution or reconstitution,
powers and duties of the authorities of the University;(b)the conditions of
recommendation by the Senate of areas to be recognised by the Government as
University Centres;(c)the conditions of recognition of approved colleges and
of affiliation to the University of affiliated colleges;(cc)[ the manner in
which and the conditions subject to which a college may be designated as an
autonomous college or the designation of such college may be cancelled and the
matters incidental to the administration of autonomous colleges including the
constitution or reconstitution, powers and duties of academic council, staff
council, boards of studies and boards of examiners;] [This clause was inserted
by section 6 of the Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act
No. 1 of1978).](d)the institution and maintenance of University colleges and
laboratories and hostels;(e)the powers, duties and conditions of service of
the officers of the University other than the Chancellor and the Pro-
Chancellor;(f)the holding of convocations to confer degrees;(g)the conferment
of honorary degrees;(h)the administration of endowments and the institution
and conditions of award of fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes;(i)the classification
and the mode of appointment of the teachers of the University;(j)the
institution of pension, gratuity or provident fund for the benefit of the
teachers of the University or its servants;(k)the maintenance of a register of
registered graduates; and(l)all other matters which by this Act may be
prescribed by the statutes.

### 31. Statutes, how made.

(1)The Senate may of its own motion take into consideration the draft of any
statute:Provided that in any such case before a statute is passed affecting
the powers or duties of any officer or authority, the opinion of the Syndicate
and a report from the person or authority concerned shall have been taken into
consideration by the Senate.(2)The Syndicate may propose to the Senate the
draft of any statute. Such draft may be considered by the Senate at its next
succeeding meeting. The Senate may approve such draft and pass the statute or
may reject it or return it to the Syndicate for reconsideration either in
whole or in part, together with any amendments which the Senate may suggest.
After any draft so returned has been further considered by the Syndicate,
together with any amendments suggested by the Senate, it shall be again
presented to the Senate with the report of the Syndicate thereon, and the
Senate may then deal with the draft in any manner it thinks fit.(3)Where any
statute has been passed by the Senate or a draft of a statute recommended by
the Syndicate has been rejected by the Senate, it shall be submitted to the
Chancellor who may refer the statute or draft back to the Senate for further
consideration or in the case of a statute passed by the Senate assent thereto
or withhold his assent. A statute passed by the Senate shall have no validity
until it has been assented to by the Chancellor.(4)The Syndicate shall not
propose the draft of any statute or of amendment to a statute-(a)affecting the
status, powers or constitution of any authority of the University until such
authority has been given an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon the
proposal; any opinion so expressed shall be in writing and shall be considered
by the Senate and shall be submitted to the Chancellor; or(b)affecting the
conditions of affiliation or approval of affiliated or approved colleges with
the University or by the University; as the case may be; [or] [This word was
added by section 7 (3), of the Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977,
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1978).](c)[ affecting the conditions of designation
of any college as an autonomous college] [This clause was inserted by section
7(2), of the Madurai University (Amendment) Act, 1977, (Tamil Nadu Act No. 1
of 1978).]; except after consultation with the Academic Council;

### 32. Ordinances.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, the ordinances may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: -(a)the admission of
students to the University and the levy of fees in University colleges and
laboratories;(b)the conditions of residence of the students of the University
and the levy of fees for residence in hostels maintained by the
University;(c)the conditions of recognition of hostels not maintained by the
University;(d)the qualifications and emoluments of teachers of the
University;(e)the fees to be charged for courses of teaching given by teachers
of the University and for tutorial and supplementary instruction given by the
University;(f)the conditions subject to which persons who may hereafter be
permanently employed may be recognised as qualified to give instruction in
affiliated and approved colleges and hostels;(g)the appointment and duties of
examiners;(h)the conduct of examinations;(i)the extension of University
teaching in the town limits of Madurai and elsewhere in the University area;
and(j)all other matters which by this Act or by the statutes may be provided
for by the ordinances.

### 33. Ordinances, how made.

(1)In making ordinance the Syndicate shall consult-(i)the Boards of Studies
when such ordinances affect the appointment and duties of examiners;
and(ii)the Academic Council when they affect the conduct or standard of
examinations, or the conditions of residence of students.(2)All ordinances
made by the Syndicate shall have effect from such date as it may direct, but
every ordinance so made shall be submitted as soon as may be to the Chancellor
and the Senate and shall be considered by the Senate at its next succeeding
meeting. The Senate shall have power by a resolution passed by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present at such meeting to cancel or
modify any such ordinance.(3)The Chancellor may direct that the operation of
any ordinance shall be suspended until such time as the Senate has had an
opportunity of considering the same.

### 34. Regulations, how made.

(1)The Academic Council may make regulations consistent with this Act, the
statutes and the ordinances to carry out the duties assigned to it
thereunder.(2)All such regulations shall have effect from such date as the
Academic Council may direct; but every regulation so made shall be submitted
as soon as may be to the Senate for its consideration at its next succeeding
meeting. The Senate shall have power, by a resolution passed by a majority of
not less than two thirds of the members present at such meeting, to cancel or
modify any such regulation.

## Chapter VII  
. Admission and Residence of Students.

### 35. Admission to University Courses.

(1)No person shall be admitted to the Pre-University course or other entrance
courses of study in the University unless he -(i)has passed the Matriculation
examination; or(ii)holds the Secondary School-Leaving Certificate and has been
declared eligible by the Syndicate under conditions prescribed by the
University authorities concerned for such course or courses of study;
or(iii)has passed an examination of any other University or authority
recognised by the Syndicate as equivalent to the examinations specified in
clause (i) or clause (ii); and(iv)fulfills such other conditions as may be
prescribed by the Syndicate.(2)No person shall be admitted to a course of
study in the University for admission to the examination for degrees of the
University in Arts and Science unless he-(i)has passed the Pre-University
examination of the University, or(ii)has passed an examination of any other
University or authority recognised by the Syndicate as equivalent to the
examination referred to in clause (i); and(iii)fulfills such other conditions
as may be prescribed by the Syndicate.(3)No person shall be admitted to a
course of study in the University for admission to the examination for a
professional degree of the University unless he -(i)has passed the relevant
examination prescribed therefor by the Syndicate;(ii)has obtained such minimum
percentage of marks in such subject in the relevant examination as may be
prescribed by the Syndicate; and(iii)fulfills such other conditions as may be
prescribed by the Syndicate.(4)No person shall be admitted to any course of
study for admission to the examinations for titles, diplomas or certificates
of the University unless he -(i)has passed the entrance test prescribed
therefor by the Syndicate; and(ii)fulfills such other conditions as may be
prescribed by the Syndicate.(5)Every candidate for a University examination
shall, unless exempted from the provisions of this sub-section by a special
order of the Syndicate made on the recommendation of the Academic Council, be
enrolled as a member of a University college or laboratory or of an affiliated
or approved college. Any such exemption may be made subject to such conditions
as the Syndicate may think fit.(6)Students exempted from the provisions of
sub-section (5) and students admitted, in accordance with the conditions
prescribed, to courses of study other than courses of study for a degree shall
be non-collegiate students of the University.

### 36. Admission to University examinations.

\- No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless he is
enrolled as a member of a University college or laboratory or of an affiliated
or approved college and has satisfied the requirements as to the attendance
required under the regulations for the same or unless he is exempted from such
requirement of enrollment or attendance or both by an order of the Syndicate
passed on the recommendation of the Academic Council made under the
regulations prescribed. Exemptions granted under this section shall be subject
to such conditions as the Syndicate may think fit.

### 37. Attendance qualifying for University examinations.

\- No attendance at instruction given in any college or institution other than
that conducted, affiliated or approved by the University shall qualify for
admission to any examination of the University.

### 38. Residences and hostels.

\- Every student of the University other than the non-collegiate students
shall be required to reside in a hostel or under such other conditions as may
be prescribed.

## Chapter VIII  
. University Funds.

### 39. Funds of the University.

\- The University shall have a fund to which shall be credited -(1)its income
from fees, endowments, grants, donations and gifts, if any; and(2)any
contribution by the Central Government, any State Government, the University
Grants Commission or like authority, any local authority or any other
corporation owned or controlled by the Government.

### 40. Transfer of Government institutions to the University.

\- The Government may at any time after the notified date transfer to the
University the control and management of any of their institutions situate
within the University area on such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper.[Chapter-VIII-A] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment)
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 35 of 2002).] Transfer of Certain Colleges,
[**** **** **] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment)Amendment
Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 45 of 2002).]

### 40A. Transfer of certain colleges to University.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the statutes,
regulations, ordinances and orders made thereunder, on and from the date of
commencement of the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2002
(hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the notified date), the colleges
specified in clause (cc) of section 2 shall be transferred to and maintained
by the Madurai- Kamaraj University as the constituent colleges of that
University.(2)[ On and from the notified date, the control and management of
the constituent colleges shall stand transferred to the University. The
Government may, at any time after the notified date, by order, transfer the
properties of such constituent colleges to the University for its use, on such
terms and conditions as may be specified in the order.] [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment)Amendment Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 45
of 2002).]

### 40B. [ Employees of Constituent colleges to be employees of Government.
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment)Amendment Act, 2002
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 45 of 2002).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 40-A-(a)every person, who
immediately before the notified date was serving in connection with the
affairs of a constituent college, shall continue to be an employee of the
Government and the rules and orders governing such employee immediately before
the notified date in respect of the following matters shall continue to be
applicable to him:-(i)Disciplinary matters, estimate of vacancy, preparation
of panel for promotion and promotion to different posts including posts of
Joint Director of Collegiate Education and Director of Collegiate
Education;(ii)Pay, drawl of pay and allowances and pay drawing
officers;(iii)Age of retirement, terminal benefits including pension and
General Provident Fund;(iv)Financing, budgeting and enforcing financial
discipline;(b)rules and orders in force immediately before the notified date
relating to the tuition fees, admission of students including communal
reservation, schemes of scholarship to the students belonging to Backward
Classes, Most Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and
higher education to women student shall continue to be applicable in respect
of constituent colleges.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the
University may, with the prior approval of the Government, make statutes
providing for administrative and academic control over the persons referred to
in sub-section (1).]

## Chapter IX  
. Miscellaneous.

### 41. Filling of casual vacancies.

\- All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio members) of
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as
conveniently may be, by the person or body who or which nominated or elected
the member whose place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected
to a casual vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the
residue of the term for which the person whose place he fills would have been
a member:Provided that vacancies arising by efflux of time among elected
members of any authority or other body of the University may be filled at
elections which may be fixed by the Vice-Chancellor to take place on such days
not earlier than two months from the date on which the vacancies arise, as he
thinks fit:Provided further that no casual vacancy shall be filled if such
vacancy occurs within six months before the date of the expiry of the term of
the members of any authority or other body of the University.

### 42. Proceedings of the University authorities and bodies not invalidated
by vacancies, etc.

\- No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of a vacancy or of any defect
or irregularity in the election or appointment of a member of any authority or
other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in such act or
proceeding not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground only that the
Senate did not meet twice in any year.

### 43. Removal from membership of the University.

(1)The Senate may, -(a)on the recommendation of not less than two- thirds of
the members of the Syndicate, remove by an order in writing made in this
behalf the name of any person from the register of graduates; or(b)remove by
an order in writing made in this behalf any person from membership of any
authority of the University by a resolution passed by a majority of the total
membership of the Senate and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the
members of the Senate present and voting at the meeting,if such person has
been convicted by a criminal court for an offence which in the opinion of the
Senate involves moral turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross misconduct
and for the same reason, may withdraw any degree or diploma conferred on or
granted to that person by the University.(2)The Senate may also by an order in
writing made in this behalf remove any person from the membership of any
authority of the University if he becomes of unsound mind or [ deaf-mute or
suffers from leprosy; Omited by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment)
Act, 2022] or has applied to be adjudicated or has been adjudicated as an
insolvent.(3)No action under this section shall be taken against any person
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity to show cause against the
action proposed to be taken.(4)A copy of every order passed under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall, as soon as may be after it
is so passed, be communicated to the person concerned in the manner prescribed
by regulations.

### 44. Disputes as to constitution of University authorities and bodies.

\- If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or
nominated as, or is entitled to be a member of any authority of the University
or other body of the University, the question shall be referred to the
Chancellor whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 45. Constitution of committees.

\- All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit; such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other persons (if any) as the
authority in each case may think fit.

### 46. Pension, Gratuity, Insurance and Provident Fund.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of the University Lecturers,
University Readers, University Professors, officers, teachers or servants of
the University, such pension, gratuity, insurance and provident fund as it may
deem fit in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by
ordinances.(2)Where the University has so instituted a provident fund under
sub-section (1), the Government may declare that the provisions of the
Provident Funds Act, 1925 (Central Act XIX of 1925) shall apply to such fund
as if the University were a local authority and the fund a Government
provident fund.

### 47. Report on affiliated colleges.

\- The Senate shall, at the end of every five years from the notified date,
submit a report to the Government on the condition of affiliated and approved
colleges within the University area. The Government shall lay the report on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature and shall take such action on it
as they deem fit.

### 48. Power to obtain information.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may by order in writing call for any
information from the University on any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
furnish the Government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may inform the Government that such information
cannot be made available to the Government and shall place the same before the
Chancellor.

### 49. Registration of graduates.

(1)On and after the notified date every person ordinarily resident within the
University area, who -(i)has been for at least three years a graduate of any
University in the territory of India; or(ii)is a registered graduate of any
University in the territory of India,shall be entitled to have his name
entered in the register of graduates maintained under this Act for a period of
five years on payment of such fee and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed by the statutes.(2)All applications for registration under sub-
section (1) shall be sent to the Registrar together with the prescribed fee
and such proof of qualifications as may be prescribed by the statutes.(3)The
Registrar shall on receipt of an application made under sub-section (2) and
after making such enquiry as he deems fit enter in the register of graduates
the name of the applicant.(4)Every person whose name has been entered in the
register of graduates under sub-section (3) shall be entitled to have such
entry renewed every five years on application made in that behalf to the
Registrar within such time, in such manner and on payment of such fee as may
be prescribed by the statutes.

### 50. Appointment of the first Vice-Chancellor.

\- Notwithstanding any-thing contained in sub-section (1) of section 11 within
three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Fort St. George
Gazette, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on a
salary to be fixed by him for a period not exceeding five years and on such
other conditions as he thinks fit.

### 51. Appointment of the first Registrar.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 13, within
three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Fort St. George
Gazette, the first Registrar shall be appointed by the Chancellor on a salary
to be fixed by him for a period not exceeding three years and on such
conditions as he thinks fit.

### 52. Appointment of the first University staff.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the first Vice-Chancellor
shall have power to appoint such officers and servants of the University as
may be necessary subject to the sanction of the Chancellor.

### 53. Transitory powers of the Vice-Chancellor.

(1)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Senate, the Syndicate and the Academic Council and such other
authorities of the University within six months after the notified date or
such longer period not exceeding one year as the Government may, by
notification, direct.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall, with the assistance of an
advisory committee nominated by the Chancellor, draw up any rules that may be
necessary for regulating the method of election to those authorities subject
to the provisions of this Act and the approval of the Chancellor.(3)The
authorities constituted under sub-section (1) shall commence to exercise their
functions on such date or dates as the Government may, by notification,
direct.(4)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to draft such statutes,
ordinances and regulations as may be necessary and submit them to the
respective authorities competent to deal with them for their disposal. Such
statutes, ordinances and regulations when framed shall be published in the
Fort St. George Gazette.

### 54. Transfer of service of certain employees of the University of Madras
to the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University
(Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978)
which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.].

(1)Every person who, immediately before the notified date is serving in
connection with the affairs of the University of Madras in the University
Centre at Madurai, shall, as from the said date, become an employee of the
[Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University
(Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978)
which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] and shall
cease to be an employee of the University of Madras.(2)(a)As soon as may be,
after the notified date, the Government may, after consulting the Vice-
Chancellors of the University of Madras and the [Madurai-Kamaraj University]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by
section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act,
1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 22nd July 1978.], direct by general or special order that such of the
employees of the University of Madras as are specified in such order shall
stand allotted to serve in connection with the affairs of the [Madurai-Kamaraj
University] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai
University' by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special
Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have
come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] with effect from such date as may be
specified in such order:Provided that no such direction shall be issued in
respect of any such person without his consent for such allotment.(b)With
effect from the date specified in the order under clause (a), the persons
specified in such order shall become employees of the [Madurai-Kamaraj
University] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai
University' by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special
Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have
come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] and shall cease to be employees of the
University of Madras.(3)Every person referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall hold office under the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section
4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on
the 22nd July 1978.] by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the
same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to
pension or gratuity, if any, and other matters as he would have held the same
on the notified date or the date specified in the order under sub-section (2),
as the case may be, if this Act had not been passed.(4)The liability to pay
pension and gratuity to the persons referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2)
shall be the liability of the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression
was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the
Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July
1978.].

### 55. Transfer of accumulations in provident fund and other like funds.

(1)The sums at the credit of the provident fund accounts of the persons
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 54 as on the notified date and of
the persons referred to in sub-section (2) of that section as on the date
specified in the order under clause (a) of the said sub-section (2) shall be
transferred to the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the
Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July
1978.] and the liability in respect of the said provident fund accounts shall
be the liability of the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the
Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July
1978.].(2)There shall be paid to the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section
4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force on
the 22nd July 1978.] out of the accumulations in the superannuation fund and
other like funds, if any, of the University of Madras such amounts as have
been credited to the superannuation fund or other like funds, if any, on
behalf of the persons referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 54.
The amount so paid shall form part of the superannuation fund or other like
funds, if any, that may be established by the [Madurai-Kamaraj University]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by
section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act,
1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 22nd July 1978.] for the benefit of its employees.

### 56. Payment of certain amount by the University of Madras.

(1)The University of Madras shall, out of its funds as on the notified date,
pay to the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for
the expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University
(Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978)
which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] such amount
as the Government may, in consultation with the University of Madras,
specify.(2)The amount payable under sub-section (1) shall be in addition to
the amounts payable by the University of Madras to the [Madurai-Kamaraj
University] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai
University' by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special
Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of 1978) which was deemed to have
come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] under section 55.

### 57. [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into force on
the 14th January 1969.] Act VII of 1923 not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (9), the Madras University
Act, 1923 ( [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into force on
the 14th January 1969.] Act VII of 1923) shall, with effect from the notified
date, cease to apply in respect of the areas to which the provisions of this
Act extend.(2)Such cesser shall not affect -(a)the previous operation of the
Madras University Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which
came into force on the 14th January 1969.] Act VII of 1923) in respect of the
areas to which the provisions of this extend, or(b)any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the Madras
University Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into
force on the 14th January 1969.] Act VII of 1923), or(c)any investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), all statutes,
ordinances and regulations made under the Madras University Act, 1923 ([Tamil
Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into force on the 14th January
1969.] Act VII of 1923) and in force on the notified date, shall, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with this Act, continue to be in force in the
University area until they are replaced by the statutes, ordinances and
regulations to be made under this Act.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or the statutes, ordinances and regulations, continued in force under
sub-section (3), or made under this Act, any student of any of the colleges
within the University area which -(a)continue to be colleges affiliated to the
University of Madras immediately before the notified date; or(b)continue to be
colleges recognised by, the University of Madras as oriental colleges
immediately before that date,who immediately before the notified date, was
studying or was eligible for any of the examinations of the University of
Madras shall be permitted to complete his course or be admitted to the
examination, as the case may be, and the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section
4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the
22nd July 1978.] shall provide for such period and in such manner as may be
determined by the Chancellor for the instruction, teaching, training and
examination of such student in accordance with the courses of study in the
University of Madras and furnish to the University of Madras a return
containing the names and qualifications of the teachers engaged for the
instruction, teaching, training and examination of such student and shall
comply with such directions as may be given by the University of Madras in
respect of those students.(5)All property whether movable or immovable
including lands, buildings, equipment, books and library and all rights of
whatsoever kind owned by or vested in or held in trust immediately before the
notified date by the University of Madras at the University Centre at Madurai
as well as all liabilities legally subsisting against such University at that
Centre shall, stand transferred to and vest in the [Madurai-Kamaraj
University] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Madurai
University' by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and Special
Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of1978) which was deemed to have
come into force on the 22nd July 1978.].(6)All Colleges including oriental
colleges, within the University area which immediately before the notified
date -(a)continue to be affiliated to or recognised by the University of
Madras; and(b)provide courses of study for admission to the examination for
degrees of the University of Madras,shall be deemed to be colleges affiliated
to the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University
(Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of1978)
which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] under this
Act and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(7)All colleges within the University area which immediately
before the notified date continue to be recognised by the University of Madras
as -(a)oriental colleges providing courses of study for admission to the
examinations of the said University, for titles and diplomas; and(b)colleges
providing courses of study for admission to the Pre-University examination of
the said University,shall be deemed to be colleges approved by the [Madurai-
Kamaraj University] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'Madurai University' by section 4 of the Madurai University (Amendment and
Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 38 of1978) which was deemed
to have come into force on the 22nd July 1978.] under this Act and the
provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply accordingly.(8)All
hostels within the University area which continue to be recognised by the
University of Madras immediately before the notified date shall be deemed to
be hostels recognised by the [Madurai-Kamaraj University] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'Madurai University' by section 4 of the
Madurai University (Amendment and Special Provisions) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act No. 38 of1978) which was deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July
1978.] under this Act and the provisions of this Act shall as far as may be
apply accordingly.(9)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) but without
prejudice to the provisions of sub-sections (3) to (8), anything done or any
action taken before the notified date under any provision of the Madras
University Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969, which came into
force on the 14th January 1969.] Act VII of 1923) in respect of any area to
which the provisions of this Act extend shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provision of this Act and shall continue to have
effect accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action
taken under the corresponding provision of this Act.

### 58. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the University after the notified date, or otherwise in
giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, as occasion
may require, by order, do anything which appears to them necessary for the
purpose of removing the difficulty.(2)Every order issued under sub-section (1)
shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be placed on the table of both
Houses of the Legislature and if, before the expiry of the session in which it
is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in making any modification
in any such order or both Houses agree that the order should not be issued,
the order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that order.

