## Union of India - Act

## Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971

## Act 26 of 1971

  * Published on 2 July 1971 
  * Commenced on 2 July 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 July 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971(Act No. 26 of 1971)Last Updated
27th December, 2019[Dated 2nd July, 1971].[Repealed by Act 27 of 1978]An Act
to provide for detention in certain cases for the purpose of maintenance of
internal security and matters connected therewithBe it enacted by Parliament
in the Twenty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971.(2)It
extends to the whole India [* * *] [The words 'except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir' shall remain omitted and a proviso inserted at the end of the section
till the continuation in force of the Defence and Internal Security of India
Act, 1971 vide its Section 6(6).]:[Provided that every person in respect of
whom an order of detention made under the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive
Detention Act, 1964 (J&K Act XIII of 1964), is in force immediately before the
commencement of the [Defence and Internal Security of India Act, 1971] [The
words 'except the State of Jammu and Kashmir' shall remain omitted and a
proviso inserted at the end of the section till the continuation in force of
the Defence and Internal Security of India Act, 1971 vide its Section 6(6).],
shall continue to be governed by the provisions of that Act in respect of such
detention as if this Act had not been extended to the State of Jammu Kashmir.]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appropriate
Government" means, as respects a detention order made by the Central
Government or a person detained under such order, the Central Government, and
as respects a detention order made by a State Government or by an officer
subordinate to a State Government or as respects a person detained under such
order, the State Government;(b)"detention order" means an order made under
Section 3;(c)"foreigner" has the same meaning as in the Foreigners Act,
1946;(d)"State Government", in relation to a Union Territory, means the
administrator thereof;(e)[ any reference in this Act to a law which is not in
force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall, in relation to that State, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State.] [A new clause (e) shall remain inserted during the continuation in
force of the Defence and Internal Security of India Act, 1971, vide its
Section 6(6).]

### 3. Power to make orders detaining certain persons.

(1)The Central Government or the State Government may,-(a)if satisfied with
respect of any person (including a foreigner) that with a view topreventing
him from acting in any manner prejudicial to-(i)the defence of India, the
relations of India with foreign powers, or the security of India, or(ii)the
security of the State or the maintenance of public order, or(iii)the
maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community, or(b)if
satisfied with respect to any foreigner that with a view to regulating his
continued presence in India or with a view to making arrangements for his
expulsion from India, it is necessary so to do, make an order directing that
such person be detained.(2)Any of the following officers, namely-(a)District
Magistrates,(b)Additional District Magistrates specially empowered in this
behalf by the State Government,(c)Commissioner of Police, for Bombay,
Calcutta, Madras or Hyderabad, [may also, if satisfied as provided in sub-
section (1)] [The words in brackets shall remain substituted for the words
'may, if satisfied as provided in sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause (a) of
sub-section (1) during the continuance in force of the Defence and Internal
Security of India Act, 1971, vide its Section 6(6).], exercise the power
conferred by the said sub-section.(3)When any order is made under this section
by an officer mentioned in sub-section (2), he shall forthwith report the fact
to the State Government to which he is subordinate together with the grounds
on which the order has been made and such other particulars as in his opinion
have a bearing on the matter, and no such order shall remain in force for more
than [twenty days] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1976 (w.e.f. 25-6-1975).] after
the making thereof unless in the meantime it has been approved by the State
Government:Provided that where under Section 8 the grounds of detention are
communicated by the authority making the order after five days but not later
than fifteen days from the date of detention, this sub-section shall apply
subject to the modification that for the words [twenty days] [Substituted by
Act 14 of 1976 (w.e.f. 25-6-1975).], the words [twenty days] [Substituted by
Act 14 of 1976 (w.e.f. 25-6-1975).] shall be substituted.(4)When any order is
made or approved by the State Government under this section, the State
Government shall, within seven days, report the fact to the Central Government
together with the grounds on which the order has been made and such other
particulars as in the opinion of the State Government have a bearing on the
necessity for the order.

### 4. Execution of detention orders.

\- A detention order may be executed at any place in India in the manner
provided for the execution of warrants of arrest under the[Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973] [ Substituted by MISA Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 2
(w.e.f. 29-6-1975).].

### 5. Power to regulate place and conditions of detention.

\- Every person in respect of whom a detention order has been made shall be
liable -(a)to be detained in such place and under such conditions, including
conditions as to maintenance, discipline and punishment for breaches of
discipline, as the appropriate Government may, by general or special order,
specify; and(b)to be removed from one place of detention to another place of
detention, whether within the same State or in another State, by order of the
appropriate Government: Provided that no order shall be made by a State
Government under clause (b) for the removal of a person from one State to
another State except with the consent of the Government of that other State.

### 6. Detention orders not to be invalid or inoperative on certain grounds.

\- No detention order shall be invalid or inoperative merely by reason-(a)that
the person to be detained thereunder is outside the limits of the territorial
jurisdiction of the Government or officer making the order, or(b)that a place
of detention of such person is outside the said limits.

### 7. Powers in relation to absconding persons.

(1)If the Central Government or the State Government or an officer specified
in sub-section (2) of Section 3, as the case may be, has reason to believe
that a person in respect of whom a detention order has been made has absconded
or is concealing himself so that the order cannot be executed, that Government
or officer may-(a)make a report in writing of the fact to a [Metropolitan
Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction in
the place where the said person ordinarily resides, and thereupon the
provisions of Sections 82 to 86 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973] [Substituted by MISA Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 3
(w.e.f. 29-6-1975).] shall apply in respect of the said person and his
property as if the order directing that he be detained were a warrant issued
by the Magistrate;(b)by order notified in the official Gazette direct the said
person to appear before such officer, at such place and within such period as
may be specified in the order; and if the said person fails to comply with
such direction he shall, unless he proves that it was not possible for him to
comply therewith and that he had, within the period specified in the order,
informed the officer mentioned in the order of the reason which rendered
compliance therewith impossible and of his whereabouts, be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with
both.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973] [Substituted by MISA Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 3 (w.e.f.
29-6-1975).], every offence under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be
cognizable.

### 8. Grounds of order of detention to be disclosed to persons affected by
the order.

(1)When a person is detained in pursuance of a detention order, the authority
making the order shall, as soon as may be, but ordinarily not later than five
days and in exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, not later than fifteen days, from the date of detention communicate
to him the grounds on which the order has been made and shall afford him the
earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order to the
appropriate Government.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall require the
authority to disclose facts which it considers to be against the public
interest to disclose.

### 9. Constitution of Advisory Boards.

(1)The Central Government and each State Government shall, whenever necessary,
constitute one or more Advisory Boards for the purposes of this Act.(2)Every
such Board shall consist of three persons who are, or have been, or are
qualified to be appointed as, Judge of a High Court, and such persons shall be
appointed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may
be.(3)The appropriate Government shall appoint one of the members of the
Advisory Board who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court to be its
Chairman, and in the case of a Union Territory the appointment to the Advisory
Board, of any person who is a Judge of the High Court of a State shall be with
the previous approval of the State Government concerned.

### 10. Reference to Advisory Boards.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, in every case where a
detention order has been made under this Act, the appropriate Government
shall, within thirty days from the date of detention under the order, place
before the Advisory Board constituted by it under Section 9 the grounds on
which the order has been made and the representation, if any, made by the
person affected by the order, and in case where the order has been made by an
officer, also the report by such officer under sub-section (3) of Section 3.

### 11. Procedure of Advisory Boards.

(1)The Advisory Board shall, after considering the materials placed before it
and, after calling for such further information as it may deem necessary from
the appropriate Government or from any person called for the purpose through
the appropriate Government or from the person concerned, and if, in any
particular case, it considers it essential so to do or if the person concerned
desires to be heard, after hearing him in person, submit its report to the
appropriate Government within ten weeks from the date of detention.(2)The
report of the Advisory Board shall specify in a separate part thereof the
opinion of the Advisory Board as to whether or not there is sufficient cause
for the detention of the person concerned.(3)When there is a difference of
opinion among the members forming the Advisory Board, the opinion of the
majority of such members shall be deemed to be the opinion of the
Board.(4)Nothing in this section shall entitle any person against whom a
detention order has been made to appear by any legal practitioner in any
matter connected with the reference to the Advisory Board, and the proceedings
of the Advisory Board and its report, excepting that part of the report in
which the opinion of the Advisory Board is specified shall be confidential.

### 12. Action upon the report of Advisory Board.

(1)In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is in its
opinion sufficient cause for the detention of a person, the appropriate
Government may confirm the detention order and continue the detention of the
person concerned for such period as it thinks fit.(2)In any case where the
Advisory Board has reported that there is in its opinion no sufficient cause
for the detention of the person concerned, the appropriate Government shall
revoke the detention order and cause the person to be released forthwith.

### 13. Maximum period of detention.

\- The maximum period for which any person may be detained in pursuance of any
detention order which has been confirmed under Section 12 shall be twelve
months from the date of detention [or until the expiry of the Defence and
Internal Security of India Act, 1971, whichever is later] [It shall remain
inserted till the expiry of the Defence and Internal Security of India Act,
1971, vide its S. 6(c).]:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall
affect the power of the appropriateGovernment to revoke or modify the
detention order at any earlier time.

### 14. Revocation of detention orders.

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 21 of the General Clauses
Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), a detention order may, at any time, be revoked or
modified-(a)notwithstanding that the order has been made by an officer
mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 3, by the State Government to which
that officer is subordinate or by the Central Government;(b)notwithstanding
that the order has been made by the State Government or by the Central
Government.(2)[ The expiry or revocation of a detention order (hereafter in
this sub-section referred to as the earlier detention order) shall not bar the
making of another detention order (hereafter in this sub-section referred to
as the subsequent detention order) under Section 3 against the same
person:Provided that in a case where no fresh facts have arisen after the
expiry or revocation of the earlier detention order made against such person,
the maximum period for which such person may be detained in pursuance of the
subsequent detention order shall, in no case, extend beyond the expiry of a
period of twelve months from the date of detention under the earlier detention
order or the expiry of the Defence and Internal Security of India Act, 1971
(42 of 1971), whichever is later.] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 3
(w.e.f. 29-6-1975).]

### 15. Temporary release of persons detained.

(1)The appropriate Government may, at any time, direct that any person
detained in pursuance of a detention order may be released for any specified
period either without conditions or upon such conditions specified in the
direction as that person accepts, and may, at any time, cancel his
release.(2)In directing the release of any person under sub-section (1), the
appropriate Government may require him to enter into a bond with or without
sureties for the due observance of the conditions specified in the
direction.(3)Any person released under sub-section (1) shall surrender himself
at the time and place, and to the authority, specified in the order directing
his release or cancelling his release, as the case may be.[(3-A) If the
appropriate Government has reason to believe that any person who has failed to
surrender himself in the manner specified in sub-section (3) has absconded or
is concealing himself, that Government may make a report in writing of the
fact to a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class
having jurisdiction in the place where the said person ordinarily resides and
thereupon the provisions of Sections 82 to 86 (both inclusive) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, shall apply in relation to such person as they apply
in relation to a person who has absconded or is concealing himself so that a
warrant issued by the Magistrate cannot be executed.] [Inserted by MISA
Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 5 (w.e.f. 29-6-1975).](4)If any person
fails without sufficient cause to surrender himself in the manner specified in
sub-section (3), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.(5)If any person released
under sub-section (1) fails to fulfil any of the conditions imposed upon him
under the said sub-section or in the bond entered into by him the bond shall
be declared to be forfeited and any person bound thereby shall be liable to
pay the penalty thereof.(6)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law and save as otherwise provided in this section, no person against whom a
detention order made under this Act is in force shall be released whether on
bail or bail bond or otherwise.] [Inserted by MISA Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of
1975), S. 5 (w.e.f. 29-6-1975).]

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government
or a State Government, and no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings,
shall lie against any person, for anything in good faith done or intended to
be done in pursuance of this Act.

### 16A. [ Special provisions for dealing with emergency. [Inserted by MISA
Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 6.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any rules of natural
justice, the provisions of this section shall have effect during the period of
operation of the Proclamation of Emergency issued under clause (1) of Article
352 of the Constitution on the 3rd day of December, 1971, or the Proclamation
of Emergency issued under that clause on the 25th day of June, 1975, or a
period of [twenty-four months] from the 25th day of June, 1975, whichever
period is the shortest.(2)The case of every person (including a foreigner)
against whom an order of detention was made under this Act on or after the
25th day of June, 1975, but before the commencement of this section, shall,
unless such person is sooner released from detention, be reviewed within
fifteen days from such commencement by the appropriate Government for the
purpose of determining whether the detention of such person under this Act is
necessary for dealing effectively with the emergency in respect of which the
Proclamations referred to in subsection (1) have been issued (hereafter in
this section referred to as the emergency) and if, on such review, the
appropriate Government is satisfied that it is necessary to detain such person
for effectively dealing with the emergency, that Government may make a
declaration to that effect and communicate a copy of the declaration to the
person concerned.[(2-A) If the State Government makes a declaration under sub-
section (2) that the detention of any person in respect of whom a detention
order is made by an officer subordinate to that Government is necessary for
dealing effectively with the emergency, the State Government shall be deemed
to have approved such detention order and the provisions of sub-section (3) of
Section 3, in so far as they relate to the approval of the State Government,
and of subsection (4) of that section, shall not apply to such detention
order.] [Inserted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4 (w.e.f. 29-6-1975).](3)When making
an order of detention under this Act against any person (including a
foreigner) after the commencement of this section, the Central Government or
the State Government or, as the case may be, the officer making the order of
detention shall consider whether the detention of such person under this Act
is necessary for dealing effectively with the emergency and if, on such
consideration, the Central Government or the State Government or, as the case
may be, the officer is satisfied that it is necessary to detain such person
for effectively dealing with the emergency, that Government or officer may
make a declaration to that effect and communicate a copy of the declaration to
the person concerned:Provided that where such declaration is made by an
officer, it shall be reviewed by the State Government to which such officer is
subordinate within fifteen days from the date of making of the declaration and
such declaration shall cease to have effect unless it is confirmed by the
State Government, after such review, within the said period of fifteen
days.(4)The question whether the detention of any person in respect of whom a
declaration has been made under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) continues
to be necessary for effectively dealing with the emergency shall be
reconsidered by the appropriate Government within four months from the date of
such declaration and thereafter at intervals not exceeding four months, and
if, on such reconsideration, it appears to the appropriate Government that the
detention of the person is no longer necessary for effectively dealing with
the emergency, that Government may revoke the declaration.(5)[ In making any
review, consideration or reconsideration under sub-section (2), subsection (3)
or sub-section (4), the appropriate Government or officer may act on the basis
of the information and materials in its or his possession without
communicating or disclosing any such information or materials to the person
concerned or affording him any opportunity of making any representation
against the making under sub-section (2), or the making or confirming under
sub-section (3), or the non-revocation under sub-section (4), of the
declaration in respect of him.] [Substituted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4 (w.e.f.
29-6-1975).](6)In the case of every person detained under a detention order to
which the provisions of sub-section (2) apply, being a person the review of
whose case is pending under that subsection or in respect of whom a
declaration has been made under that sub-section,-(i)Sections 8 to 12 shall
not apply; and(ii)Section 13 shall apply subject to the modification that the
words and figures "which has been confirmed under Section 12" shall be
omitted.(7)In the case of every person detained under a detention order to
which the provisions of sub-section (3) apply, being a person in respect of
whom a declaration has been made under that sub-section,-(i)Section 3 shall
apply subject to the modification that for sub-sections (3) and (4) thereof,
the following [* * *] [Omitted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4 (w.e.f. 29-6-1975).]
shall be substituted, namely:-"(3) When any order of detention is made by a
State Government or by an officer subordinate to it, the State Government
shall, within 20 days, [report the fact to the Central Government.]
[Substituted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4 (w.e.f. 29-6-1975).](4)[ At any time
after the receipt of a report under sub-section (3), the Central Government
may require the State Government to furnish to the Central Government the
grounds on which the order has been made and such other particulars as, in the
opinion of the State Government, have a bearing on the necessity for the
order.] [Inserted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4 (w.e.f. 17-10-1975).];(ii)Sections 8
to 12 shall not apply; and(iii)Section 13 shall apply subject to the
modification that the words and figures "which has been confirmed under
Section 12" shall be omitted.](8)[ In the case of any person in respect of
whom a declaration has been made by a State Government under sub-section (2)
or a declaration has been made by a State Government or an officer subordinate
to it or confirmed by the State Government under sub-section (3), or a
declaration has not been revoked by a State Government under sub-section (4),
the Central Government may, whenever it considers it necessary so to do,
require the State Government to furnish to the Central Government the
information and materials on the basis of which such declaration has been made
or confirmed, or not revoked, as the case may be, and such other information
and materials as the Central Government may deem necessary.(9)Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law or any rule having the force of
law,-(a)the grounds on which an order of detention is made or purported to be
made under Section 3 against any person in respect of whom a declaration is
made under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) and any information or materials
on which such grounds or a declaration under sub-section (2) or a declaration
or confirmation under sub-section (3) or the non-revocation under sub-section
(4) of a declaration are based, shall be treated as confidential and shall be
deemed to refer to matters of a State and to be against the public interest to
disclose and save as otherwise provided in this Act, no one shall communicate
or disclose any such ground, information or material or any document
containing such grounds, information or material;(b)no person against whom an
order of detention is made or purported to be made under Section 3 shall be
entitled to the communication or disclosure of any such ground, information or
material as is referred to in clause (a) or the production to him of any
document containing such ground, information or material.]

### 17. Duration of detention in certain cases of foreigners.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any foreigner in respect of
whom an order of detention has been made under this Act may be detained
without obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Board for a period longer than
three months, but not exceeding two years from the date of his detention, in
any of the following classes of cases or under any of the following
circumstances, namely-(a)where such foreigner enters or attempts to enter the
territory of India or is found therein with arms, ammunition or explosives,
or(b)where such foreigner enters or attempts to enter a notified area or is
found therein in contravention of Section 3 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act,
1961, or(c)where such foreigner enters or attempts to enter the local limits
or is found within the local limits of such area adjoining the borders of
India as may be specified in an order made under Section 139 of the Border
Security Force Act, 1968, without a valid travel document, or(d)where the
Central Government has reason to believe that such foreigner commits or is
likely to commit any offence under the Official Secrets Act, 1923.(2)In the
case of any foreigner to whom sub-section (1) applies, Sections 10 to 13 shall
have effect subject to the following modifications, namely-(a)in Section 10,
for the words "shall, within thirty days", the words "may, at any time prior
to but in no case later than three months before the expiration of two years"
shall be substituted;(b)in Section 11,-(i)in sub-section (1), for the words
"from the date of detention", the words "from the date on which reference is
made to it" shall be substituted;(ii)in sub-section (2), for the words "the
detention of the person concerned" the words "the continued detention of the
person concerned" shall be substituted;(c)in Section 12, for the words "for
the detention" in both the places where they occur, the words "for the
continued detention" shall be substituted;(d)in Section 13, for the words
"twelve months" the words "three years" shall be substituted.

### 17A. [ Duration of detention in cases of detention on certain grounds. [S.
17A shall remain inserted during the continuation in force of the Defence and
Internal Security of India Act, 1971, vide its S. 6(6).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act,
during the period of operation of the Proclamation of Emergency issued on the
3rd day of December, 1971, any person (including a foreigner) in respect of
whom an order of detention has been made under this Act, may be detained
without obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Board for a period longer than
three months, but not exceeding two years from the date of his detention in
any of the following classes of cases or under any of the following
circumstances, namely-(a)where such person had been detained with a view to
preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the defence of India,
relations of India with foreign powers or security of India; or(b)where such
person had been detained with a view to preventing him from acting in any
manner prejudicial to the security of the State or the maintenance of public
order.(2)In the case of any person to whom sub-section (1) applies, Sections
10 to 13 shall have effect subject to the following modifications,
namely-(a)in Section 10, for the words "shall, within thirty days", the words
"may, at any time prior to but in no case later than three months before the
expiration of two years" shall be substituted;(b)In Section 11,-(i)in sub-
section (1), for the words "from the date of detention", the words "from the
date on which reference is made to it" shall be substituted;(ii)in sub-section
(2), for the words "the detention of the person concerned", the words "the
continued detention of the person concerned" shall be substituted;(c)in
Section 12, for the words "for the detention" in both the places where they
occur, the words "for the continued detention" shall be substituted;(d)In
Section 13, for the words "twelve months", the words "three years" shall be
substituted.]

### 18. [ Exclusion of common law or natural law rights, if any. [Inserted by
MISA Amendment Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 7 (w.e.f. 25-6-1975).]

\- No person (including a foreigner) [in respect of whom an order is made or
purported to be made under Section 3] [Inserted by Act 14 of 1976, S. 4
(w.e.f. 29-6-1975).] shall have any right to personal liberty by virtue of
natural law or common law, if any.]

### 19. [] [Renumbered by MISA (Amendment) Act, 1975 (39 of 1975), S. 7
(w.e.f. 25-6-1975).] Repeal and saving.

(1)The Maintenance of Internal Security Ordinance, 1971, is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act as if this Act had come into force on the
7th day of May, 1971.

