## International Treaty - Act

## Marrakesh Treaty to Facilitate Access to Published Works for Persons Who
Are Blind, Visually Impaired, or Otherwise Print Disabled

TREATY  
India

# Marrakesh Treaty to Facilitate Access to Published Works for Persons Who Are
Blind, Visually Impaired, or Otherwise Print Disabled

## WORLDINTELLECTUALPROPERTYORGANIZATION 1 of 2013

  * Published in World Intellectual Property Organization on 27 June 2013 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 June 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

***Republic of India ratified this treaty on April 30, 2014** * **Preamble**
The Contracting Parties,_Recalling_ the principles of non-discrimination,
equal opportunity, accessibility and full and effective participation and
inclusion in society, proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities,_Mindful_ of the challenges that are prejudicial to the complete
development of persons with visual impairments or with other print
disabilities, which limit their freedom of expression, including the freedom
to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds on an equal
basis with others, including through all forms of communication of their
choice, their enjoyment of the right to education, and the opportunity to
conduct research,_Emphasizing_ the importance of copyright protection as an
incentive and reward for literary and artistic creations and of enhancing
opportunities for everyone, including persons with visual impairments or with
other print disabilities, to participate in the cultural life of the
community, to enjoy the arts and to share scientific progress and its
benefits,_Aware_ of the barriers of persons with visual impairments or with
other print disabilities to access published works in achieving equal
opportunities in society, and the need to both expand the number of works in
accessible formats and to improve the circulation of such works,_Taking into
account_ that the majority of persons with visual impairments or with other
print disabilities live in developing and least-developed
countries,_Recognizing_ that, despite the differences in national copyright
laws, the positive impact of new information and communication technologies on
the lives of persons with visual impairments or with other print disabilities
may be reinforced by an enhanced legal framework at the international
level,_Recognizing_ that many Member States have established limitations and
exceptions in their national copyright laws for persons with visual
impairments or with other print disabilities, yet there is a continuing
shortage of available works in accessible format copies for such persons, and
that considerable resources are required for their effort of making works
accessible to these persons, and that the lack of possibilities of cross-
border exchange of accessible format copies has necessitated duplication of
these efforts,_Recognizing_ both the importance of rightholders’ role in
making their works accessible to persons with visual impairments or with other
print disabilities and the importance of appropriate limitations and
exceptions to make works accessible to these persons, particularly when the
market is unable to provide such access,_Recognizing_ the need to maintain a
balance between the effective protection of the rights of authors and the
larger public interest, particularly education, research and access to
information, and that such a balance must facilitate effective and timely
access to works for the benefit of persons with visual impairments or with
other print disabilities,_Reaffirming_ the obligations of Contracting Parties
under the existing international treaties on the protection of copyright and
the importance and flexibility of the three-step test for limitations and
exceptions established in Article 9(2) of the Berne Convention for the
Protection of Literary and Artistic Works and other international
instruments,_Recalling_ the importance of the Development Agenda
recommendations, adopted in 2007 by the General Assembly of the World
Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), which aim to ensure that
development considerations form an integral part of the Organization’s
work,_Recognizing_ the importance of the international copyright system and
desiring to harmonize limitations and exceptions with a view to facilitating
access to and use of works by persons with visual impairments or with other
print disabilities,Have agreed as follows:

### Article 1 Relation to Other Conventions and Treaties

Nothing in this Treaty shall derogate from any obligations that Contracting
Parties have to each other under any other treaties, nor shall it prejudice
any rights that a Contracting Party has under any other treaties.

### Article 2 Definitions

For the purposes of this Treaty:(a) "works" means literary and artistic works
within the meaning of Article 2(1) of the Berne Convention for the Protection
of Literary and Artistic Works, in the form of text, notation and/or related
illustrations, whether published or otherwise made publicly available in any
media [1];(b) "accessible format copy" means a copy of a work in an
alternative manner or form which gives a beneficiary person access to the
work, including to permit the person to have access as feasibly and
comfortably as a person without visual impairment or other print disability.
The accessible format copy is used exclusively by beneficiary persons and it
must respect the integrity of the original work, taking due consideration of
the changes needed to make the work accessible in the alternative format and
of the accessibility needs of the beneficiary persons;(c) "authorized entity"
means an entity that is authorized or recognized by the government to provide
education, instructional training, adaptive reading or information access to
beneficiary persons on a non-profit basis. It also includes a government
institution or non-profit organization that provides the same services to
beneficiary persons as one of its primary activities or institutional
obligations [2].An authorized entity establishes and follows its own
practices:(i) to establish that the persons it serves are beneficiary
persons;(ii) to limit to beneficiary persons and/or authorized entities its
distribution and making available of accessible format copies;(iii) to
discourage the reproduction, distribution and making available of unauthorized
copies; and(iv) to maintain due care in, and records of, its handling of
copies of works, while respecting the privacy of beneficiary persons in
accordance with Article 8.

### Article 3 Beneficiary Persons

A beneficiary person is a person who:(a) is blind;(b) has a visual impairment
or a perceptual or reading disability which cannot be improved to give visual
function substantially equivalent to that of a person who has no such
impairment or disability and so is unable to read printed works to
substantially the same degree as a person without an impairment or disability;
or [3](c) is otherwise unable, through physical disability, to hold or
manipulate a book or to focus or move the eyes to the extent that would be
normally acceptable for reading;regardless of any other disabilities.

### Article 4National Law Limitations and Exceptions Regarding Accessible
Format Copies

1.(a) Contracting Parties shall provide in their national copyright laws for a
limitation or exception to the right of reproduction, the right of
distribution, and the right of making available to the public as provided by
the WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT), to facilitate the availability of works in
accessible format copies for beneficiary persons. The limitation or exception
provided in national law should permit changes needed to make the work
accessible in the alternative format.(b) Contracting Parties may also provide
a limitation or exception to the right of public performance to facilitate
access to works for beneficiary persons.2\. A Contracting Party may fulfill
Article 4(1) for all rights identified therein by providing a limitation or
exception in its national copyright law such that:(a) Authorized entities
shall be permitted, without the authorization of the copyright rightholder, to
make an accessible format copy of a work, obtain from another authorized
entity an accessible format copy, and supply those copies to beneficiary
persons by any means, including by non-commercial lending or by electronic
communication by wire or wireless means, and undertake any intermediate steps
to achieve those objectives, when all of the following conditions are met:(i)
the authorized entity wishing to undertake said activity has lawful access to
that work or a copy of that work;(ii) the work is converted to an accessible
format copy, which may include any means needed to navigate information in the
accessible format, but does not introduce changes other than those needed to
make the work accessible to the beneficiary person;(iii) such accessible
format copies are supplied exclusively to be used by beneficiary persons;
and(iv) the activity is undertaken on a non-profit basis;and(b) A beneficiary
person, or someone acting on his or her behalf including a primary caretaker
or caregiver, may make an accessible format copy of a work for the personal
use of the beneficiary person or otherwise may assist the beneficiary person
to make and use accessible format copies where the beneficiary person has
lawful access to that work or a copy of that work.3\. A Contracting Party may
fulfill Article 4(1) by providing other limitations or exceptions in its
national copyright law pursuant to Articles 10 and 11 [4].4\. A Contracting
Party may confine limitations or exceptions under this Article to works which,
in the particular accessible format, cannot be obtained commercially under
reasonable terms for beneficiary persons in that market. Any Contracting Party
availing itself of this possibility shall so declare in a notification
deposited with the Director General of WIPO at the time of ratification of,
acceptance of or accession to this Treaty or at any time thereafter [5].5\. It
shall be a matter for national law to determine whether limitations or
exceptions under this Article are subject to remuneration.

### Article 5Cross-Border Exchange of Accessible Format Copies

1\. Contracting Parties shall provide that if an accessible format copy is
made under a limitation or exception or pursuant to operation of law, that
accessible format copy may be distributed or made available by an authorized
entity to a beneficiary person or an authorized entity in another Contracting
Party [6].2\. A Contracting Party may fulfill Article 5(1) by providing a
limitation or exception in its national copyright law such that:(a) authorized
entities shall be permitted, without the authorization of the rightholder, to
distribute or make available for the exclusive use of beneficiary persons
accessible format copies to an authorized entity in another Contracting Party;
and(b) authorized entities shall be permitted, without the authorization of
the rightholder and pursuant to Article 2(c), to distribute or make available
accessible format copies to a beneficiary person in another Contracting
Party;provided that prior to the distribution or making available the
originating authorized entity did not know or have reasonable grounds to know
that the accessible format copy would be used for other than beneficiary
persons [7].3\. A Contracting Party may fulfill Article 5(1) by providing
other limitations or exceptions in its national copyright law pursuant to
Articles 5(4), 10 and 11.4.(a) When an authorized entity in a Contracting
Party receives accessible format copies pursuant to Article 5(1) and that
Contracting Party does not have obligations under Article 9 of the Berne
Convention, it will ensure, consistent with its own legal system and
practices, that the accessible format copies are only reproduced, distributed
or made available for the benefit of beneficiary persons in that Contracting
Party’s jurisdiction.(b) The distribution and making available of accessible
format copies by an authorized entity pursuant to Article 5(1) shall be
limited to that jurisdiction unless the Contracting Party is a Party to the
WIPO Copyright Treaty or otherwise limits limitations and exceptions
implementing this Treaty to the right of distribution and the right of making
available to the public to certain special cases which do not conflict with a
normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
legitimate interests of the rightholder [8], [9].(c) Nothing in this Article
affects the determination of what constitutes an act of distribution or an act
of making available to the public.5\. Nothing in this Treaty shall be used to
address the issue of exhaustion of rights.

### Article 6Importation of Accessible Format Copies

To the extent that the national law of a Contracting Party would permit a
beneficiary person, someone acting on his or her behalf, or an authorized
entity, to make an accessible format copy of a work, the national law of that
Contracting Party shall also permit them to import an accessible format copy
for the benefit of beneficiary persons, without the authorization of the
rightholder [10].

### Article7Obligations Concerning Technological Measures

Contracting Parties shall take appropriate measures, as necessary, to ensure
that when they provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies
against the circumvention of effective technological measures, this legal
protection does not prevent beneficiary persons from enjoying the limitations
and exceptions provided for in this Treaty [11].

### Article 8Respect for Privacy

In the implementation of the limitations and exceptions provided for in this
Treaty, Contracting Parties shall endeavor to protect the privacy of
beneficiary persons on an equal basis with others.

### Article 9Cooperation to Facilitate Cross-Border Exchange

1\. Contracting Parties shall endeavor to foster the cross-border exchange of
accessible format copies by encouraging the voluntary sharing of information
to assist authorized entities in identifying one another. The International
Bureau of WIPO shall establish an information access point for this
purpose.2\. Contracting Parties undertake to assist their authorized entities
engaged in activities under Article 5 to make information available regarding
their practices pursuant to Article 2(c), both through the sharing of
information among authorized entities, and through making available
information on their policies and practices, including related to cross-border
exchange of accessible format copies, to interested parties and members of the
public as appropriate.3\. The International Bureau of WIPO is invited to share
information, where available, about the functioning of this Treaty.4\.
Contracting Parties recognize the importance of international cooperation and
its promotion, in support of national efforts for realization of the purpose
and objectives of this Treaty [12].

### Article 10General Principles on Implementation

1\. Contracting Parties undertake to adopt the measures necessary to ensure
the application of this Treaty.2\. Nothing shall prevent Contracting Parties
from determining the appropriate method of implementing the provisions of this
Treaty within their own legal system and practice [13].3\. Contracting Parties
may fulfill their rights and obligations under this Treaty through limitations
or exceptions specifically for the benefit of beneficiary persons, other
limitations or exceptions, or a combination thereof, within their national
legal system and practice. These may include judicial, administrative or
regulatory determinations for the benefit of beneficiary persons as to fair
practices, dealings or uses to meet their needs consistent with the
Contracting Parties’ rights and obligations under the Berne Convention, other
international treaties, and Article 11.

### Article 11General Obligations on Limitations and Exceptions

In adopting measures necessary to ensure the application of this Treaty, a
Contracting Party may exercise the rights and shall comply with the
obligations that that Contracting Party has under the Berne Convention, the
Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and the
WIPO Copyright Treaty, including their interpretative agreements so that:(a)
in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Berne Convention, a Contracting Party
may permit the reproduction of works in certain special cases provided that
such reproduction does not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work and
does not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the author;(b) in
accordance with Article 13 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights, a Contracting Party shall confine limitations or
exceptions to exclusive rights to certain special cases which do not conflict
with a normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
legitimate interests of the rightholder;(c) in accordance with Article 10(1)
of the WIPO Copyright Treaty, a Contracting Party may provide for limitations
of or exceptions to the rights granted to authors under the WCT in certain
special cases, that do not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work and
do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the author;(d) in
accordance with Article 10(2) of the WIPO Copyright Treaty, a Contracting
Party shall confine, when applying the Berne Convention, any limitations of or
exceptions to rights to certain special cases that do not conflict with a
normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
legitimate interests of the author.

### Article 12Other Limitations and Exceptions

1\. Contracting Parties recognize that a Contracting Party may implement in
its national law other copyright limitations and exceptions for the benefit of
beneficiary persons than are provided by this Treaty having regard to that
Contracting Party’s economic situation, and its social and cultural needs, in
conformity with that Contracting Party's international rights and obligations,
and in the case of a least-developed country taking into account its special
needs and its particular international rights and obligations and
flexibilities thereof.2\. This Treaty is without prejudice to other
limitations and exceptions for persons with disabilities provided by national
law.

### Article 13 Assembly

1.(a) The Contracting Parties shall have an Assembly.(b) Each Contracting
Party shall be represented in the Assembly by one delegate who may be assisted
by alternate delegates, advisors and experts.(c) The expenses of each
delegation shall be borne by the Contracting Party that has appointed the
delegation. The Assembly may ask WIPO to grant financial assistance to
facilitate the participation of delegations of Contracting Parties that are
regarded as developing countries in conformity with the established practice
of the General Assembly of the United Nations or that are countries in
transition to a market economy.2.(a) The Assembly shall deal with matters
concerning the maintenance and development of this Treaty and the application
and operation of this Treaty.(b) The Assembly shall perform the function
allocated to it under Article 15 in respect of the admission of certain
intergovernmental organizations to become party to this Treaty.(c) The
Assembly shall decide the convocation of any diplomatic conference for the
revision of this Treaty and give the necessary instructions to the Director
General of WIPO for the preparation of such diplomatic conference.3.(a) Each
Contracting Party that is a State shall have one vote and shall vote only in
its own name.(b) Any Contracting Party that is an intergovernmental
organization may participate in the vote, in place of its Member States, with
a number of votes equal to the number of its Member States which are party to
this Treaty. No such intergovernmental organization shall participate in the
vote if any one of its Member States exercises its right to vote and vice
versa.4\. The Assembly shall meet upon convocation by the Director General
and, in the absence of exceptional circumstances, during the same period and
at the same place as the General Assembly of WIPO.5\. The Assembly shall
endeavor to take its decisions by consensus and shall establish its own rules
of procedure, including the convocation of extraordinary sessions, the
requirements of a quorum and, subject to the provisions of this Treaty, the
required majority for various kinds of decisions.

### Article 14 International Bureau

The International Bureau of WIPO shall perform the administrative tasks
concerning this Treaty.

### Article 15 Eligibility for Becoming Party to the Treaty

1\. Any Member State of WIPO may become party to this Treaty.2\. The Assembly
may decide to admit any intergovernmental organization to become party to this
Treaty which declares that it is competent in respect of, and has its own
legislation binding on all its Member States on, matters covered by this
Treaty and that it has been duly authorized, in accordance with its internal
procedures, to become party to this Treaty.3\. The European Union, having made
the declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph at the Diplomatic
Conference that has adopted this Treaty, may become party to this Treaty.

### Article 16 Rights and Obligations Under the Treaty

Subject to any specific provisions to the contrary in this Treaty, each
Contracting Party shall enjoy all of the rights and assume all of the
obligations under this Treaty.

### Article 17 Signature of the Treaty

This Treaty shall be open for signature at the Diplomatic Conference in
Marrakesh, and thereafter at the headquarters of WIPO by any eligible party
for one year after its adoption.

### Article 18 Entry into Force of the Treaty

This Treaty shall enter into force three months after 20 eligible parties
referred to in Article 15 have deposited their instruments of ratification or
accession.

### Article 19 Effective Date of Becoming Party to the Treaty

This Treaty shall bind:(a) the 20 eligible parties referred to in Article 18,
from the date on which this Treaty has entered into force;(b) each other
eligible party referred to in Article 15, from the expiration of three months
from the date on which it has deposited its instrument of ratification or
accession with the Director General of WIPO.

### Article 20 Denunciation of the Treaty

This Treaty may be denounced by any Contracting Party by notification
addressed to the Director General of WIPO. Any denunciation shall take effect
one year from the date on which the Director General of WIPO received the
notification.

### Article 21 Languages of the Treaty

1\. This Treaty is signed in a single original in English, Arabic, Chinese,
French, Russian and Spanish languages, the versions in all these languages
being equally authentic.2\. An official text in any language other than those
referred to in Article 21(1) shall be established by the Director General of
WIPO on the request of an interested party, after consultation with all the
interested parties. For the purposes of this paragraph, "interested party"
means any Member State of WIPO whose official language, or one of whose
official languages, is involved and the European Union, and any other
intergovernmental organization that may become party to this Treaty, if one of
its official languages is involved.

### Article 22 Depositary

The Director General of WIPO is the depositary of this Treaty.Done in
Marrakesh on the 27th day of June, 2013.

### 1 Agreed statement concerning Article 2(a): For the purposes of this
Treaty, it is understood that this definition includes such works in audio
form, such as audiobooks.

### 2 Agreed statement concerning Article 2(c): For the purposes of this
Treaty, it is understood that "entities recognized by the government" may
include entities receiving financial support from the government to provide
education, instructional training, adaptive reading or information access to
beneficiary persons on a non-profit basis.

### 3 Agreed statement concerning Article 3(b): Nothing in this language
implies that "cannot be improved" requires the use of all possible medical
diagnostic procedures and treatments.

### 4 Agreed statement concerning Article 4(3): It is understood that this
paragraph neither reduces nor extends the scope of applicability of
limitations and exceptions permitted under the Berne Convention, as regards
the right of translation, with respect to persons with visual impairments or
with other print disabilities.

### 5 Agreed statement concerning Article 4(4): It is understood that a
commercial availability requirement does not prejudge whether or not a
limitation or exception under this Article is consistent with the three-step
test.

### 6 Agreed statement concerning Article 5(1): It is further understood that
nothing in this Treaty reduces or extends the scope of exclusive rights under
any other treaty.

### 7 Agreed statement concerning Article 5(2): It is understood that, to
distribute or make available accessible format copies directly to a
beneficiary person in another Contracting Party, it may be appropriate for an
authorized entity to apply further measures to confirm that the person it is
serving is a beneficiary person and to follow its own practices as described
in Article 2(c).

### 8 Agreed statement concerning Article 5(4)(b): It is understood that
nothing in this Treaty requires or implies that a Contracting Party adopt or
apply the three-step test beyond its obligations under this instrument or
under other international treaties.

### 9 Agreed statement concerning Article 5(4)(b): It is understood that
nothing in this Treaty creates any obligations for a Contracting Party to
ratify or accede to the WCT or to comply with any of its provisions and
nothing in this Treaty prejudices any rights, limitations and exceptions
contained in the WCT.

### 10 Agreed statement concerning Article 6: It is understood that the
Contracting Parties have the same flexibilities set out in Article 4 when
implementing their obligations under Article 6.

### 11 Agreed statement concerning Article 7: It is understood that authorized
entities, in various circumstances, choose to apply technological measures in
the making, distribution and making available of accessible format copies and
nothing herein disturbs such practices when in accordance with national law.

### 12 Agreed statement concerning Article 9: It is understood that Article 9
does not imply mandatory registration for authorized entities nor does it
constitute a precondition for authorized entities to engage in activities
recognized under this Treaty; but it provides for a possibility for sharing
information to facilitate the cross-border exchange of accessible format
copies.

### 13 Agreed statement concerning Article 10(2): It is understood that when a
work qualifies as a work under Article 2(a), including such works in audio
form, the limitations and exceptions provided for by this Treaty apply
//mutatis mutandis// to related rights as necessary to make the accessible
format copy, to distribute it and to make it available to beneficiary persons.

