## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Members of Municipal Councils (Disclosure of Assets) Rules, 1973

TAMILNADU  
India

# Members of Municipal Councils (Disclosure of Assets) Rules, 1973

## Act 474 of 1973

  * Published on 25 April 1974 
  * Commenced on 25 April 1974 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 April 1974.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Members of Municipal Councils (Disclosure of Assets) Rules, 1973Published vide
Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 858, Rural Development and Local Administration
Department, dated 25th April 1974 - S.R.O. No. A-474 of 1973Published in Part
V, page 698, of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated 13th june 1974.In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 303 of the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- (i) These rules may be called the Members of the Municipal Councils
(Disclosure of Assets) Rules, 1973.(ii)They shall come into force at once.

### 2. Periodical disclosure of assets of members of the municipal councils.

\- Every member of a municipal council including the Chairman and the Vice-
Chairman shall -(a)if he holds office as such on the date of commencement of
these rules, as soon as may be after such date; or(b)if he is elected or co-
opted after such date, as soon as may be after such election or co-option;
and(c)thereafter at intervals of every 12 months ending with the 31st day of
March,furnish to the executive authority of the municipal council in the form
appended to these rules a return of -(i)all properties owned, acquired or
inherited by such member or any member of his family; and(ii)all properties
held on lease or mortgage either in his own name or in the name of any member
of his family,together with details of the means, by which, or the sources
from which, such property was acquired or inherited.

### 3. Returns to be placed at the meeting and to be public documents.

\- Every return submitted under rule 2 shall, -(1)as soon as possible after it
is submitted, be placed at the meeting of the council; and(2)be deemed to be a
public document and the executive authority may, subject to such conditions
(including payment of fees) as may be prescribed by such authority give to any
person on demand a copy of such return.AppendixForm[See rule 2]Return of
assets of the Members of the Municipal Council/Chairman/ Vice-
Chairman...........Municipal Council as on the 31st march.....Name of the
Member, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman.Date of the election or co-
optionAssets of the Members(1)Immovable property(2)Business interest
-(a)Shares(b)Stocks(c)Scrip(d)Partnership(e)Debenture and securities(3)Other
interested Bank Accounts(4)(a)Jewellery(b)Gold(c)Precious stonesWhere the
aggregate value of all the three items exceeds Rs. 10,000(5)Movables
(including motor vehicles) where the aggregate value exceeds
Rs.10,000(6)Details of Trusts with which the Member has any
connection(7)Remarks, if any, of the member.Assets of the Members of the
Family(1)Immovable property(2)Business interest
-(a)Shares(b)Stocks(c)Scrip(d)Partnership(e)Debenture and securities(3)Other
interested Bank Accounts(4)(a)Jewellery(b)Gold(c)Precious stonesWhere the
aggregate value of all the three items exceeds Rs.10,000(5)Movables (including
motor vehicles) where the aggregate value exceeds Rs. 10,000(6)Details of
Trusts with which the member has any connection(7)Remarks, if any, of the
member.DeclarationI,............., declare that to the best of my knowledge
and belief, the information furnished in the above return is true and
complete.Place:Date:Signature.Note. - (1) "Members of the family means any
person related, whether by blood or marriage, to the member of the municipal
council, or to his wife or her husband and wholly dependent on such
member.(2)"Immovable property" includes land and buildings.(3)The members may
give a short note explaining the nature of acquisition of the assets in the
column relating to remarks.(4)If the member so chooses, he may also explain
the liabilities incurred by him and by his family members in the column
relating to remarks.Procedure for furnishing the Return(1)Every member shall
fill up this form furnishing information for the period ending with 31st day
of March.(2)The member shall after filling it, send it to the Executive
Authority of the Council on or before the 30th day of September every
year.(3)The Executive Authority concerned on receipt of the same shall cause
it to be placed at the meeting of the council.

