## Union of India - Act

## Merchant Shipping (Certificate of Service) Rules, 1970

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Merchant Shipping (Certificate of Service) Rules, 1970

## Rule MERCHANT-SHIPPING-CERTIFICATE-OF-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970

  * Published on 22 August 1970 
  * Commenced on 22 August 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 August 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Merchant Shipping (Certificate of Service) Rules, 1970Published vide
Notification Gazette of India, 1970, Part 2, Section 3(i), page 3482.

### 1772.

G.S.R. 1682, dated the 22nd August 1970. - In exercise of the powers conferred
by section 87 read with sub-section (6) of section 80, section 83 and section
457 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958) and in supersession of all
previous rules and orders on the subject, the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely :-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Merchant Shipping (Certificate of Service)
Rules, 1970.(2)They shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)"Act" means the
Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958);(b)"Appendix" means an Appendix to
these rules;(c)"Principal Officer" means the Principal Officer of the
Mercantile Marine Department concerned at Bombay, Calcutta and
Madras;(d)"Section" means a section of the Act;(e)Words and expressions used
in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Application for certificate of service.

(1)Any person entitled to a certificate of service under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) of section 80 may make an application in the form set out in
Appendix I.(2)Every applicant shall forward his application to Chief of the
Naval Staff through his Commanding Officer.(3)Every application received by
the Chief of the Naval Staff shall be forwarded to the Director General after
recording thereon a certificate as to the correctness of the qualifying
service mentioned therein.

### 4. Issue of certificate of service.

(1)Every application under rule 3 shall be granted the certificate of service
of service in the appropriate form set out for the purpose in Appendix
II.(2)Certificates for every grade of service shall have a distinct series of
numbers prefixed by identifying letters allotted by the Director-General.

### 5. Record of certificates of service.

(1)Every certificate of service shall be prepared in duplicate.(2)The Original
Certificate of service shall be delivered to the person entitled to it and the
duplicate thereof shall be kept in the office of the Director-General.(3)The
Director-General shall cause the particulars of every certificate of service
to be entered in a register maintained for the purpose. All subsequent orders
regarding suspension or cancellation or any other matters relating to the said
certificate shall be entered on the copy of the certificate and also in the
said register.

### 6. Grant of certified copy of the certificate of service.

(1)A person whose certificate of service has been lost or who has been
deprived of such certificate may apply in the form set out in Appendix III for
a duplicate copy thereof. A declaration regarding the circumstances in which
the certificate was lost or its deprivation took place shall also be made by
the applicant before the Principal Officer, or as the case may be, the
Consular officer.(2)The application under sub-rule (1) shall be forwarded to
the Director General through the Principal Officer, or if the applicant is
abroad, such an application shall be so forwarded through the Indian Consular
Officer.(3)The Director General may, if he is satisfied that a certificate of
service has without fault on the part of the holder, been lost or its
deprivation has taken place grant a certified coy of the certificate to the
person entitled thereto.(4)If the certificate alleged to have been lost or of
which deprivation is alleged to have taken pace is subsequently recovered, it
shall be surrendered to the Director-General.(5)A fee of Rs. 1/- shall be paid
for every certified copy of the certificate granted under sub-rule
(3).Appendix I[See rule 3 (i)]Application for a Certificate of service under
section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958)Note:- This Form is
obtainable free of charge at any Mercantile Marine Office.When Divisions (A)
(B) and (C) have been filled up, signed, and witnessed, the Form should be
forwarded to the Director General of Shipping through the Chief of the Naval
Staff.

(A)Particulars Of The Application  
---  
Surname(In
BlockLetters)................................................FullName and
Surname (in
BlockLetters)................................................Dateand Place of
Birth...........................................PersonalMarks, if
any............................................Address............................................  
  
(B)PARTICULARS OF SERVICE OF THE APPLICANT IN THE INDIAN NAVY  
---  
Nameof Ships |  Statewhether sea going or Shore-based | Rank |  Dateof Service From to |  CapacityRemarks  
  
*(a) Applicants for certificates of service as engineers should give full details of their practical and professional training, even if this was received in whole or in the Navy.(b)Portions of service performed on independent watch-keeping duties if any, should as indicated here.(C)Declaration To Be Made By The ApplicantI do hereby declare,(1)that the particulars contained herein and in Divisions (A) and (B) on the reverse side of this form are correct and true to the best of may knowledge and belief.(2)That I have not previously applied for a Certificate of Service.That I applied for a certificate of service on the................day of 2..............I enclose testimonials in support of service shown in Division (B).I request that a certificate of service as (Master)_________ First/Second Class, Engineer may be sent to the Mercantile Marine Office at for issue to me.Dated this...........day of......20.......Signature of applicant...........Rank ...............Witnesses,................Name................Address.Viz. Bombay/Calcutta/Madras/Jamnagar(Goa)/Cochin/Vizagapatnam.ForwardedI hereby certify that the particulars contained in Division (B) are true and correct account of the whole of the officers, service without exception.Chief of the Naval StaffTo,The Director General of Shipping,Bombay.Appendix II[See rule 4 (i)]Certificate of ServiceAsMaster of a Foreign Going ShipNo. .........................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (i) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of service as Master of a Foreign going ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ................ day of.............19........................?"Director General of ShippingCountersigned-2-signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued............................"Year of Birth............................Place of Birth.........................Issued at.......................On the................ day of ......................20............................NOTES:-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (44 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 5000.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras.-3-Additional QualificationsCertificate of ServiceAsFirst Class Engineer of a Steam ShipNo. ...................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (2) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of Service as First Class Engineer of a Steam Ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ..................... day of .....................Director General of ShippingCountersigned.-2-Signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued ...........................Year of Birth.......................................Place of Birth......................Issued at.......................................On the ..................... day of .......19..................NOTES :-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (4 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras.-3-Additional QualificationsCertificate of ServiceAsFirst class Engineer of a Motor ShipNo......................................................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (2) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of Service as First Class Engineer of a Steam Ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ..................... day of ..........19...............Director General of ShippingCountersigned.Signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued .....................Year of Birth.....................................Place of Birth.......................................Issued at ..................................On the ..................... day of.............19.............."Notes:-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (44 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras.-3-Additional QualificationsCertificate of ServiceAsFirst class Engineer of a Steam Ship and Motor ShipNo...............................................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (2) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of Service as First Class Engineer of a Steam Ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ..................... day of.................19...............Director General of ShippingCountersigned.-2-Signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued............................."Year of Birth.........................................Place of Birth........................................Issued at......................................On the ..................... day of ..........19...........NOTES :-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (44 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras-3-Additional QualificationCertificate of ServiceAsSecond Class Engineer of a Steam Ship and Motor ShipNo. .........................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (2) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of Service as First Class Engineer of a Steam Ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ..................... day of............19......................Director General of ShippingCountersigned.-2-Signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued ................Year of Birth........................Place of Birth............................Issued at......................On the ..................... day of...............19......................NOTES :-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (44 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras.-3-Additional QualificationsCertificate of ServiceAsSecond Class Engineer of a Motor ShipNo..........................................having attained the rank in the Indian Navy required by sub-section (2) of section 80 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), is granted this Certificate of Service as First Class Engineer of a Steam Ship in the Merchant Navy.Dated this ..................... day of....................19.............Director General of ShippingCountersigned.-2-Signature of the person to whom this certificate is issued ?........................Year of Birth........................Place of Birth.........................Issued at ........................On the ..................... day of........................NOTES :-(1)A certificate of service which has been cancelled or suspended shall be delivered up as required by section 378 of the Merchant Shipping Act. 1958, (44 of 1958), any person who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.00.(2)Any person other than the holder of a Certificate of Service who comes into possession of the said certificate is requested to transmit fort with to the Director General of Shipping or the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras.-3-Additional QualificationsAppendix III[(Rule 6 (i)]Application for Certified copy of a Certificate of Service as Master of EngineerDeclaration to be made and signed by applicant before a Principal Officer Mercantile Marine Department or if the applicant is Abroad, before an Indian Consular Officer.

Fullname and surname(inBlock Letters)  
---  
Dateand Place of Birth |  Portto which copy of the certificate of service should be sent  
  
I do hereby declare that -------------(1)my certificate of service as
........................numbered................. was lost/I have been
deprived of my certificate of service as..............numbered...............*
Here sate the place, date occasions and circumstances leading to the loss of
deprivation of the certificate of service.(2)the statements made herein are
correct and true to the best of my knowledge and belief.Applicant
Signature....................19.................This from was completed and
signed in my presence. The fee for certified copy of Rs. 1.00 has been
received. I am satisfied that the certificate of service was lost/the
applicant was deprived of the certificate of service.(Officer's
signature).................19...............To,The Director General of
Shipping,Bombay.*Strike out whichever is not applicable,Certified copy of the
certificate of service is enclosed for delivery to the applicant person. The
Consular Officer/Principal Officer shall satisfy by reference to the personal
and other particulars entered in the certified copy and in the Discharge Book
or other appropriate document that the applicant is the person properly
entitled to the certified copy.Director General of
Shipping...........20..............To,TheCertified copy of the certificate of
service delivered to
Applicant.No......................................................(Issuing
Officer).................20............ToThe Director General of
ShippingBombay

