## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Mettur Canal Irrigation Cess Act, 1953

TAMILNADU  
India

# Mettur Canal Irrigation Cess Act, 1953

## Act 17 of 1953

  * Published on 9 September 1953 
  * Commenced on 9 September 1953 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 September 1953.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Mettur Canal Irrigation Cess Act, 1953(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1953)Received the
assent of the President on the 9th September 1953 and first published in the
Fort St. George Gazette, dated 23rd September 1953.An Act to provide for the
extension of the provisions of the Bhavani Reservoir Irrigation Cess Act,
1933, to lands which may he irrigated from, the Mettur Canal.Whereas the State
Government are excavating a canal from the Mettur Reservoir for the irrigation
of certain lands in the districts of Coimbatore and Salem;And Whereas the
conditions of such irrigation are similar to those of lands from the Bhavani
Reservoir and it is consequently necessary to extend the provisions of the
Bhavani Reservoir Irrigation Cess Act, 1933 (Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1933), to
irrigation from the said canal; It is hereby enacted as follows : -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Mettur Canal Irrigation Cess Act, 1953.(2)It
extends to all lands the irrigation of which from the Mettur Canal is allowed
by or under the orders of the State Government, but does not extend to any
land which on the date on which till Act comes into force is entitled to
irrigation with water of any source (other than the Mettur Canal) belonging
to, or constructed by, or on behalf of, the Government.(3)It shall come into
force at once.

### 2. Application of the Bhavani Reservoir Irrigation Cess Act, 1933, to the
lands irrigated from the Mettur Canal.

\- The provision of sections 2 to 7 of the Bhavani Reservoir Irrigation Cess
Act, 1933 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVI of 1933), as in force for the
time being shall apply in respect of all lands to which this Act extends, as
if -(1)references to the "reservoir" in the said Act were references to the
"Mettur Canal";(2)in section 5 of the said Act, in the proviso, for the words
"Irrigation with water of the Bhavani river or any other source belonging to
or constructed by, or on behalf of, the Government", the words and brackets
"irrigation with water of any source (other than the Mettur Canal) belonging
to, or constructed by, or on behalf of, the Government" had been substituted.

