## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Mother Teresa Women's University Act, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# Mother Teresa Women's University Act, 1984

## Act 15 of 1984

  * Published on 21 March 1984 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022 . (Act 2 of 2023) on 10 January 2023] 

An Act to provide for the establishment and incorporation of Women’s
University in Tamil Nadu.WHEREAS it is expedient that a University should be
established exclusively for women for furthering the advancement of learning
and prosecution of research in studies on Women’s Welfare and for purpose of
providing consultancy and monitory services for Welfare schemes relating to
women;AND WHEREAS it is desirable to establish a Women’s University of unitary
type to develop research facilities in the studies relating to women in
general, and in particular, studies relating to rural or destitute women and
to institute degrees, titles, diploma and other academic distinctions for
women and todo all such acts and things incidental to the objects referred to
above;AND WHEREAS a decision has been taken to name the University as “The
Mother Teresa Women’s University”;BE it enacted by the Legislature of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty – fifth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-**CHAPTER I PRELIMINARY**

### 1. Short title and commencement –

(1)This Act may be called the Mother Teresa Women’s University Act,
1984.(2)This section and sections 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18,
19, 37, 45, 46, 47, 50 and 51 shall be deemed to have come into force onthe
30th January 1984, and the rest of this Act shall come into force on such date
as the Government may, be notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions –

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)“Government” means the
State Government;(b)‘hostel’ means a unit of residence for the student of the
University maintained or recognized by the University in accordance with the
provisions of thisAct and includes a hostel recognized as such by the
University under this Act;(c)“notified date” means the date specified, in the
notification issued under sub-section (2) of section 1;(d)“prescribed’ means
prescribed by this Act or the statutes;(e)“statutes” means the statutes of the
University made under this Act;(f)“teachers” means Senior Fellows, Readers,
Lecturers and other like persons as may be declared by the statutes to be
teachers;(g)“University” means the Mother Teresa Women’s University
established under section 3;(h)“University Grants Commission” means the
Commission established under section 4 of the University Grants Commission
Act, 1956(i)“University library” means a library maintained by the University,
whether instituted by it or not.**CHAPTER II THE UNIVERSITY**

### 3. Establishment of a University:-

(1)For furthering the advancement of learning and prosecution of research in
studies on Women’s Welfare and for purpose of providing consultancyand
monitory service for any Welfare Scheme for women, there shall be established
a University bythe name “The Mother Teresa Women’s University”.(2)The
University shall be a body corporate, shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said name.(3)The University shall
be of the unitary type.(4)No institution affiliated to, or associated with or
maintained by any other University in the State, shall be recognized by the
University for anypurpose except with the prior approval of the Government and
the concerned University.(5)The headquarters of the University shall be
located within the limits of the Kodaikanal Panchayat Union.

### 4. The objects and powers of the University:-

(1)The University shall have the following objects and powers, namely:-(1)to
monitor women’s education at all levels in the State;(2)to offer consultancy
services for the development of women’s education in the State;(3)to develop
research facilities in the studies, relating to women in general and in
particular, studies relating rural or destitute women;(4)to institute degrees,
titles, diploma and other academic distinctions for women;(5)to confer
degrees, titles, diploma and other academic distinctions on women who shall
have carried out research in the University or in any other centre
orinstitution recognized by the University under conditions prescribed.(6)To
confer honorary degrees or other academic distinctions in the prescribed
manner and under conditions prescribed;(7)To supervise and control hostels and
to regulate and enforce discipline among the students of the University and to
make arrangements for promoting their health and general welfare;(8)To
prescribe conditions under which the sward of any degree, title, diploma and
other academic distinctions to women may be withheld;(9)to co-operate with any
other University, authority or association or any public or private body
having in view, the promotion of purpose and objects similar to those of the
University for such purposes as may be agreed upon on such terms and
conditions, as may, from time to time, be prescribed;(10)to establish and
maintain University libraries, research stations and publication bureau;(11)to
institute research posts and to appoint women to such posts;(12)to institute
and award fellowship, including travelling fellowships, scholarships, medals
and prizes in the manner prescribed;(13)to establish, maintain or recognize
hostels, for students of the University and residential accommodation for the
staff of the University and to withdraw any such recognition;(14)to fix fees
and to demand and receive such fees as may be prescribed;(15)to hold and
manage endowments and other properties and funds of the University;(16)to
borrow money with the approval of the Government on the security of the
property of the University for the purposes of the University;(17)to organize
advanced studies and research programmes by women;(18)to entire into agreement
with other bodies or persons for the purpose of promoting the objectives of
the University including the assuming of the management of any institution
under them and the taking over of its rights and liabilities; and(19)to do all
such acts and things, whether incidental to the objects and powers aforesaid,
or not as may be necessary or desirable to further the objects of the
University.

### 5. Admission to the University:-

(1)The University shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
statutes, be open to women only.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section(1)shall
require the University(a)to admit to any course of study any woman who does
not possess the prescribed academic qualification or standard;(b)to retain on
the rolls of the University any student whose academic record is below the
minimum standard required for the award of a degree, title, diploma or other
academic distinction; (Or)(c)to admit any woman or retain any student whose
conduct is prejudicial to the interests of the University or the rights and
privileges of other students and teachers.

### 6. Disqualification for membership:-

(1)No person shall be qualified for nomination as a member of any of the
authorities of the University if, on the date of such nomination, she is
-(a)of unsound mind or [ deaf-mute or suffering from leprosy; Omited by Tamil
Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022] (or)(b)an applicant to be
adjudicated as an insolvent as an insolvent or an or undischarged insolvent,
(or)(c)Sentenced by a criminal court to imprisonment for any offence involving
moral turpitude.(2)In case of dispute or doubt the Executive Council shall
determine whether a person is disqualified under sub-section (1) and its
decision shall be final.

### 7. Disqualification for nomination to the Academic Committee and Executive
Council in certain cases:-

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 20 or 23, no person who has
held office as a member for a total period of six years in any one or both of
the following authorities, namely:-(i)the Academic Committee ; and(ii)the
Executive Council, shall be eligible for nomination to any of the said two
authorities.Explanation:- For the purpose of computing the total period of six
years referred to this sub-section, the period of three years during which a
person held office in one authority and the period of three years during which
such person held office in another authority shall be taken into account and
accordingly,such person shall not be eligible, for nomination to anyone of the
said two authorities:Provided that for the purpose of this sub-section a
person who had held office in any one of the said two authorities in a casual
vacancy shall be deemed to have held office for a period of three years in
that authority;Provided further that for the purposes of this sub-section if a
person is nominated to one authority and such person becomes a member of
another authority by virtue of the membership in the first mentioned
authority, the period for which such person has held office in the first
mentioned authority alone shall be taken into account.(2)Nothing in sub-
section (1) shall have application in respect on –(i)Ex-officio members
referred to in section 20 (a) –Class I, but not including members of the
Executive Council who are not otherwise members of the Academic Committee
referred to in item (7) thereof, and(ii)Ex-officio members referred to in
section 23(b) –Class I

### 8. Visitation:-

(1)The Chancellor shall have the right to cause an inspection or inquiry to be
made by such person or persons as he may direct of the University, its
buildings. University libraries, museum and equipment and of any institutions
maintained or recognized by the University and also of the research,
teachingand other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause an
inquiry to be made in respect of any matter connected with University. The
Chancellor shall in every case give notice to the University of his intention
to cause such inspection or inquiry to be made and the University shall be
entitled to be represented thereat.(2)The Chancellor shall communicate to the
Executive Council his views with reference to the results of such inspection
or inquiry and may after ascertaining the opinion of the Executive Council
thereon advise the University upon the action to be taken and fix a time limit
for taking such action.(3)The Executive Council shall report to the Chancellor
the action, if any, which is proposed to be taken or has been taken upon the
results of such inspection or inquiry. Such report shall be submitted within
such time as the Chancellor may direct.(4)Where the Executive Council does not
take action to the satisfaction of the Chancellor, within the time limit as
may be fixed under sub-section (2) the Chancellor may, after considering any
explanation furnished or representation made by the Executive Council, issue
such directions as he may think fit and the Executive Council shall comply
with such directions. In the event of the Executive Council, not complying
with such directions within such time as may be fixed in that behalf by the
Chancellor, the Chancellor shall have power to appoint any person or body to
comply with such direction and make such orders as may be necessary for the
expenses thereof.

### 9. Officers of the University:-

(1)The University shall consist of the following officers,namely:-(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The
Registrar;(5)The Finance Officer; and(6)Such other persons as may be declared
by the statutes to be officers of the University.

### 10. Officers of the University:-

(1)The Governor of Tamil Nadu shall be the Chancellor of the University. He
shall, by virtue of his office, be the head of the University and shall when
present, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
titles, diploma or other academic distinctions upon person entitled to
received them.(2)Where power is conferred upon the Chancellor to nominate
persons to the authorities, the Chancellor shall, to the extent necessary,
nominate women to represent interests no otherwise adequately
represented.(3)The Chancellor may of his own motion or on application call for
and examine the record of any officer or authority of the University in
respect of any proceedings or the correctness. Legality or propriety of any
decision taken or order passed therein ; and it, in any case it appears to the
Chancellor, that any such decision or order should be modified, annulled,
reversed or remitted for reconsideration, he may pass orders accordingly
:Provided that every application to the Chancellor for the exercise of the
powers under this section shall be preferred with three months from the date
on which the proceeding, decision or order to which the application relates
was communicated to the applicant:Provided further that no order prejudicial
to any person shall be passed unless such person has been given an opportunity
of making his representation.(4)The Chancellor shall exercise such other
powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred on him by or under
this Act.

### 11. The Pro-Chancellor:-

(1)The Minister in-charge of the portfolio of Education in the State of Tamil
Nadu shall be the Pro-Chancellor of the University.(2)In the absence of the
Chancellor, or during the Chancellor’s inability to act, the Pro-Chancellor
shall exercise all the powers and perform such other duties as may be
conferred on him by or under this Act.

### 12. The Vice-Chancellor:-

(1)Every appointment of the Vice-Chancellor shall be made by the Chancellor
from out if panel of three names recommended by the Committee referred to in
sub-section (2). Such Panel shall not contain the name of any member of the
said Committee.(2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), the Committee shall
consist of three persons of whom(i)one shall be a serving principal of a
Women’s College, who has put in not less than five years of service as
principal either in a Government College or in a Private College, nominated by
the Government;(ii)one shall be an eminent women educationist nominated by the
Academic Committee; and(iii)one shall be an eminent women educationist
nominated by the Executive Council:Provided that the woman so nominated to the
Committee shall not be a member of any of the authorities of the
University.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall hold office for a period of three
years and shall be eligible for reappointment for a further period of three
years:Provided that no person shall hold office of the Vice-Chancellor for
more than six years in the aggregate:Provided further that –(a)the Chancellor
may direct that a Vice-Chancellor, when term of office has expired, shall
continue in office for such period not exceeding a total period of one year as
may be specified in the direction;(b)the Vice-Chancellor may, by writing under
her hand addressed to the Chancellor and after giving two months notice resign
her office:Provided that a woman appointed as Vice-Chancellor shall retire
from office, if, during the term of her office or any extension thereof, she
completes the age of sixty-five years.(4)When any temporary vacancy occurs in
the office of the Vice-Chancellor or when the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of
absence of for any other reason, unable to exercise the powers and perform the
duties of her office, the senior most Senior Fellow of the University shall
exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Vice-Chancellor till the
Executive Council makes the regular arrangements for exercising the powers and
performing the duties of the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a
whole-time officer of the University and her emoluments and other terms and
conditions of service shall be as follows:(i)There shall be paid to the Vice-
Chancellor a salary of three thousand rupees per mensem and she shall be
entitled without payment of rent to the use of a furnished residence through
out her term of office and no charge shall fall on the Vice-Chancellor
personally in respect of the maintenance of such residence.(ii)The Vice-
Chancellor shall be entitled to such terminal benefits and allowances as may
be fixed by the Executive Council with the approval of the Chancellor from
time to time.Provided that where an employee of –(a)the University ; or(b)any
other University or college or institution maintained by or affiliated to that
University is appointed as Vice-Chancellor, she shall be allowed to continue
to contribute to the Provident Fund to which she is a subscriber, and the
contribution of the University shall be limited to what she had been
contributing immediately before her appointment as Vice-Chancellor;(iii)The
Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to travelling allowances at such rates as
may be fixed by the Executive Council;(iv)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled to earned leave on full pay at one-eleventh of the period spend by
her on active service:Provided that when the earned leave applied for by the
Vice-Chancellor in sufficient time before the date of expiry of the term of
her office is refused by the Vice-Chancellor in the interest of the University
and if she does not avail herself of the leave before the date of expiry of
the term of her office, she shall be entitled to draw cash equivalent to leave
salary, after relinquishment of her credit subject to a maximum of one hundred
and eighty days;(v)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled on medical grounds or
otherwise, to leave without pay for a period not exceeding three months during
the term of her office:Provided that such leave may be converted into leave on
full pay to the extent to which she is entitled to earned leave under clause
(iv).

### 13. Powers and duties of the Vice-Chancellor:-

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the academic head and the principal executive
officer of the University and shall, in the absence of the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
titles, diploma or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to
receive them. She shall be a member, ex-officio, and Chairman of the Academic
Committee, the Executive Council and the Finance Committee and shall be
entitled to be present at, and to address, any meeting of any authority of the
University, but shall not be entitled to vote thereat, unless she is a member
of the authority concerned.(2)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to
ensure that the provisions of this Act and the statutes are observed and
carried out and she may exercise all powers necessary for this purpose.(3)The
Vice-Chancellor shall have power to convene meetings of the Academic
Committee, the Executive Council and Finance Committee.(4)(a)The Vice-
Chancellor shall have power to take action on any matter and shall by order
take such action as she may deem necessary but shall as soon as may be,
thereafter report the action taken to the officer or authority or body who or
which would have ordinarily dealt with the matter;Provided that no such order
shall be passed unless the person likely to be affected has been given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard;(b)When action taken by the Vice-
Chancellor under this sub-section against any person in the service of the
University, such person shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Executive
Council within thirty days from the date on which she has noticed of such
action. The Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the order passed by the
Executive Council on such appeal.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to
the orders of the Executive Council regarding the appointment, suspension and
dismissal of the teachers and other employees of the University.(6)The Vice-
Chancellor shall exercise control over the affairs of the University and shall
be responsible for the due maintenance of discipline in the University.(7)The
Vice-Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties
as may be prescribed.

### 14. The Registrar:-

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University
appointed by the Executive Council for such period as may be specified by the
Executive Council and the terms and conditions of service of the Registrar
shall be such as are specified in the first statutes.(2)The Registrar shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed.(3)In all
suits and other legal proceedings by or against the University, the pleadings
shall be signed and verified by the Registrar and all process in such suits
and proceedings shall be issued to, and served on, the Registrar.

### 15. The Finance Officer:-

The Finance Officer shall be a whole- time salaried officer of the University
appointed by the Government for such period as may be specified by the
Government in this behalf and, the terms and conditions of service of the
Finance Officer shall be such as are specified in the first statutes.

### 16. Authorities of the University:-

The authorities of the University shall be the Academic Committee, the
Executive Council, the Planning Board, the Departments of Studies, the Finance
Committee and such other authorities as may be declared by the statutes to be
authorities of the University.

### 17. The Planning Board:-

(1)There shall be constituted a Planning Board of the University which shall
advise generally on the Planning and Development of the University and keep
under review the standard of education and research in the University.(2)The
Constitution of the Planning Board and the manner of appointment of its
members shall be such as are specified in the first statutes.

### 18. Vice-Chancellor and other officers, etc., to be public servants:-

The Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar, the Finance Officer and other employees of
the University shall be deemed when acting or purporting to act in pursuance
of any of the provisions of this Act to be public of any of the provisions of
this Act to be public servants with the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 19. Woman only to be appointed as officer, etc:-

No person, other than a woman, shall be appointment as an officer of the
University or to any posts in the University, a qualified person other than a
woman, may be appointed as such officer or to such post, as the case may
be.**Chapter III-THE ACADEMIC COMMITTEE**

### 20. The Academic Committee:-

(a)The Academic Committee shall consist of the following persons, namely:-

### 1\. The Chancellor ;

### 2\. The Pro-Chancellor ;

### 3\. The Vice-Chancellor ;

### 4\. The Secretary to Government in-charge of Education;

### 5\. The Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance ;

### 6\. The Secretary Go Government in-charge of Social Welfare; and

### 7\. Members of the Executive Council who are not otherwise members of the
Academic Committee.

Class II – Other Members(1)The Vice-Chancellor of Shreemathi Nathibai Damodar
Thackersey Women’s University, Bombay;(2)Ten women members of the teaching
staff to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor on the basis of representation to
the various departments and according to seniority, by rotation, as may be
prescribed in the statutes ;(3)Ten women members to be nominated by the
Chancellor from among distinguished educationists in the Sate of Tamil Nadu or
in other States on the basis of recommendation of the Executive Council
;(4)Five eminent women to be nominated by the Government(5)(a)Four women
members to be nominated by the Chancellor from among the members of the
Voluntary Women’s Organisations as may be prescribed in the Statutes.(b)In
case the Secretary to Government in-charge of Education, or Finance, or Social
Welfare is unable to attend the meeting of the Academic Committee for any
reason, he may depute any officer of his department not lower in rank than
that of a Deputy Secretary to Government to attend the meeting.(c)Save as
otherwise provided, nominated members of the Academic Committee shall hold
officer for a period of three years and such members shall be eligible for
nomination for not more than another period of three years:Provided that where
a member is nominated to the Academic Committee to a casual vacancy, the
period of office held by any such member shall be construed as a full period
of three years for the purpose of this clause ; Provided further that where a
nominated member of the Academic Committee is appointed temporarily to any o
the offices by virtue of which she is entitled to be a member of the Academic
Committee, ex-officio, she shall, by notice in writing signed by her and
communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from the date of her
taking charge of her appointment, choose whether she will continue to be a
member of the Academic Committee by virtue of her nomination or whether she
will vacate office as such member and become a member ex-officio by virtue of
her appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such
choice, she shall be deemed to have vacated her officer as a nominated
member.(d)When a person ceases to be a member of the Academic Committee, she
shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the University of
which she may happen to be a member by virtue of her membership of the
Academic Committee.

### 21. Academic Committee to review the broad policies and Programmes of the
University:-

Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Academic Committee shall have
the following powers and functions, namely:-(a)To assist the Vice-Chancellor
and the Executive Council on Academic Programmes of the University and to
suggest measures for the improvement and development of the University;(b)To
advice the Chancellor in respect of any matter which may be referred to it for
advice; and(c)To exercise such other powers and perform such other functions
as may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 22. Meetings of the Academic Committee:-

(1)The Academic Committee shall meet at least twice in every year on dates to
be fixed by the Vice-Chancellor. One of such meeting shall be called the
annual meeting. The Academic Committee may also meet at such other times, as
it may from time to time determine.(2)One-third of the total strength of the
members of the Academic Committee shall be the quorum required for a meeting
of the Academic Committee ;Provided that such quorum shall not be required at
a convocation of the University or a meeting of the academic Committee held
for the purpose of conferring degrees, titles, diploma or other academic
distinctions.(3)The Vice-Chancellor may whenever she thinks fit shall upon a
requisition in writing signed by not less than fifty percent of the total
members of the Academic Committee convene a special meeting of the Academic
Committee.**CHAPTER IV-THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL**

### 23. The Executive Council:-

(a)The Chancellor shall, as soon as may be after the first Vice-Chancellor is
appointed under section 45, constitute the Executive Council.(b)The Executive
Council shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the following
members, namely:-Class I - Ex-officio Members.(1)The Secretary to Government
in-charge of Education;(2)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance;
and(3)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Social Welfare.Class II – Other
Members(1)Three members nominated by the Vice-Chancellor on a rotation basis,
from among the senior research staff in the order of the seniority;(2)Five
women members from among eminent educationists nominated by the Pro-Chancellor
; and(3)One woman member belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes
nominated by the Pro-Chancellor.(c)The Vive-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio
Chairman of the Executive Council.(d)In case the Secretary to Government in-
charge of Education, or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Social
Welfare in unable to attend the meetings of the Executive Council for any
reason, he may depute any officer of his department not lower in rank than
that of a Deputy Secretary to Government to attend the meetings.(e)Save as
otherwise provided, nominated members of the Executive Council shall hold
office for a period of three years and such members shall be eligible for
nomination for not more than another period of three years :Provided that
where a member is nominated to the Executive Council to a casual vacancy the
period of office held by any such member shall be construed as afull period of
three years for the purpose of this clause:Provided further that where a
nominated member of the Executive Council is appointed temporarily to any of
the office by virtue of which she is entitled to be a member of the Executive
Council, ex-officio, she shall, by notice in writing signed by her and
communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from the date of her
taking charge of her appointment, choose whether she will continue to be
member of the Executive Council by virtue of her nomination or whether she
will vacate office as such member and become a member ex-officio by virtue of
her appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such
choice, she shall be deemed to have vacated her office as nominated
member.(f)When a person ceases to be a member of the Executive council, she
shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the University of
which she may happen to be a member by virtue of her membership of the
Executive Council.(g)The members of the Executive Council shall not be
entitled to receive any remuneration form the university except such daily and
travelling allowances as may be prescribed :Provided that, nothing contained
in this clause shall preclude any member from drawing her normal emoluments to
which she is entitled by virtue of the office she holds.(h)A member of the
Executive Council, other than ex- officio member, may tender resignation for
her membership at any time before the term of her officeexpires. Such
resignation shall be conveyed to the Chancellor by a letter in writing by the
member, and the resignation shall take effect from the date of its acceptance
by the chancellor.

### 24. Powers of the Executive Council:-

The Executive Council shall have the following powers, namely:-(1)to make
statutes and amend or repeal the statutes except the first statutes ;(2)to
co—operate with other Universities, other academic authorities and colleges in
such manner and for such purpose as it may determine ;(3)to provide for
research and advancement and dissemination of knowledge ;(4)to institute
Senior Fellowship, Fellowships, Research Assistants and any other teaching
posts required by the University ;(5)to institute degrees, titles, diploma and
other academic distinctions ;(6)to confer degrees, titles, diploma and other
academic distinctions on persons who shall have carried on research under
conditions prescribed ;(7)to confer honorary degrees or other distinction on
the recommendation of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Executive
Council ;(8)to establish and maintain halls and hostels;(9)to institute
fellowship, travelling fellowships, scholarships studentships, bursaries,
exhibitions, medals and prizes and to award the same in accordance with the
statutes ;(10)to consider and takes such action as it may deem fit on the
annual report, the annual accounts and the financial estimates ;(11)to
institute a publication bureau and to maintain it ;(12)to enter into any
agreement with the Central or any State Government or with a private
management for assuming the management of any institution and for taking over
its properties and liabilities or for any other purposes not repugnant to the
provisions of this Act ;(13)to make statutes regulating the procedure at the
meeting of the Academic Committee and Executive Council and other authorities
of the University and the quorum of members required for the transaction of
business by the authorities of the University other than the Academic
Committee ;(14)to hold, control and administer the properties and funds of the
University ;(15)to direct the form, custody and use of the common seal of the
University ;(16)to regulate and determine all matters concerning the
University in accordance with this Act and the statutes ;(17)to administer all
properties and all funds placed at the disposal of the University for specific
purposes ;(18)(a)to appoint the University Senior Fellows, University Fellows
and Research Assistants and the teachers of the University, fix their
emoluments, if any, define their duties and the conditions of their service
and provide for filling up of temporary vacancies ;(b)to make statutes
specifying the mode of appointment of administrative and other similar posts
and fix their emoluments, if any, define their duties and the conditions of
their services and provide for filling up of temporary vacancies ;(19)to
suspend and dismiss the University Senior Fellows, University Fellows and
Research Assistants and the teachers and other employees of the University
;(20)to accept, on behalf, of the University, endowments, bequests, donations,
grants and transfers of any movable and immovable properties made to it
;Provided that all such endowments, bequests donations, grants and transfers
shall be reported to the Academic Committee and its new meeting.(21)(a)to
raise, on behalf of the University, loans from the Central or any State
Government or the University Grants Commission or the Public or any
Corporationowned or controlled by the central or any State Government ;(b)to
borrow money with the approval of the Government on the security of the
property of the University for the purposes of the University ;(22)to
recognize hostels not maintained by the University and to suspend or withdraw
recognition of any hostel which is not conducted in accordance with the
statutes and the conditions imposed there under ;(23)to arrange for, and
direct, the inspection hostels;(24)to prescribe the qualifications to teachers
;(25)to charged and collect such fees as may be prescribed;(26)to make
statutes regarding the admission of students to the University ;(27)to appoint
members to the Department of Studies ;(28)(a)to appoint examiners, after
consideration of recommendations of the Departments of Studies; and(b)to fix
their remuneration ;(29)to supervise and control the residence and discipline
of the students of the University and make arrangements for securing their
health and well being;(30)to institute and manage Libraries, Documentation
Centres, Museums, Institutes of research and other institutions established or
maintained by the University ;(31)to manage hostels instituted by the
University ;(32)to manage any publication bureau instituted by the University
;(33)to promote research within the University and to require reports, from
time to time, of such research ;(34)to exercise such other powers and perform
such other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by this Act or the
Statutes ;(35)to delegate any of its powers to the Vice-Chancellor to a
committee from among its own members or to a Committee appointed in accordance
with the statutes.

### 25. Meetings of the Executive Council:-

(1)The Executive Council shall meet at such times and places and shall subject
to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) observe such rules of procedure
in regard to transaction of business at its meetings including the quorum at
meetings as may be prescribed;Provided that the Executive Council shall meet
at least once in every three months.(2)The Vice-Chancellor or in her absence
any member chosen by the members present, shall preside at a meeting of the
Executive Council.(3)All questions at any meeting of the Executive Council
shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting
and it thecase of an equality of votes, the Vice-Chancellor or the member
presiding, as the case may be, shall have and exercise a second or casting
vote.(4)(a)The Executive Council may, for the purpose of consultation, invite
any person having special knowledge or practical experience in any subject
under consideration to attend to any meeting. Such person may speak in, and
otherwise take part in the proceedings of meeting but shall not be entitled to
vote ;(b)The person so invited shall be entitled to such daily and travelling
allowances as are admissible to a member of the Executive Council.

### 26. Annual Report:-

The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Executive Council
and shall be prepared by the Executive Council and shall be submitted to the
Academic Committee on or before such date as may be prescribed by the statutes
and shall be considered by the Academic Committee at its next annual meeting.
The Academic Committee may pass resolutions thereon and communicate the same
to the Executive Council which shall take action on accordance therewith.
TheExecutive Council shall inform the Academic Committee of the action taken
by it. A copy of the report with a copy of the resolutions thereon, if any, of
the Academic Committee shall be submitted to the Government for information.

### 27. Annual Accounts:-

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be submitted to such
examination and audit as the Government may direct.(2)The University shall
settle objections raised in such audit and carry out such instructions as may
be issued by the Government on the audit report.(3)The accounts when audited
shall be published by the Executive Council in such manner as may be
prescribed by the statutes and copies thereof shall be submitted to the
Academic Committee at its next meeting and to the Government within three
months of such publication**CHAPTER V-THE FACULTIES, THE DEPARTMENTS OF
STUDIES, THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AND OTHER AUTHORITIES**

### 28. Constitution and functions of Faculties:-

(1)The University shall include such Faculties as may be prescribed by the
statutes.(2)The constitution and functions of the Faculties shall, in all
other respects, be such as may be prescribed.(3)Each Faculty shall comprise
such departments of teaching as may be prescribed in the statutes.

### 29. The Departments of Studies:-

There shall be Departments of Studies attached to each Department of Teaching.
The constitution and powers of the Department of Studies shall be such may be
prescribed by the statutes.

### 30. Constitution of other authorities:-

The constitution of such other bodies as may be declared by the statutes to be
authorities of the University shall be provided for in the matter prescribed.

### 31. Finance Committee:-

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(a)The Vice-Chancellor(b)The Secretary to Government in-charge of
Finance;(c)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Education; and(d)The
members nominated by the Executive Council from among its members whom one
shall be a Senior Fellow and one shall be a person nominated to the Executive
Council by the Chancellor.(2)If for any reason the officer referred to in
clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) is unable to attend any meeting of
the Finance Committee, he may depute any officer of his Department no lower in
rank than of a Deputy Secretary to Government to attend such meeting. The
officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussion of the
Committee and shall have the right to vote.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the
ex-officio Chairman and the Finance Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary
of the Finance Committee.(4)All members of the Finance Committee, other than
ex-officio members, shall hold office for a period of three years.(5)The
Finance Committee shall meet at least twice in every year to examine the
accounts and to scrutinize proposals for expenditure.(6)The annual accounts of
the University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be laid before the
Finance Committee for consideration and comments and thereafter submitted to
the Executive Council for approval.(7)The finance Committee shall recommend
limit for the total recurring expenditure and the total non- recurring
expenditure or the year base on the income and resources of the University,
which in the case of productive works may include the proceeds of loans.(8)The
Finance Committee shall –(a)review the financial position of the University
from time to time;(b)make recommendations to the Executive Council on every
proposal involving investment or expenditure for which no provision has been
made in the annual financial estimates or which involves expenditure in excess
if the amount provided for in the annual financial estimates ;(c)prescribe the
methods and procedure and forms maintaining the accounts of the
University;(d)make recommendation to the Executive Council on all matters
relating to the finances of the University; and(e)perform such other functions
as may be prescribed.(9)The financial estimates of the University prepared the
Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance Committee for consideration
and comments. The saidestimates as modified by the Finance Committee shall
then be laid before the Executive council for consideration. The Executive
Council may accept the modifications made by the Finance Committee.**Chapter
VI-STATUTES**

### 32. Statutes:-

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely:-(i)the holding of convocation to confer
degrees;(ii)the conferment of honorary degrees and academic
distinctions;(iii)the constitution, powers and functions of the authorities of
the University;(iv)the matter of filling vacancies among members of the
authorities;(v)the allowances to be paid to the members of the authorities and
committees thereof(vi)the procedure at meeting of the authorities including
the quorum for the transactions of business at such meetings;(vii)the
authentication of the orders or decision of the authorities;(viii)the
formation of departments of research at the University;(ix)the term of office
and methods of appointment and conditions of service of the officers of the
University other than the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor;(x)the
qualifications of the teachers and other persons employed by the
University;(xi)the classification, the method of appointment and determination
of the terms and conditions of service of teachers and other persons employed
by the University;(xii)the institution of pension, gratuity, insurance or
provident fund for the benefits of the officers teachers and other persons
employed by the University;(xiii)the institution of fellowships, travelling
fellowships scholarship, studentship, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and
prizes and the conditions of award thereof;(xiv)the establishment and
maintenance of halls and hostels;(xv)the conditions of residence of students
of the University in the halls and hostels maintained by the University and
the levy of fees and other charges for such residence;(xvi)the delegation of
powers vested in the authorities or officers of the University ;(xvii)the
admission of the students to the University;(xviii)the conditions of
recognition of hostels not maintained by the University;(xix)The conditions
and mode of appointment and duties of examining bodies and examiners;(xx)The
maintenance of discipline among the students of the University;(xxi)The fees
to be charged for research; and(xxii)any other matter which is required to be
or may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 33. Statutes, how made:-

(1)The first statutes shall be those as set out in the Schedule.(2)The
Executive Council may, from time to time, make statutes and amend or repeal
the statutes except the first statute, in the manner hereinafter provided in
this section.(3)Any member of the Executive Council may propose to the
Executive Council the draft of a statute and the Executive Council may either
accept or reject the draft.(4)A statute passed by the Executive Council shall
be submitted to the Chancellor who may assent thereto or withhold his assent.
A statute passed by the Executive Council shall no validity until it has been
assented to by the Chancellor.**Chapter VII-UNIVERSITY FUNDS**

### 34. General Funds:-

The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited:-(a)Its
income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any contribution or
grant made by the Central Government, any State Government, University,
University Grants Commission or like authority, any local authority or any
corporation owned or controlled by the Government; and(c)endowment and other
receipts.**Chapter VIII-CONDITIONS OF SERVICE**

### 35. Pension, Gratuity, etc:-

(1)The University shall institute for the benefits of its officers, teachers
and other persons employed by the University, such pension gratuity, insurance
and provident fund as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to such
conditions, as may be prescribed.(2)Where the University has so instituted
Provident Fund under sub-section (1) the Government may declare that the
provisions of the Provident Funds Act,1925 (Central Act XIX of 1925), shall
apply to such fund as if the University were a local authority and the fund a
Government Provident Fund.(3)The University may, in consultation with the
Finance Committee, invest the Provident Fund amount in such manner, as it may
determine.

### 36. Conditions of service:-

Subject to the Provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selection, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers,
teachers and other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.Explanation:- For the purposes of this section, the word
“offices”shall not include the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.

### 37. Terms and conditions of service of Heads of Departments:-

(1)Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be Senior
Fellow and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions of appointment
shall be such as may be prescribed:Provided that if there is more than one
Senior Fellow in any Department, the Head of the Department shall be appointed
in the manner prescribed:Provided further that in a Department where there is
no Senior Fellow, a Fellow or a Reader may be appointed as Head of the
Department in the manner prescribed.(2)It shall be open to s Senior Fellow or
Fellow or Reader to decline the offer of appointment as Head of the
Department.(3)A person appointed as Head of the Department shall hold office
as such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
reappointment.(4)A head of the Department may resign her office at any time
during her tenure of office.(5)A Head of the Department shall perform such
functions as may be prescribed.

### 38. Terms and conditions of service of Deans of Faculties:-

Every Dean of Faculties shall be appointed in such manner and shall exercise
such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed in the
statutes.**Chapter IX-MISCELLANEOUS**

### 39. Filling of Casual Vacancies:-

All casual vacancies among the members, other than ex-officio members of any
authority or other body of the University, shall be filled as soon as
conveniently may be, by the person or body who or which nominated the member
whose place has become vacant and the person such authority or body for the
residue of the term for which the person whose place she fills would have been
a member:Provided that the vacancies arising by efflux of time among nominated
members of any authority or other body of the University may be filled by
nomination than two months from the date on which the vacancies arise, as she
thinks fit:Provided further that no casual vacancy shall be filled if such
vacancy occurs within six months before the date of the expiry of the term of
the member of any authority or other body of the University.

### 40. Proceedings of the University authorities and bodies not invalidated
by vacancies:-

No act or proceedings of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any
defect or irregularity in the nomination or appointment of a member of any
authority or other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in
such act or preceding not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground
only that the Academic Committee did not meet twice in any year.

### 41. Removal from membership of the University:-

(1)The Executive Council may remove by an order in writing made in this behalf
any person from membership of any authority of the University by a resolution
passed by a majority of the total membership of Executive Council and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Executive Council
present and voting at the meeting. If such person has been convicted by a
criminal court for an offence which in the opinion of the Executive Council
involves moral turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross misconduct and for
the same reason, the Executive Council may withdraw any degree or diploma
conferred on or granted to that person by the University.(2)The Executive
Council may also by an order in writing made in his behalf remove any person
from the membership of any authority of the University of he becomes of
unsound mind or [ deaf mute or suffers from leprosy; Omited by Tamil Nadu
Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022] or has applied to be
adjudicated or has been adjudicated as an insolvent.(3)No action under this
section shall be taken against any person unless he has been given a
reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to be
taken.(4)A Copy of every order passed under sub-section (a) or sub-section (2)
as the case may be, shall as may be after it is so prescribed.

### 42. Disputes as to constitution of University Authorities and Bodies:-

If any question arises whether any person has been duly nominated as, or is
entitled to be a member, of any authority of the University or other body of
the University, the question shall be referred to the Chancellor whose
decision thereon shall be final.

### 43. Constitution of Committees:-

All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit. Such committees shall, dame as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the
authority in each case may think fit.

### 44. Power to obtain information:-

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time
being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
information from the University on any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
further the government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provide that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may place the same before the Pro-Chancellor.

### 45. Appointment of the first Vice-Chancellor:-

Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1) of sectin12, within
three months from the 30th January 1984, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be
appointed by the Government on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not
exceeding three years and on such other conditions as they think fit.Provided
that a person appointed as first Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office, if,
during the tern of her office, she completes the age of sixty five years.

### 46. Appointment of the first Registrar:-

Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1) of section 14, within
three months from the 30th January 1984 the first Registrar shall be appointed
by the Government on a salary to be fixed by them, for a period not exceeding
three years and on such other conditions as they think fit:Provided that the
person appointed as first Registrar shall retire from office, if, during the
term of her office, she completes the age of fifty-eight years.

### 47. Transitory powers of the first Vice-Chancellor:-

(1)It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Academic Committee, the Executive council and such other
authorities of the University within six months after the notified date or
such longer period not exceeding one year after the expiry of the said period
of six months, as the Government may, by notification, direct.(2)The first
Vice-Chancellor shall, in consultations with the Government, make such rules
as may be necessary for the functioning of the University.(3)The authorities
constituted under sub-section (1) shall commence to exercise their functions
on such date as the Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf.(4)It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to draft such
statutes as may be necessary and submit them to the Executive Council for
their disposal, such statutes when framed shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the
statutes and until such time an authority is duly constituted, the first Vice-
Chancellor may appoint any officer or constitute any committee temporarily to
exercise and perform any of the powers and duties of such authority under this
Act and the statutes. Any officer so appointed or any Committee so constituted
in lieu of any other authority shall cease to hold office or function, as the
case may be, immediately after such authority is duly constituted.

### 48. The Librarian:-

(1)The Librarian shall be a whole-time officer of the University appointed by
the Executive council in the recommendation of the Selection Committee
constituted for the purpose, for such period and on such terms and conditions
as may be prescribed.(2)The Librarian shall exercise such powers and perform
such duties as may be assigned to her by the Executive Council.

### 49. Special mode of appointment:-

(1)The Executive Council may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainment to accept a post of Senior Fellow in the University on
such terms and conditions as it deems fit and on the person agreeing to do so,
appoint her to the post.(2)The executive Council may appoint a teacher or any
other member of the Academic Staff working in any other University or
organization for undertaking a joint project in accordance with the manner
prescribed.

### 50. Power to amend the Schedule:-

The Government may, by notification, alter, mend or add any statute to the
Schedule and, upon the issue of such notification, the Schedule shall be
deemed to be amended accordingly.

### 51. Power to remove difficulties:-

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the university after the notified date or otherwise in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification,
make suchprovision, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such notification shall be issued after the expiry
of five years, from the date of establishment of the University under section
3.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under any other
provisions of this Act, shall as soon as possible after it is issued, be
placed on the table of both Houses agree in making any modification in any
such notification or both Houses agree that the notification should not be
issued, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form, or be of no effect, as the case may be so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that notification.

### 52. Repeal and Saving:-

(1)The Tamil Nadu women’s University Ordinance, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 5
of 1984) is herby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any
action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done to
taken under this Act.**THE SCHEDULE [See section 33 (1)]-THE FIRST STATUES OF
THE UNIVERISITY** Terms and conditions of service of the Registrar:-(1)The
holder of the post of Registrar shall be an academician not lower in rank than
that of a University Professor.(2)The emoluments and other terms and
conditions of service of the Registrar shall be such as may be
prescribed:Provided that the Registrar shall retire on attaining the age of
fifty-eight years or on the expiry of the period specified by the executive
council under sub-section (1) of section 14, whichever is earlier.(3)When the
office of the Registrar is vacant, or when the Registrar is, by reason of
illness, absence or any other cause, unable to perform the duties of her
office, the duties of the office of the Registrar shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(4)(a)The Registrar
shall have power to take disciplinary action against such of the employees,
excluding teachers of the University and academic staff, as may be specified
in the orders of the Executive Council and to suspend them pending inquiry, to
administer warnings to them or to impose on them the penalty of censure or
withholding of increments:Providing that no such penalty shall be imposed
unless the person concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him.(b)An appeal
shall lie to the Vice-Chancellor against any order of the Registrar imposing
any of the penalties specified in clause (a).(c)In any case where the inquiry
discloses that punishment beyond the powers of the Registrar is called for,
the Registrar shall, upon conclusion of the inquiry, make a report to the
Vice-Chancellor along with her recommendation:Provided that an appeal shall
lie to the executive council against an order of the Vice- Chancellor imposing
any penalty.(d)No appeal under clause (b) or clause (c) shall be preferred
after the expiry of sixty days from the date on which the order appealed
against was received by the appellant.(5)The Registrar shall be ex-officio
Secretary of the Academic Committee, the Executive Council, the Faculties and
the Departments of Studies, but shall not be deemed to be a member of any of
these authorities.(6)It shall be the duty of the Registrar:-(a)to be the
custodian of the records, the common seal and such other property of the
University as the Executive Council shall commit to her charge;(b)to issue all
notices convening meetings of the Academic Committee, the Executive Council,
the Faculties, the Departments of Studies and of any Committee appointed by
the authorities of the University:(c)to keep the minutes of all the
proceedings of the meetings of the Academic Committee, the Executive Council,
the Faculties, the Departments of Studies and of any Committee appointed by
the authorities of the University;(d)to conduct the official correspondence of
the Executive Council;(e)to supply the Chancellor, copies of the agenda of the
meetings of the authorities of the University as soon as they are issued and
the minutes of the proceedings of such meetings; and(f)to exercise, such other
powers and perform such other duties as may be specified in the statutes or as
may be required, from time to time, by the Executive council or the Vice-
Chancellor.Terms and conditions of service of the Finance Officer:-(1)The
emoluments and other terms and conditions of service of the Finance Officer
shall be such as may be prescribed. The Finance Officer shall retire on
attaining the age of fifty-eight years or on the expiry of the period
specified by the Government under section 15, whichever is earlier:Provided
that the Finance Officer shall, notwithstanding her attaining the age of
fifty-eight years, continue in office until her successor is appointed and
enters upon her office or until the expiry of a period of one year, whichever
is earlier.(2)When the office of the Finance officer is vacant or when the
Finance officer is by reason of illness, absence or any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of her office, the duties of the Finance Officer shall be
performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the
purpose.(3)The Finance Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary of the
Finance Committee, but shall not be deemed to be a member of such
Committee.(4)The Finance Officer shall,(a)exercise general supervision over
the funds of the University and shall advice the University as regards its
financial policy: and(b)exercise such other powers and perform such other
financial functions as may be assigned to her by the Executive Council or as
may be prescribed:Provided that the Finance Officer shall not incur any
expenditure or make any investment exceeding such amount as may be prescribed
without the previous approval of the Executive Council.(5)Subject to the
control of the Executive Council, the Finance Officer shall (a) hold and
manage the property and investments of the University including trust and
endowed property;(b)ensure that the limits fixed by the executive Council for
recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a year are not exceeded and that
all moneys are expended on the purpose for which they are granted or
allotted;(c)be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts, financial
estimates and the budget of the University and for their presentation to the
Executive Council;(d)to keep a constant watch on the cash and bank balances
and of investments;(e)watch the progress of the collection of revenue and
advise on the methods of collection employed;(f)ensure that the registers of
buildings, land, furniture and equipment are maintained up-to-date, and that
stock checking is conducted, of equipments and other consumable materials in
all offices and other places maintained by the University;(g)bring to the
notice of the vice-Chancellor any unauthorized expenditure or other financial
irregularity and suggest appropriate action to be taken against persons at
fault; and(h)call from any office or other place maintained by the University,
any information or returns that she may consider necessary for the performance
of her duties.(6)The receipt of the Finance Officer or of the person or
persons duly authorized in this behalf by the Executive Council for any money
payable to the University shall to sufficient discharge for payment of such
money.

### 3\. The Planning Board:-

(1)The Planning Board shall consist of the following members, namely:-(i)the
Vice-Chancellor, who shall be the, chairman of the board; and(ii)not more than
eight persons of high academic standing.(2)The members of the Planning Board
shall be appointed by the chancellor and shall hold office for such period as
he may determine.(g)bring to the notice of the vice-Chancellor any
unauthorized expenditure or other financial irregularity and suggest
appropriate action to be taken against persons at fault; and(h)call from any
office or other place maintained by the University, any information or returns
that she may consider necessary for the performance of her duties.(6)The
receipt of the Finance Officer or of the person or persons duly authorized in
this behalf by theExecutive Council for any money payable to the University
shall to sufficient discharge for payment of such money.

### 3\. The Planning Board:- (1) The Planning Board shall consist of the
following members, namely:-

(i)the Vice-Chancellor, who shall be the, chairman of the board; and(ii)not
more than eight persons of high academic standing.(2)The members of the
Planning Board shall be appointed by the chancellor and shall hold office for
such period as he may determine.(3)The Dean shall be the Head of the faculty
and shall be responsible for the conduct and maintenance of the standards of
research in the Faculty. The Dean shall have such other functions as may be
prescribed.(4)The Dean shall have the right to be present and to speak at any
meeting of the Departments of Studies or Committees of the faculty, as the
case may be, but shall not have the right to vote thereat unless she is a
member thereof.

### 6\. Selection Committee:-

(1)There shall be Selection Committees form asking recommendations to the
Executive Council for appointment to the post of Senior Research Staff,
Research Staff, Joint Research member and Librarian of institutions maintained
by the University.(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts
specified in column (1) of the Table below shall consist of the Vice-
Chancellor, a nominee of the Government and the persons specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Table and in the case of
appointment of a Senior Research Staff, Research Staff of Joint Research
member in a department where there is no Head of the Department shall also
consist of a person nominated by the Executive Council from among its
members:THE TABLE

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
Senior Research staff or Research staff |  (i) The Head of the Department concerned if she is a Senior Research staff.(ii) A Dean or a Senior Research staff to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor(iii) Three persons, not in the service of the University, nominated by the Executive Council for their special knowledge of,or interest the subject with which the Senior Research Staff, Research Staff, or Joint Research member will be concerned.  
Joint Research Member |  (i) The Head of the Department concerned.(ii) One Senior Research Staff to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.(iii) Two persons not in the service of the University, nominated by the Executive Council for their special knowledge of, or interest in, the subject with which the Joint Research member will be concerned.  
Librarian |  (i) Two persons, not in the service of the University, who have special knowledge of the subject of Library Science or Library Administration to be nominated by the Executive Council.(ii) One person, not in the service of the University nominated by the Executive Council.  
  
Explanation I:-Where the appointments are being made for an inter-disciplinary
project, the Head of the Project shall be deemed to be Head of the Department
concerned.Explanation II:-The Senior Research staff to be nominated shall be
the Senior Research staff concerned with the Speciality for which the
selection is being made and that the vice-Chancellor shall consult the Head of
the Department and the dean of Faculty before nominating the senior Research
staff.Explanation III:-At least three out of four or two out of three members,
as the case may be, concerned with the speciality referred to under column (2)
shall be present at the Selection Committee meeting.(3)The Vice-Chancellor
shall preside at the meetings of a Selection Committee.(4)The meetings of a
Selection Committee shall be convened by the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The procedure
to be followed by a Selection Committee in making recommendations shall be
such as may be prescribed.(6)If the Executive Council is unable to accept the
recommendation made by a Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons and
submit the case to the Chancellor for final orders.(7)Appointments to
temporary posts shall be made in the manner indicated below:-(i)If the
temporary vacancy is for a duration longer than one academic session, it shall
be filled on the advice of the Selection Committee in accordance with the
procedure indicated in the foregoing provisions:Provided that if the Vice-
Chancellor is satisfied that in the interest of work it is necessary to fill
the vacancy, the appointment may be made on a temporary basis by a local
Selection Committee referred to in sub-clause(ii)for a period not exceeding
six months.(iii)If the temporary vacancy is for a period less than a year, an
appointment to such vacancy shall be made on the recommendation of a local
selection Committee consisting of the Dean of the faculty concerned, the Head
of the department and a nominee of the Vice-Chancellor:Provided that if the
same person holds the office of the dean and the ahead of the Department the
Selection Committee may consist of two nominees of the Vice-
Chancellor:Provided further that in case of sudden casual vacancies in
teaching posts caused by death or any other reason, the dean may, in
consultation with the Head of the department concerned, make a temporary
appointment for a month and report to the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar
about such appointment.(iii)No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if she is
not recommended by a regular Selection Committee for appointment under these
statues be continued in service on such temporary employment unless she is
subsequently selected by a local Selection Committee or a regular Selection
Committee for a temporary or permanent appointment, as the case may be.

