## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Nagercoil City Municipal Corporation Act, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# Nagercoil City Municipal Corporation Act, 2019

## Act 11 of 2019

  * Published on 20 February 2019 
  * Commenced on 20 February 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 February 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Nagercoil City Municipal Corporation Act, 2019(Act No. 11 of 2019)Last Updated
17th January, 2020[Dated 20.02.2019]An Act to provide for the establishment of
a Municipal Corporation for the city of Nagercoil.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventieth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Nagercoil City Municipal Corporation Act,
2019.(2)It extends to the city of Nagercoil.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"city of Nagercoil"
or "city" means the local area comprised in the Nagercoil municipality and
includes any local area which, after the date of the commencement of this Act,
is included in the city but does not include any local area which, after such
date of the commencement of this Act, is excluded from the
city;(b)"corporation" means the municipal corporation of Nagercoil constituted
under section 3;(c)"council" means the council of municipal corporation of
Nagercoil;(d)"date of the commencement of this Act" means the date specified
under sub-section (3) of Section 1;(e)"Government" means the State
Government;(f)"municipal council" means the municipal council of Nagercoil
municipality;(g)"municipality" means the Nagercoil municipality;(h)"Scheduled
Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned
to them in clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution.(2)All
words and expressions used in this Act and not defined but defined in the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (hereinafter referred to as
the 1981 Act), shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the
1981 Act.

### 3. Establishment of municipal corporation for the city of Nagercoil.

(1)With effect on and from the date of the commencement of this Act, the local
area included in the Nagercoil municipality shall constitute of municipal the
city of Nagercoil for the purposes of this Act and from such date of the
commencement of this Act, a municipal corporation shall be deemed to have been
established for the said city by the name of Nagercoil City Municipal
Corporation:Provided that the Government may, from time to time, after
consultation with the corporation, by notification, alter the limits of the
city constituted under this sub-section so as to include therein or to exclude
therefrom the areas specified in the notification:Provided further that the
power to issue a notification under this sub-section shall be subject to
previous publication.(2)The corporation shall, by the said name, be a body
corporate, having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to
acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter into contracts and may by
its corporate name, sue and be sued.(3)The Nagercoil municipality, functioning
immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed
to have been abolished from such date of the commencement of this Act.

### 4. Municipal authorities.

\- The municipal authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of this
Act shall be,-(1)a Mayor;(2)a council;(3)a standing committee;(4)a wards
committee; and(5)a commissioner.

### 5. Constitution of council.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the council shall consist of
such number of councillors elected in the manner laid down in this Act as may
be fixed by the Government, by notification, from time to time, so, however,
that the total number of councillors of the council shall not exceed seventy-
two at any time.(2)The following persons shall also be represented in the
council, namely:-(a)the members of the House of the People representing
constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of the corporation and
the members of the Council of States registered as electors within the area of
the corporation;(b)all the Members of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly
representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the area of the
corporation.(3)The persons referred to in sub-section (2) shall be entitled to
take part in the proceedings but shall not have the right to vote in the
meetings of the council.(4)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging
to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the council and the number
of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to
the total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the council as
the population of the Scheduled Castes in the city or of the Scheduled Tribes
in the city bears to the total population of the city.(5)Seats shall be
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes,
from among the seats reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, which shall not be less than fifty per cent
of the total number of seats reserved for the persons belonging to the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.(6)Seats shall be reserved for women
in the council and the number of seats reserved for women shall not be less
than fifty per cent including the number of seats reserved for women belonging
to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes of the total number of seats in
the council.(7)The reservation of seats under sub-sections (4) and (5) shall
cease to have effect on the expiry of the period specified in Article 334 of
the Constitution.

### 6. Duration of corporation.

(1)The corporation, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five years
from the date appointed for its first meeting after each ordinary election and
no longer and the said period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of
the corporation.(2)An election to constitute the corporation shall be
completed,-(a)before the expiry of its duration specified in sub-section (1);
or(b)before the expiration of a period of six months from the date of its
dissolution:Provided that where the remainder of the period for which the
dissolved corporation would have continued, is less than six months, it shall
not be necessary to hold any election, under this sub-section for constituting
the corporation for such period.

### 7. Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) (hereinafter
referred to as the "District Municipalities Act") shall, with effect on and
from the date of the commencement of this Act, cease to apply to the local
area comprised within the city of Nagercoil.(2)Such cessor shall not
affect,-(a)the previous operation of the District Municipalities Act in
respect of the local area comprised within the city of Nagercoil;(b)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the District Municipalities Act; or(c)any investigation, legal
proceedings or remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or punishment,
and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act
had not been passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
all appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations,
orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers, made or
issued or conferred under the District Municipalities Act and in force on the
date of the commencement of this Act shall, so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to be in force in the
local area comprised within the city of Nagercoil until they are replaced by
the appointments, notifications, notices, rules, bye-laws, regulations,
orders, directions, licences, permissions, schemes, forms and powers to be
made or issued or conferred under this Act.

### 8. Application of the provisions of the 1981 Act to the corporation.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, all the provisions of the 1981
Act, including the provisions relating to the levy and collection of any tax
or fee are hereby extended to and shall apply, mutatis mutandis to the
corporation and the 1981 Act shall, in relation to the corporation, be read
and construed as if the provisions of this Act had formed part of the 1981
Act.(2)For the purpose of facilitating the application of the provisions of
the 1981 Act to the corporation, the Government may, by notification, make
such adaptations and modifications of the 1981 Act and the rules and bye-laws
made thereunder, whether by way of repealing, amending or suspending any
provisions thereof, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon, the 1981
Act and the rules made thereunder, shall apply to the corporation subject to
the adaptations and modifications so made.(3)Notwithstanding that no provision
or insufficient provision has been made under sub-section (2) for the
adaptation of the provisions of the 1981 Act, or the rules and bye-laws made
thereunder, any court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce
these provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to the
corporation, construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper having regard to the matter before
the court, tribunal or authority.(4)In the 1981 Act as extended and applied to
the city of Nagercoil,-(a)any reference to the city of Coimbatore and
Coimbatore municipality, shall by reason of this Act, be construed as a
reference to the city of Nagercoil and Nagercoil municipality, respectively;
and(b)any reference to the Coimbatore Corporation, Corporation of Coimbatore
and Municipal Corporation of Coimbatore, shall by reason of this Act, be
construed as a reference to the Nagercoil Corporation, Corporation of
Nagercoil and Municipal Corporation of Nagercoil, respectively.

### 9. Transitional provisions.

(1)All property, all rights of whatever kind, used, enjoyed or possessed by
and all interests of whatever kind owned by or vested in, or held in trust by
or for the municipal council with all rights of whatever kind used, enjoyed or
possessed by the said municipal council as well as all liabilities legally
subsisting against the said municipal council, on and from the date of the
commencement of this Act and subject to such directions as the Government may,
by general or special order, give in this behalf, vest with the
corporation.(2)All arrears of taxes or other payments by way of composition
for a tax, or due for expenses or compensation, or otherwise due to the said
municipal council on the date of such commencement may be recovered as if they
had accrued to the corporation and may be recovered as if the said arrears or
payments had become due, under the provisions of this Act.(3)All taxes, fees
and duties, which immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act
were being levied by the said municipal council shall be deemed to have been
levied by the corporation under the provisions of this Act and shall continue
to be in force accordingly until such taxes, fees and duties are revised,
cancelled or superseded by anything done or any action taken under this
Act.(4)All proceedings taken by, or against, the municipal council or
authority or any person under the District Municipalities Act may be continued
by, or against, the corporation, authority or person as if the said
proceedings had been commenced under the provisions of this Act.(5)Any action
taken under the District Municipalities Act, by any authority before the date
of such commencement shall be deemed to have been taken by the authority
competent to take such action under this Act as if this Act had been in
force.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every officer or
employee who, immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act, was
in the service of the municipality shall, on and from the date of such
commencement be deemed to be an officer or employee of the
corporation:Provided that,-(a)the terms and conditions applicable to such
officers and employees consequent on their absorption in the service of the
corporation shall not be less favourable than those applicable to such
employees immediately before the date of such commencement, as regards pay and
allowances, leave, pension, gratuity, provident fund and age of
superannuation; and(b)the service rendered by any such officer or other
employee under the municipality upto the date of such commencement shall be
deemed to be service under the corporation and he shall be entitled to count
that service for the purpose of increment, leave, pension, provident fund and
gratuity:Provided further that any officer or other employee serving in the
municipality shall be given an option to be exercised within such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed either to be absorbed in the service of the
corporation or to be transferred to the service referred to in Section 73-A of
the District Municipalities Act or to be retrenched from the service of the
municipality on such retrenchment benefits as may be prescribed.(7)Any
division of the Nagercoil municipality into wards, made under this District
Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act
shall be deemed to be a division of the corporation until altered.(8)The
electoral roll prepared for the Nagercoil municipality under the District
Municipalities Act, and in force on the date of the commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for the corporation until a new
electoral roll is prepared and published and the part of the said electoral
roll relating to each ward of the municipality shall be deemed to be the list
of the electoral roll for the corresponding division of the corporation.

### 10. Appointment of Special Officer.

(1)There shall be appointed by the Government, by notification, a Special
Officer to exercise the powers, perform the duties and discharge the functions
of-(a)the council,(b)the standing committee,(c)the Commissioner, and(d)the
wards committee.(2)The Special Officer shall exercise the powers, perform the
duties and discharge the functions, -(a)of the corporation, until the elected
councillors come into office;(b)of the standing committee, until a standing
committee is appointed by the corporation; and(c)of the commissioner, until a
Commissioner is appointed by the Government and such officer may, if the
Government so direct, receive remuneration for his services from the municipal
fund.(3)Until a new Special Officer is appointed by the Government under sub-
section (1), the Special Officer of the municipality functioning immediately
before the date of the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be the
Special Officer of the corporation and he shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties and discharge the functions as those exercised, performed
and discharged by the Special Officer appointed under sub-section (1).(4)The
Special Officer referred to in sub-section (1) or in sub-section (3) shall
hold office until the day on which the first meeting of the council is held
after ordinary election to the corporation.

### 11. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are so published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order
issued under this Act shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued,
be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly
makes any modification in any such rule or notification or order,or the
Assembly decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or
issued, the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 12. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the date of the commencement of this Act.

