## International Treaty - Act

## Nairobi Treaty on the Protection of the Olympic Symbol

TREATY  
India

# Nairobi Treaty on the Protection of the Olympic Symbol

## WORLDINTELLECTUALPROPERTYORGANIZATION 1 of 1981

  * Published in World Intellectual Property Organization on 26 September 1981 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 September 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

**Republic of India ratified this treaty on September 19, 1983****CHAPTER I
Substantive Provisions**

### Article 1 Obligation of States

Any State party to this Treaty shall be obliged, subject to Articles 2 and 3,
to refuse or to invalidate the registration as a mark and to prohibit by
appropriate measures the use, as a mark or other sign, for commercial
purposes, of any sign consisting of or containing the Olympic symbol, as
defined in the Charter of the International Olympic Committee, except with the
authorization of the International Olympic Committee. The said definition and
the graphic representation of the said symbol are reproduced in the Annex.

### Article 2 Exceptions to the Obligation

(1) The obligation provided for in Article 1 shall not bind any State party to
this Treaty in respect of:(i) any mark consisting of or containing the Olympic
symbol where that mark was registered in that State prior to the date on which
this Treaty enters into force in respect of that State or during any period
during which, in that State, the obligation provided for in Article 1 is
considered as suspended under Article 3;(ii) the continued use for commercial
purposes of any mark or other sign, consisting of or containing the Olympic
symbol, in that State by any person or enterprise who or which has lawfully
started such use in the said State prior to the date on which this Treaty
enters into force in respect of that State or during any period during which,
in that State, the obligation provided for in Article 1 is considered as
suspended under Article 3.(2) The provisions of paragraph (1)(i) shall apply
also in respect of marks whose registration has effect in the State by virtue
of a registration under a treaty which the said State is a party to.(3) Use
with the authorization of the person or enterprise referred to in paragraph
(1)(ii) shall be considered, for the purposes of the said paragraph, as use by
the said person or enterprise.(4) No State party to this Treaty shall be
obliged to prohibit the use of the Olympic symbol where that symbol is used in
the mass media for the purposes of information on the Olympic movement or its
activities.

### Article 3 Suspension of the Obligation

The obligation provided for in Article 1 may be considered as suspended by any
State party to this Treaty during any period during which there is no
agreement in force between the International Olympic Committee and the
National Olympic Committee of the said State concerning the conditions under
which the International Olympic Committee will grant authorizations for the
use of the Olympic symbol in that State and concerning the part of the said
National Olympic Committee in any revenue that the International Olympic
Committee obtains for granting the said authorizations.**CHAPTER II Groupings
of States**

### Article 4 Exceptions to {{> Chapter I}}

The provisions of Chapter I shall, as regards States party to this Treaty
which are members of a customs union, a free trade area, any other economic
grouping or any other regional or subregional grouping, be without prejudice
to their commitments under the instrument establishing such union, area or
other grouping, in particular as regards the provisions of such instrument
governing the free movement of goods or services.**CHAPTER III Final Clauses**

### Article 5 Becoming Party to the Treaty

(1) Any State member of the World Intellectual Property Organization
(hereinafter referred to as “the Organization”) or of the International
(Paris) Union for the Protection of Industrial Property (hereinafter referred
to as “the Paris Union”) may become party to this Treaty by:(i) signature
followed by the deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance or
approval, or(ii) deposit of an instrument of accession.(2) Any State not
referred to in paragraph (1) which is a member of the United Nations or any of
the Specialized Agencies brought into relationship with the United Nations may
become party to this Treaty by deposit of an instrument of accession.(3)
instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval and accession shall be
deposited with the Director General of the Organization (hereinafter referred
to as “the Director General”).

### Article 6 Entry Into Force of the Treaty

(1) With respect to the three States which are the first to deposit their
instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Treaty
shall enter into force one month after the day on which the third instrument
of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession has been deposited.(2) With
respect to any other State which deposits its instrument of ratification,
acceptance, approval or accession, this Treaty shall enter into force one
month after the day on which that instrument has been deposited.

### Article 7 Denunciation of the Treaty

(1) Any State may denounce this Treaty by notification addressed to the
Director General.(2) Denunciation shall take effect one year after the day on
which the Director General has received the notification.

### Article 8 Signature and Languages of the Treaty

(1) This Treaty shall be signed in a single original in the English, French,
Russian and Spanish languages, all texts being equally authentic.(2) Official
texts shall be established by the Director General, after consultation with
the interested Governments, in the Arabic, German, Italian and Portuguese
languages, and such other languages as the Conference of the Organization or
the Assembly of the Paris Union may designate.(3) This Treaty shall remain
open for signature at Nairobi until December 31, 1982, and thereafter at
Geneva until June 30, 1983.

### Article 9 Deposit of the Treaty; Transmittal of Copies; Registration of
the Treaty

(1) The original of this Treaty, when no longer open for signature at Nairobi,
shall be deposited with the Director General.(2) The Director General shall
transmit two copies, certified by him, of this Treaty to all the States
referred to in Article 5(1) and (2) and, on request, to any other State.(3)
The Director General shall register this Treaty with the Secretariat of the
United Nations.

### Article 10 Notifications

The Director General shall notify the States referred to in Article 5(1) and
(2) of:(i) signatures under Article 8;(ii) deposits of instruments of
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession under Article 5(3);(iii) the
date of the entry into force of this Treaty under Article 6(1);(iv) any
denunciation notified under Article 7.**Annex** The Olympic symbol consists of
five interlaced rings: blue, yellow, black, green and red, arranged in that
order from left to right. It consists of the Olympic rings alone, whether
delineated in a single color or in different colors.1 This Table of Contents
is added for the convenience of the reader. It does not appear in the signed
text of the Treaty.

