## Union of India - Act

## National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Rules, 2024

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Rules, 2024

  * Published in Gazette of India on 13 March 2024 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 March 2024.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Whereas, the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission (Manner of Appointment
and Nomination of Members, Secretary and Members of Autonomous Boards, their
Salary, Allowances and Terms and Conditions of Service, and Declaration of
Assets, Professional and Commercial Engagements) Rules, 2023 was published in
the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, section 3, sub-section (i),
dated the 17th November, 2023 vide notification number G.S.R.847 (E), dated
the 17th November, 2023 in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)
of section 51 of the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023 (26
of 2023), inviting objections and suggestions from all the persons likely to
be affected thereby, within thirty days from the date on which the copies of
the Official Gazette containing the said notification were made available to
the public;And whereas, copies of the said Official Gazette were made
available to the public on 17th November, 2023;And whereas, the objections and
suggestions received from the public on the said draft rules within the period
specified in the said notification have been considered by the Central
Government;Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g),(h), (i), (j), (k), (o) and (p) of sub-section
(2) of section 51 of the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023
(26 of 2023), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:
-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1) These rules may be called the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission
Rules, 2024.(2) They shall come into force from the date of their publication
in the Official Gazette.

### 2\. Definitions.

(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a) "Act" means the
National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Act, 2023 (26 of 2023);(b) "Board"
means an Autonomous Board constituted under section 11;(c) "Commission" means
the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission constituted under section 3;(d)
"Secretary" means Secretary of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1)
of section 8;(e) "Section" means section of the Act;(f) "State Commission"
means the State Nursing and Midwifery Commission constituted under section
23;(g) "State" shall include a Union territory Administration;(h) "zone" means
any of the six zones specified in rule 4;(i) "whole-time Members of
Commission" means the Members nominated or appointed under clauses (i), (j),
(k) and (l) of section 4.(2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined
and defined in the Act, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Qualifications and experience for nursing and midwifery leader. The
nursing and midwifery leader, defined under clause (q) of section 2, shall
possess the following qualifications and experience, namely:-

(a) a post graduate degree in any discipline of nursing and midwifery
education from a recognised University;(b) be registered with the National
Register or State Register; and(c) having experience of not less than fifteen
years and holding administrative position for four years in the field of
nursing and midwifery from a recognised institution or University or
healthcare facility.

### 4. Zonal distribution of States and Union territories. The following shall
be the zonal distribution of the States and Union territories under clauses
(h) and (i) of section 4, namely:-

(a) the Northern Zone, consisting of the following four States and four Union
territories, namely, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, National
Capital territory of Delhi, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh;(b) the
Central Zone, consisting of the following four States namely, Chhattisgarh,
Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh;(c) the Eastern Zone, consisting
of the following four States, namely, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West
Bengal;(d) the North-Eastern Zone, consisting of the following eight States,
namely, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura,
Meghalaya and Sikkim;(e) the Western Zone, consisting of the following three
States and one Union territory, namely, Goa, Gujarat, , Maharashtra, Dadra and
Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu;(f) the Southern Zone, consisting of the
following five States and three Union territories, namely, Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar
Islands and Lakshadweep.

### 5. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (g) of section 4.

(1) The Central Government shall nominate three Members, not below the rank of
Chief Nursing Officer or Nursing Superintendent of any of the hospitals or
Dean or Principal of College of Nursing, as the case may be, from Central
Government hospitals or Nursing and Midwifery Institutions of repute, for a
term of two years.(2) In the event of occurrence of vacancy, including by
reason of death, resignation or removal, as the case may be, of a Member under
this rule, the Central Government shall nominate another person as Member at
the earliest and within three months from the date of occurrence of such
vacancy and the person so nominated shall remain a member for a full term of
two years.

### 6. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (h) of section 4.

(1) The Central Government shall nominate six Chairpersons of the State
Commissions, one from each of the six zones, on rotational basis after every
two years, by draw of lots on such date as may be decided by the Central
Government.(2) There shall be six draw boxes representing six zones out of
which a single slip shall be picked from each of the six draw boxes.(3) The
draw of lots at every subsequent two-year interval, shall be restricted to
those States or Union territories not represented as Members in the
immediately preceding term.(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted with paper
slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names of each
State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as to
preserve the confidentiality.(5) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the
presence of the Union Health Secretary.(6) In case of vacancy in the office of
a Chairperson of the State Commission, the State Government shall nominate any
other Member from the State Commission as a member under this rule until a
person is nominated to the post of Chairperson of the State Commission and the
person so nominated as Chairperson of the State Commission shall become the
member of the Commission only for the remaining term of two years.(7) The draw
of lots for members under this rule shall be held first, followed by the draw
of lots under rule 7.

### 7\. Manner of nomination of Members under clause (i) of section 4.

(1) Six Members shall be nominated to the Commission under clause (i) of
section 4, from each of the six zones, from amongst nursing members of
eminence, from nursing and midwifery profession of outstanding ability, proven
administrative capacity and integrity, possessing a postgraduate degree in any
discipline of nursing and midwifery from any University and having experience
of not less than fifteen years in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of
which at least seven years shall be as a nursing and midwifery leader.(2) A
single nomination shall be made, from each of the six zones, on rotation basis
after every two years, by draw of lots, on such date as may be decided by the
Central Government.(3) There shall be six draw boxes representing six zones
out of which a single slip shall be picked from each of the six draw boxes.(4)
The first draw of lots for nomination of Members under this rule shall be
restricted to those States and Union territories not represented under rule 6
and the draw of lots at every subsequent two year interval, shall be
restricted to those States or Union territories not represented as Members in
the immediately preceding term.(5) The draw of lots shall be conducted with
paper slips of uniform size, colour and design bearing individual names of
each State and Union territories, which shall be folded in such manner so as
to preserve the confidentiality.(6) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the
presence of the Union Health Secretary.(7) In the event of occurrence of
vacancy of a Member, including by reason of death, resignation or removal, the
State Government shall nominate another person in his place at the earliest
and within three months and the person so nominated shall remain a Member in
the Commission only for the remaining term of two years.(8) The State
Government shall, before recommending any person for appointment as a Member
under this rule, satisfy itself that such person does not have any financial
or other interest which is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a
Member of the Commission.(9) The Central Government shall, within three months
before the end of tenure of the Member, write to the States and Union
territories, to initiate the process of filling up of the vacancy.

### 8\. Manner of appointment of Members under clauses (j), (k) and (l) of
section 4.

(1) The Central Government shall, on the recommendations of the Search-cum-
Selection Committee, appoint,-(a) four Members under clause (j) of section 4,
from amongst nursing and midwifery members of eminence, of which at least two
shall be midwifery professionals, of outstanding ability, proven
administrative capacity and integrity, possessing a postgraduate degree in any
discipline of nursing and midwifery from any University and having experience
of not less than fifteen years in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of
which at least seven years shall be as a nursing and midwifery leader;(b) one
Member under clause (k) of section 4, from amongst the charitable institutions
which have been in operation for not less than fifteen years providing
healthcare service and education, possessing the following qualifications and
experience, namely:-(i) possessing a post graduate degree in any discipline of
nursing and midwifery from any University;(ii) having not less than fifteen
years experience in the field of nursing and midwifery, out of which at least
four years shall be as a nursing and midwifery leader;(c) one Member under
clause (l) of section 4, who shall be a person of eminence, from amongst
persons of ability, integrity and standing, who have special knowledge and
professional experience in such areas including in management, law, medical
ethics, health research, consumer or patient rights advocacy, science and
technology and economics.(2) The Members appointed under sub-rule (1) shall
hold office for a term of four years.(3) In the event of occurrence of vacancy
of a Member under this rule, including by reason of death, resignation or
removal, as the case may be, the Central Government shall appoint another
person as Member at the earliest and within three months from the date of
occurrence of such vacancy and the person so appointed shall remain a member
for a full term of four years.

### 9\. Manner of nomination of Members of Search-cum-Selection Committee
under clauses (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 5. The Central
Government shall appoint four experts under clause (b) and one expert under
clause (c), of sub-section (1) of section 5 , as Members of the Search-cum-
Selection Committee, for a term of two years.

(2) In the event of occurrence of vacancy, including by reason of death,
resignation or removal, as the case may be, of a Member under this rule, the
Central Government shall nominate another person as member to the Search-cum-
Selection Committee at the earliest and within three months from the date of
occurrence of such vacancy and the person so nominated shall remain a Member
in the Search-cum-Selection Committee only for the remaining term of office of
two years.

### 10. Salaries and allowances payable to Chairperson and whole-time Members
of Commission.

(1) The salary payable to the Chairperson shall be equivalent the salary
admissible to an Additional Secretary to the Government of India.(2) The
salary payable to the whole-time Members of the Commission shall be equivalent
to the salary admissible to an officer of the level of Joint Secretary to the
Government of India.(3) Where the Chairperson or a whole-time Member of the
Commission is a retired person from the Government, semi-Government agency,
public sector undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary
payable together with the pension or pensionery value of the terminal
benefits, or both, received by such Chairperson or whole-time Member shall not
exceed the last pay drawn.(4) Where the Chairperson or a whole-time Member of
the Commission is in the service of the Central Government or a State
Government or a Union territory Administration, his salary and allowances
shall be regulated in accordance with the rules applicable to such Chairperson
or whole-time Member in his parent cadre or department, or as per this rule,
whichever is higher, and his appointment in the Commission shall be treated as
being on deputation.(5) The Chairperson and whole-time Members of the
Commission shall also be entitled to dearness allowance, travelling allowances
and daily allowances appropriate to their pay at the rates admissible to
officers of equivalent level in the Central Government.

### 11. Secretary of Commission.

(1) The Central Government shall appoint a Secretary to the Commission who
shall be a person of outstanding ability, proven administrative capacity and
integrity and possessing the following qualifications and experience,
namely:-(i) a postgraduate degree in any discipline related to Nursing from
any University or Institute; and(ii) holding analogous post on regular basis
in the present cadre or department; or(iii) with minimum three years' regular
service in level 13 in the pay matrix or equivalent thereto; or(iv) with
minimum seven years' regular service in level 12 in the pay matrix or
equivalent thereto or above; and(v) having experience in the Central
Government or a State Government or any statutory body or recognised
organisation or institution of not less than fifteen years in his related
service or profession along with administrative experience of not less than
seven years;(2) The salary payable to the Secretary shall be equivalent to the
salary of Joint Secretary to the Government of India.(3) The Secretary shall
be entitled for dearness allowance, travelling allowances and daily allowances
appropriate to his pay at the rates admissible to Joint Secretary to the
Government of India.(4) A person who has completed the age of fifty-five years
on the date of application shall not be eligible for the post of Secretary.(5)
The Secretary shall hold office for a term of four years or till he attain the
age of sixty years, whichever is earlier.

### 12. Manner of appointment of second part-time Member of Board.

(1) The Central Government shall appoint a second part-time Member for each of
the Boards under sub-section (6) of section 12 by draw of lots from amongst
the Members nominated under clause (h) of section 4 of the Act who have given
their consent to serve as second part-time Member of Board and the name of any
unwilling Member shall not be included in the draw box.(2) Three slips shall
be picked from out of the six slips in the draw box containing the names of
the six Members referred to in sub-rule (1).(3) The name appearing in the
first slip shall be the second part-time Member of the Nursing and Midwifery
Assessment and Rating Board, the name appearing in the second slip shall be
the second part-time Member of the Nursing and Midwifery Ethics and
Registration Board and the name appearing in the third slip shall be second
part-time Member of the Nursing and Midwifery Undergraduate and Postgraduate
Board.(4) The draw of lots shall be conducted in the presence of the Union
Health Secretary.(5) The tenure of the Members shall be co-terminus with their
membership of the Commission under clause (h) of section 4.(6) In the event of
occurrence of vacancy of a Member at any time, the Central Government shall
appoint another part-time Member in the manner provided in this rule.

### 13. Salaries and allowances payable to President and whole-time Members of
Boards.

(1) The salary payable to the President and whole-time Members of Boards shall
be equivalent to the salary admissible to a Joint Secretary to the Government
of India.Provided that where the President or a whole-time Member of a Board,
is a retired person from the Government, semi-Government agency, public sector
undertaking or recognised research institution, the salary payable together
with the pension or pensionery value of the terminal benefits, or both,
received by such President or whole-time Member shall not exceed the last pay
drawn.(2) Where the President or a whole-time Member is in the service of the
Central Government or a State Government or a Union territory Administration,
his salary and allowances shall be regulated in accordance with the rules
applicable to such President or a whole-time Member in his parent cadre or
department, or as per sub-rule (1), whichever is higher, and his appointment
in the Commission shall be treated as being on deputation.(3) The President
and whole-time Member of a Board shall be entitled for dearness allowance,
travelling allowances and daily allowances appropriate to their pay at the
rates admissible to officers of equivalent level in the Central Government.

### 14. Sitting fee. The ex-officio and part-time Members of the Commission
and part-time Members of each Board, shall be entitled to a sitting fee of
five thousand rupees for each day of sitting of the Commission or the Board as
the case may be.

### 15. Leave. The Chairperson, whole-time Members, Secretary and the
President and whole-time Members of Board shall be entitled to-

(a) earned leave, half pay leave and commuted leave as admissible to Central
Government servants in accordance with the Central Civil Services (Leave)
Rules,1972, as amended from time to time; and(b) extraordinary leave as
admissible to the temporary Central Government servants under the Central
Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1972, as amended from time to time.

### 16. Leave sanctioning authority.

(1) The Central Government shall be the authority competent to sanction leave
to the Chairperson of the Commission.(1) The Chairperson of the Commission
shall be the authority competent to sanction leave to,-(a) whole-time Members
of the Commission and the Secretary of the Commission; and(b) President of a
Board.(2) The President of a Board shall be the authority to sanction leave to
a whole-time Member of that Board.

### 17. Contributory Provident Fund. The Chairperson, whole-time Members of
Commission, Secretary and the President and whole-time Members of Board, -

(a) shall be governed by the provisions of the Contributory Provident Fund
Rules (India), 1962 and there shall be no option to subscribe under the
General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960;(b) shall not be
entitled to additional pension and gratuity for the service rendered by them
in the Board

### 18. Travelling allowances to other Members. Every other Member of the
Commission other than the Members referred to in rule 10 and rule 13,
including part-time Members of Boards, shall be entitled to draw travelling
allowances and daily allowances at the rates admissible to an officer of the
level of Joint secretary to the Government of India.

### 19. Application of Central Civil Services Rules. The Chairperson, whole-
time Members of the Commission, Secretary and President and whole-time Members
of Boards shall be governed by the provisions of the Central Civil Service
(Conduct) Rules during their tenure.

### 20. Declaration of assets, professional and commercial engagement or
involvement. The Chairperson, whole-time Members of the Commission, Secretary
and President and Members of Boards shall-

(a) file a return of their assets and liabilities in Form A annexed to these
rules.(b) declare their professional and commercial engagement or involvement
at the time of appointment as such Chairperson or Secretary or Member, and at
the time of demitting office, in Form B annexed to these rules.

### 21. The other powers and functions of Commission. In addition to the
powers and functions of the Commission specified in section 10 of the Act, the
Commission shall-

(a) undertake study to reduce the cost of nursing education in the country;(b)
suggest, among others, adoption of modern technology, intensive use of
infrastructure, faculty sharing, and global best practices with a view to
reduce the cost of education and make it more accessible;(c) decide the manner
of hearing appeals against the decisions of Boards:Provided that where an
appeal is filed against the decision of a Board, the President of such Board
shall not participate in the appeal proceedings;(d) while making regulations,
consult all State Governments, Union territory Administrations and other
stakeholders, such as, association of dental professionals, association of
resident dentists and patient rights bodies;(e) give wide publicity to the
draft regulations by placing it on the website of the Commission for a period
of thirty days and considering the objections or suggestions as may be
received from the general public:Provided that the final draft of the
regulations shall be finalised in consultation with the Legislative Department
through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare;(f) endorse a copy of each
major decision taken by the Commission to the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare through its Secretary and publish it on the website of the
Commission;(g) furnish such information or report to the Central Government as
may be required by the Central Government from time to time

### 22. Compensation payable to erstwhile employees of Indian Nursing Council.

(1) The Commission shall decide on the premature termination and compensation
payable to the regular employees of the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council
within a period of one year as provided in sub-section (5) of Section 56.(2)
An employee of the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council, unless continued with the
Commission on contract basis, shall be paid an advance amount equivalent to
three months' salary at the time of termination of his service which shall be
deducted from the total compensation package.(3) An employee of the erstwhile
Indian Nursing Council who is not continued with the Commission, shall be paid
compensation package including pensionary benefits applicable to such employee
as per the terms and conditions of his service at the time of his appointment
in the erstwhile Indian Nursing Council.

