## Union of India - Act

## National Commission for Homoeopathy (Manner of Preparation and Maintenance
of National Register for Practitioner of Homoeopathy) Regulations, 2022.

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# National Commission for Homoeopathy (Manner of Preparation and Maintenance
of National Register for Practitioner of Homoeopathy) Regulations, 2022.

## NATIONALCOMMISSIONFORHOMOEOPATHY F-NO-2-11-2021-BERH-NCH-11055- of 2022

  * Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary 656 on 13 December 2022 
  * Commenced on 13 December 2022 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 December 2022.] 

F. No. 2-11/2021-BERH/NCH/11055.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) and clauses (zf), (zg), (zh), (zi) and (zj) of sub-section (2) of
section 55read with sections 32, 33 and 34 of the National Commission for
Homoeopathy Act, 2020 (15 of 2020) and in supersession of the Homoeopathy
Central Council (Registration) Regulations, 1983, except as respects thing
done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the National Commission
for Homoeopathy hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the National Commission for Homoeopathy
(Manner of Preparation and Maintenance of National Register for Practitioner
ofHomoeopathy) Regulations, 2022.(2)They shall come into force on the date of
their publication in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.-

(1)In these regulations, unless the context otherwise require,—(a)“Act” means
the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 (15 of 2020);(b)“additional
qualification” includes a post graduate degree, post graduate diploma or
doctoral degree as may be laid down by the Commission;(c)“Ayushman Bharat
Digital Mission” means a mission which seeks to create a national digital
health ecosystem that supports universal health coverage in an efficient,
accessible, inclusive, affordable, timely and safe manner, that provides a
wide-range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging
open, interoperable, standards based digital systems, and ensures the
security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal
information.(d)“Form” means a form appended to these
regulations;(e)“Healthcare Professional Registry’ under Ayushman Bharat
Digital Mission means acomprehensive repository of all healthcare
professionals involved in the delivery of healthcare services across both
modern and traditional systems of medicine.(f)“Practitioner of Homoeopathy’
includes Medical Practitioner of Homoeopathy, registered practitioner of
Homoeopathy, registered medical practitioner, practitioner, register
homoeopathic practitioner, licensed practitioner, homoeopathy practitioner,
who is for the time being registered in any State register or Central register
or National register for Homoeopathy;(g)“Schedule” means a Schedule appended
to these regulations.(2)Words and expressions used herein and not defined but
defined in the Act shall have the same meanings as respectively, assigned to
them in the Act.

### 3. Maintenance of National Register. —

(1)The Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy shall maintain the
National Register for Homoeopathy in the Forms as specified in the National
Commission for Homoeopathy (Submission of List of Homoeopathy Practitioners)
Rules, 2021, both in electronic and physical formats.(2)The National Register
shall be prepared on the basis of list of registered medical practitioners as
provided by the State Medical Councils for Homoeopathy and the data of direct
registration made by the Board of Ethics and Registration for
Homoeopathy.(3)Every State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall also maintain
and regularly update the State Register in the Form-1 and Form-2,both in the
electronic and physical formats and also supply physically signed two copies
of the same to the President of the Board of Ethics and Registration for
Homoeopathy on quarterly basis as per the time schedule mentioned in the
following table, namely:—

Serial Number | Details of Data | Time-Period  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1. | Data of Registered Practitioner From 01 January to 31 March | upto the 15 April  
2. | Data of Registered Practitioner From 01 April to 30 June | upto the 15 July  
3. | Data of Registered Practitioner From 01 July to 30 September | upto the 15 October  
4. | Data of Registered Practitioner From 01 October to 31 December | upto the 15 January  
  
(4)Every State Medical Council for Homoeopathy in discharge of its functions
under these regulations shall make suitable arrangements for the
infrastructures relating to the Information Technology and human resources, so
as to commensurate with number of practitioners registered in the State or
Union territory, as the case may be, and the State Government or Union
territory Administration concerned shall ensure that licenses or registrations
granted prior to constitution of the Commission are updated in Form - 1 and
Form— 2,in a time bound manner but within a maximum time- period of one year
from the date of commencement of these regulations.(5)In case of any
contradiction between the Act and any regulations made thereunder and any
State Act or regulations for the time being in force, the provisions of the
Act and regulations made there under shall prevail and every State Medical
Council for Homoeopathy shall comply the said provisions of the Act and
regulations made there under so as to maintain uniformity.(6)The Board of
Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy shall have continuous interactions
with the State Medical Councils for Homoeopathy so as to effectively promote
and regulate the conduct of medical practitioners of Homoeopathy.(7)(i)All
registered homoeopathic medical practitioners duly registered under their
respective State Medical Councils for Homoeopathy, may enroll themselves in
Healthcare Professional Registry under Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission as per
the guidelines issued in this regard by the National Health Authority.(ii)Not
withstanding anything contained in clause (i), practitioners of Homoeopathy of
government healthcare facility shall mandatorily register themselves in
Healthcare Professional Registry under Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission.

### 4. Eligibility for License to Practice. -

(1)Any person possessing medical qualification in Homoeopathy recognised by
the Homoeopathy Education Board or recognised under the Second or Third
schedule to the erstwhile Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 (59 of 1973)
shall be eligible to obtain license to practice Homoeopathy from the concerned
State Medical Council for Homoeopathy, where he resides:Provided that the
State Medical Councils for Homoeopathy shall ensure that the applicant who
desires to obtain license is not already registered with any other State
Medical Council for Homoeopathy:Provided further that in case of delay of more
than one year in obtaining initial registration by any qualified person, the
concerned State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall ensure that the
applicant has not obtained registration from any other State Medical Council
for Homoeopathy and compulsory undertaking to the effect that he does not have
any license or registration from any other State or Union territory shall be
obtained before granting the license.

### 5. Additional qualification. -

(1)The State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall enter the recognised
additional qualification against the initial registration of the practitioner
of Homoeopathy in the State Register, after verification and simultaneously
updation of the electronic data in this regard.(2)The State Medical Council
for Homoeopathy shall enter all changes or modifications or corrections, in
any details of the practitioner of Homeopathy in the State Register, updated
the same through the electronic data synchronisation with the National
Register, modify the same in Healthcare Professional Registry if applicable,
and also inform to the National Commission for Homoeopathy in this regard.

### 6. Registration with National Commission for Homoeopathy. —

Where the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy is not constituted the
National Commission for Homoeopathy through the Board of Ethics and
Registration for Homoeopathy shall register a medical practitioner of
Homoeopathy residing in a State or Union territory on application form made
along with fee as specified these Regulation.Provided that the direct
registration under this regulation shall be made only till the time such State
Medical Council for Homoeopathy is constituted:Provided further that the Board
of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy shall, before entering the name of
such practitioner in the register, verify his qualification from the awarding
authority and also verify his address and other particulars from the concerned
police authority.

### 7. License to practice by citizen or for foreign qualification.—

(1)Any foreign citizen possessing the medical qualification in Homoeopathy of
his country and is recognised as practitioner of homoeopathy in that country
and recognised by the National Commission for Homoeopathy and desires license
to practice Homoeopathy in India, shall be required to obtain diplomatic
permission for stay in India and shall be eligible for obtaining temporary
license for the period of falling within the such permitted stay but not
exceeding six months at a time:Provided that in case of a foreign citizen who
desires to pursue any additional qualification in Homoeopathy recognised by
the National Commission for Homoeopathy shall be eligible for obtaining the
license for the period of his study.(2)Any foreign citizen referred to in sub-
regulations (1), shall apply in Form-7 to the State Medical Council for
Homoeopathy or National Commission for Homoeopathy, as the case may be, along
with payment of the fee as specified in the Schedule for obtaining license in
Form-8 and the *A’ part of register for them shall be maintained by the Board
of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy, in Form-2.(3)Any person who is
citizen of India and holding foreign qualification recognised by the National
Commission for Homoeopathy and desires for the License to practice Homoeopathy
shall apply to the concerned State Medical Council for Homoeopathy:Provided
that the National Commission for Homoeopathy through the Board of Ethics and
Registration for Homoeopathy shall register such person residing in a State or
Union territory, where the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy is not
constituted vide the application in Form- 7 and certificate of registration in
Form- 8:Provided further that the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy or
Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy shall, before entering the
name of such practitioner in their respective register, verify his
qualification from the awarding authority and also verify his address and
other particulars from the concerned police authority.(4)Where a foreign
Practitioner of Homoeopathy visits India for the purpose of healthcare service
delivery, he may register themselves in the Healthcare Professional Registry
under Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, in order to maintain patient records
and enhance the quality of care, in accordance withthe policy, guidelines and
notifications as maybe issued by the National Health Authority from time to
time.

### 8. Practice or Employment in other State.—

(1)A person holding license to practice Homoeopathy from any State Medical
Council for Homoeopathy or direct registration with National Commission for
Homoeopathy or direct registration with erstwhile Central Council for
Homoeopathy or enrolled in National Register for Homoeopathy or enrolled in
erstwhile Central Council for Homoeopathy shall be eligible to practice or
work in any State or Union territory;Provided that a licensed practitioner
shall also enroll with the concerned respective State MedicalCouncil for
Homoeopathy.(2)(i)A licensed practitioner of Homoeopathy, who wants to
practice in any other State or Union territory, shall apply to the concerned
State Medical Council for Homoeopathy, in Form—5 and on verification of
particulars, the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall enroll them in
Form-6.(ii)Every State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall maintain and
regularly update the State Register separately in Form-6 and also send the
particulars of practitioners enrolled with State Medical Councils for
Homoeopathy to Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy.(iii)A
practitioner of Homoeopathy registered with any other State Medical Council
for Homoeopathy and desires to practice in any such State or Union territory,
where the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy is yet to be constituted,
shall apply to the Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy, in Form-5
with fee as specified in Schedule and enroll such practitioners, in
Form—6:Provided that on verification of particulars, the State Medical Council
for Homoeopathy or Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy, as the
case may be, shall issue enrollment letter with a copy to the State Medical
Council for Homoeopathy, where practitioner is actually registered:Provided
further that any such enrolment shall not be equated with provisional or
temporary or permanent registration or direct registration and the concerned
State Medical Council for Homoeopathy shall also update the new address in the
record.

### 9. Updating the details of License in State or National Register. —

(1)The license of a medical practitioner of Homoeopathy shall be updated after
every five years in a uniform pattern by all the State Medical Councils for
Homoeopathy and by National Commission for Homoeopathy for the direct
registrations.(2)Any practitioner who fails to get his license updated within
six months from the due date, shall forfeit his right to practice in
Homoeopathy and also forfeit the right to continue in employment based upon
his license, unless updated with the payment of fees as may be laid down by
State Medical Councils forHomoeopathy or with the payment of fees as specified
in Schedule along with the application in Form-9 in case of direct
registration by the National Commission for Homoeopathy, as the case may
be:Provided that no such updating shall be allowed, if delay is beyond two
years and in such case, the license or registration shall be cancelled and
fresh application for license shall be required to be obtained with applicable
fee as specified in the Schedule or as laid down by the State Medical Council
forHomoeopathy, as the case may be.(3)All updating or removal made under this
regulation shall be informed to the Board of Ethics and Registration through
electronic and physical format by stating the reasons by State Medical
Councils for Homoeopathy.Removal or Restoration of name in the State Register
or National Register. -(1)Where the registration to any person has been
granted on the basis of unrecognised qualifications, forged documents or
through unfair means, his registration shall be removed by the respective
State Medical Council for Homoeopathy or Board of Ethics and Registration, as
the case may be, by recording the reasons thereof and after giving an
opportunity of being heard in person and all such cancellations shall be
intimated to the Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy within
fifteen days.(2)Any registered practitioner of Homoeopathy whose name has been
removed from a State Register of Homoeopathy, on any ground other than that he
does not possess requisite medical qualifications, and failed to update his
license in due time, and where any application of the said practitioner for
restorationof his name to the State Register of Homoeopathy has been rejected
by the State Medical Council for Homoeopathy, may file an appeal to the
President, Board of Ethics and Registration for Homoeopathy within thirty days
of such rejection, with all details.(3)In the case, where an appeal is allowed
in favor of a licensed practitioner, whose name has been removed from the
State or National Register, his name shall be restored accordingly, in the
respective register and updated.

### 11. Protection of earlier Registrations or Licenses. —

The license granted by any State Medical Councils for Homoeopathy or names
entered in the Central Register of Homoeopathy in Part-I and Part-II by the
erstwhile Central Council of Homoeopathy prior to constitution of the
Commission unless cancelled by the State Councils for Homoeopathy, shall be
valid for practice or employment.

### 12. The Commission shall power to relax any of the conditions specified in
this regulation, for reasons to be recorded in writing, to avoid any hardship
to the practitioners in extreme deserving cases.

![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-21%20at%2013-19-27%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-12-14%20-%20241089.pdf.png)![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-21%20at%2013-19-27%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-12-14%20-%20241089.pdf.png)![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-21%20at%2013-21-20%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-12-14%20-%20241089.pdf.png)![](/indigo/media/Screenshot%202023-03-21%20at%2013-21-54%20Extraordinary%20Gazette%20of%20India%202022-12-14%20-%20241089.pdf.png)

