## Union of India - Act

## National Housing Bank (Officers') Service Regulations, 1997

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# National Housing Bank (Officers') Service Regulations, 1997

## Rule NATIONAL-HOUSING-BANK-OFFICERS-SERVICE-REGULATIONS-1997 of 1997

  * Published on 11 April 1997 
  * Commenced on 11 April 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 April 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

National Housing Bank (Officers') Service Regulations, 1997Published vide
Notification Gazette of India, G.S.R. No. 213(E) dated 11th April, 1997

### 1920.

PreliminaryG.S.R. No. 213(E) dated 11th April, 1997. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by section 55 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987(53 of
1987), the Board, with the previous approval of the Reserve Bank of India and
in consultation with the Central Government, hereby makes the following
regulations, namely :-

## Chapter 1

### 1. Short title and Commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the National Housing Bank (Officers')
Service Regulations, 1997.(2)They shall come into force from the date of their
publication in the official Gazette.

### 2. Officer to whom the regulations apply.

(1)These regulations shall apply to all officers of the Bank.(2)They shall
also apply to officers transferred/posted/deputed outside India except to such
extent as may be specifically, or generally prescribed by the Competent
Authority.(3)They shall, however, not apply to officers employed temporarily
or on special contracts.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or
context.(a)"Act" means the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of
1987);(b)"appointed day" means the date of publication of these regulations in
the official Gazette.(c)"Bank" means the National Housing Bank.(d)"Board"
means the "Board of Directors" of the Bank.(e)"Competent Authority" means the
Chairman in the case of officers other than officers in junior and Middle
Management Grade and Executive Director in other cases.(f)"emoluments" means
the aggregate of salary and allowances, if any;(g)"family" means the spouse of
the Officer, the children including step children, parents, brothers and
sisters of the officer wholly dependent on the officer but shall not include a
legally separated spouse;(h)"Government" means the Central
Government;(i)"Guidelines of the Government" means such guidelines as may be
issued by the Government together with modifications or alterations thereof as
may, from time to time be made by the Government regarding the affairs of the
Bank;(j)"Officer" means a person fitted into or promoted to or appointed to
any of the grades specified in regulation 4 and any other person, who
immediately prior to the appointed date, was an officer of the Bank, and shall
also include any specialist or technical person as fitted or promoted or
appointed to whom any of these regulations has been made applicable under
regulation 2;(k)"pay" means basic pay including stagnation
increments;(l)"Salary" means the aggregate of the pay and dearness
allowance;(m)"Year" means a continuous period of twelve months;(n)"calendar
year" means the period commencing from the 1st day of January of a year and
ending with the 31st day of December of the same year.(o)[ "Wholly dependant
parents" means parents having monthly income of either or both, not exceeding
Rs 1500/- per month.] [Substitued by G.S.R. 213 (E), dated 11th April, 1997
(w.e.f. 11th April, 1997)](p)words and expressions used herein and not defined
but defined in the Act shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to
them in that Act.

## Chapter II  
Grades, Scales Of Pay And Categorisation Of Posts

### 4. Grades and Scales of Pay.

(1)There shall be the following five grades for officers with the scales of
pay specified against each of the grades :-

Grade | Scale |  Scaleof pay  
---|---|---  
(a)Special Grade |  Asapplicable to the Executive Directors of the Nationalised banks. |   
(b)Top Executive |  ScaleVII |  Rs.12650-300/2-13250-350/1-13600-400/1-14000  
|  ScaleVI |  Rs.11450-300/4-12650  
(c)Senior Management grade |  ScaleV |  Rs.10450-250/4-11450  
|  ScaleIV |  Rs.8970-230/1-9200-250/5-10450  
(d)Middle Management Grade |  ScaleIII |  Rs.8050-230/5-9200-250/2-9700  
|  ScaleII |  Rs.6210-230/11-8740  
(e)Junior Management |  Scale1 |  Rs.4250-230/3-4940-350/1-5290-230/12-8050  
  
Explanation. - Special Grade means pay, Allowances and other perquisites as
applicable to Executive Directors of the nationalised Banks.provided that
every officer who is governed by the grade and scale of pay as in force on the
appointed day having been fitted into the said grade and scale of pay in
accordance with Office Order No. 174/96 dated 7-2-1996 shall be deemed to have
been fitted in the scale of pay as set out above.(2)Nothing in sub-regulation
(1) shall be construed as requiring the Bank to have at all times, officers
serving in all these grades.

### 5. Increments.

(1)The increments shall be granted subject to the following sub-clauses:(a)The
increments specified in the scale of pay set out in sub-regulation (1) of
regulation 4 shall subject to the sanction of the Competent Authority, accrue
on an annual basis and shall be granted on the first day of the month in which
these fall due.(b)Officers in Scale I and II, 1 year after reaching the
maximum in their respective scales, shall be granted further increments
including stagnation increment(s) in the next higher scale only as specified
in (c) below subject to their crossing the efficiency bar.(c)Officers
including those referred to in (b) above who reach the maximum of the Middle
Management Grade Scale II and III shall draw stagnation increment(s) for every
three completed years of service after reaching the last stage of the Scale 11
or Scale III, as the case may be subject to maximum of two such increments of
Rs. 230/- each for Officers in the last stage of Scale II and one such
increment of Rs. 250/- for Officers in the last stage of Scale III. However,
such officers who are in Substantive Scale III i.e. those who are promoted or
recruited in Scale Ill Shall draw a second Stagnation increment of Rs. 250/-
after three years of receiving the first stagnation increment.Note. - Grant of
such increment in next higher Scale Shall not amount to promotion. Officers
even after receipt of such increment shall continue to get privileges,
perquisites duties, responsibilities or posts of their substantive Scale 1 of
Scale II, as the case may be.(2)An additional increment shall be granted in
the scale of pay for passing each part of the CAIIB examination.Explanation. -
Officers who reach or have reached the maximum in the pay scale and are unable
to move further except by way of promotion shall be granted Professional
Qualification allowance in lieu of additional increments in consideration of
passing CAIII3 examination as under:Those who have passed only Part I of CAIIB
: Rs. 120/- p.m. after one year on reaching the top of the scale.Those who
have passed both Parts of CAIIB :(i)Rs. 120/- p.m. after 1 year on reaching
the top of the scale(ii)Rs. 300/- p.m. after 2 years of reaching the top of
the scale.Note. - (a) Revised professional qualification allowance shall rank
for Dearness Allowance, House rent Allowance and Superannuation Benefits.(b)If
an Officer who is in receipt of Professional Qualification Allowance is
promoted to next higher scale, he shall, subject to Government guidelines, if
any, be granted, on fitment into such higher scale, additional increment(s)
for passing CAIIB to the extent increments are available in the scale and if
no increments are available in the scale or only one increment is available in
the scale, the officer shall be eligible for Professional Qualification
Allowance in lieu of increment(s).

### 6. Categorisation.

\- Having regard to the responsibilities and functions exercisable, every post
of an officer in the Bank shall be categorised by the Board or any authority
specified by the Board in this behalf as falling in any one of the grades or
scales mentioned in regulation 4, and such categorisation may be reviewed by
the Board or such authority.

### 7. Categorisation on the appointed day.

\- Subject to the provisions of regulation 6, the officers in the existing
grades/scales/posts immediately before the appointed day shall be categorised
as specified in the Table below :Table

Grades/Scales/posts |  Gradeor Scale in which placed  
---|---  
1 | 2  
ExecutiveDirector Chief General Manager(s) |  SpecialGrade Top Executive Grade Scale and Special Allowance as drawnof the appointed day  
GeneralManager(s), Grade A and Scale VII |  TopExecutive Grade Scale VII  
DeputyGeneral Managers Grade B and Scale VI |  TopExecutive Grade Scale VI  
Asst.General Managers Grade C and Scale V |  Sr.Management Grade Scale V  
RegionalManager Grade D and Scale IV |  Sr.Management Grade Scale IV  
ManagersGrade E and Scale III |  MiddleManagement Grade Scale III  
DeputyManagers Grade F and Scale II |  MiddleManagement Grade Scale II  
Asst.Managers Grade G and Scale I |  JuniorManagement Grade Scale I  
  
Provided that any difficulties and anomalies arising out of the above
categorisation shall be referred to a Committee consisting of the Chairman and
such other persons as may be appointed by the Government for its decision.

## Chapter III  
Appointment, Probation, Confirmation, Promotion, Seniority And Termination

### 8. Appointments.

(1)The Board shall specify from time to time the number of posts of Officers
in Scale lI and above and the Chairman shall specify the number of posts of
other officers in the Bank. The number of new posts created other than Scale
II shall be reported to the Board from time to time.(2)All appointments in and
promotions to the officer grade shall be made by the Competent Authority in
the light of the guidelines (including those in relation to reservation) of
the Government, if any, in this regard from time to time.

### 9. Probation.

(1)An Officer directly appointed to the junior management grade shall be on
probation for a period of two years.(2)An employee of the Bank promoted as an
officer in the junior management grade shall be on probation for one
year.(3)An officer appointed to any other grade shall be on probation for such
period as may be decided by the Bank.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in
above sub-regulations, the competent authority may, in the case of any
officer, extend or reduce the period of probation or dispense with probation.

### 10. Confirmation.

(1)An officer shall be confirmed in the service of the Bank subject to his
being found suitable for confirmation by the Competent Authority.(2)If in the
opinion of the Competent Authority an officer has not performed his duties
satisfactorily during his probation, the officer's probation may be extended
by a further period not exceeding one year.(3)Where during the period of
probation, including the period of extension, if any, the Competent Authority
is of the opinion that the officer is not fit for confirmation.(a)in the case
of a direct appointee, his services may be terminated by one month's notice or
payment of one month's emoluments in lieu thereof, and(b)in the case of
promotee from the Bank's services, he may be reverted to the grade or cadre
from which he was promoted.

### 11. Promotions.

(1)Promotions to all grades of officers in the Bank shall be made in
accordance with the policy laid down by the Board from time to time having
regard to the guidelines of the Government, if any.(2)For the avoidance of
doubts, it is clarified that this regulation shall also apply to promotions of
any category of employees to the junior management grade.

### 12. Seniority.

(1)Each year, the Bank shall prepare a list of officers in its service showing
their names in the order of their seniority on an all India basis and
containing such other particulars as the Bank may determine. A copy of such
list shall be kept at every branch or office of the Bank.(2)Seniority of an
officer in a grade or scale be reckoned with reference to the date of his
appointment in the grade or scale. Where there are two or more officers of the
same length of service in that grade or scale, their inter-se-seniority shall
be reckoned with reference to their seniority in the immediately preceding
grade or scale or the previous cadre to which they belonged in the Bank's
service. Where two or more officers have the same length of service in such
preceding grade or scale or such previous cadre, their seniority shall be
determined with reference to their seniority in the Bank in the immediately
preceding grade or scale or cadre, as the case may be.(3)Subject to the
provision of sub-regulation (2) :(a)the inter-se-seniority of officers
directly recruited in a batch to any grade or scale shall be reckoned with
reference to the rank allotted to them at the time of such recruitment.(b)If,
however, two or more officers have joined on the same date and no rank is
allotted to them at the time of their recruitment, seniority in the common
seniority list shall be determined on the basis of their date of
birth.(c)Inter se seniority of the officers recruited under the general
category and reserved category on the same date shall be determined in
accordance with the marks obtained by such candidates, without adding notional
marks for the reserved candidates.Provided that, the inter-se-seniority of the
officers promoted or empanelled for promotion prior to the appointed date
shall not be prejudiced.(4)In case of an officer whose probation has been
extended, his seniority shall be reckoned just below all the officers, if any,
recruited or promoted in the same batch along with him.(5)Seniority of the
officers in the service of the Bank on the appointed day shall be determined
by the Board having regard to the provisions of this regulation and such other
factors as it may consider appropriate for this purpose.

### 13. Age of retirement.

\- [(1) The age of retirement of an officer employee shall be 60 years, but no
extension shall be given to any officer beyond 60 years of age] [Substitued by
G.S.R. 213 (E), dated 11th April, 1997 (w.e.f. 11th April, 1997)]Provided that
the Bank may, at its discretion, on review by the Special Committee(s) as
provided hereinafter in sub-regulation (2) retire on officer employee in
public interest on or at any time after the completion of 55 years of age or
on or at anytime after the completion of 30 years of total service as an
officer employee or otherwise, whichever is earlier.Provided further that
before retiring an officer employee, at least three months notice in writing
or an amount equivalent to three months pay and allowances, shall be given to
such officer employee :Provided further that an officer aggrieved by the order
of the Competent Authority, as provided in sub-regulation(2), may within one
month of the passing of the order, give in waiting a representation to the
Board against the decision of Competent Authority, and on receipt of such
representation from the concerned officer, the Board shall consider his
representation and take a decision within a period of three months, where the
Board decides that the order passed by the Competent Authority is not
justified, the concerned officer shall be reinstated as though the Competent
Authority has not passed the order.Provided also that nothing in this
regulation shall be deemed to preclude an officer employee from retiring
earlier pursuant to the option exercised by him in accordance with the rules
in the Bank.Explanation. - An officer will retire on the day of the month in
which he completes his age of retirement. An officer whose date of birth falls
on the first of a month, shall retire on the last day of the preceding
month.(2)The Bank shall constitute a special committee(s) consisting of not
less than three members, to review, whether an officer employee should be
retired in accordance with the first proviso to sub-regulation (1). Such
Committee(s) shall, from time to time, review the case of each officer
employee on the basis of criteria/guidelines given in annex and no order of
retirement shall be made unless the special Committee(s) recommend(s) in
writing to the Competent Authority the retirement of the officer employee.

### 14. Termination of service.

(1)(a)Subject to sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 10, where the Bank is
satisfied that the performance of an officer is unsatisfactory or inadequate
or there is a bona fide suspicion about his integrity or his retention in the
Bank's Service would be prejudicial to the interest of the Bank, and where it
is not possible or expedient to proceed against him as per the disciplinary
procedure, the Bank may terminate his service on giving him three months
notice or emoluments in lieu thereof in accordance with the guidelines issued
by the government from time to time.(b)Order of termination under this sub-
regulation shall not be made unless such officer has been given a reasonable
opportunity of making a representation to the Bank against the proposed
order.(c)The decision to terminate the services of an officer employee under
sub regulation (a) above will be taken only by the Chairman.(d)The officer
employee shall be entitled to appeal against any order passed under sub
regulation (a) above by preferring an appeal within one month to the Board of
Directors of the Bank. If the appeal is allowed the order under sub regulation
(a) shall stand cancelled.(e)Where an officer employee whose services have
been terminated and who has been paid an amount of three months emoluments in
lieu of notice and on appeal his termination is cancelled, the amount paid to
him in lieu of notice shall be adjusted against the salary that he would have
earned, had his services not been terminated and he shall continue in the
banks employment on same terms and conditions as if the order of termination
had not passed at all.(f)an officer employee whose services are terminated
under sub regulation (a) above shall be paid gratuity, provident fund
including employer's contribution and all other dues may be admissible to him
as per rules notwithstanding the years of service rendered.(g)Nothing
contained hereinabove will affect the Bank's right to retire an officer
employee under Regulation 13(1)--(2)(a)An officer shall not leave or
discontinue his service in the Bank without giving a notice in writing of a
period of not less than 3 months to the competent authority. Provided that the
Competent Authority, may at his discretion, reduce the period of 3 months or
waive the requirement of notice.(b)In case no notice has been given by the
concerned officer under clause (a) such officer shall be liable to pay to the
Bank and the amount equal to his substantive pay for the period of notice
required of him.(c)An officer who has attained the age of 50 years may
voluntarily retire after giving to the Competent Authority three months'
notice in writing.Provided that this regulation shall not apply to an officer
who is on deputation abroad, unless, after having been transferred or having
returned to India he has resumed the charge of the Post in India and served
for a period of not less than one year.Provided further that this sub-
regulation shall not apply to an officer who seeks retirement form, service
for being absorbed permanently in an autonomous body or a public sector
undertaking to which he is on deputation at the time of seeking voluntary
retirement.(d)The competent authority may, if so requested by the officer
retiring pursuant to sub-regulation (2)(c) waive the notice of voluntary
retirement with respect to its full period or part thereof if the Competent
Authority is satisfied that such waiver will not cause any administrative
inconvenience.(3)(a)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
sub-regulation(2) an officer against whom disciplines proceedings are pending
shall not leave/discontinue or resign form service in the Bank without the
prior approval in writing of the Competent Authority and any notice of
resignation given by such an officer before or during disciplinary proceedings
shall not take effect unless it is accepted by the Competent
Authority.(b)Disciplinary proceedings shall be deemed to be pending against an
employee for the purpose of this regulation if has been placed under
suspension or any notice has been issued to him to show cause why disciplinary
proceeding should not be instituted against him and will be deemed to be
pending until final orders are passed by the Competent Authority.(c)The
officer against whom disciplinary proceedings have been initiated will cease
to be in service on the date of superannuation but the disciplinary
proceedings will continue as if he was in service until the proceedings are
concluded and final order is passed in respect thereof. The concerned officer
will not receive any pay and/or allowance after the date of superannuation. He
will also not be entitled for the payment of retirement benefits till the
proceedings are completed and final order is passed thereon except his own
contributions to Provident Fund.

## Chapter Allowances

### 15. Dearness Allowance.

(a)Dearness Allowance shall be payable for every rise or fall of 4 points over
1148 points in the quarterly average of the All India Average Working Class
Consumer Price Index (General) Base 1960 = 100(b)Dearness Allowance shall be
payable as per the following rates :(i)0.35% of 'pay' up to Rs. 4800/-
plus.(ii)0.29% of 'pay' above Rs. 4800/- to Rs. 7700/- plus.(iii)0.17% of
'pay' above Rs.7700/- to 8200/- plus.(iv)0.09% of 'pay' above Rs. 8200/-

### 16. House Rent Allowance.

\- Whereas an officer is not provided with any residential accommodation by
the Bank, he shall be eligible for House rent allowance at the following
rates:

I | II  
---|---  
(i)Major 'A' Class cities and Project Area Centres in Group A |  13%of Pay  
(ii)Other places in Area I and Project Area Centres in Group B |  12%of Pay  
(iii)Area 1 and State Capitals and Capitals of Union Territories |  10.5%of Pay  
(iv)Area 111 |  9.5%of Pay  
  
Provided that, if an officer produces a rent receipt, the house rent allowance
payable to him shall be the actual rent paid by him for his residential
accommodation in excess over 4% of pay in the first stage of the scale of pay
in which he is placed with a maximum of 150% of the HRA payable, as per the
rate mentioned above. Likewise, claims of officers for HRA, linked to the cost
of their ownership accommodation shall also he restricted to 15% of HRA.

### 17. Other Allowances.

\- An officer shall be eligible for the following other allowances,
namely:(i)City Compensatory Allowance : City Compensatory Allowance shall be
payable at the following rates:

Places | Rates  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(a)Places in Area I and in the state of Goa |  4.5%,of basic pay subject to maximum of Rs. 335/- p.m.  
(b)Places with population of 5 lakhs and over and State Capitals andChandigarh, Pondicherry and Port Blair |  3.5%of basic pay subject to maximum of Rs. 230/- p.m.  
  
(ii)Deputation allowance. - If an officer is deputated to serve outside the
Bank, he may opt to receive the emoluments attached to the post to which he is
deputed. Alternatively, he may in addition to his pay, draw a deputation
allowance of 12% of pay subject to maximum of Rs. 700/- and such other-
allowance as he would have drawn had he been posted in the Bank's service at
that place.Provided that where he is deputed to an organisation which is
located at the same place where he was posted immediately prior to his
deputation he shall receive a deputation allowance equal to 6% of his pay,
subject to a maximum of Rs. 350/-.Provided further that an officer on
deputation to the Training Establishment of the Bank as faculty member or to
Banking Service Recruitment Board shall be eligible for deputation allowance
at 6% of his pay, subject to a maximum of Rs. 350/-.(iii)Mid Academic Year
Transfer Allowance.-If an officer is transferred from one place to another in
the midst of an academic year and if he has one or more children studying in
school or college, in the former place, a mid academic year transfer allowance
of Rs. 150/- per month from the date he reports to the later place upto the
end of academic year in respect of all the children provided that such
allowance shall cease if all the children cease studying at the former place.

## Chapter V  
Perquisites

### 18. Medical Aid.

(1)An officer shall be eligible for reimbursement of medical expenses actually
incurred by him in respect of himself and his family on the following basis
namely:(a)Medical Expenses. - Reimbursement of medical expenses of an officer
in the pay range specified in Column 1 of the table below and his family may
be made on the strength of the Officer's own certificate of having incurred
such expenditure supported by a statement of accounts for the amounts claimed
subject to the limit specified in Column 2 thereof:Table

PayRange |  Reimbursementlimit p.a.  
---|---  
1 | 2  
Rs.4250/- to Rs. 6210/- p.m. |  Rs.750/-  
Rs.6211/- p.m. and above |  Rs.1000/-  
  
Note: - An officer may be allowed to accumulate unavailed medical aid so as
not to exceed at any time three times the maximum amount provided
above.Explanation : "Family" of an officer for the purpose of this regulation
shall consist of spouse, wholly dependent children and wholly dependent
parents only.(b)Hospitalisation Expenses:(i)Hospitalisation charges will be
reimbursed to the extent of 90% in the case of an officer and 60`1 in the case
of his family members in respect of all cases which require hospitalisation.
Reimbursement on the basis of bills, vouchers, etc., of expenses incurred
shall be subject to ceiling determined from time to time in accordance with
the guidelines of Government.(ii)The officers of members of their families (as
the case may be ) are expected to secure admission in a Government or
Municipal Hospital or any private hospital i.e. hospitals under the management
of a Trust. Charitable institution or a religious mission. But in unavoidable
circumstances, the officers or their family member or both may avail
themselves of the services of one of the approved private nursing homes or
private hospitals approved by the Bank. Reimbursement in such cases, should
however, he restricted to the amount which would have been reimbursable in
case the patient was admitted to one of the hospitals mentioned
above.(iii)Medical expenses incurred in respect of the following diseases
which need domiciliary treatment as may be certified by the recognised
hospital authorities and Bank's medical officer shall be deemed as
hospitalisation expenses and reimbursed to the extent of 90% in case of an
officer and 60% in the case of his family members : Cancer, Tuberculosis,
Paralysis, Cardiac Ailment, Tumor, Small Pox, Pleurosy, Diptheria, Leprosy,
Kidney Ailment.(2)Notwithstanding the medical benefits (including
hospitalisation etc.) listed in sub-regulation(1) above and in complete
substitution of the same, the Board may decide to retain in an unaltered form
medical benefits (including hospitalisation etc.) as may be available in the
Bank on the appointed day and if the Board so decides. All officers should be
eligible for reimbursement of medical expenses only as per the terms and
conditions obtaining in the Bank in appointed day for grant of medical
benefits (including hospitalisation etc.).(3)Medical Aid and Hospitalisation
facilities shall also be admissible to the officers who are placed under
suspension

### 19. Residential Accommodation.

\- No officer shall be entitled as of right to be provided with residential
accommodation by the Bank. It shall, however be open to the Bank to Provide
unfurnished resident accommodation on payment by the officer at the rate of 4%
pay in the first stage of the scale of pay in which he is placed or the
standard rent for the accommodation whichever is less.Provided further that,
where such residential accommodation is provided by the Bank, the charge for
electric water, gas, conservancy and cable T.V. charges etc. shall be borne by
the officer.

### 20. Bank's Car for personal purposes.

(1)No officer, other than the officer authorised by the Board, in accordance
with the guidelines of the Government shall be allowed the use of the Bank's
Car for personal purposes.(2)The use of the Bank's car for personal purposes
should be subject to the scheme approved by the Board in accordance with the
guidelines issued by the Government from time to time.

### 21. Loan for the purchase of conveyance.

\- The Bank may grant to an officer confirmed in the Bank's service loan for
the purchase of a motor car or other conveyance, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Board may decide either generally or with reference to a
particular loan, having regard to the guidelines of the Government.

### 22. Loans for purchase of houses.

\- The Bank may grant to an officer confirmed in the Bank's service a loan for
the purchase of land for construction of a house or for purchase or
construction of a house, flat or apartment or for extension or renovation of a
house, flat or apartment, on such terms and conditions as the Board may decide
generally or with reference to any particular loan having regard to the
guidelines issued by the Government.

### 23. Entertainment expenses and club membership fees.

\- The Bank may reimburse to an officer such entertainment expenses, and such
fees for membership of clubs and professional institutions as may be decided
by the Board in accordance with the guidelines of the Government.

## Chapter VI  
Leave

### 24. Kinds of Leave.

\- Subject to the grant of leave being determined by the exigencies of
service, an officer shall be eligible for the following kinds of
leave:-(a)Casual Leave(b)Privilege Leave(c)Sick Leave(d)Special Sick
Leave(e)Maternity Leave(f)Extraordinary Leave on loss o: pay(g)Special Casual
Leave and Special Leave

### 25. Casual Leave.

(1)An officer shall be eligible for casual leave on full emoluments for 12
working days in a year provided that not more than four days casual leave may
be availed of at any one time.(2)Casual leave not availed of in any year may
be suffixed or prefixed to sick leave in the following year.

### 26. Privilege Leave.

(1)An officer shall be eligible for privilege leave computed at one day for
every 11 days of service on duty provided that the commencement of service no
privilege leave may be availed of, before completion of 11 months of service
on duty.(2)An officer on privilege leave shall be entitled to full emoluments
for the period of leave.(3)The period of privilege leave to which an officer
is entitled at any time shall be the period which he has earned, less the
period of leaves availed of.(4)Privilege Leave may be accumulated upto not
more than 240 days except where leave has been applied for and it has been
refused.(5)An officer desiring to avail of privilege leave shall ordinarily
give not less than one month's of his intention to avail of such leave.

### 27. Sick Leave.

(1)An officer shall be eligible for 30 days of sick leave for each completed
year of service subject to a maximum of 18 months during the entire service.
Such leave can be accumulate upto 540 days during the entire service and may
be availed of only on production of medical certificate by a medical
practitioner acceptable to the Bank or at the Bank's discretion nominated by
it at its cost.(2)in respect of the period of sick leave an officer shall be
eligible to receive one half of the full emoluments:Provided that if an
officer so desires, the Bank may permit him to draw full emolument in respect
of any portion of sick leave granted to him twice the amount of such period on
full emoluments being debited against Sick Leave Account.(3)The Bank may
require any officer desiring to resume duty on the expiry of sick leave, to
produce medical certificate saying that he is fit for duty.

### 28. Additional Sick Leave.

\- Where an officer has put in a service of 24 years, he shall be eligible to
additional sick leave at the rate of one month for each year of service in
excess of 24 years subject to a maximum of three months of additional sick
leave.

### 29. Maternity Leave.

\- Leave upto a period of 3 months at a time may be granted by way of
maternity leave including in respect of post natal period or at the time of
miscarriage or abortion, so however, that not more than 12 months of such
leave shall be available during the entire period of service of the officer.

### 30. Extraordinary Leave.

\- An officer shall be eligible for extraordinary leave on loss of pay and
allowances for not more than 360 days during the entire period of service.
Such leave may not be availed of except for sufficient reasons for more than
90 days at a time. Provided that in special circumstances, the Board may grant
extraordinary leave on loss of pay and allowances to an officer up to a total
period of 720 days.

### 31. Special Casual Leave & Special Leave.

\- An officer may be granted Special Casual leave and may Special Leave for
sports, donation of blood, family planning, defending another officer in any
inquiry, or for joining civil defence services as may be decided by the Board
in accordance with the guidelines of the Government.

### 32. Lapse of Leave.

\- All leave shall lapse on the death of the officer or if he cease to be in
the service of the Bank, provided that where an officers dies in service,
there shall be payable to his legal representative sums which would have been
payable to the officer if he has availed of the privilege leave, that he had
accumulated at the time of his death:Provided further that where an officer
retires from the Bank's he shall be eligible to be paid a sum equivalent to
the emoluments of any period of privilege leave that he had accumulated.

### 33. Recall for duty.

\- An officer on leave may be recalled to duty by the Competent Authority
wherever the Bank deems fit to do so but if the officer is at that time out of
station, he shall be eligible to be paid the actual expenses incurred by him
and the members of his family for coming back to the station.

### 34. Furnishing the leave address to the Bank.

\- An officer, who has been sanctioned leave, and leaves his place of duty
shall furnish to the Bank, the address at which he can be contacted while out
of station.

## Chapter VII  
Reimbursement Of Expenses On Travel

### 35. Mode of travel and expenses on Travel.

\- The following provisions shall apply whenever an officer is required to
travel on duty :-(1)(i)An officer in junior Management Grade may travel by 1st
class or AC Sleeper by train. He may, however travel by air (economy class) if
the distance to be travelled is more than 500 kms. He may, however, travels
air (economy class) even for a shorter distance if so permitted by the
Competent Authority, having regard to the exigencies business or public
interest.(ii)An Officer in Middle Management Grade may travel by 1st class or
AC Sleeper by train. He may, however travel by air (economy class) if the
distance to be travelled is more than 500 kms. He may, however travel by air
(economy class) even for a shorter distance if so permitted by the Competent
Authority, having regard to the exigencies or business or public
interest.(iii)An officer is Senior Management or Top Executive Grade may
travel by train AC 1st class or by air (economy class).(iv)An officer in
Senior Management or Top Executive Grade may travel by car between places nor
connected air or rail provided that the distance does not exceed 500 kms.
However, when a major part of the distance between the two places can be
covered by air or rail only the rest of the distance should normally be
covered by car.(v)Any other officer may be authorised by the Competent
authority having regard to the exigencies of business travel by his own
vehicle or by taxi or by the Bank's vehicle.(2)(i)For air or rail travel, a
single fare for the officer will be reimbursed.(ii)For travel by road by his
own vehicle, such rate on per kilometre basis as maybe decided by the Bank
from time to time, having regard to the type of vehicle used. the cost to be
incurred and the terrain covered will be reimbursed.(iii)Where hiring of a
taxi is permitted, the actual taxi charges will be reimbursed.(iv)For travel
by public motor or water transport, the actual fare will be
reimbursed.(3)Actual expenses incurred for transport, and porterage will be
reimbursed subject to the following limits:

Grades/Scalesof officers |  Major'A' Class cities |  AreaI |  Otherplaces  
---|---|---|---  
IVand above I,II,III |  Rs.30/- |  Rs.25/- |  Rs.20/-  
|  Rs.25/- |  Rs.25/- |  Rs.20/-  
  
Notes. - (i) Major A class cities are Ahmedabad, Bombay, Banglore, Calcutta,
Hyderabad, Kanpur, Madras, New Dehli, Nagpur, Pune and Captials of other
states and UTs.(ii)Area I includes cities with population of 3 lakhs and
above, as per 1991 census.(4)An officer in the Grade/Scale set out in Column I
of the Table below shall he entitled to Halting Allowance at it corresponding
rates set out in column 2 thereof.

DailyAllowance (Rupees)  
---  
Grades/Scalesof officers |  Major'A' Class cities |  AreaI |  Otherplaces  
Officerin Scale IV and above | 250 | 200 | 175  
Officersin Scales I,II & III | 200 | 175 | 150  
  
Provided that:(a)Where the total period of absence is less than 8 hours, but
more than 4 hours. Halting Allowance at half the above rates shall be
payable.(b)Officer in various grades/scale may be reimbursed the actual hotel
expenses, restricting to single room accommodation charges in ITDC Hotels,
subject to the limits as given below:

Grades/Scalesof officers |  Eligibilityto stay |  BoardingCharges (Rs.)  
---|---|---  
|  |  Major 'A' ClassCities | Area I | Other places  
Scale VI & VII | 4*Hotel | 250 | 200 | 175  
Scale V | 3*Hotel | 250 | 200 | 175  
Scale IV | 3*Hotel | 250 | 200 | 175  
Scale II & III | 2*Hotel (Non A/C) | 200 | 175 | 150  
Scale I | I*Hotel (Non A/C) | 200 | 175 | 150  
  
Notes: (i) Wherever the existing hotel/lodging entitlement of officers in
different scales are higher than the IBA norms, the same shall be protected.
This protection would be, however, available only to those officers who are
already in Banks's service and with respect to their grades prior to
1-12-1995. Hotel/lodging entitlement of persons joining the Bank subsequently
or existing officers who are promoted on or after 1-12-1995 would be as per
the standard IBA norms adopted by the Bank.(ii)In the case of such Scale H
officers, who were in Bank's Service in this Scale prior to 1-12-1995. the
protection as per clause (i) above the would be available even after promotion
to Scale III.(iii)For the stay at Delhi and Bombay, the following relaxations
would be admissible.Delhi : In case of non-availability of accommodation in
any ITDC hotel, as per entitlement, officers may be reimbursed actual lodging
expenses for the stay in other hotels (non-ITDC) not exceeding 125% of the
tariff of respective ITDC hotels of their entitled class in Delhi.Bombay : As
there are no ITDC hotels in Bombay, officers may stay in other hotels (non-
ITDC) of their entitled stay category and they may be reimbursed the lodging
expenses on actual basis. If, however, they are unable to stay in a hotel as
per their eligibility and stay in a hotel with no star category or higher star
category, he may be reimbursed the actual tariff paid not exceeding 125% of
the tariff charged by the ITDC hotel in Delhi.(c)Where lodging is provided at
Bank's cost/arranged through the Bank free of cost. 3/4th of the Halting
Allowance will be admissible.(d)Where boarding is provided at Bank's
cost/arranged through the Bank free of Cost, 1/2 of the Halting Allowance will
be admissible.(e)Where lodging and boarding at Bank's cost/arranged through
the Bank free of cost, 1/4 of the Halting Allowance will be admissible. Where,
however, an officer claims boarding expenses on declaration basis production
of bill for actual expenses incurred, then he shall not be eligible for 1/4th
of the Halting Allowance.(f)A supplementary Diet allowance of Rs. 10/-per day
of halt outside headquarters on inspection duty may be paid to all inspecting
officers.Explanation. - For the purpose of computing halting allowance per
diem shall mean each period of 24 hours or any subsequent part thereof
reckoned from the reporting time for departure in the case of air travel, and
the scheduled time of departure in other cases to the actual time of arrival.
Where the total period of absence is less than 24 hours, 'per diem' shall mean
a period of not less than 8 hours.

### 36. Transfer travelling allowance etc.

(1)(i)An officer on transfer and the members of his family will be eligible to
travel to the place of posting by the same mode of travel and class of
accommodation, as in the case of travel on tour by the officer.(ii)When the
members of the family travel by road, the entitlement will be actual or the
1st class rail fare for the distance covered, whichever is less.Explanation. -
"Family" for the purpose of this regulation will be spouse as also children
(including step children) parents, brothers and sisters residing with and
wholly dependent on the officer employee.(2)(i)An officer on transfer will be
reimbursed his expenses for transporting his baggage by goods train up to the
following limits :

PayRange |  Wherehe has family |  Wherehe has no family  
---|---|---  
Rs.4250/- p.m. to Rs. 6210/- p.m. |  3000kgs 1000 kgs |   
Rs.6211/- p.m. and above |  FullWagons |  2000kgs  
  
(ii)If an officer eligible for full wag on avails of the facility of
'Container Service' by railways, he will be reimbursed actual charges for one
container if he is in junior or Middle Management Grade Scale and for two
containers if he is in Senior or Top Management Grade. If, the baggage is
transported by road between places connected by rail, the reimbursement will
be limited to the actual freight charges against submission of bills subject
to the cost not exceeding the cost of transport of the maximum permissible
quantity by goods train. If there is no railway station or railway out-agency
at the old or new place of posting, the officer will be paid the actual cost
of transporting the baggage by road up to the nearest railway station or
railway out-agency. If both the places do not have railway station/out-agency,
the officer will be paid actual cost of transporting of the baggage by road up
to the stipulated weights by an approved transport operator.(iii)An officer
who owns a car will be eligible to claim the cost of transporting it by train
to the place of transfer at goods train rate, and where the car is driven by
road, the cost of so taking if, at rates decided by the Board.(iv)An officer
who owns a scooter, motor cycle or any other vehicle, will be eligible to
claim the cost of transporting it to the place of transfer at goods train rate
and if the vehicle is transported by lorry, the actual lorry charges. If the
vehicle is driven by road, the officer will be eligible to claim at the rate
decided by the Board.(3)An officer on transfer will be eligible to draw a lump
sum amount as indicated below for expense connected with packing, local
transportation, insuring the baggage, etc.

Grade |  Lumpsum  
---|---  
TopManagement & Senior Management | Rs.1500/-  
TopManagement & Junior Management | Rs.1000/-  
  
(4)An officer transferred to any station shall be eligible to claim halting
allowance for the period spent on journey at the same rates as in the case of
travel on tour.Provided that where no residential accommodation is made
available by the Bank to an officer at the new place of posting and where such
an officer may incur additional expenses in the process of taking over charge,
for the reasons beyond his control, the Competent Authority may consider, on
merit, grant of halting allowance to him upto a maximum period of 15 days or
till the time the quarters are made available to him, whichever is earlier.

### 37. Travelling allowance on retirement.

\- On retirement, an officer will be eligible to claim travelling allowance,
baggage and other expenses for himself and his family as on transfer from the
last station at which he is posted to the place where he proposes to settle
down on retirement.

### 38. Leave Travel Concession.

\- (i) During each block of four years, an officer shall be eligible for Leave
Travel Concession for travel to his home town once in each block of two years.
Alternatively, he may travel in one block of two years to his home town and in
other block to any place in India by the shortest route.(ii)Once in every four
years, when an officer avails of Leave Travel Concession, he may be permitted
to surrender and encash his privilege leave not exceeding one month at a time.
Alternatively, he may whilst travelling in one block of two years to his home
town and in any other block to any place in India, be permitted encashment of
privilege Leave with a maximum of 15 days in each block or 30 days in one
block. For the purpose of leave encashment all the emoluments payable for the
month during which the availment of the Leave Travel Concession commences
shall be admissible.Provided that an officer at his option shall be permitted
to encash one day's additional privilege leave of donation to the Prime
Minister's Relief Fund subject to his giving a letter to the Bank to that
effect and authorising the Bank to remit the amount to the Fund.(iii)The mode
and the class by which an officer and his family may avail of Leave Travel
Concession shall be the same by which the officer is eligible under Regulation
35(1), and other terms and conditions subject to which the leave travel
concession maybe availed of by an officer shall begs decided by the Board from
time to time.

## Chapter VIII  
Terminal Benefits

### 39. Provident Fund.

(1)Every officer shall become a member of the provident fund constituted by
the Bank, unless he is already a member of that fund and shall agree to be
bound by the rules governing such fund.(2)The Bank shall contribute to the
provident Fund in accordance with the rules governing the Provident Fund, from
time to time, provided that the amount contributed by it shall not be more
than 10% of pay of the officer.

### 40. Gratuity.

(1)Every officer shall be eligible for gratuity
on:(a)Retirement(b)death(c)Disablement rending him unfit for further service
as certified by a Medical Officer approved by the Bank, or(d)Resignation after
completing 10 years of continuous service, or(e)Termination of service in any
other way except by way of punishment after completion of 10 years of
service.(2)The amount of Gratuity payable to an officer shall be one month's
pay for every completed year of service in the Bank, subject to maximum of 15
month's pay.Provided that where an officer has completed more than 30 years of
service, he shall be eligible by way of Gratuity for an additional amount at
the rate of one half of a month's pay of each completed years of service
beyond thirty years.Provided further that an officer, who has been appointed
in the Bank's service from Reserve Bank or any other institution approved in
this behalf by the Chairman and Managing Director, shall be eligible for the
gratuity at the rate provided hereinabove for the period of his service in the
Reserve Bank or any such institution prior to the date of his appointment in
the Bank provided he had not been paid gratuity for such period by his parent
institution and such institution has agreed to remit the proportionate amount
to the Bank.Provided also that an officer, who has been appointed in the Bank'
s service from Reserve Bank or any other institution approved in this behalf
by the Chairman and Managing Director, shall be eligible to take into account
the services rendered by him in the Reserve Bank or any such institution prior
to the date of his appointment in the Bank for the purposes of clauses (d) and
(c) of sub-regulation (1) provided that he had not been paid gratuity for such
period by his parent institution.Note: If the fraction of service beyond
completed years of service is six months or more, gratuity will be paid pro-
rata for the period.

## Chapter IX  
Transferability

### 41. Transferability.

\- Every officer is liable for transfer to any office or branch of the Bank or
to any place in India.

### 42.

Every officer shall be available for Bank's duties at any time of the day.

### 43. Joining time on transfer.

\- (i) An officer shall he eligible for joining time on one occasion, and not
exceeding seven days, exclusive of the number of days spent on travel, to
enable hint:(a)to join a new post to which he is appointed while on duty in
his old post; or(b)to join a new post return form leave.(ii)During the joining
time an officer shall be eligible to draw the emoluments as applicable to the
place of transfer.(iii)In calculating the joining time admissible to an
officer, the day on which he is relieved from his old post shall be excluded,
but public holidays following the day of his relief shall not be included in
computing the joining time.(iv)No joining time shall be admissible to an
officer when the transfer does not involve a posting to a different
place.(v)No joining time shall be admissible to an officer when his posting is
of a temporary mature, irrespective of the fact that the posting is to a place
or station other than the one at which he is permanently posted.

## Chapter X  
Miscellaneous

### 44. Power to implement regulation.

\- The Chairman may from time to time, issue such instructions or directions
as may, in his opinion, be necessary for giving effect to or carrying out the
provisions of these regulations.

### 45. Interpretation of "Service".

\- In interpreting any of these regulations, unless the context otherwise
requires, service of an officer, shall be regarded as including his service in
the Bank prior to the date of coming into force of these regulations.

### 46. Repeal and Saving.

(1)Any Scheme, order or circular issued by the Chairman governing any matter
relating to appointment, promotion leave rules, medical scheme, conveyance
scheme, residential accommodation scheme and other perquisites shall cease to
have effect on the appointed day.(2)Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall affect the
validity of anything done or any claim arising prior to the appointed day on
any matter relating to service of officer or the Bank.

### 47. Interpretation.

\- If any question arises as to the application or interpretation of any of
these regulations, it shall be referred to the Board for its decision.
AnnexCriteria/guidelines For Premature Retirement Of Officers Under Regulation
13(2) Of National Housing Bank (Officers') Service Regulations,
1997Criteria/GuidelinesThe special committee/s will take into consideration
the following points while considering the case of officers for pre-mature
retirement under Regulation 13(2):(1)The recommendations for pre-mature
retirement would be on any of the following grounds:(a)Officer whose integrity
is doubtful(b)Officer who are found to be in effective/in-efficient in
performing their duties especially during last 3 years.(c)Officer who have
developed physical limitations/in-capacitations which affect their performance
to a sufficient degree and officers suffering from serious diseases which
affect performance and endanger the health/fitness of others around in the
office.(d)Any other case, which Special Committee may in its opinion consider
suitable for recommending for pre-mature retirement.(2)However, the above
criteria/guidelines will not be used/made applicable to the cases:(a)Where the
concerned officer is retiring on superannuation within one year from the date
of consideration of his case.(b)To retire an officer on the grounds of
specific act of mis-conduct as a short cut of initiating formal disciplinary
action.(c)To reduce the surplus officer or as a measure of effecting general
economy.(d)Where the review for the concerned officer was once made and the
Special Committee/s had recommended in favour of his continuing in the
service, such cases will not be taken up again for review at any time till
he/she is retired on superannuation.(e)While entire service record of an
officer would be considered at the time of review, no officer should
ordinarily be retired on the grounds of ineffectiveness (1) (b) above if
his/her service during last 3 years has been found satisfactory or he/she is
promoted during last 3 years and his/her performance in the higher post has
been found satisfactory.(3)The Special Committee/s for deciding pre-mature
retirement of officers constituted by the Board of Directors shall be as
under:

Categoryof Officers |  SpecialCommittee  
---|---  
a.All officers up to Scale IV |  ExecutiveDirector and 2 General Managers  
| OR  
|  3General Managers (to be designated for this purpose by Chairman& Managing
Director)  
b.All Officers in Scale V and above |  Chairman& Managing Director, Govt. Director and RBI Director.  
  
(4)The Competent Authority for retiring officers pre-maturely under Regulation
13(2) shall be "Chairman and Managing Director" in all cases.ProcedureThe
procedure to be followed for pre-mature retirement of officer under Regulation
13 (2) of National Housing Bank (Officers') Service Regulation, 1997 would be
as under:(a)A detailed report in writing would be submitted on the Officers
who are recommended for pre-mature retirement under Regulation 13(2).(b)Such
report would be given by the concerned reporting authorities through officer
In-Charge in cases of officers working at branch/regional officers and through
Departmental/Functional Heads in case of officers working at the Head
office.(c)The concerned Officer In-Charge or Department/Functional Head would
record their recommendations in writing on such reports.(d)The Officers
recommended for pre-mature retirement must be recommended by at least two
hierarchical authorities wherein the second authority is not below the rank of
officer in Grade/Scale V.(e)Such recommended cases would be forwarded to the
General Manager (Personnel), in cases of Officers up to Grade/Scale IV and to
Chairman and Managing Director, in cases of officers of Grade/Scale V and
above, for their putting up to the Special Committee/s.(f)The special
committee/s constituted for this purpose would review the cases for pre-mature
retirement under Regulation 13(2) every quarter or at such intervals may be
decided by the Management from time to time. The review of the cases by the
Special Committee/s would generally be done in the beginning of such quarter
or at such interval as may be decided by the Management.(g)The cases of
Officers who have completed 55 years of service, whichever is earlier, can be
reviewed by the Management at any time on or after completion of stipulated
age or length of service.(h)The Special Committee/s after reviewing such cases
would submit its recommendations to the competent Authority who would take
into consideration the recommendations of the Special Committee/s and decide
whether the officers are to be retired pre-maturely or not.(i)If the Competent
Authority decides to retire an officer pre-maturely, he should record that he
has formed an opinion that it is necessary to retire such officers in
pursuance to the provisions of Regulation 13(2).(j)The officer who is required
to be retired pre-maturely under provisions of Regulation 13(2) would be
served with written notice of 3 months or be paid an amount equivalent to 3
months salary/pay and allowances as per the provisions of Regulation
13(1).(k)When an officer is advised about his pre-mature retirement, he may if
he so desires give in writing a representation to the Board of Directors
against the decision of the Competent Authority within a period of one month
of the passing of the order.(l)The Board of Directors shall consider
representation of the concerned officer and take a decision within a period of
three months of receipt of the representation.(m)Where the Board of Directors
decide that the order passed by the Competent Authority is not justified, the
concerned Officer shall be reinstated as though the Competent Authority has
not passed the order.(n)If the representation of the officer concerned is not
considered favourably, the officer concerned would be advised accordingly and
he/she would stand retired prematurely from the date mentioned in the letter
of premature issued him/her earlier.(o)The recommendations/views of the Chief
Vigilance Officer of the Bank are also to be obtained while reviewing cases
for pre-mature retirement.

