## Union of India - Act

## National Institute of Design, Madhya Pradesh Statutes, 2023

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# National Institute of Design, Madhya Pradesh Statutes, 2023

## Statutory Instrument 24024-59-2022-IPR-V of 2023

  * Published on 13 April 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 April 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 28 and 29 of the National
Institute of Design Act, 2014 (18 of 2014), the Governing Council of the
National Institute of Design, Madhya Pradesh, with the prior approval of the
Visitor, hereby makes the following first Statutes of the National Institute
of Design, Madhya Pradesh, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1) These Statutes may be called National Institute of Design, Madhya Pradesh
Statutes, 2023.(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication
in the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1) In these Statutes, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a) _"Act"_
means the National Institute of Design Act, 2014 (18 of 2014), as amended from
time to time;(b) _"activity"_ in relation to the Institute, includes academic
and allied, over viewing the multidisciplinary functions in respect of
education, research and publication, integrated design services, outreach
programmes, industry programmes, Information Technology services, and such
other functions as may be decided by the Director with the approval of the
Governing Council;(c) _"Activity Chairperson"_ means a faculty member of the
Institute nominated as an Activity Chairperson under Statute 22;(d)
_"Department"_ means a group of administrative activities, with or without
sections, cells or units, supporting the day-to-day functions of the Institute
including general administration, academic administration, accounts and
finance, and such other functions as may be decided by the Governing
Council;(e) _"Discipline Lead"_ means a faculty member nominated as a
Discipline Lead under Statute 29;(f) _"disciplines"_ or _"programmes"_ means a
branch of educational programmes or courses related to studies and research
offered by the Institute under a particular faculty stream;(g) _"Faculty"_
means an employee appointed for the position of teaching, research or
developmental activities of the Institute;(h) _"Faculty Stream"_ means an
academic unit of the Institute engaged in such academic activities as design
education, research and development and consultancy having multiple design
disciplines;(i) _"Head of Department"_ means the administrative Head of a
Department;(j) _"Institute"_ means the National Institute of Design, Madhya
Pradesh;(k) _"Standing Committee"_ means the Standing Committee of the
Governing Council constituted under Statute 10;(l) _"Workshops or labs or
studios or cells"_ in relation to the Institute, means auxiliary units of the
Institute engaged in technical, technological, design management, intellectual
property rights and other support services provided to the Faculty Streams,
design disciplines, research and various developmental activities and other
related functions of the Institute;(m) _"Adjunct faculty"_ means an expert or
reputed designers in the industry, including skilled professionals, both
serving or retired, engaged for a specific period for the teaching, research
or development activities of the Institute;(n) _"Visiting faculty"_ means an
expert including a designer, academic, skilled professional who is an expert
for specific courses and is engaged to teach those specific courses.(2) Words
and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Authorities of the Institute.

The following shall be the authorities of the Institute, namely: -(i) the
Governing Council as constituted under section 11 of the Act;(ii) the Senate
as constituted under section 15 of the Act;(iii) the Director as appointed
under section 18 of the Act;(iv) the Standing Committee of the Governing
Council; and(v) all Activity Chairpersons, Dean of Institute campuses,
Registrar, Heads of Departments and Discipline Leads.

### 4. Governing Council and meetings thereof.

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 13 of the Act, the Governing Council
shall meet as often as may be considered necessary by the Chairperson for
transaction of its business.(2) Meetings of the Governing Council shall be
convened by the Chairperson, either on his own motion or at the request of the
Director or on a requisition signed by not less than six members of the
Governing Council.(3) Three members or one third of actual strength, whichever
is higher, shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Governing Council.(4)
Members may participate in the meeting of the Governing Council through video
conference or digital medium after obtaining the prior approval of the
Chairperson and such participation through video conference or digital medium
shall be counted for the purpose of the quorum.(5) All questions considered at
the meetings of the Governing Council shall be decided by a majority of the
votes of the members present and if the votes be equally divided, the
Chairperson shall have a casting vote.(6) The Chairperson shall preside over
every meeting of the Governing Council:Provided that in the absence of the
Chairperson, the members of the Governing Council present shall elect a member
from amongst themselves to preside over the meeting.(7) A written notice of
every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every member at least fifteen
days before the date of the meeting mentioning therein the place, date and
time of the meeting:Provided that the Chairperson may call a special meeting
of the Governing Council at short notice of even less than fifteen days to
consider urgent issues.(8) The notice of a meeting may be delivered either by
hand or sent by registered post or E-mail or Fax, at the address of each
member as recorded in the office of the Governing Council and if so sent,
shall be deemed to be duly delivered at the time at which notice would be
delivered in the ordinary course of post, or in case of email or fax, when the
same is transmitted.(9) Agenda of a meeting shall be circulated in advance by
the Registrar to all members.(10) If a member, other than ex-official member,
of the Governing Council fails to attend three consecutive meetings without
leave of absence from the Chairperson, he shall cease to be a member of the
Governing Council.(11) Notices of motions for inclusion of any item on the
agenda must reach to the Registrar at least one week before the
meeting:Provided that the Chairperson may permit inclusion of any item for
which due notice has not been received.(12) The ruling of the Chairperson
regarding any question of procedure shall be final.(13) Any matter, which
would require approval of the Governing Council and where it is not possible
to convene the meeting of the Governing Council at short notice, such matters
may be considered by the Governing Council by means of resolution by
circulation, with the approval of Chairperson.(14) The minutes of the
proceedings of a meeting of the Governing Council shall be drawn up by the
Registrar with the approval of the Chairperson, and circulated to all members
of the Governing Council within a period of seven working days, seeking
comments on the minutes and if no comments are received within seven days of
receipt of minutes, the same shall be treated as final after it is signed by
the Chairperson.(15) The minutes of the proceedings, along with any
modification suggested, shall be placed for confirmation at the next meeting
of the Governing Council and the changes, if any, are confirmed and signed by
the Chairperson, they shall be recorded in the minute book by the Registrar
within fifteen days of conclusion of every such meeting.(16) The minute book
shall be kept open for inspection of the members at all times during office
hours.

### 5. Powers of Governing Council.

(1) The Governing Council shall have the following powers in addition to the
powers under sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Act, namely: -(a) assist the
Central Government in the process of appointment of the Director under section
18 of the Act;(b) abolish, re-designate or change the nomenclature of any post
except that of the Director, with the prior approval of Central Government.(2)
The Governing Council shall, for the purposes of making appointment to
academic and other posts, take into consideration the ratio of faculty and
student strength, academic and non-academic post and the cadre strength of
faculty members.

### 6. Powers of the Chairperson in emergent cases.

The Chairperson may, in emergent cases, exercise the powers of the Governing
Council and obtain the approval of the Governing Council on such action taken
by him, within a period of thirty days.

### 7. Authentication of orders of Governing Council.

All orders and decisions of the Governing Council shall be authenticated by
the signature of the Registrar or any person authorised by the Governing
Council in this behalf.

### 8. Travelling allowances of members of authorities of Institute.

The members comprising the authorities of the Institute, except internal or ex
official members of the Institute shall be entitled to travelling allowances,
daily allowance and sitting fee for attending their respective meetings on the
same rates as are applicable to the officers and employees of the Central
Government.

### 9. Representation of donors in Governing Council.

For the purpose of clause (l) of section 11 of the Act, the threshold of
financial assistance or contribution and other requirements to qualify for
nomination as member of Governing Council, shall be fifty lakh rupees or
more:Provided that no bequest, donation or transfer of any property shall be
accepted by the Institute, which in the opinion of the Governing Council
involves conditions or obligations opposed to the spirit and objects of the
Institute.

### 10. Standing Committee of Governing Council.

(1) The Governing Council shall constitute Standing Committee consisting of
the following members, namely: -(a) the Director, who shall be the Chairperson
of the Standing Committee;(b) Activity Chairperson (Education);(c) two members
of the Governing Council nominated by the Chairperson of the Governing
Council; and(d) the Registrar, who shall be Member Secretary of the Standing
Committee.(2) the Standing Committee shall meet at least four times in a year
preferably before the meetings of the Governing Council.(3) Three members of
the Standing Committee present in the meeting shall form a quorum for a
meeting of the Standing Committee.(4) The Chairperson of the Standing
Committee, shall preside over the meetings of the Standing Committees and in
his absence, the Activity Chairperson shall preside over the meetings.(5) The
provisions of Statute 4 relating to notices of the meeting, inclusion of items
in the agenda and confirmation of the minutes applicable to the meetings of
the Governing Council shall, so far as applicable, be followed in connection
with the meetings of the Standing Committee.(6) The Standing Committee, once
constituted by the Governing Council, shall function till such time it is
reconstituted by the Governing Council.(7) All policy matters requiring
consideration and approval of the Governing Council and all matters pertaining
to service conditions of the employee and staff of the Institute shall be
first placed before the Standing Committee for consideration, recommendations
before they are placed before the Governing Council for approval.(8) All
proposals seeking budgetary support, whether recurring or non- recurring,
shall be reviewed by the Standing Committee and recommendations shall be made
by the Committee to the Governing Council.(9) The Standing Committee shall
also function as the Finance Committee and Building and Contracts Committee
and shall review periodically all building or construction projects, contracts
and work orders in respect of items of capital expenditure, and such other
matters as may be referred to it by the Governing Council.(10) The Standing
Committee shall review and give recommendations on all such financial and
policy matters as may be referred to it by the Governing Council.(11) All
minutes of the proceedings of the Standing Committee or Resolutions of the
Standing Committee shall be placed before the ensuing meeting of the Governing
Council for noting or ratification or consideration.(12) All orders and
decisions of the Standing Committee shall be signed by the Chairperson and
authenticated and circulated by the Registrar or any other person authorised
by the Governing Council to the members of the Committee.

### 11. Director.

(1) The Director shall incur expenditure in accordance with the delegation of
administrative and financial powers as approved by the Governing Council.(2)
The Director may write off irrecoverable losses up to a limit of ten thousands
rupees and of irrecoverable value of stores lost or rendered unserviceable up
to a limit of twenty five thousands rupees, subject to such conditions as may
be made by the Governing Council.(3) The Director shall, with the prior
approval of the Governing Council, fix the initial pay of an incumbent at a
stage higher than the minimum of the scale with written justification for
doing so in respect of posts of which appointment can be made by him under the
provision of the Act, on the recommendations of the Selection Committee.(4)
The Director shall constitute such committees or panels for deliberations and
recommendations on any matter concerning the Institute as may be considered
necessary.(5) The Director may, with the approval of the Governing Council,
delegate any of his powers or responsibilities to one or more members of
academic or administrative staff of the Institute.(6) The Director shall issue
such orders specifying the duties and responsibilities of all employees of the
Institute as are required and relevant to the positions to which they are
appointed and make additions or deletions or alterations thereof for
administrative and functional reasons.(7) The Director may -(a) assign
additional tasks or responsibilities to any employee for such period of time
and on such terms as may be necessary;(b) seek recommendations or reports on
any matter referred to the Committees or panels referred to in clause (4).(8)
The Director shall exercise such other powers as may be delegated to him by
the Governing Council; and(9) The Director shall, with the prior approval of
the Governing Council, sign Memorandum of Understanding, agreements to
cooperate with educational or other institutions or industry in any part of
the country, or any part of the world with the prior approval of the Central
Government, having objects wholly or partly similar to those of the Institute
by exchange of faculty members, senior functionaries, scholars, students and
generally, in such manner as may be conducive to their common objectives,
subject to the approval of financial implication, if any, by the Governing
Council.

### 12. Senate.

(1) In addition to the persons specified in section 15 of the Act, the Senate
shall also consist of the following members, namely: -a. the Principal
Designers (Professor) and Senior Designers (Associate Professor) entrusted
with the responsibility of any activity;b. three Heads of Department, to be
nominated by the Director.(2) The term of office of the members of the Senate,
other than ex-official members, shall be two years from the date of their
nomination.(3) The term of office of a member of the Senate nominated to fill
a casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder of the term of the member in
whose place he has been nominated.(4) An outgoing member shall, unless the
Senate otherwise directs, continue in office until another person is nominated
as member in his place.(5) The Senate shall meet as often as necessary, but
not less than four times in each academic year, at such place and time and
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meetings, as may be determined by the Senate.(6) The meeting of the Senate
shall be presided over by the Director and in his absence, the senior most
Activity Chairperson shall preside over the meeting.(7) One third of the total
number of members of the Senate shall form a quorum for a meeting of the
Senate.(8) all matters considered at the meetings of the Senate shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and if the votes are
equally divided, the chairperson shall have casting vote.(9) The Registrar or
another member of the Senate as authorised by the Chairperson of the Senate,
shall prepare minutes of the proceedings of the Senate and the copy of the
minutes as approved by the Chairperson of the Senate shall be circulated to
all members of the Senate:Provided that such minutes or portions of the
minutes shall not be circulated if the Senate considers such circulation
prejudicial to the interests of the Institute or confidential in the nature
like appointment of examiners, paper setters, printing of examination papers
or degree certificates.(10) If, in the opinion of the Chairperson of the
Senate, any emergency has arisen which requires immediate action, he may take
such action as he deems necessary and shall report the same in the next
meeting of the Senate for post fact to ratification.(11) The members of the
Senate nominated under clauses (d) and (e) of section 15 of the Act, shall be
entitled to travelling allowance, daily allowance and sitting fee from the
Institute as may be laid down by the Governing Council.(12) The powers and
functions of the Senate shall include, -(a) framing and revising curriculum
and syllabus for the courses of studies for various disciplines, as per the
recommendations of the Academic Advisory Committee;(b) making recommendations
to the Governing Council with regard to the creation, restructuring or
abolition of Faculty Streams, Disciplines or Programmes or Campuses;(c)
overseeing the arrangements for the conduct of examinations, appointment of
examiners, moderators, tabulators and other matters relating to the
examinations;(d) declaring the results of final semester examinations or
appointing committees or officers to do so and making recommendations to the
Governing Council regarding conferment or grant of degrees, diplomas and other
academic distinctions or titles;(e) appointing committees or working Groups
from amongst the members of the Senate, other faculty members and experts from
outside to advise on specific and important academic matters;(f) considering
recommendations by the Academic Advisory Committee and taking action or
recommending a course of action;(g) periodical review of activities of various
faculty streams or disciplines and taking appropriate action for maintaining
the excellence of standards of education of the Institute;(h) promoting design
research and development in classrooms and fields as also encouraging
opportunities for bringing in market realities to the classrooms through
consultancy, outreach and industry programme projects;(i) planning and
reviewing electives and other extracurricular programmes of students and
making appropriate recommendations;(j) overseeing the functioning of labs,
studios, classrooms, hostels, student welfare, co-curricular activities and
grievance mechanisms;(k) awarding stipends, medals, prizes and other similar
recognitions with such conditions as may be deemed necessary with the prior
approval of Senate;(l) awarding scholarships and other similar recognitions
with such conditions as may be deemed necessary with the prior approval of
Governing Council;(m) periodical review of the progress of various academic
and admission activities of the Institute; and(n) Such other academic matters
as may be referred to it by the Governing Council.

### 13. Conferment of Honorary Degrees.

The Institute may confer honorary degrees for a few exceptional and
outstanding individuals for their illustrious contribution in design and
design related fields:Provided that all proposals for the conferment of
honorary degrees shall be recommended by Senate and approved by the Governing
Council.

### 14. Faculty Streams.

(1) The Institute may offer bachelor's, master's, doctoral, integrated
master's programmes through design disciplines, under the following Faculty
Streams, namely: -(a) **Faculty of Industrial Design** leading to
specialisation such as Product Design, Furniture and Interior Design, Ceramic
and Glass Design, Toy and Game Design, Transportation and Automobile Design
and Universal Design and other related specialisations;(b) **Faculty of
Communication Design** leading to specialisation such as Graphic Design,
Animation Film Design, Film and Video Communication Design, Photography and
Exhibition Design and other related specialisation;(c) **Faculty of Textile,
Apparel, Lifestyle and Accessory Design** leading to specialisation such as
Textile, Apparel design and Life style Accessory Design and other related
specialisations;(d) **Faculty of Inter-Disciplinary Design Studies** leading
to specialisation such as Strategic Design Management and Design for Retail
Experience and other related specialisations.(2) The Governing Council may, on
the recommendation of the Senate, add or delete or modify any faculty streams
of design disciplines or programmes by amending this Statute.

### 5\. Nomenclature of education and training programmes.

Every certificate, diploma, degree, graduate, postgraduate, research or other
programmes and its nomenclatures offered by each Faculty Stream at the
Institute in different design disciplines shall be approved by the Governing
Council on recommendations of the Academic Advisory Committee and the Senate.

### 16. Student fee.

The deposits or the fee to be charged from the students including fee for the
admission tests, tuition fee, examination fee, hostel fee and other fee for
the degree, diploma and certificate under various Faculty Streams of the
Institute shall be determined by the Governing Council, either on its own or
on the recommendations of the Senate.

### 17. Institution of fellowship, scholarships, medals, prizes, etc.

The senate may review and recommend, subject to the approval by the Governing
Council, thresholds for institution of fellowships, scholarships, medal and
prizes and the terms and conditions governing such awards:Provided that any
fellowship, scholarship, medal, prize, which has been Instituted prior to the
coming into force of this Statute shall continue to be awarded subject to the
terms and conditions as has been fixed prior to coming into force of this
Statute till they are reviewed by Senate with approval of Governing Council.

### 18. Halls of residence.

(1) The Institute may establish and maintain halls of residence or hostels at
its campuses for students, research scholars and research fellows enrolled in
its programmes.(2) Every resident in the halls and hostels shall comply with
to the rules laid down by the Institute.(3) The Institute shall appoint one or
more wardens and other support staff as may be required for efficient
management of the hostels and halls of residence.(4) The rules and regulations
governing the residence of students at the halls of residence and hostels
shall be approved by the Senate.

### 19. Academic Advisory Committee.

(1) There shall be constituted by the Governing Council an Academic Advisory
Committee consisting of the following members, namely: -(a) the Activity
Chairperson (Education) shall be the Chairperson of the committee;(b) the
Deans of the Institute Campuses;(c) one Discipline Lead from each Faculty
Stream; and(d) two members of the Senate as nominated by the Director.(2) The
Academic Advisory Committee shall; -(a) initiate proposals for review and
development of curriculum for the course of studies for various
disciplines;(b) review programmes delivery and evaluation of all design
discipline studies with the concerned Discipline Leads;(c) seek views and
suggestions from all stakeholders on the structure and delivery of curriculum
of all disciplines;(d) encourage inter and intra faculty and students
participation in all matters of study;(e) place recommendations on academic
matters of Faculty Streams or disciplines before the Senate;(f) place
recommendations on academic equivalences for admissions to undergraduate,
post-graduate, doctorate and other academic programmes before the Senate;(g)
arrange periodical review of activities of various faculty streams or
disciplines and make appropriate action for maintaining the excellence of
standards of education of the Institute;(h) suggest measures to promote design
research and development in classrooms and fields as also encourage
opportunities for bringing in market realities to the classrooms through
consultancy, outreach and industry programme projects; and(i) review and make
recommendations on such other matters relating to implementation of education
strategies for excellence as may be referred to it by the Senate or the
Director.(3) The Academic Advisory Committee may hold meetings as frequently
as may be necessary but shall meet at least twice in a semester.

### 20. Faculty forum.

(1) There shall be constituted by the Governing Council a Faculty Forum
consisting of all teaching faculty members of the Institute and its
campuses.(2) The Faculty Forum shall meet at least twice in a year preferably
prior to the beginning of the academic semester and deliberate on all academic
matters for forming vision on the educational programmes of the Institute,
concerns and contributions of the faculty group, programmes and activities to
be strengthened or to be introduced for strengthening curriculum and
consistently raising educational standards of all disciplines and programmes
and give feedback to the Senate on the course delivery, evaluation and
juries.(3) The Faculty Forum shall be chaired by the Director and in his
absence, by the Activity Chairperson (Education) or Dean of the Institute.(4)
The feedback of the Faculty Forum shall be placed before the Senate for
consideration and recommendation of appropriate action.

### 21. Deans of Institute Campuses.

(1) The Dean of the Institute campus under section 19 of the Act shall be
nominated by the Director from amongst the faculty members of the Institute
not below the rank of Senior Designer, on a rotation basis, for a term of up
to three years from the date of his nomination, subject to periodical review
by the Senate:Provided that in case of any administrative or academic
emergencies, the Director may nominate, before the expiry of the term, another
incumbent as Dean of the Campus, at the end of the academic year.(2) The Dean
of the Institute campus shall exercise control over all academic and
administrative matters of the campus in consultation with the Activity
Chairperson (Education) on academic related matters and in consultation with
the Director in administrative and financial related matters.(3) The Dean of
the Institute campus shall execute all policy directions of the Senate,
Director, Standing Committee and Governing Council.(4) The Dean of the
Institute campus shall supervise and maintain all records related to the
campus, sending periodical reports to the Activity Chairperson (Education) and
the Director.(5) The Dean of the Institute campus shall assist the Director
and the Activity Chairperson (Education) in achieving excellence in academic
and administrative standards in respect of all educational programmes of the
campus.(6) The Dean of the Institute campus shall exercise such administrative
and financial powers as may be delegated to him by the Governing Council.

### 22. Activity Chairpersons.

(1) There shall be nominated by the Director, the following Activity
Chairpersons for various activities and objectives of the Institute,
namely-(a) Activity Chairperson (Education);(b) Activity Chairperson (Research
and Publication);(c) Activity Chairperson (Integrated Design Services);(d)
Activity Chairperson (Outreach);(e) Activity Chairperson (Knowledge Management
Centre);(f) Activity Chairperson (Industry and Online Programmes);(g) Activity
Chairperson (International Programmes);(h) Any other Activity Chairperson.(2)
The Activity Chairpersons shall be nominated from amongst faculty members of
the institute not below the rank of Senior Designers (Associate Professors) on
rotation basis for a term of three years from the date of their nomination.(3)
In case of any administrative or academic emergencies, the Director may,
before the expiry of the term of any Activity Chairperson, nominate another
incumbent as such Activity Chairperson.

### 23. Functions and powers of Activity Chairperson (Education).

(1) The Activity Chairperson (Education) shall be in charge of all
administrative and academic activities of educational programmes of the
Institute in respect of all Faculty Streams and programmes.(2) The Activity
Chairperson (Education) shall be responsible for maintaining excellence in
standards of education, including students disciplinary matter and grievances,
of the Institute and Institute campuses for which he shall take appropriate
action in consultation with the Senate, Director, Council's Standing Committee
and the Governing Council.(3) All Deans, faculty heads, Discipline Leads, lab
or studio coordinators and faculty members across the disciplines or
programmes and all Advisory Committees related to education and academics
shall be responsible to the Activity Chairperson (Education) for delivery and
maintenance of academic standards of the Institute.(4) The Activity
Chairperson (Education) shall chair such committees and panels as may be
nominated by the Director and carry out such other functions as may be
entrusted to him by the Director.(5) The Activity Chairperson (Education)
shall exercise such powers as may be delegated to him by the Governing
Council.

### 24. Functions of other Activity Chairpersons.

(1) The Activity Chairpersons referred to in clauses (b) to (g) of Statute 22
shall be in charge of the concerned activity of the Institute and its campuses
across all Faculty Streams and disciplines and shall discharge such functions,
tasks and responsibilities for promoting the activity, as may be entrusted to
them by the Director.(2) The Activity Chairpersons shall exercise such other
powers as may be delegated to them by the Governing Council.

### 25. Vice-Chair.

(1) All Activity Chairpersons may be assisted by a Vice-Chair nominated by the
Director from amongst the faculty at the level of Associate Senior Designer
(Assistant Professor) or Designer (Faculty).(2) The Vice-Chair shall, in the
absence of the Activity Chairperson, officiate as Activity Chairperson and in
the event of non-availability of Vice-Chair for any reasons, the Director
shall nominate a faculty member of the level of Senior Designer (Associate
Professor) or Associate Senior Designer (Assistant Professor) to officiate as
Activity Chairperson during his absence and such officiating Activity
Chairperson shall have the same powers as of Activity Chairperson.

### 26. Registrar.

(1) The Registrar of the Institute shall be appointed by the Governing Council
on deputation failing which on contract, for a period of three years
extendable on yearly basis for a total period of five years.(2) The Registrar
shall be in charge of all academic administration of the Institute and
responsible for implementing directives of the Central Government in respect
of all academic and student matters and shall coordinate with the Activity
Chairperson (Education) in academic administration matters relating to
admission, course delivery, assessment, evaluation, award of grades or
diplomas or degrees and such other academic administration related tasks and
responsibilities as may be entrusted by the Director.(3) The Registrar shall
execute all contracts and legal documents for and on behalf of the Institute,
when authorised by a resolution of the Governing Council or approved by the
Director and shall not be personally liable in respect of anything under such
contract or legal document.(4) The Registrar shall be responsible for
generating and maintaining data and records related to students and academic
matters.(5) The Registrar shall coordinate with all Heads of Departments,
Deans of Institute campuses and Discipline Leads for administrative support
for all academic related works and facilities of the Institute and Institute
Campuses and arrange for the same in consultation with the Activity
Chairperson (Education).(6) The Registrar shall chair such committees and
panels for which he may be nominated by the Director and carry out such other
functions as may be entrusted to him by the Director and shall also exercise
such powers as may be delegated to him by the Governing Council.

### 27. Chief Administrative Officer.

(1) There shall be appointed by the Governing Council a Chief Administrative
Officer, who shall be in charge of the establishment matters, general
administration matters of the Institute, liaison with the Central Government
and other authorities on implementation of various directives, heading
personnel and establishment services, security and housekeeping services, land
or building or maintenance services, purchase and stores and such other
general administration services and other administrative responsibilities as
may be entrusted to him by the Director.

### 28. Controller of Finance and Accounts.

(1) There shall be appointed by the Governing Council a Controller of Finance
and Accounts, who shall be in charge of the finance and accounts matters of
the Institute and Institute campuses, liaison with the Central Government and
other authorities on finance, grants, accounts and audit matters.(2) The
Controller of Finance and Accounts shall also be responsible for accounts and
finance services, taxation, complying with statutory requirements for
maintenance and presentation of accounts and compliance of all conditions of
grants and assist the Director in preparing financial data and presentation
for the Standing Committee or the Governing Council and perform such other
responsibilities as may be entrusted to him by the Director.

### 29. Discipline Leads.

(1) Every design discipline in under graduate or postgraduate courses shall
have a Discipline Lead to liaison with the faculty and students for course
delivery, assessment, grading and evaluation juries of all student work in
education activities of the Institute and Institute campuses in close
coordination with the office of the Activity Chairperson (Education), Dean and
Senate.(2) The Discipline Leads shall be nominated by the Director from
amongst the faculty members from the concerned design discipline of the
Institute not below the rant of Associate Senior Designer (Assistant
Professor), on a rotation basis for a term of three years from the date of
such nomination:Provided that for any administrative or academic exigencies.
the Director may nominate, before expiry of the said term,another incumbent as
Discipline Coordinator at the end of the academic year.(3) The Discipline
Leads shall be responsible for making of academic calendars, timely delivery
of courses pertaining to the discipline, conducting exams juries and arranging
assessment and evaluation in close coordination with the faculty members of
the discipline or visiting faculty in accordance with the academic calendar
and time table and in maintaining standards of education of the Institute and
Institute campuses in respect of the design discipline coordinated by him and
implementation of the directions of the Activity Chairperson and Senate in
this regard.(4) The Discipline Leads shall arrange the discipline meetings and
participate in meetings of such committees and panels for which he is
nominated by the Director or Activity Chairperson and carry out such other
tasks and functions as may be entrusted to him by the Director or Activity
Chairperson.(5) The Discipline Leads shall exercise such other powers as may
be delegated to him by the Governing Council.(6) The Discipline Leads shall be
assisted by studio, lab or workshop Heads nominated by the Director from
amongst the faculty or technical staff of appropriate level on a rotation
basis for such periods as may be deemed necessary and such studio, lab or
workshop coordinators shall be responsible for providing effective and timely
services to all academic activities of the Institute and in upkeep and
maintenance of the studio, lab or workshop.

### 30. Classification of the Members of the Staff of the Institute.

(1) The members of the staff of the Institute shall be classified as under:
-(a) **Faculty members** which shall include Director, Principal Designer
(Professor), Senior Designer (Associate Professor), Associate Senior Designer
(Assistant Professor), Principal Technical Instructor, Senior Technical
Instructor, Designer (Faculty), Senior Design Instructor and such other
academic posts as recommended by the Senate and approved by the Governing
Council.(b) **Technical Staff members** which shall include Associate Senior
Technical Instructor, Associate Senior Design Instructor, Design Instructor,
Technical Instructor, Senior Engineer (Land, Building and Maintenance), Deputy
Engineer (Electrical), Assistant Engineer (Civil), Assistant Engineer (IT),
Supervisor (Electrical/Security), Technical Assistant and such other technical
hands required for manning studios or labs or workshops or departments, as
recommended by the Senate and approved by the Governing Council.(c)
**Administrative and other staff** which shall include Registrar, Chief
Administrative Officer, Controller of Finance and Accounts, Deputy Registrar,
Head Librarian/Resource Centre, Administrative Officer, Senior Accounts
Officer, Senior Assistant Librarian, Senior Superintendent, Assistant Admin
Officer, Head Security Services, Superintendent, Senior Assistant, Senior
Library Assistant, Senior Assistant (Admn./studio), Warden, Assistant
(Accounts/Admn./Library) and such other staff required for manning
administrative, establishment, Academic, accounts and finance, knowledge
management tasks as recommended by Senate and approved by the Governing
Council.

### 31. Method of appointment of staffs.

(1) The officers, teachers and other staffs shall be appointed either by
direct recruitment, by promotion, by deputation (including short-term-
contract), by absorption, by re-employment or by contract on the
recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted by the appointing
authority.(2) Appointments in all the categories shall be made against
sanctioned posts.(3) The appointment through direct recruitment shall be as
regular employee against available posts on applicable pay and allowances as
specified in the First Schedule.(4) The appointment on contract basis shall be
for a fixed period up to three years (extendable for further two years, on
yearly basis) on applicable pay scales and allowances as specified in the
First Schedule and terms and conditionsas approved by the Governing Council on
recommendation of Standing Committee.(5) The procedure to be followed for
appointment against sanctioned posts shall be as under: -(a) all post in the
Institute shall be filled by advertisement on all India basis through a
notification on its website, print and electronic media and such other means
as may be deemed appropriate to ensure wide publicity;(b) while making
appointments, the Institute shall make necessary provisions for the
reservation of posts as per the directives of the Central Government from time
to time.(c) in respect of all recruitment's appointment letters detailing the
terms and conditions, tasks and responsibilities and other details shall be
issued, after approval of the competent authority, by the Registrar or such
officer as may be specifically authorised to do so by the Director.(6) No act
or proceeding of any Selection Committee shall be called in question on the
ground of absence of any member or members of the Selection Committee.(7) The
candidates selected or shortlisted for a post under the Institute may be paid
such travelling allowances as may be determined by the Governing Council.(8)
All appointments made by the Institute shall be reported to the Governing
Council at its next meeting.(9) All appointments to posts under the Institute
shall be made on probation for a period of two years after which the
appointee, if confirmed, shall continue to hold his office till the end of the
month in which he attains the age of superannuation, that is to say the sixty
years of his age or earlier if he is found medically unfit or terminated on
disciplinary grounds.(10) In case of faculty, retirement would be effective
from the end of the semester in which faculty reaches the age of
superannuation so that educational tasks and responsibilities in respect of
courses assigned to such faculty members do not get disrupted in the mid-
semester.(11) The Institute may engage Adjunct Faculty on a consolidated pay
basis and Visiting Faculty on per session or per day honorarium basis as per
the requirements and on such terms and conditions as approved by Governing
Council.(12) The Director, in appropriate cases, with the prior approval of
the Governing Council, may engage subject experts or professionals or
technical experts or consultants on the fixed remuneration contract service
basis for specific sponsored project and consultancy projects for a specific
period and the remuneration to these appointments shall be paid from the
respective sponsored projects:Provided that the term of such appointment shall
not exceed the duration of such sponsored or consultancy projects.

### 32. Creation of posts.

(1) The Governing Council may recommend the ratios of faculty to student and
faculty to non-faculty, as deem appropriate, that will serve as the guiding
principle for creation of new posts in the respective class of the staff.(2)
No new posts shall be created without the prior approval of the Governing
Council and the Central Government, which shall keep financial prudence in
mind in doing so and shall also ensure compliance of the instructions issued
by the Central Government in this regard.

### 33. Selection Committee for appointments.

(1) While making appointments to the posts in the Institute, the appointing
authority shall constitute the Selection Committees for various posts in the
following manner namely: -**(a) Faculty.** \- The selection committee for the
appointment of the faulty members shall consist ofi. the Director, National
Institute of Design - Chairperson;ii. the Activity Chairperson (Education) -
Member;iii. one other Activity Chairperson or Dean - Member;iv. one external
Expert in relevant subject - Member;v. the Chief Administrative Officer
-Secretary:Provided, the members should be of at least one level higher than
the post under consideration for selection:Provided further that in case staff
of appropriate level not available in the Institute, the same may be nominated
from other National Institutes of Design or other Institutes of national
importance with the approval of the Governing Council.**(b) Technical Staff
and Administrative Staff.** \- (1) The Selection Committee for the appointment
of technical staff members or administrative and other staff members shall
consist of-i. the Director, National Institute of Design -Chairmanii. the
Activity Chairperson, Education- Memberiii. the Head of the Department or Dean
-Memberiv. the Registrar- Member;v. the Chief Administrative Officer
-Secretary(2) In case of selection of the Registrar or the Chief
Administrative Officer, any other staff nominated by the Director shall be the
member and Secretary, respectively.Provided, the members should be of at least
one level higher than the post under consideration for selection:Provided
further that in case staff of appropriate level not available in the
Institute, same may be nominated from other National Institutes of Design or
other Institutes of national importance with the approval of Governing
Council.

### 34. Performance Appraisal System.

(1) All the Faculty Members shall be required to fill in self-appraisals
evaluating own performance independently and highlighting their contribution
for the period of cycle of evaluation in the format and manner approved by the
Governing Council.(2) All other Technical Staffs and Administrative Staffs
shall be required to fill in self-appraisals evaluating own performance
independently and highlighting their contribution for the period of cycle of
evaluation in the format and manner approved by the Governing Council, keeping
in view the guidelines prescribed by Central Government from time to time.

### 35. Grievances Committee.

(1) The Institute shall constitute a Grievances Committee to examine
grievances other than performance appraisal related matters, if any, of the
faculty, technical and administrative staff.(2) Any grievance received by the
Committee shall be expeditiously dealt with on the merits of the case and upon
providing personal hearing for the aggrieved employee.(3) The composition of
the Grievances Committee shall include the Activity Chairperson (Education) or
Dean as Chairperson, Registrar and Controller of Finance and Accounts as
Members and the Chief Administrative Officer as Member Secretary.(4) The
report of the Grievances Committee shall be submitted to the Director who
shall take decision in the matter on the basis of the findings of the
Grievances Committee.(5) An employee aggrieved by the decision of the Director
may prefer appeal to the Standing Committee, excluding the Director.

### 36. Provident Fund and Pension Schemes.

Employees of the Institute shall be governed by the New Pension Scheme of the
Central Government.

### 37. General Service rules, regulations and delegation of administrative
and financial powers.

The rules, regulations, instructions, guidelines, delegation of financial
powers approved by the Governing Council, and adopted by the Institute prior
to the commencement of these Statutes providing for general conditions of
service, conduct and discipline rules, norms or guidelines for perks or
facilitates, provident fund, gratuity, advances and loans shall continue to
remain in force, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of these statutes, till such time they are amended or modified with the
approval of the Governing Council:Provided, that any proposal for amendment to
the general service rules or conditions of service shall be considered by the
Senate and the Standing Committee before they are placed before the Governing
Council for approval.""First Schedule"_[See Statute 31(3) and 31(4)]_**Name,
pay scales and sanctioned strength of posts in National Institute of Design,
Madhya Pradesh****Part A - Faculty Posts**

**Sr. No.** | **Name of post** | **Pay scale as per 6th CPC** | **Pay level as per 7th CPC** | **Sanctioned strength**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Director | PB-4+10000/- | Level-14 | 1  
2 | Principal Designer (Professor) | PB-4+8700/- | Level-13 | 3  
3 | Senior Designer (Associate Professor) | PB-3+7600/- | Level-12 | 6  
4 | Associate Senior Designer (Assistant Professor) | PB-3+6600/- | Level-11 | 8  
5 | Principal Technical Instructor | PB-3+6600/- | Level-11 | 2  
6 | Senior Technical Instructor | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 2  
7 | Designer (Faculty) | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 12  
8 | Senior Design Instructor | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 1  
  
**Part B - Technical Staffs****TABLE**

**Sr. No.** | **Name of post** | **Pay scale as per 6th CPC** | **Pay level as per 7th CPC** | **Sanctioned strength**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Associate Senior Technical Instructor | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 2  
2 | Associate Senior Design Instructor | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 2  
3 | Design Instructor | PB-2+4200/- | Level-6 | 2  
4 | Technical Instructor | PB-2+4200/- | Level-6 | 2  
5 | Senior Engineer (Land, Building and Maintenance) | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 1  
6 | Deputy Engineer (Electrical) | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 1  
7 | Assistant Engineer (Civil) | PB-2+4600/- | LeveL-7 | 1  
8 | Assistant Engineer (Information Technology) | PB-2+4200/- | Level-6 | 2  
9 | Supervisor (Electrical/Security) | PB-1+2800/- | Level-5 | 1  
10 | Technical Assistant | PB-1+2800/- | Level-5 | 3  
  
**Part C - Administrative Posts and other Staff****TABLE**

**Sr. No.** | **Name of post** | **Pay scale as per 6th CPC** | **Pay level as per 7th CPC** | **Sanctioned strength**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Registrar | PB-4+8700/- | Level-13 | 1  
2 | Chief Administrative Officer | PB-3+7600/- | Level-12 | 1  
3 | Controller of Finance and Accounts | PB-3+7600/- | Level-12 | 1  
4 | Deputy Registrar | PB-3+6600/- | Level-11 | 1  
5 | Head Librarian/ Resource Centre | PB-3+6600/- | Level-11 | 1  
6 | Administrative Officer | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 2  
7 | Senior Accounts Officer | PB-3+5400/- | Level-10 | 2  
28 | Senior Assistant Librarian | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 1  
9 | Senior Superintendent | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 2  
10 | Assistant Administrative Officer | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 4  
11 | Head Security Services | PB-2+4600/- | Level-7 | 1  
12 | Superintendent | PB-2+4200/- | Level-6 | 3  
13 | Senior Assistant | PB-2+4200/- | Level-6 | 1  
14 | Senior Library Assistant | PB-1+2800/- | Level-5 | 1  
15 | Senior Assistant (Administration /Studio) | PB-1+2800/- | Level-5 | 6  
16 | Warden | PB-1+2800/- | Level-5 | 2  
17 | Assistant (Accounts/Administration /Library) | PB-1+2400/- | Level-4 | 5

