## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Notification of Religious Institutions Rules

TAMILNADU  
India

# Notification of Religious Institutions Rules

## Act 647 of 1960

  * Published on 22 November 1960 
  * Commenced on 22 November 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 November 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Notification of Religious Institutions RulesPublished vide Notification No. G.
O. MS. NO. 4793, Revenue, dated 22nd November, 1960 - SRO No. A-647 of
1960Original rules published in Part V of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated
7th December 1960 (Page 610).G. O. MS. NO. 4793, Revenue, dated 22nd November,
1960 - SRO No. A-647 of 1960. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) and clause (i) of subsection (2) of section 116 read with
subsection (1) of section 71 and subsection (2) of section 72 of the Tamil
Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22
of1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely:-

### 1.

These Rules may be called the Notification of Religious Institutions Rules.

### 2.

(1)The notice referred to in sub-section (1) of section 71 of the Act shall be
sent by registered post acknowledgement due-(a)to the trustee or trustees
concerned:Provided that where the religious institution has an Executive
Officer or Manager appointed under any provisions of the Act or under the
provisions of a scheme settled or deemed to have been settled under the Act,
the notice shall also be served on him in the manner laid down in this Rule;
and(b)to such other persons having interest in the religious institution as
the Commissioner may deem necessary.(2)A copy of the notice shall be published
by affixture-(a)on the notice board of the office of the Assistant
Commissioner in whose division, the institution concerned is situate and of
the office of the [Joint Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted by
G O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E., dated the 16th July 1997.];(b)on the notice
board or the front door of the institution concerned;(c)on the notice board of
the office of the Municipal Council including the Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or village chavadi and, if there is no
village chavadi, some other public place in the village in which the
institution is situate; and(d)in any other conspicuous place in the locality
which may be selected by the Commissioner in his discretion:Provided that
where the proposal is in respect of a specific endowment, the properties of
which are not situate in the municipality including the Corporation of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or the village in which the
temple or math is situated, the notice shall also be published in the manner
aforesaid in the places in which the properties are situate.(3)A copy of the
notice shall also be published in one or more daily newspapers having
circulation in the locality in which the institution is situated.

### 3.

The enquiry under section 72(2) shall be conducted in the manner prescribed
for conducting enquiries by the Commissioner or the [Joint Commissioner or
Deputy Commissioner] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 275, C. T. & R. E., dated
the 16th July 1997.] under sections 63 to 72.

