## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Opium (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1951

TAMILNADU  
India

# Opium (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1951

## Act 32 of 1951

  * Published on 13 October 1951 
  * Commenced on 13 October 1951 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 October 1951.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Opium (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1951(Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1951)Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Opium (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXXII of 1951). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons, please see Part IV-A,
page 122 of the Fort. St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 21st August
1951.Received the assent of the President on the 13th October 1951 and first
published in the fort St. George Gazette, dated the 23rd October 1951.An Act
further to amend the Opium Act, 1878, in its application to the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient further to
amend the Opium Act, 1878 (Central Act 1 of 1878), in its application to the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] for the purposes
hereinafter appearing;It is hereby enacted as follows: -

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Opium [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Amendment Act,
1951.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.]

### 2. Amendment of section 9 (Central Act 1 of 1878).

\- In section 9 of the Opium Act, 1878 (Central Act 1 of 1878) (hereinafter
referred to as the said Act), for the words "imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both", the words "imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years,
or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both" shall be
substituted.

### 3. Amendment of section 20, Central Act 1 of 1878.

\- In section 20 of the said Act, after the words "nearest police-station",
the words, figures and letter "or to the nearest officer of the Prohibition
Department empowered under section 20-A" shall be inserted.

### 4. Insertion of new section 20-A in Central Act 1 of 1878.

\- After section 20 of said Act, the following section shall be inserted,
namely: -"20A. Power to invest Prohibition Officers with certain power. - The
State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest any
officer of the Prohibition Department, or every officer belonging to any
specified class in that Department, with the powers of an officer in charge of
a police station for the investigation of offences under this Act."

