## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water-Supply) Rules, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water-Supply) Rules, 1994

## Rule PARAMBIKULAM-ALIYAR-PROJECT-REGULATION-OF-WATER-SUPPLY-RULES-1994 of
1994

  * Published on 27 April 1994 
  * Commenced on 27 April 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 April 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water-Supply) Rules, 1994Published
vide Notification No. G. O. MS. No. 374, P.W. Irrigation, (QI) Department,
dated 27th April 1994 - No. S.R.O.A-38(a)/94In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 and section 9 of the Parambikulam-
Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water-Supply) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1993), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules shall be called the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of
Water-Supply) Rules, 1994.(2)They shall come into force on the 27th day of
April 1994.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu
Act 20 of 1993);(b)"Controlling Officer" means the Assistant Executive
Engineer, Public Works Department in-charge of Thirumurthy Reservoir.

### 3. Regulation of supply of water.

(1)Supply of water for agricultural purposes to the total extent of 3,77,152
acres of land in Parambikulam-Aliyar Project comprised in the four zones as
specified in the Schedule of the Act from the Thirumurthy Reservoir shall be
regulated by the Controlling Officer. In accordance with these rules and any
notification that may be issued by the Government from time to time, under
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act.(2)The Controlling Officer shall
receive daily reports of readings as recorded at 8.00 a.m. pertaining to the
past twenty-four hours regarding -(a)the reservoir water level;(b)the inflow
from its own catchment by the rise and fall method;(c)the inflow through the
contour canals;(d)the outflow through the high level canal;(e)the outflow
through the common canal;(f)the outflow through the Dhali Channel System;
and(g)the flow through the spillway/ river sluice and the readings of the tail
and regulators of all the canals involved in the irrigation spell for the
period.(3)Daily readings of rainfall shall also be received by the Controlling
Officer from all stations in the ayacut area, namely, Palladam, Pongalur,
Udumalpet, Dharapuram, Kundadam, Sultanpet and Kangeyam.(4)Taking into
consideration all these readings and the regulations detailed herein, the
Controlling Officer shall adjust the regulation before 9.00 a.m. every day or
as frequently as required according to the actual needs so far as may be
practicable:Provided that during the floods, release of water may be done at
frequent intervals to ensure minimum depletion consistent with the safety of
the dam.

### 4. Impounding of water.

\- Impounding of water into the reservoir shall be done from its own catchment
of Palar and from the contour canal inflows. Supplies required for the ayacut
under Parambikulam Main Canal, Udumalpet Canal, High Level Canal and the old
ayacut under Palar shall be assessed by the Executive Engineers of Udumalpet
Division and Pollachi Division and communicated to the Controlling Officer.
The Controlling Officer shall control the supply of water, based on the
communication received from the said Executive Engineers.

### 5. Supply of water to four zones.

(1)The entire ayacut of 3,77,152 acres of land in the Parambikulam-Aliyar
Project comprised in the four zones specified in the Schedule to the Act shall
be covered under irrigation in two irrigation years, namely, irrigating two
zones in an irrigation year and the other two zones in the subsequent
year.(2)In a normal irrigation year, two zones shall be covered. One zone from
the 1st August to 15th December and the next from the 16th December to the
30th April:Provided that, in case, monsoon fails or water could not be
released to any particular zone in the particular spell, water shall be
released first to that zone in the next spell and till rotation shall be
continued.(3)For the release of water for each spell in the respective zone,
the area to be irrigated, extent of ayacut, date of opening and closing, a
notification shall be issued under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act by
the Government sufficiently in advance.

### 6. Supply of water to old ayacut of Palar.

(1)From Palar Basin stored in the Thirumurthy Reservoir periodical release may
be made through head sluice located to Mile 0.0.404 of Dhali Channel for the
ayacut directly fed by Palar River Channel and tanks below the Thirumurthy
Reservoir.(2)Release not exceeding 1,200 cusecs shall be drawn in the common
canal feeding Parambikulam Main Canal and Udumalpet Canal. As far as possible,
the outflow in the common canal shall be equal to the inflow from the contour
canal or the flood flows of Palar when the contour canal is not functioning.

### 7. Dead storage.

\- For safeguarding fish-life in the reservoir, a dead storage of 50 M.cft,
for a depth of about 25 feet shall be maintained. The reservoir shall not be
depleted below plus 1,277.00 namely, sill of river sluice.

### 8. Registers.

\- The regulation of water, water readings, issues, shall be entered up to
date in a register to be maintained by the Controlling Officer.

### 9. Submission of fortnightly reports.

\- The Controlling Officer shall submit a fortnightly report containing the
extract of water readings to the Chief Engineer (Irrigation) in the Form
appended to these rules: -AppendixForm(See rule 9)Daily Water Report of
thirumurthi Reservoir[To be submitted to Chief Engineer (Irrigation),
fortnightly]

Date | Water level | Storage in M. Cft. |  Increase (+) or decrease (-) high level inMcft. | Through high canal | Through common canal | Through the Dhali Channel system | Through spillway river sluice | Seepage | Total  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
| (inflow in Mcft.) |  |  | (Rainfall in mm) |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
From contour canal | Rom Palar catchment | Total | Tail end readings PMC Udumalpet canal | Palladam | Pongalur | Udumalpet | Dharapuram | Kundadam | Sultanpet | Kangeyam  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(11) | (12) | (13) | (14) | (15) | (16) | (17) | (18) | (19) | (20) | (21)  
Outflow in M.Cft. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 

