## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Param Bikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993

TAMILNADU  
India

# Param Bikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993

## Act 20 of 1993

  * Published on 19 May 1993 
  * Commenced on 19 May 1993 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 May 1993.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Param Bikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993(Tamil Nadu
Act 20 of 1993)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Parambikulam Aliyar Project
(Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of l993). - The High
Court, Madras, in W. P. Nos. 575/78 and 1309/78 challenging the order issued
in G. O. Ms. No. 126, PWD, dated the 29th January 1976, adding 1,15,000 acres
of land to the irrigation system covered by the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project
has directed that before supplying water to the new ayacutdars in the extended
ayacut, the original ayacutdars are first assured of supply of sufficient
water subject to availability once in eighteen months, as regularly as
possible or practicable.2\. In view of the above direction of the High Court,
Madras, the Government have called for a detailed report from the Chief
Engineer (Irrigation) who has reported that with the available water
potential, water can be supplied to the extended area by dividing the entire
ayacuts into four zones, each zone getting water for a period of 4-1/2 months
to 6 months once in two years and, therefore, has suggested that water may be
supplied to the new ayacuts of 1.75 lakhs acres of land from the said
project.3\. The Government have, after carefully considering the report of the
Chief Engineer (Irrigation) and after obtaining the opinion of the experts in
this matter, accepted the proposal for re-zoning the ayacuts covered by
Parambikulam-Aliyar Project into four zones as feasible.4\. The Government,
after taking into consideration the aforesaid factors, have decided to provide
irrigation facilities under Parambikulam Aliyar Project dividing the whole
area into four zones, providing irrigation to each zone once in two years as
against the existing three zones providing irrigation to each zone once in
eighteen months, in view of the drought-prone nature of the area and in view
of the infrastructural facilities already created in the said project
incurring huge expenditure.5\. The four zone pattern for supply of water to a
total extent of 3,77,152 acres in Parambikulam-Aliyar Project will be as
detailed below: -ZoneLand in acresI

### 98.

,558II

### 98\.

,418III

### 94.

,024IV

### 86.

,152Total

### 3.

,77,1526\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in
Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 28th April 1993.Received the assent of the Governor on the 19th May 1993
and first published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 19th May 1993.An Act to regulate the supply
of water from the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project and the matter connected
therewith.Whereas under article 48 of the Constitution of India, the State
shall endeavour to organise agriculture on modern and scientific lines;And
Whereas in the interest of the general public and in order that maximum
possible advantage may result in the matter of agricultural production and for
bringing prosperity to the backward and drought-prone areas, it has been
considered necessary, as a measure of agrarian reform, to bring more lands
under cultivation in the Coimbatore and Periyar districts by regulating the
irrigation system in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project for optimum use possible
in pursuance of the directive principles enshrined in the said article 48 of
the Constitution of India;And Whereas the original extent of 2.45 lakhs acres
of land are getting water supply from the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project of
irrigation on rotational basis from the year 1967 by dividing the entire
ayacuts of 2.45 lakhs acres of land into three zones and by supplying water
once in 18 months on rotational basis to each zone;And Whereas ever since the
inception of Parambikulam-Aliyar Project, there have been frequent
representations from the ryots of the proverbially drought-prone taluks of
Palladam, Dharapuram, Udumalpet and Pollachi for the extension of existing
ayacut of the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project, so that more drought-prone areas
can have the benefit of irrigation;And Whereas the Government have approved
the extension of ayacut under Parambikulam-Aliyar Project by 1,75,000 acres of
land in the above said taluks;And Whereas the Government have issued orders in
G. O. Ms. No. 126, Public Works Department, dated the 29th day of January 1976
adding 1,15,000 acres of land to the irrigation system covered by
Parambikulam-Aliyar Project;And Whereas two writ petitions were filed in the
High Court, Madras in W.Ps. Nos. 575/78 and 1309/78 against the said order and
the High Court has directed that before supplying water to the new ayacuts in
the extended ayacut, the original ayacutdars are first assured of supply of
sufficient water subject to availability once in eighteen months, as regularly
as possible or practicable;And Whereas in view of the above direction of the
High Court, Madras, the Government have called for a detailed report from the
Chief Engineer (Irrigation) who has reported that with the available water
potential, water can be supplied to the extended area by dividing the entire
ayacuts into four zones, each zone getting water for a period of 4-1 /2 months
to 6 months once in two years and therefore has suggested that water may be
supplied to the new ayacuts of 1.75 lakhs acres of land from the said
project;And Whereas the Government have after carefully considering the report
of the Chief Engineer (Irrigation) and after obtaining the opinion of the
experts in this matter, accepted the proposal for re-zoning the ayacuts
covered by Parambikulam-Aliyar Project into four zones as feasible;And Whereas
the Government, after taking into consideration the aforesaid factors, have
decided to provide irrigation facilities under Parambikulam-Aliyar Project
dividing the whole area into four zones, providing irrigation to each zone
once in two years as against the existing three zones providing irrigation to
each zone once in 18 months, in view of the drought-prone nature of the area
and in view of this infrastructural facilities already created in the said
Project incurring huge expenditure;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly
of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty- fourth year of the Republic of India
as follows: -

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water
Supply) Act, 1993.(2)It applies to the [Coimbatore and Periyar] [Now Erode
District.] districts in the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force at
once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Government" means
the State Government;(b)"owner", in relation to any land, includes any person
having an interest in such land;(c)"Parambikulam-Aliyar Project" includes the
Parambikulam Main canal, Udumalpet Canal and High level canal in Palar Basin
and the Pollachi canal, Vettaikaranpudur canal, Sethumadai canal and the
Aliyar Feeder canal in the Aliyar Basin;(d)"Schedule" means the Schedule
appended to this Act.

### 3\. Regulation of supply of water for agricultural purposes from
Parambikulam-Aliyar project.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
or in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority
or any custom, agreement or usage or any rule, notification or order made or
issued by the Government relating to inclusion of ayacuts in the Parambikulam-
Aliyar Project or supply of water to such ayacuts or parts thereof and in
force on the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, the Government may, after consulting the Chief Engineer (Irrigation)
or such other officer or authority as they may consider necessary, by
notification, regulate on rotational basis in accordance with the rules as may
be prescribed, the supply of water for agricultural purposes to a total extent
of 3,77,152 acres of land in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project, comprised in the
four zones as specified in the Schedule.(2)The Government shall, before
issuing a notification under sub-section (1), take into consideration the
following matters: -(a)the interest of the general public;(b)the maximum
possible advantage which may result in agricultural production in extending
the supply of water to more lands;(c)the advantage of bringing prosperity to
the backward and drought-prone areas by bringing them within the
ayacuts;(d)the availability of water to the existing ayacuts;(e)the optimum
utilisation of the available water to a larger extent of ayacuts; and(f)such
other matters as may be prescribed.

### 4. Suits and applications barred.

\- No Court shall entertain any suit or application for the issue of any
injunction or interim order restraining any proceeding which is being or about
to be taken under section 3 or the rules made thereunder for regulating the
supply of water, by the Government or by any officer authorised under section
5, in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project.

### 5. Delegation of powers.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise any officer not below the
rank of Chief Engineer (Irrigation) to exercise the powers to regulate the
supply of water for agricultural purposes vested in them under section 3.(2)To
exercise of any power delegated under sub-section (1) shall be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the notification and
subject also to control and revision by the Government.

### 6. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act.(2)No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against
the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.

### 7. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.

### 8. Power to amend Schedule.

\- The Government may, by notification, amend the Schedule prospectively or
retrospectively.

### 9. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under
this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless
they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into
force on the day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued
under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, come into force on the date on which they are
published.(3)Every rule, or order made or notification issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Legislative Assembly agrees that the
rule or order, or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or order
or notification shall, thereafter, have effect, only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or order or notification.The Schedule(See sections 3(1)
and 8)

S.No. | Zone | Extent of land in acres  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 | Zone I | 98,558  
2 | Zone II | 98,418  
3 | Zone III | 94,024  
4 | Zone IV | 86,152

