## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Payment of Wages (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957

TAMILNADU  
India

# Payment of Wages (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957

## Act 10 of 1957

  * Published on 5 September 1957 
  * Commenced on 5 September 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 September 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Payment of Wages (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1957(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1957)Received the assent of the President on the 5th September 1957 and
published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 13th
September 1957.An Act further to amend the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, in its
application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is
expedient further to amend the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of
1936), in its application to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
for the purposes hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted in the Eighth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the Payment of Wages (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act,
1957.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].

### 2. Amendment of section 7, Central Act IV of 1936.

\- In section 7, in sub-section (2) of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central
Act IV of 1936) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), after clause
(d), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-"(dd) deductions for
payments to the State Government or any Statutory Housing Board or such agency
as the State Government may notify in the Fort St. George Gazette, for house
accommodation supplied to the employed person.".

### 3. Insertion of new section 11-A in Central Act IV of 1936.

\- After section 11 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:-"11-A. Deductions in respect of house-accommodation. - The
employer shall make the deductions authorised under clause (dd) of sub-section
(2) of section 7 from the wages of the employed person and remit the amount so
deducted in such manner as the State Government may by general or special
order, specify".

