## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Periyar University Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# Periyar University Act, 1997

## Act 45 of 1997

  * Published on 11 August 1997 
  * Commenced on 11 August 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022 . (Act 2 of 2023) on 10 January 2023] 

Periyar University Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act No. 45 of 1997)Last Updated 12th
March, 2020[Dated 11.8.1997.]* Received the assent of the Governor on the 6th
August, 1997 and published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
Extraordinary, No. 414, dated August 11, 1997.An Act to provide for the
establishment and incorporation of University at SalamBe it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-eighth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-Chapter - I Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Periyar University Act, 1997.(2)It extends to
the area comprising the districts of Salem, Dharmapuri and Rajaji in the State
of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies to all colleges and institutions situate within
the University area and affiliated to, or approved by, the University in
accordance with the provisions of this Act or the statutes, ordinances and
regulations made thereunder and also to all college and institutions deemed to
be affiliated to, or approved by, the University under this Act.(4)This
section and sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 46,
55, 56, 57 and 65 shall come into force at once and the rest of this Act shall
come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"affiliated
college" means any college situate within the University area and affiliated
to the University and providing courses of study for admission to the
examinations for degrees of the University and includes a college deemed to be
affiliated to the University under this Act;(b)"approved college" means any
college situate within the University area and approved by the University and
providing courses of study for admission to the examinations for titles and
diplomas of the University and includes a college deemed to be approved by the
University under this Act;(c)"autonomous college" means any college designated
as an autonomous college by statutes;(d)"college" means any college or any
institution maintained or approved by, or affiliated to, the University and
providing courses of study for admission to the examinations of the
University;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"hostel" means a unit
of residence for the students of the University maintained or recognised by
the University in accordance with the provisions of this Act and includes a
hostel deemed to be recognised by the University under this Act;(g)"notified
date" means the date specified in the notification issued under sub-section
(4) of section 1;(h)"post-graduate college" means a University college or an
affiliated college situate within the University area and providing post-
graduate courses of study leading upto the post-graduate degrees of the
University;(i)"prescribed" means prescribed by this Act or the statutes,
ordinances or regulations;(j)"Principal" means the head of a
college;(k)"professional college" means a college established or maintained by
the University or affiliated to the University and providing courses of study
leading upto the professional degrees of the University;(l)"registered
graduate" means a graduate registered under this Act;(m)"statutes",
"ordinances" and "regulations" means, respectively, the statutes, ordinances
and regulations of the University made or continued in force under this
Act;(n)"teachers" mean such Lecturers, Readers, Assistant Professors,
Professors and other persons giving instruction in University colleges or
laboratories, in affiliated or approved colleges, or in hostels, and
Librarians as may be declared by the statutes to be teachers;(o)"teachers of
the University" means persons appointed by the University to give instruction
on its behalf;(p)"University" means the Periyar University;(q)"University
area" means the area to which this Act extends under sub-section (2) of
section 1;(r)"University centre" means any area within the University area
recognised by the Government on the recommendation of the University and
containing one or more colleges competent to engage in higher teaching and
research work and to promote University life in a manner calculated to prepare
for the institution of a new University;(s)"University college" means a
college or a college combined with a research institute maintained by the
University, whether institute by it or not, and providing courses of study
leading upto the post-graduate and professional degrees of the
University;(t)"University Grants Commission" means the commission established
under section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 30
of 1956).(u)"University laboratory" means a laboratory maintained by the
University, whether institute by it or not, and intended for the carrying on
and advancement of research work;(v)"University Lecturer", "University Reader"
or "University Professor" means a Lecturer, Reader or Professor, respectively,
appointed or deemed to be appointed as such by the University;(w)"University
library" means a library maintained by the University, whether instituted by
it or not.Chapter - II The University

### 3. The University.

(1)There shall be established a University by the name the Periyar
University.(2)The University shall be a body corporate, shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said name.(3)The
headquarters of the University shall be located within the limits of the Salem
City Municipal Corporation or in any place within the radius of twenty-five
kilometres around those limits.

### 4. Objects and powers of University.

\- The University shall have the following objects and powers, namely:-(1)to
provide for instruction and training in such branches of learning es it may
determine;(2)to provide for research and for the advancement and dissemination
of knowledge;(3)to institute degrees, titles diplomas and other academic
distinctions;(4)to hold examinations and to confer degrees, titles, diplomas
and other academic distinctions on persons who.(a)shall have pursued and
approved course of study in a University college or laboratory or in an
affiliated or approved collide, unless exempted therefrom in the manner
prescribed by the statutes and shall have passed the prescribed examinations
of the University; or(b)shall have carried on research under conditions
prescribed;(5)to confer degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions on persons who shall have pursued an approved course of study in
an autonomous college;(6)to hold examinations and to confer degrees, titles,
diplomas and other academic distinctions on persons who shall have pursued an
approved course of study by correspondence, whether residing within the
University area or not and to provide such lectures and instructions for
persons not being residents within the University area under conditions
prescribed;(7)to confer honorary degrees or other academic distinctions under
conditions prescribed;(8)to institute, maintain and manage institutes of
research, University colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums and other
institutions necessary to carryout the objects of the University;(9)to
affiliate colleges to the University as affiliated, professional or post
graduate colleges under conditions prescribed and to withdraw affiliation,
from colleges;(10)to approve colleges providing courses of study for admission
to the examinations for titles and diplomas of the University under conditions
prescribed and to withdraw such approval;(11)to designate any college as an
autonomous college, with the concurrence of the Government, in the manner and
under conditions prescribed and to cancel such designation;(12)to institute
lacturerships, readerships, professorships and any other teaching posts
required by the University and to appoint persons to such lecturer-ships,
readerships, professorships and other teaching posts;(13)to institute and
award fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships,
bursaries exhibitions, medals and prizes in accordance with the
statutes;(14)to establish, maintain and manage hostels, to recognise hostels
not maintained by the University and to withdraw recognition therefrom;(15)to
exercise such control over the students of the University through the
colleges, as will secure their health and well-being and discipline;(16)to
hold and manage endowments and other properties and funds of the
University;(17)to borrow money, with the approval of the Government, on the,
security of the property of the University for the purposes of the
University;(18)to fix fees and to demand and receive such fees as may he
prescribed;(19)to make grants from the funds of the University for the
maintenance or National Cadet Corps;(20)to institute and maintain a University
Extension Board;(21)to institute and provide funds for the maintenance of-(a)a
publication bureau;(b)an employment bureau;(d)students' unions;(d)University
athletic clubs; and(e)other similar associations.(22)to encourage co-operation
among the colleges, laboratories and institutes in the University area and co-
operate with other Universities and other authorities in such manner and for
such purposes as the University may determine;(23)to recommend to the
Government the recognition of any area within the University area as a
University Centre; and(24)generally to do all such other acts and things as
may be necessary or desirable to further the objects of the University.

### 5. Colleges not to be affiliated to any other University and recognition
of Institutions by University.

(1)No college within the University area shall be affiliated to any University
other than the Periyar University.(2)No institution affiliated to, or
associated with, or maintained by any other University in the State of Tamil
Nadu shall be recognised by the University for any purpose except with the
prior approval of the Government and the University concerned.

### 6. Disqualification for membership.

(1)No person shall be qualified for nomination or election as a member of any
of the authorities of the University, if, on the date of such nomination or
election, he is-(a)of unsound mind or [ a deaf mute; Omited by Tamil Nadu
Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022] or(b)an applicant to be
adjudicated as an insolvent or an undischarged insolvent; or(c)sentenced by a
criminal court to imprisonment for any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)In
case of dispute or doubt as to whether a person is disqualified under sub-
section (1), the Syndicate shall determine and its decision shall be final.

### 7. Disqualification for election or nomination to Senate, Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs and Syndicate in certain cases.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 20, 23 or 24, no person who
has held office as a member for a total period of six years in any one or more
of the following authorities of the University, namely:-(i)the Senate,(ii)the
Standing Committee on Academic Affairs, and(iii)the Syndicate,shall be
eligible for election or nomination to any of the said three
authorities:Provided that for the purpose of computing the total period of six
years referred to in this sub-section, the period of three years during which
a person held office in one authority either by election or by nomination and
the period of three years during which he held office in another authority
either by election or by nomination shall be taken into account and
accordingly, such person shall not be eligible for election or nomination to
any one of the said three authorities:Provided further that or the purpose of
this sub-section, a person who has held office for a period not less than one
year in any one of the said three authorities in a casual vacancy shall be
deemed to have held office for a period of three years in that
authority:Provided also that for the purpose of this sub-section, if a person
was elected or nominated to one authority and such person became a member of
another authority by virtue of the membership in the first mentioned
authority, the period for which he held office in the first mentioned
authority alone shall be taken into account.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1)
shall have application in respect of-(i)ex-officio members referred to in
section 20(a), Class I, but not including members of the Syndicate who are not
otherwise members of the Senate referred to in item (13); and(ii)ex-officio
members referred to in section 23(2)(a), Class I and section 24(b), Class I.

### 8. Visitation.

(1)The Chancellor; shall have the right to cause an inspection or inquiry to
be made, by such person or persons as he may direct, of the University, its
buildings, laboratories, libraries, museums, workshops and equipment and of
any institution, maintained, recognised or approved by, or affiliated to the
University and also of the examinations, teaching and other work conducted or
done by the University, and to cause an inquiry to be made in respect of any
matter connected with the University. The Chancellor shall in every case give
notice to the University of his intention to cause such inspection or inquiry
to be made and the University shall be entitled to be represented
thereat.(2)The Chancellor shall communicate to the Syndicate his views with
reference to the results of such inspection or inquiry and may, after
ascertaining the opinion of the Syndicate thereon, advise the University upon
the action to be taken and fix a time limit for taking such action.(3)The
Syndicate shall report to the Chancellor the action, if any, which is proposed
to be taken or has been taken, upon the results of such inspection or inquiry.
Such report shall be submitted within such time as the Chancellor may
direct.(4)Where the Syndicate does not take action to the satisfaction of the
Chancellor within a reasonable time, the Chancellor may, after considering any
explanation furnished or representation made by the Syndicate, issue such
directions as he may think fit and the Syndicate shall comply with such
directions. In the event of the Syndicate not complying with such directions
within such time is may be fixed in that behalf by the Chancellor, the
Chancellor shall have power to appoint any person or body to comply with such
directions and make such orders as may be necessary for the expenses thereof.

### 9. Officers of University.

\- The University shall consist of the following officers, namely:-(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The
Registrar;(5)The Finance Officer;(6)The Controller of Examinations; and(7)Such
other persons as may be declared by the statutes to be officers of the
University.

### 10. The Chancellor.

(1)The Governor of Tamil Nadu shall be the Chancellor of the University. He
shall, by virtue of his office, be the head of the University and shall, when
present, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
titles, diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to
receive them.(2)Where power is conferred upon the Chancellor to nominate
persons to the authorities, the Chancellor shall, in consultation with the
Vice-Chancellor, and to the extent necessary nominate persons to represent
interests not otherwise adequately represented.(3)The Chancellor may of his
own motion or on application call for and examine the record of any officer or
authority of the University in respect of any proceedings to satisfy himself
as to the regularity of such proceedings or the correctness, legality or
propriety of any decision taken or order passed therein and, if, in any case,
it appears to the Chancellor that any such decision or order should be
modified, annulled, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, he may pass
orders accordingly:Provided that every application to the Chancellor for the
exercise of the powers under this section shall be preferred within three
months from the date on which the proceeding, decision or order to which the
application relates was communicated to the applicant:Provided further that no
order prejudicial to any person shall be passed unless such person has been
given an opportunity of making his representation.(4)the Chancellor shall
exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred
on him by or under this Act.

### 11. The Pro-Chancellor.

(1)The Minister-in-charge of the portfolio of Education in the State of Tamil
Nadu shall be the Pro-Chancellor of the University.(2)The Pro-Chancellor shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred on him by or
under this Act.

### 12. The Vice-Chancellor.

(1)Every appointment of the Vice-Chancellor shall be made by the Chancellor
from out of a panel of three names recommended by the Committee referred to in
sub-section (2). Such panel shall not contain the name of any member of the
said Committee:Provided that it the Chancellor does not approve any of the
persons in the panel so recommended by the Committee, he may take steps to
constitute another Committee, in accordance with sub-section (2), to give a
fresh panel of three different names and shall appoint one of the persons
named in the fresh panel as Vice-Chancellor.(2)For the purpose of sub-section
(1), the Committee shall consist of three persons of whom one shall be
nominated by the Government, one shall be nominated by the Senate and one
shall be nominated by the Syndicate:Provided that the person so nominated
shall not be a member of any of the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-
Chancellor shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible
for reappointment for a further period of three years:Provided that no person
shall hold the office of the Vice-Chancellor for more that six years in the
aggregate:Provided further that-(a)the Chancellor may direct that a Vice-
Chancellor, whose term of office has expired, shall continue in office for
such period, not exceeding a total period of one year, as may be specified in
the direction;(b)The Vice-Chancellor may, by writing under his hand addressed
to the Chancellor and after giving two months' notice, resign his
office:Provided also that a person appointed as Vice-Chancellor shall retire
from office if, during the term of his office or any extension thereof, he
completes the age of sixty-five years.(4)When any temporary vacancy occurs in
the office of the Vice-Chancellor when the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of
illness absence or for any other reason, unable to exercise the powers and
perform the duties of his office, the set for most Professor of the University
shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Vice-Chancellor till
the Syndicate makes the requisite arrangements for exercising the powers and
performing the duties of the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a
whole-time officer of the University and his emoluments and other terms and
conditions of service shall be as follows:-(i)There shall be paid to the Vice-
Chancellor a fixed salary of seven thousand six hundred rupees per mensem and
he shall be entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of a furnished
residence throughout his term of office, and no charge shall fall on the Vice-
Chancellor Personally in respect of the maintenance of such residence;(ii)The
Vise-Chancellor shall be entitled to such terminal benefits and allowances as
may be fixed by the Syndicate with the approval of the Chancellor from Mint to
time:Provided that, where as employee of-(a)the University; or(b)any other
University or college or Institution maintained by, or affiliated to that
University, is appointed as Vice-Chancellor, he shall be allowed to continue
to contribute to the Provident fund to which he is a subscriber, and the
contribution of the University shall be limited to what he had been
contributing immediately before his appointment as Vice-Chancellor;(iii)The
Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to travelling allowances at such Kites as
may be fixed by the Syndicate;(iv)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to to
earned leave on full pay at one-eleventh of the periods spent by him on active
service:Provided that when the earned leave applied for by the Vice-
Chancellor, in sufficient time before the date of expiry of the term of his
office, is refused by the Chancellor in the interest of the University and if
he does not avail of the leave before the date of expiry of the term of his
office, he shall be entitled to draw cash equivalent to leave salary after
relinquishment of his office in respect of earned leave at his credit subject
to a maximum of two hundred and forty days:(v)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled, on medical grounds or otherwise, to leave without pay for a period
not exceeding three months during the term of his office:Provide that such
leave may be converted into leave on full pay to the extent to which he is he
title to earned leave under clause (iv).

### 13. Powers and duties of Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the academic head and the principal executive
officer of the University and shall, in the absence of the Chancellor and the
Pro-Chancellor, preside at any convocation of the University and confer
degrees, titles, diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled
to receive them. He shall be a member ex-officio and Chairman of the Senate,
the Syndicate, the Standing Committee a Academic Affairs and the Finance
Committee and shall be entitled to be present at, and to address, any meeting
of any authority of the University but shall not be Ratified to vote there at,
unless he is a member of the authority concerned.(2)It shall be the duty of
the Vice-Chancellor to ensure that the provisions of this Act, the statutes,
ordinances and regulations are observed and carried oath aid he may exercise
all powers necessary for this purpose.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power
to convene meetings of the Senate, the Syndicate, the Standing Committee on
Academic Affairs and the Finance Committee.(4)(a)The Vice-Chancellor shall
have power to take action of any mutter and shall by order take such action as
he may deem necessary but shall, as soon as may be, thereafter report the
action taken to the officer or authority or body who or which would have
ordinarily dealt with the matter:Provided that no such order shall be passed
unless the person likely to be affected has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard;(b)When the action taken by the Vice-Chancellor
under this sub-section affects any person in the service of the University,
such person shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Syndicate within
thirty days from the date on which he has notice of such action. The Vice-
Chancellor shall give effect to the order passed by the Syndicate on such
appeal.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the orders of the Syndicate
regarding the appointment, suspension and dismissal of the teachers and other
employees of the University.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise control over
the affairs of the University and shall be responsible for the due maintenance
of discipline in the University.(7)The Vice-Chancellor shall be responsible
for the co-ordination and integration of teaching and research, extension
education and curriculum development.(8)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise
such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
statutes.

### 14. The Register.

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University
appointed by the Syndicate and the terms and conditions of service of the
Registrar shall be as follows:-(i)The holder of the post of Registrar shall be
an academician not lower in rank than that of Professor of a college
affiliated to any University;(ii)The Registrar shall hold office for a period
of three years.Provided that the Registrar shall retire on attaining the if
fifty-eight years or on the expiry of the period specified in this clause,
whichever is earlier;(iii)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of
service of the Registrar shall be such as may be prescribed;(iv)When the
office of the Registrar is vacant or when the Registrar is, by reason of
illness, absence or any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his
office, the duties of the office of the Registrar shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(2)(a)The Registrar
shall have power to take disciplinary action against such of the employees,
excluding teachers of the University and academic staff, as may be sped Red in
the orders of the Syndicate and to suspend them pending inquiry, to administer
warnings to them or to impose on them the penalty of censure or withholding of
increment;Provided that no such penally shall be imposed unless the person
concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the
action proposed; to be taken in regard to him:(b)An appeal shall lie to the
Vice-Chancellor against any order of the Registrar imposing any of the
penalties specified in clause (a);(c)In any case where the inquiry discloses
that punishment beyond the powers of the Registrar is called for, the
Registrar shall, upon conclusion of the inquiry, make a report to the Vice-
Chancellor along with his recommendations:Provided that an appeal shall lie to
the Syndicate against an order of the Vice Chancellor imposing any penalty
;(d)No appeal under clause (b) or clause (c) shall be preferred after me
expiry of sixty days from the date on which the order appealed against was
received by the appellant.(3)The Registrar shall be the ex-officio Secretary
to the Senate, the Syndicate, the Faculties and the Boards of Studies, but
shall not be deemed to be a member of any of these authorities.(4)It shall be
the duty of the Registrar,-(a)to be the custodian of the records, the common
seal and such other property of the University as the Syndicate shall commit
to his charge;(b)to issue all notices convening meetings of the Senate, the
Syndicate, the Faculties, the Boards of Studies, the Boards of Examiners and
of any Committee appointed by the authorities of the University;(c)to keep the
minutes of all the proceedings of the meetings of the Senate, the Syndicate,
the Faculties, the Boards of Studies, the Boards of Examiners and of any
Committee appointed by the authorities of the University;(d)to conduct the
official correspondence of the Syndicates;(e)to supply to the Chancellor,
copies of the agenda of the meetings of the authorities of the University as
soon as they are issued and the minutes of the proceedings of such meetings;
and(f)to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
specified in the statutes, the ordinances or the regulations or as may be
required, from time to tine, by the Syndicate or the Vice-Chancellor.(5)In all
suits and other legal proceedings by or against the University, the pleadings
shall be signed and verified by the Registrar and all processes in such suits
and proceedings shall be issued to, and served on, the Registrar.

### 15. The Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the
University appointed by the Syndicate for such period as may be specified by
the Syndicate in this behalf.(2)Every appointment of the Finance Officer shall
be made by the Syndicate from out of a panel of three names recommended by the
Government.(3)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of service of the
Finance Officer shall be such as may be prescribed by the ordinances.(4)The
Finance Officer shall retire on attaining the age of fifty-eight years or on
the expiry of the period specified by the Syndicate under sub-section (1),
whichever is earlier:Provided that the Finance Officer shall, notwithstanding
his attaining the age of fifty-eight years, continue in office until his
successor is appointed and enters upon his office or until the expiry of a
period of one year, whichever is earlier.(5)When the office of the Finance
Officer is vacant or when the Finance Officer is, by reason of illness,
absence or any other cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the
duties of the Finance Officer shall be performed by such person as the Vice-
Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(6)The Finance Officer shall be the ex-
officio Secretary to the Finance Committee, but shall not be deemed to be a
member of such Committee.(7)The Finance Officer shall,-(a)exercise general
supervision over the funds of the University and shall advise the University
as regards its financial policy; and(b)exercise such other powers and perform
such other financial functions as may be assigned to him by the Syndicate or
as may be prescribed by the statutes or the ordinances:Provided that the
Finance Officer shall not incur any expenditure or make any investment
exceeding such amount as may be prescribed without the previous approval of
the Syndicate.(8)Subject to the control of the Syndicate, the Finance Officer
shall,-(a)hold and manage the property and investments on the University
including trust and endowed property;(b)ensure that the limits fixed by the
Syndicate for recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a year are not
exceeded and that all moneys are expended on the purposes for which they are
granted or allotted;(c)be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts,
financial estimates and the budget of the University and for their
presentation to the Syndicate;(d)keep a constant watch on the cash and bank
balances and of investments;(e)watch the progress of the collection of revenue
and advise on the methods of collection employed;(f)ensure that the registers
of buildings, lands, furniture and equipments are maintained up-to-date, and
that stock checking is conducted, of equipments and other consumable materials
in all offices, special centres, specialized laboratories and colleges
maintained by the University;(g)bring to the notice of the Vice-Chancellor any
unauthorized expenditure or other financial irregularity and suggest
appropriate action to be taken against persons at fault; and(h)call from any
office, centre, laboratory and college maintained by the University, any
information or returns that he may consider necessary for the performance of
his duties.(9)The receipt of the Finance Officer or of the person or persons
duly authorised in this behalf by the Syndicate for any money payable to the
University shall be sufficient discharge for payment of such money.

### 16. The Controller of Examinations.

(1)The Controller of Examinations shall be a whole-time officer of the
University appointed by the Syndicate for such period and on such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed.(2)The Controller of Examinations shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed.

### 17. Authorities of the University.

\- The authorities of the University shall be the Senate, the Syndicate, the
Standing Committee on Academic Affairs, the Faculties the Boards of Studies,
the Finance Committee, the Planning Board and such other authorities as may be
declared by the statutes to be authorities of the University.

### 18. The Planning Board.

(1)There shall be constituted a Planning Board of the University which shall
advise generally on the planning and development of the University and keep
under review the standard of education and research in the University.(2)The
Planning Board shall consist of the following members, namely:-(i)the Vice-
Chancellor, who shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Board; and(ii)not more
than eight persons of high academic standing.(3)The members of the Planning
Board shall be appointed by the Chancellor and shall hold office for such
period as he may determine.(4)The Planning Board shall, in addition to all
other powers vested in it by this Act, have the right to advise the Syndicate
and the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs on any academic matter.

### 19. Vice-Chancellor and other Officers, etc., to be public servants.

\- The Vice-Chancellor the Registrar, the Finance Officer, the Controller of
Examinations and other employees of the University shall be deemed, when
acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act,
to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code (Central Act XLV of 1868).Chapter - III The Senate and the Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs Powers And Duties

### 20. The Senate.

(a)The Senate shall consist of the following members, namely:-Class I-Ex-
Officio Members(1)The Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-
Chancellor;(4)The Director of Collegiate Education;(5)The Director of School
Education in-charge of Higher Secondary Education;(6)The Director of Technical
Education;(7)The Director of Legal Studies;(8)The director of Medical
Education;(9)Heads of University Departments of Study and
Research;(10)Principals of all affiliated colleges;(11)The Librarian of the
University Library;(12)The Director of Physical Education of the University;
and(13)Members of the Syndicate who are not otherwise members of the
Senate.Class II-Other Members(1)One member elected by teachers of each
affiliated college;(2)One member elected from among themselves by the
Secretaries of the college committees of the private colleges, as defined in
the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 (President's Act 19 of
1976) within the University area;(3)One member elected by Headmasters of
Higher Secondary Schools in each revenue district within the University
area;(4)Two members elected by registered graduates in each revenue district
within the University area from among themselves;(5)Two members elected by the
Members of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from among themselves;(6)Not
more than eight members nominated by the Chancellor representing-(i)recognised
research institution;(ii)recognised cultural association;(iii)Chambers of
Committee;(iv)Industries;(v)Authors;(vi)Journalists;(vii)Lawyers;(viii)Sports;
and(7)Six members nominated by the Pro-Chancellor of whom not less than three
shall be nominate to secure the representation of the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes not otherwise adequately represented.Explanation. - In case
the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Higher Education or the Secretary to
Government, in-charge of Health an Family Welfare, or the Secretary to
Government, in-charge of Law, who is a member of the Senate by virtue of item
(13) under Class I-Ex-Officio Members is unable to attend any meeting of the
Senate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his department, not lower
in rank than that the Deputy Secretary to Government, to attend such meeting.
The officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussions of
the meeting and shall lave the right to vote.(b)(i)Save as otherwise provided,
elected and nominated member of the Senate shall hold office for a period of
three years and such member shall be eligible for election or nomination for
not more than another period of three years.(ii)Where a member is elected or
nominated to the Senate to a casual vacancy, the period of office hold for not
less than one year by any such member shall be construed as a full period of
three years for the purpose of this clause:Provided that a member of the
Senate who is elected or nominated in his capacity as, a member of a
particular electorate or body, or the holder of a particular appointment,
shall cease to be a member of Senate from the date on which he ceases to be, a
member of that electorate or body or the holder of that appointment, as the
case may be:Provided further that where an elected or a nominated member of
the Senate is appointed temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which
he is entitled to be a member of the Senate ex-officio, he shall, by notice in
writing signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven
days from the date of his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he
will continue to be a member of the Senate by virtue of his election or
nomination or whether he will vacate office as such member and become a member
ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On
failure to make such a choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office
as an elected or a nominated member.(c)When a person cease to be a member of
the Senate, he shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the
University of which he may happen to be a member by virtue of his membership
of the Senate.(d)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the
Senate.(e)The members of the Senate shall not be entitled to receive any
remuneration from the University except such daily and travelling allowances
as may be prescribed.Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall
preclude any member fromdrawing his normal emoluments to which he is entitled
by virtue of the office he holds.(f)A member of the Senate other than an ex-
officio member, may tender resignation of his membership at any time before
the term of his office expires. Such resignation shall be conveyed to the
Chancellor by a letter in writing by the member, and the resignation shall
take effect from the date of its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 21. Senate to review the board policies and programmes of University.

\- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Senate shall have the
following powers and functions, namely:-(a)to review, from time to time, the
broad policies and programme of the University and to suggest measures for the
improvement and development of the University;(b)to advise the Chancellor in
respect of any matter, which may be referred to it for advice; and(c)to
exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may be
prescribed by the statutes.

### 22. Meeting of Senate.

(1)The Senate shall meet atleast twice in every year on dates to be fixed by
the Vice-Chancellor. One of such meetings shall be called the annual meeting.
The Senate may also meet at such other times as it may, from time to time,
determine.(2)One-third of the total strength of the members of the Senate
shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the Senate:Provided that such
quorum shall not be required at a convocation of the University, or a meeting
of the Senate, held for the purpose of conferring degrees, titles, diplomas or
other academic distinctions.(3)The Vice-Chancellor may, whenever he thinks
fit, and shall upon a requisition in writing signed by not less than fifty per
cent of the total members of the Senate, convene a special meeting of the
Senate.

### 23. The Standing Committee on Academic Affairs.

(1)There shall be a Standing Committee on Academic Affairs of the University
which shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes and the
ordinances, co-ordinate and exercise general supervision over the academic
affairs of the University.(2)(a)The Standing Committee on Academic Affairs
shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the following members,
namely:-Class I-Ex-officio Members(1)The Director of Collegiate
Education,(2)The Director of Technical Education;(3)The Director of Medical
Education;(4)The Chairmen of all Boards for Under-graduate and Post-graduate
courses of studies; and(5)The Deans of all Faculties.Class II-Other
Members(a)Two members elected by Principals of affiliated colleges from among
themselves in accordance with the system of proportional representation by
means of the single transferable vote.(b)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-
officio Chairman of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs.(c)(i)The
member of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs other than the ex-officio
members, shall hold office for a period of three years and such members shall
be eligible for election for not more than another period of three
years.(ii)Where a member is elected or nominated to the Standing Committee on
Academic Affairs to a casual vacancy, the period of office hold for not less
than one year by any such member shall be construed as a full period of three
years for the purpose of this clause:Provided that a member of the Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs who is elected or nominated in his capacity as,
a member of a particular electorate or body, or the holder of a particular
appointment, shall cease to be a member of Standing Committee on Academic
Affairs from the date on which he ceases to be, a member of that electorate or
body or the holder of that appointment, as the case may be:Provided further
that where an elected member of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs is
appointed temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which be is entitled
to be a member of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs ex-officio, he
shall, by notice in writing signed by him and communicated to the Vice
Chancellor within seven days from the date of his taking charge of his
appointment, choose whether he will continue to be a member of the Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs by virtue of his election or whether he will
vacate office as such member and become a member ex-officio by virtue of his
appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such a
choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office as an elected
member.(d)The members of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs shall not
be entitled to receive any remuneration from the University except such daily
and travelling allowances as may be prescribed:Provided that nothing contained
in this clause shall preclude any member from drawing his normal emoluments to
which he is entitled by virtue of the office he holds.(e)A member of the
Standing Committee on Academic Affairs, other than ex-officio member, may
tender resignation of his membership at any time before the term of his office
expires. Such resignation shall be conveyed to the Chancellor by a letter in
writing by the member, and the resignation shall take effect from the date of
its acceptance by the Chancellor.(3)The powers and duties of the Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs shall be such as may be prescribed by the
statutes.Chapter - IV The Syndicate

### 24. The Syndicate.

(a)The Chancellor shall, as soon, as may be after the first. The Syndicate
Vice-Chancellor is appointed under section 55 constitute the Syndicate.(b)The
Syndicate shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the following
members, namely:-Class I-Ex-officio Members(1)The Secretary to Government in-
charge of Higher Education;(2)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Health
and Family Welfare,(3)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Law;(4)The
Director of Collegiate Education;(5)The Director of Technical Education;(6)The
Director of Medical Education; and(7)The Director of Legal Studies.Class II-
Other Members(1)Two members elected by principals of affiliated colleges from
among themselves in accordance with the system of proportional representation
by means of the single transferable vote;(2)Two members elected by teachers of
affiliated colleges, other than principals, from among themselves who are
members of the Senate, in accordance with the system of proportional
representation by means of the single transferable vote.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this item "teachers" shall mean those teachers elected to the
Seriate by the teachers of the affiliated colleges from among
themselves.(3)One University Professor for every ten Heads of Departments of
study and research, schools of excellence or centres of advanced studies, or
part thereof, to be nominated by rotation among such Departments, schools and
centres by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor;(4)One
member, not falling under any of the above three categories, elected by the
Senate from among its members;(5)Three members from among the Academic Experts
nominated by the Chancellor;(6)One University Reader nominated by the Vice-
Chancellor by rotation according to seniority;(7)One University Lecturer
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor by rotation according to seniority;(8)One
member nominated by the Government to secure representation of the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes from the members of the teaching faculty;
and(9)One member nominated by the Government to secure representation of the
Most Backward Classes and the Denotifled Communities from among the members
the teaching faculty.(c)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman
of the Syndicate.(d)In case the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Higher
Education, or the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Health and Family
Welfare, or the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Law, is unable to attend
the meetings of the Syndicate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his
Department not lower in rank than that of Deputy Secretary to Government to
attend the meetings. The officer so deputed shall have the right to take part
in the discussions of the meeting and shall have the right to vote.(e)(i)Save
as otherwise provided, the members of the Syndicate other than the ex-officio
members shall hold office for a period of three years and such Member shall be
eligible for election or nomination for not more than another period of three
years.(ii)Where a member is elected or nominated to the Syndicate to a casual
vacancy, the period of office hold for not less than one year by any such
member skull be construed as a full period of three years for the purpose of
this clause:Provided that a member of the Syndicate who is elected or
nominated in his capacity as, a member of a particular electorate or body or
the holder of a particular appointment, shall cease to be a member of
Syndicate from the date on which he cases to be, a member of that electorate
or body or the holder of that appointment, as the case may be:Provided further
that where an elected or a nominated member of the Syndicate is appointed
temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which he is entitled to be a
member of the Syndicate ex-officio, he shall, by notice in writing signed by
him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from the date of
his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he will continue to be a
member of the Syndicate by virtue of his election or nomination or whether he
will vacate office as such member and become a member ex-officio by virtue of
his appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such a
choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office as an elected or a
nominated member.(f)When a person ceases to be a member of the Syndicate, he
shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the University of
which he may happen to be a member by virtue of this membership of the
Syndicate.(g)The members of the Syndicate shall not be entitled to receive any
remuneration from the University except such daily and travelling allowances
as may be prescribed;Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall
preclude any member from drawing his normal emoluments to which he is entitled
by virtue of the office he holds.(h)A member of the Syndicate other than ex-
officio member, may tender resignation of his membership at any time before
the term of his office expires such resignation shall be conveyed to the
Chancellor by a letter in writing by the member, and the resignation shall
take effect from the date of its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 25. Powers of Syndicate.

(a)The Syndicate shall have the following powers, namely:-(1)to make statutes
and amend or repeal the statutes;(2)to make ordinances and amend or repeal the
same;(3)to co-operate with other Universities, other academic authorities and
colleges in such manner and for such purposes as it may determine;(4)to
provide for instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may
think fit;(5)to prescribe the conditions for approving colleges or
institutions in which provision is made for the preparation of students for
titles or diplomas of the University and to withdraw such approval;(6)to
provide for research and advancement and dissemination of knowledge;(7)to
institute lectureships, readerships, professorships and any other teaching
posts required by the University;(8)to prescribe the conditions for
affiliating colleges to the University and to withdraw affiliation from
colleges;(9)to prescribe the manner in which, and the conditions subject to
which, a college may be designated as an autonomous college and such
designation may be cancelled;(10)to provide such lectures and instructions for
students of University colleges, affiliated colleges and approved colleges as
the Senate may determine and also to provide for lectures and instructions to
persons not being students of colleges and to grant diplomas to them;(11)to
institute degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic distinctions;(12)to
confer degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic distinctions on persons
who-(a)shall have pursued an approved course of study in University college or
laboratory or in an affiliated or approved college or have been exempted
therefrom in the manner prescribed and shall have passed the prescribed
examinations of the University;(b)shall have carried on research under
conditions prescribed;(13)to confer honorary degrees or academic distinctions
on the recommendation of not less than two-thirds of the members of the
Syndicate;(14)to establish and maintain hostels;(15)to institute fellowships,
travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions,
medals and prizes;(16)to prescribe the fees to be charged for the approval and
affiliation of colleges, for admission to the examinations, degrees, titles
and diplomas of the University, for the registration of graduates, for the
renewal of such registration and for an or any of the purposes specified in
section 4;(17)to consider and take stich actions as it may deem fit on the
annual report, the annual accounts and the financial estimates;(18)to
institute a University Extension Board and to maintain it;(19)to institute
publication bureau, students' unions, employment bureau and University
athletic clubs and to maintain them;(20)to enter into any agreement with the
Central or any State Government or with a private management for assuming the
management of any institution and for taking over its properties and
liabilities or for any other purposes not repugn ant to the provisions of this
Act;(21)to make statutes regulating the method of election to the authorities
of the University and the procedure at the meeting of the Senate, Syndicate
and other authorites of the University and the quorum of members required for
the transaction of business by the authorities of the University other than
the Senate;(22)to recommend to the Government the recognition of an area
within the University area as University Centre;(23)to hold, control and
administer the properties and funds of the University;(24)to direct the form,
custody and use of the common seal of the University;(25)to regulate and
determine all matters concerning the University in accordance with this Act,
the statutes, the ordinances and the regulations;(26)to administer all
properties and funds placed at the disposal of the University for specific
purposes;(27)(a)to appoint the University Lecturers, University Readers,
University Professors and the teachers of the University, fix their
emoluments, if any, define their duties and the conditions of their services
and provide for filling up of temporary vacancies;(b)to make ordinances
specifying the mode of appointment of administrative and other similar posts
and fix their emoluments, it any, define their duties and the conditions of
their services and provide for filling up of temporal vacancies;(28)to suspend
and dismiss the University Lecturers, University Readers, University
Professors and the teachers and other employees of the University;(29)to
accept on behalf of the University, endowments, bequests, donations, grants
and transfers of any movable and immovable properties made to it:Provided that
all such endowments, bequests donations grants and transfers shall be reported
to the Senate at its next meeting;(30)(i)to raise, on behalf of the
University, loans from the Central or any State Government or the public or
any corporation owned or controlled by the Central or any State
Government;(ii)to borrow money, with the approval of the Government, on the
security of the property of the University for the purposes of the
University;(31)to affiliate colleges within the University area to the
University and to recognise colleges as approved colleges;(32)to designate any
college as an autonomous college with the concurrence of the Government and to
cancel such designation;(33)to recognise hotels not maintained by the
University and to suspend or withdraw recognition of any hostel which is not
conducted in accordance with the ordinances and the conditions imposed
thereunder;(34)to arrange for and direct, the inspection of all University
colleges, affiliated and approved colleges and hostels;(35)to prescribe the
qualification of teachers in University, colleges, affiliated and approved
colleges and hostels;(36)to award fellowships, travelling fellowships.
Scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes in
accordance with the statutes;(37)to charge and collect such fees as may be
prescribed;(38)to conduct the University examinations and approve and publish
the results thereof;(39)to make ordinances regarding the admission of students
to the University or prescribing examinations to be recognised as equivalent
to University examinations;(40)to appoint members to the Boards of
Studies;(41)(i)to appoint examiners, after consideration of the
recommendations of the Boards of Studies; and(ii)to fix their
remuneration;(42)to supervise and control the residence and discipline of the
students of the University and make arrangements through the colleges for
securing their health and well-being.(43)to institute and manage University
Centres, University colleges and laboratories, libraries, museums, institutes
of research and other institutions established or maintained by the
University;(44)to manage hostels instituted by the University;(45)to regulate
the working of the University Extension Board;(46)to manage any publication
bureau, students' unions, employment bureau and University athletic clubs
Instituted by the University;(47)to review the instruction and teaching of the
University;(48)to promote research within the University and to require
reports, from time to tine, of such research;(49)to exercise such other powers
and perform such other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by this Act
or the statutes, ordinances or regulations; and(50)(a)to delegate any of its
powers to the Vice-Chancellor, to a committee from among its own members or to
a committee appointed in accordance with the statutes;(b)the Syndicate may
consult the Standing Committee on Academic affairs in respect of any academic
matter, where it considers such consultation is necessary.

### 26. Meetings of Syndicate.

(1)The Syndicate shall meet at such times and places and shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), observe such rules of procedure in
regard to transaction of business at its meetings including the quorum at
meetings as may be prescribed:Provided that the Syndicate shall meet atleast
once in every three months.(2)The Vice-Chancellor, or in his absence any
member chosen by the members present, shall preside at a meeting of the
Syndicate.(3)All questions at any meeting of the Syndicate shall be decided by
a majority of the votes of the members present and voting and in the case of
an equality of votes, the Vice-Chancellor or the member presiding, as the case
may be, shall have and exorcise a second or casting vote.(4)(a)The Syndicate
may, for the purpose of consultation, invite any person having special
knowledge or practical experience in any subject under consideration to attend
to any meeting. Such person may speak in, and otherwise take part it, the
proceedings of such meeting but shall not be entitled to vote.(b)The person so
invited shall be entitled to such daily and travelling allowances as are
admissible to a member of the Syndicate.

### 27. Annual report.

\- The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate and
shall be submitted to the Senate on or before such date as may be prescribed
by the statutes and shall be considered by the Senate at its next annual
meeting. The Senate may pass resolutions thereon and communicate the same to
the Syndicate Which shall take action in accordance therewith. The Syndicate
shall inform the Senate of the action taken by it. A copy of the report with a
copy of the resolutions thereon, if any, of the Senate shall be submitted to
the Government for information.

### 28. Annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be submitted to such
examination and audit as the Government may direct and a copy of the annual
accounts and audit report shall be submitted to the Government.(2)The
University shall settle objections raised in such audit and carry out such
instructions as may be issued by the Government on the audit report.(3)The
accounts, when audited, shall be published by the Syndicate in such manner as
may be prescribed by the ordinances and copies thereof shall be submitted to
the Senate at its next meeting and to the Government within three months of
such publication.Chapter - V The Faculties, The Boards Of Studies, The Finance
Committee And Other Authorities

### 29. Constitution and functions of Faculties.

(1)The University shall include Faculties of Arts, Science, Law, Engineering
and Technology, Education, Commerce, Indian and other Languages, Fine Arts and
such other Faculties as may be prescribed by the statutes.(2)The constitution
and functions of the Faculties shall, in all other respects, be such as may be
prescribed by the regulations.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (2), the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs may, on the
recommendations of the Syndicate, appoint any teacher of the University as a
member of a Faculty.(4)Each Faculty shall comprise such departments of
teaching as may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 30. The Boards of Studies.

\- There shall be Boards of Studies attached to each department of teaching.
The constitution and powers of the Boards of Studies shall be such as may be
prescribed by the ordinances.

### 31. Constitution of other authorities.

\- The constitution and powers of such other bodies as may be declared by the
statutes to be authorities of the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 32. Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-(i)The Vice-Chancellor;(ii)The Secretary to Government in-charge of
Finance;(iii)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Higher
Education;(iv)Three members nominated by the Syndicate from among its members
of whom one shall be Professor and one shall be a person nominated to the
Syndicate by the Chancellor.(2)If for any reason the officer referred to in
clause (ii) or clause (iii) of sub-section (1) is unable to attend any meeting
of the Finance Committee, he may depute any officer of his department not
lower in rank than that of Deputy Secretary to Government to attend such
meeting. The officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the
discussions of the Committee and shall have the right to vote.(3)The Vice-
Chancellor shall be the ex-officio Chairman of, and the Finance Officer shall
be the ex-officio Secretary to, the Finance Committee.(4)All the members of
the Finance Committee, other than the ex-officio members, shall hold office
for a period of three years.(5)The Finance Committee at least twice in every
year to examine the accounts and to scrutinize proposals for
expenditure.(6)The annual accounts of the University prepared by the Finance
Officer shall be laid before the Finance Committee for consideration and
comments and thereafter submitted to the Syndicate for approval.(7)The Finance
Committee shall recommend limits for the total recurring expenditure and the
total non-recurring expenditure for the year based on the income and resources
of the University which, in the case of productive works, may include the
proceeds of loans.(8)The Finance Committee shall-(a)review the financial
position of the University from time to time;(b)make recommendation to the
Syndicate on every proposal involving investment or expenditure for which no
provision has been made in the annual financial estimates or which involves
expenditure in excess of the amount provided far in the annual financial
estimates;(c)prescribe the methods and procedure and forms for maintaining the
accounts of the University and Colleges;(d)make recommendations to the
Syndicate on all matters relating to the finances of the University;
and(e)perform such other functions as may be prescribed.(9)The financial
estimates of the University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be laid
before the Finance Committee for consideration and comments. The said
estimates, as modified by the Finance Committee, shall then be laid before the
Syndicate for consideration. The Syndicate may accept the modification made by
the Finance Committee.Chapter - VI Statutes, Ordinances And Regulations

### 33. Statutes.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:-(i)the holding of convocation to confer
degrees;(ii)the conferment of honorary degrees and academic
distinctions;(iii)the constitution, powers and functions of the authorities of
the University;(iv)the manner of filling vacancies among members of the
authorities;(v)the allowances to be paid to the members of the authorities and
committees thereof;(vi)the procedure at meetings of the authorities including
the quorum for the transactions of business at such meetings;(vii)the
authentication of the orders of decisions of the authorities;(viii)the
formation of departments of teaching at the University and the University
colleges;(ix)the term of office and methods of appointment and conditions of
service of the officers of the University other than the Chancellor and the
Pro-chancellor;(x)the qualifications of the teachers and other persons
employed by the University;(xi)the classification, the method of appointment
and determination of the terms and conditions of service of teachers and other
persons employed by the University;(xii)the institution of pension, gratuity,
insurance or provident fund for the benefit of the officers, teachers and
other persons employed by the University;(xiii)the institution of fellowships,
travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions,
medals and prizes and the conditions of award thereof;(xiv)the establishment
and maintenance of halls, hostels and laboratories;(xv)the conditions for
residence of students of the University in the halls and hostels and the levy
of fees and other charges for such residence;(xvi)the conditions of
registration of graduates and the maintenance of register thereof;(xvii)the
conditions of recognition of approved colleges and of affiliation to the
University of affiliated colleges;(xviii)the manner in which, and the
conditions subject to which, a college may be designated as an autonomous
college or the designation of such college may be cancelled and the matters
incidental to the administration of autonomous colleges including the
constitution or reconstitution, powers and duties of Standing Committee on
Academic Affairs, Staff Council, Boards of Studies and Boards of
Examiners;(xix)the delegation of powers vested in the authorities or officers
of the University; and(xx)any other matter which is required to be or may be
prescribed by the statutes.

### 34. Statutes, how made.

(1)The Syndicate may, from time to time, make statutes and amend or repeal the
statutes in the manner hereafter provided in this section.(2)The Standing
Committee on Academic Affairs may propose to the Syndicate the draft of any
statute or of any amendment to or of repeal of, a statute to be passed by the
Syndicate and such draft shall be considered by the Syndicate at its next
meeting:Provided that the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs shall not
propose the draft of any statute or of any amendment to, or of repeal of, a
statute relating to matters other than academic affairs.(3)The Syndicate may
consider the draft proposed by the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs
under sub-section (2) and may either pass that draft or reject or return it
with or without amendments to the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs for
reconsideration.(4)(a)Any member of the Syndicate may propose to the Syndicate
the left of a statute or of any amendment to, or of repeal of, a statute and
the Syndicate may either accept or reject the draft, if it relates to a matter
not falling within the purview of the Standing Committee on Academic
Affairs:(b)In case such draft relates to a matter within the purview of the
Standing Committee on Academic Affairs, the Syndicate shall refer it for
consideration to the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs, which may either
report to the Syndicate that it does not approve the draft or submit the draft
to the Syndicate in such form as the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs
may approve and the Syndicate may either pass with or without amendment or
reject the draft.(5)A statute or an amendment to, or repeal of, a statute
passed by the Syndicate shall be submitted to the Chancellor who may assent
thereto or withhold his assent. A statute or an amendment to, or repeal of, a
statute passed by the Syndicate shall have no validity until it has been
assented to by the Chancellor.

### 35. Ordinance.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the statutes, the ordinances may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(i)the admission of
students to the University and its approved or affiliated colleges and the
levy of fees in University colleges and laboratories;(ii)the courses of study
leading to all degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic distinctions of
the University;(iii)the conditions of residence of students of the University
and the levy of fees for residence in hostels maintained by the
University;(iv)the conditions of recognition of hostels not maintained by the
University;(v)the conditions under which the students shall be admitted to the
courses of study leading to degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions of the University;(vi)the conduct of examinations of the
University and the conditions on which students shall be admitted to such
examinations;(vii)the manner in which exemption relating to the admission of
students to examinations may be given;(viii)the conditions and mode of
appointment and duties of examining bodies and examiners;(ix)the maintenance
of discipline among the students of the University;(x)the fees to be charged
for courses of study, research, experiment and practical training and for
admissions to the examinations for degrees, titles, diplomas and other
academic distinctions of the University;(xi)the qualifications and emoluments
of teachers of the University;(xii)the conditions subject to which persons who
may hereafter be permanently employed may be recognised as qualified to give
instruction in affiliated and approved colleges and hostels; and(xiii)any
other matter which by this Act or the statutes is required to be or may be
prescribed by the ordinances.

### 36. Ordinances, how made.

(1)In making ordinances, the Syndicate shall consult,-(i)the Boards of Studies
when such ordinances affect the appointment and duties of examiners;
and(ii)the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs when they affect the conduct
or standard of examinations, or the conditions of residence of students.(2)All
ordinances made by the Syndicate shall have effect; from such date as it may
direct, but every ordinance so made shall be submitted, as soon as may be, to
the Chancellor and the Senate and shall be considered by the Senate at its
next succeeding meeting.(3)The Chancellor may direct that the operation of any
ordinance shall be suspended until such time as the Senate has had an
opportunity of considering, the same.

### 37. Regulations how made.

(1)The Standing Committee on Academic Affairs may make regulations consistent
with this Act, the statutes and the ordinances to carry out the duties
assigned to it thereunder.(2)All such regulations shall have effect from such
date as the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs may direct but every
regulation so made shall be submitted, as soon as may be, to the Senate for
its consideration at its next succeeding meeting.Chapter - VII Admission And
Residence Of Students

### 38. Admission to University courses.

(1)No persons shall be admitted to a course of study in the University for
admission to the examinations for degrees, titles, or diplomas of the
University unless he-(i)has passed the examination prescribed therefor;
and(ii)fulfils such other conditions as may be prescribed by the
University.(2)Every candidate for a University examination shall, unless
exempted from the provisions of this sub-section by a special order of the
Syndicate made or the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Academic
Affairs, be enrolled as a member of a University college or laboratory or of
an affiliated or approved college. Any such exemption may be made subject to
such conditions as the Syndicate may think fit.(3)Students exempted from the
provisions of sub-section (2) and students admitted, in accordance with the
conditions prescribed, to courses of study other than courses of study for a
degree shall be non-collegiate students of the University.

### 39. Admission to University examinations.

\- No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless he is
enrolled as a member of University college or laboratory or of an affiliated
or approved college and has satisfied the requirements as to the attendance
required under the regulations for the same or unless he is exempted from such
requirements of enrolment or attendance or both by an order of the Syndicate
passed on the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs
made under the regulations prescribed. Exemptions granted under this section
shall be subject to such conditions as the Syndicate may think fit.

### 40. Attendance qualifying for University examinations.

\- No attendance at instruction given in any college or institution, other
than that conducted, affiliated or approved by the University, shall qualify
for admission to any examination of the University.

### 41. Residence and hostels.

\- Every student of the University other than a non-collegiate student shall
be required to reside in a hostel of under such other conditions as may be
prescribed.Chapter - VIII University Funds

### 42. General Fund.

\- The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited-(a)its
income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any contribution or
grant made by the Central Government, State Government, the University Grants
Commission or like authority, any local authority or any corporation owned or
controlled by the Government; and(c)endowments and other receipts.Chapter - IX
Conditions Of Service

### 43. Pension, gratuity, etc.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers
and other persons employed by the University, such pension, gratuity,
insurance and provident fund as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to
such conditions, as may be prescribed.(2)Where the University has so
instituted a Provident Fund under sub-section (1), the Government may declare
that the provisions of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (Central Act XIX of 1925)
shall apply to such funds as it the university where a local authority and the
fund a Government Provident Fund.(3)The University may, in consultation with
the Finance Committee, invest the provident fund amount in such manner as it
may determine.

### 44. Conditions of service.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selection, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers,
teachers and other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the word
"officers" shall not include the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.

### 45. Selection Committees.

(1)There shall be Selection Committees for making recommendations to the
Syndicate for appointment to the posts of Professor, Assistant Professor,
Reader, Lecturer and Librarian of Institutions maintained by the
University.(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts specified
in column (1) of the Table below shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, a
nominee of the Chancellor, a nominee of the Government and the persons
specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Table and in
the case of appointment of a Professor, Assistant Professor, Reader or
Lecturer in a Department, where there is no Head of the Department, shall also
consist of a person nominated by the Standing Committee on Academic Affairs
from among its members:-

(1) |  | (2)  
---|---|---  
Professor Assistant Professor or Reader. |  |  (i) The Head of theDepartment concerned, if he is a Professor;(ii) One Director ora Dean or a Professor to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor;(iii) Three persons not in the service of theUniversity nominated by the Syndicate, from out of a panel ofnames recommended by the Standing Committee on Academic Affairsfor their special knowledge of, or interest in, the subject withwhich the Professor, Assistant Professor or Reader will beconcerned.  
Lecturer. |  |  (i) The Head of theDepartment concerned;(ii) One Professor tobe nominated by the Vice-Chancellor;(iii) Two persons not in the service of theUniversity nominated by the Syndicate from out of a panel ofnames recommended by the Standing Committee on Academic Affairsfor their special knowledge of, or interest in, the subject withwhich the lecturer will be concerned.  
Librarian. |  |  (i) Two persons notin the service of that University, who have special known of thesubject of Library Science or Library Administration, to benominated by the Syndicate;(ii) One person, not in the service of theUniversity, nominated by the Syndicate.  
  
Explanation I. - Where the appointments are being made for an inter-
disciplinary project, the Heart or the Prefect shall be deemed to be Head of
the Department concerned.Explanation II. - The Professor to be nominated shall
be the Professor concerned with the specially for which the selection is being
made and that the Vice-Chancellor shall consult the Head of the Department and
the Dean of Faculty before nominating the Professor.Explanation III. - At
least three out of four or two out of three members as the case may be,
concerned with the specially referred to under column (2) shall be present at
the Selection Committee meeting.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall preside at the
meetings of a Selection Committee.(4)The meetings of a Selection Committee
shall be convened by the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The procedure to be followed by a
Selection Committee in making recommendations shall be laid down in the
ordinances.(6)If the Syndicate is unable to accept the commendations made by a
Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the
Chancellor for final orders.(7)Appointments to temporary posts shall be made
in the manner indicated below:-(i)If the temporary vacancy is for a duration
longer than one academic session, it shall be filled on the advice of the
Selection Committee in accordance with the procedure indicated in the
foregoing provisions:Provided that in the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in
the interest of work it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may
be made on a temporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in
sub-clause (ii) for a period not exceeding six months;(ii)If the temporary
vacancy is for a period less than a year, an appointment to such vacancy shall
be made on the recommendation of a local Selection Committee consisting of the
Dean of the Faculty concerned, the Head of the Department and a nominee of the
Vice Chancellor:Provided that if the same person holds the offices of the Dean
and the Head of the Department, the Selection Committee may consist of two
nominees of the Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that in case of sudden casual
vacancies in teaching posts caused by death or any other reason, the Dean may,
in consultation with the Head of the Department concerned, make a temporary
appointment for a month and report to the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar
about such appointment;(iii)No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if he is
not recommended by a regular Selection Committee for appointment under this
Act, be continued in service on such temporary employment unless he is
subsequently selected by a local Selection Committee or a regular Selection
Committee, for a temporary or permanent appointment, as the case may be.

### 46. Terms of conditions of service of Heads of Departments.

(1)Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be a
Professor or Director and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions
of appointment shall be prescribed by the ordinances:Provided that if there is
more than one Professor in any Department, the Head of the Department shall be
appointed in the manner prescribed by the ordinances.Provided further that in
a department where there is no Professor an Assistant Professor or a Reader
may be appointed as Head of the Department in the number prescribed by the
ordinances.(2)It shall be open to a Professor or an Assistant Professor for a
Reader, to decline the officer, of appointment as Head of the Department.(3)A
person appointed as Head of the Department shall hold office as such for a
period of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment.(4)A Head of the
Department may resign his office at any time during his tenure of office.(5)A
Head of the Department shall perform such functions as may be prescribed by
the ordinances.

### 47. Deans of Faculties.

(1)Every Dean of Faculties shall be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor from
among the Professors in the Faculty for a period of three years and he shall
be eligible for reappointment:Provided that a Dean on attaining the age of
fifty-eight years shall cease to hold office as such:Provided further that, if
at any time there is no Professor in a Faculty, the Vice-Chancellor shall
exercise the powers of the Dean of the Faculty.(2)When the office of the Dean
is vacant or when the Dean is by reason of illness, absence or any other
cause, unable to perform the duties of his office, the duties of his office
shall be performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the
purpose.(3)The Dean shall be the Head of the Faculty and shall be responsible
for the conduct and maintenance of the standards of teaching and research in
the Faculty. The Dean shall have such other functions as may be prescribed by
the ordinances.(4)The Dean shall have the right to be present and to speak at
any meeting of the Boards of Studies or Committees of the Faculty, as the case
may be, but shall not have the right to vote thereat unless he is a member
thereof.Chapter - X Miscellaneous

### 48. Filling of casual vacancies.

\- All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio members) of
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as
conveniently may be, by the person or body, who or which, nominated or elected
the member whose place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected
to a casual vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the
residue of the term for which the person whose place he fills would have been
a member:Provided that vacancies arsing by efflux of time among elected
members of any authority or other body of the University may be filed at
elections which may be fixed by the Vice-Chancellor to take place on such days
not earlier than two months from the date on which the vacancies arise, as he
things fit:Provided further that no casual vacancy shall be filled if such
vacancy occurs within six months before the date of the expiry of the term of
the members of any authority or other body of the University.

### 49. Proceedings of the University authorities and bodies not invalidated
by vacancies.

\- No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any
defect or irregularity in the election or appointment of a member of any
authority or other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in
such act or proceeding not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground
only that the Senate did not meet twice in any year.

### 50. Removal from membership of University.

(1)The Syndicate may-(a)on the recommendation of not less than two thirds of
the members of the Syndicate remove by an order in writing made in this behalf
the name of any person from the register of graduates; or(b)remove by an order
in writing made in this behalf any person from membership of any authority of
the University by a resolution passed by a majority of the total membership of
the Syndicate and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of
the Syndicate present and voting at the meeting, if such person has been
convicted by a criminal court for an offence which in the opinion of the
Syndicate involves moral turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross
misconduct and for the same reason, the Syndicate may withdraw any degree or
diploma conferred on or granted to that person by the University.(2)The
Syndicate may also by an order in writing made in this behalf remove any
person from the membership of any authority of the University if he becomes of
unsound mind or [ deaf-mute; Omited by Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third
Amendment) Act, 2022] or has applied to be adjudicated or has been
adjudicated, as an insolvent.(3)No action under this section shall be taken
against any person unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity to show
cause against the action proposed to be taken.(4)A copy of every order passed
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall, as soon
as may be after it is so passed, be communicated to the person concerned in
the manner prescribed by regulations.

### 51. Disputes as to constitution of University authorities and bodies.

\- If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or
nominated as, or is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the
University or other body of the University, the question shall be referred to
the Chancellor whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 52. Constitution of Committees.

\- All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit. Such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the
authority in each case may think fit.

### 53. Power to obtain information.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
information from the University or any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
furnish the Government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may place the same before the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor.

### 54. Registration of graduates.

(1)On and after the not date every person ordinarily resident within the
University area, who-(i)has been for at least three years a graduate of any
University in the territory of India; or(ii)is a registered graduate of any
University in the territory of India, shall be entitled to have his name
entered in the register of graduates maintained under this Act for a period of
five years on payment of such fee and subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed by the statutes.(2)All applications for registration under sub-
section (1) shall be sent to the Registrar together with the prescribed fee
and such proof of qualifications as may be prescribed by the statutes.(3)The
Registrar shall, on receipt of an application made under sub-section (2) and
after making such enquiry as he deems fit, enter in the register of graduate
the name of the applicant.(4)Every person whose name has been entered in the
register or graduates under sub-section (3) shall be entitled to have such
entry renewed every five years on application made in that behalf to the
Registrar within such time, in such manner and on payment of such fess as may
be prescribed by the statutes.

### 55. Appointment of first Vice-Chancellor.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 12, within
three month from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointee by the
Government on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three
years and on such other conditions as they think fit:Provided that a person
appointed as first Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office if, during, the
term of his office, be completes the age of sixty-five years.

### 56. Appointment of first Registrar.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 14, within
three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, the first Registrar shall be appointed by the Government
on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three years and on
such conditions as they think fit:Provided that the person appointed as first
Registrar shall retire from office if, during the term of his office, he
completes the age of fifty-eight years.

### 57. Transitory powers of first Vice-Chancellor.

(1)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Senate, the Syndicate and the Standing Committee on Academic
Affairs and such other authorities of the University within six months after
the notified date or such longer period, not exceeding one year as the
Government may, by notification, direct.(2)The first Vice-Chancellor shall, in
consultation with the Government, make such rules as may be necessary for the
functioning of the University.(3)The authorities constituted under sub-section
(1) shall commence to exercise their functions on such date as the Government
may, by notification, specify in this behalf.(4)It shall be the duty of the
first Vice-Chancellor to draft such statutes, ordinances and regulations as
may be necessary and submit them to the respective authorities competent to
deal with them for their disposal. Such statutes, ordinances and regulations,
when framed, shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(5)Notwithstanding anything contain in this Act and the statutes and
until such time an authority is duly constituted, the first Vice-Chancellor
may appoint any officer or constitute any committee temporarily to exercise
and perform any of the powers and duties of such authority under this Act and
the statutes.

### 58. Transfer of service of certain employees of Chennai University to the
University.

(1)Every person who, immediately before the notified date, is serving in
connection with the affairs of the Chennai University in the University Centre
at Salem shall, as from the said data, become an employee of the Periyar
University and shall cease to be an employee of the Chennai
University.(2)(a)As soon as may be, after the notified date, the Government
may, after consulting the Vice-Chancellors of the Chennai University and the
Periyar University, direct by general or special order that such of the
employees of the Chennai University as are specified in such order shall stand
allotted to serve in connection with the affairs of the Periyar University,
with on and from such date as may be specified in such order:Provided that no
such direction shall be issued in respect of any such person without his
consent for such allotment.(b)With effect on and from the date specified in
the order under clause (a), the persons specified in such order shall become
employees of the Peviyar University and shall cease to be employees of the
Chennai University.(3)Every person referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall hold office under the Periyar University by the Same tenure,
at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the
same rights and privileges as to pension or gratuity, if any, and other
matters as he would have held the same on the notified date or the date
specified in the order under sub-section (2), as the case may be, as if this
Act had not been passed.(4)The liability to pay pension and gratuity to the
persons referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be the liability of the
Periyar University.

### 59. Transfer of accumulations in provident fund and other like funds.

(1)The sums at the credit of the provident fund accounts of the persons
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 58 as on the notified date and of
the persons referred to in sub-section (2) of that section as on the date
specified in the order under clause (a) of the said sub-section (2) shall be
transferred to the Periyar University and the liability in respect of the said
provident fund accounts shall be the liability of the Periyar
University.(2)There shall be paid to the Periyar University out of the
accumulations in the superannuation fund and other like funds, if any, of the
Chennai University such amounts as have been credited to the superannuation
fund or other like funds, if any, on behalf of the persons referred to in sub-
sections (1) and (2) of section 58. The amount so paid shall form part of the
superannuation fund, or other like funds if any, that may be established by
the Periyar University for the benefit of its employees.

### 60. Payment of certain amount by Chennai University.

(1)The Chennai University shall, out of its funds as of the notified date, pay
to the Periyar University such amount as the Government may, in consultation
with the Chennai University, specify.(2)The amount payable under sub-section
(1) shall be in addition to the amounts payable by the Chennai University to
the Periyar University under section 58.

### 61. Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923 not to apply.

\- (i) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (9), the Chennai
University Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923) shall, with effect on and
from the notified date, cease to apply in respect of the areas to which the
provisions of this Act extend.(2)Such cessor shall not affect-(a)the previous
operation of the Chennai University Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923) in
respect of the areas to which the provisions of this Act extend; or(b)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the Chennai University Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923);
or(c)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), all statutes,
ordinances and regulations made under the Chennai University Act, 1923 (Tamil
Nadu Act VII of 1923) and in force on the notified date, shall, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with this Act, continue to be in force in the
University area until they are replaced by the salutes, ordinances and
regulations to be made under this Act.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act the statutes, ordinances and regulations continued in force under
sub-section (3) or made under this Act, every person who, immediately before
the notified date, was a student of a college within the University area
affiliated to, or approved by the Chennai University and of the Departments of
that University or was eligible for any of the examinations of the Chennai
University shall be permitted to complete his course of study in the Periyar
University, and the Periyar University shall make arrangements for the
instruction, teaching and training for such students for such period and in
such manner as may be determined by the Periyar University in accordance with
the course of study in the Chennai University and such students shall, during
such period, be admitted to the examinations held or conducted by the Chennai
University and the corresponding degree, diploma or other academic
distinctions of the Chennai University shall be conferred upon the qualified
students on the result of such examinations, by the Chennai University.(5)All
property, whether movable or immovable, including lands buildings, equipments,
books and library and all rights of whatsoever kind owned by or vested in, or
held in trust by immediately before the notified date, the Chennai University
at the University Centre at Salem as well as all liabilities legally
subsisting against that University at that Centre shall stand transferred to,
and vest in, the Periyar University.(6)All colleges including oriental
colleges, within the University area which immediately before the notified
date-(a)continue to be affiliated to or recognised by the Chennai University;
and(b)provide courses of study for admission to the examination for degrees of
the Chennai University, shall be deemed to be colleges affiliated to the
Periyar University under this Act and the provisions of this Act shall, as if
an as may he apply accordingly.(7)All colleges within the University area
which, immediately before the notified date, continue to be recognised by the
Chennai University as oriental colleges providing courses of study for
admission to the examinations of that University, for titles and diplomas,
shall be deemed to be colleges approved by the Periyar University under this
Act and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(8)All hostels within the University area which continue to be
recognised by the Chennai University, immediately before the notified date,
shall be deemed to be hostels recognised by the Periyar University under this
Act and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(9)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) but without
prejudice to the provisions of sub-sections (3) to (7), anything done or any
action taken before the notified date under any provisions of the Chennai
University Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923) in respect of any area to
which the provisions of this Act extend shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provision of this Act and shall continue to have
effect accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action
taken under the corresponding provision of this Act.

### 62. The Librarian.

(1)The Librarian shall be a whole time officer of the University appointed by
the Syndicate on the recommendation of the Selection Committee constituted for
the purpose, for such period and on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed.(2)The Librarian shall exercise such powers and perform such duties
as may be assigned as him by the Syndicate.

### 63. Special mode of appointment.

(1)The Syndicate may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of professor in the University on
such terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do
so, appoint him to the cost.(2)The Syndicate may appoint a teacher or any
other member of the academic such working in any other University or
organisation for undertaking a joint project in accordance with the manner
laid down in the ordinances.

### 64. Report on affiliated colleges.

\- The Syndicate shall, at the end of every three years from the notified
date, submit; report to the Government on the condition of affiliated and
approve colleges within the University area. The Government shall take such
action on it as they deem fit.

### 65. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the University after the notified date or otherwise in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification,
make such provision, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such notification shall be issued after the expiry
of five years from the date of establishment of the University under section
3.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under any other
provisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such notification or the Assembly decides that the
notification should not be issued, the notification shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that notification.

