## Union of India - Act

## Preventive Detention Act, 1950

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Preventive Detention Act, 1950

## Act 4 of 1950

  * Published on 25 February 1950 
  * Commenced on 25 February 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 February 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act to provide for preventive detention in certain cases and matter
connected therewith Be it enacted by Parliament as follows

### 1. Short Title, Extent and Duration. -

(1)This Act may be called the Preventive Detention Act, 1950.(2)It extends to
the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)It shall cease to
have effect on the 31st day of December, 1969, save as respects things done or
omitted to be done before that date.

### 2. Definitions. -

In this Act unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"State Government" in
relation to a Union Territory, means the Administrator thereof;(b)"detention
order" means an order made under Section 3;and(c)"appropriate Government"
means, as respects a detention order made by the Central Government, or a
person detained under such order, the Central Government, and as respects a
detention order made by a State Government or by an officer subordinate to a
State Government or as respects a person detained under such order, the State
Government-

### 3. Power to Make Orders Detaining Certain Persons. -

(1)The Central Government or the State Government may-(a)if satisfied with
respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from acting in any
manner prejudicial to-(i)the defence of India, the relations of India with
foreign persons, or the security of India, or(ii)the security of the State or
the maintenance of public order, or(iii)the maintenance of supplies and
services essential to the community; or(b)if satisfied with respect to any
person who is a foreigner within the meaning of the Foreigners Act, 1946-(31
of 1946), that with a view to regulating his continued presence in India or
with a view to making arrangements for his expulsion from India it is
necessary so to do, make an order directing that such person be
detained.(2)Any of the following officers, namely :(a)District
Magistrates,(b)Additional District Magistrates specially empowered in this
behalf by the State Government,(c)the Commissioner of Police for Bombay,
Calcutta, Madras or Hyderabad,(d)Collectors in the territories which
immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in the State of
Hyderabad, may if satisfied as provided in sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of Cl.
(a) of subsection (1), exercise the power conferred by the said
subsection.(3)When any order is made under this section by any officer
mentioned in sub-section (2) he shall forthwith report the fact to the State
Government to which he is subordinate together with the grounds on which the
order has been made and such other particulars as in his opinion have a
bearing on the matter, and no such order made after the commencement of
Preventive Detention (Second Amendment) Act, 1952 (61 of 1952), shall remain
in force for more than twelve days after the making thereof unless in the
meantime it has been approved by the State Government.(4)When any order is
made or approved by the State Government under this section, the State
Government shall, as soon as may be, report the fact to the Central Government
together with the grounds on which the order has been made and such other
particulars as in the opinion of the State Government has a bearing on the
necessity for the order.

### 3A. Execution of Detention Orders. - A detention order may be executed at
any place in India in the manner provided for the execution of warrants of
arrest under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)13

### 4. Power to Regulate Place and Conditions of Detention. -

Every person in respect of whom a detention order has been made shall be
liable-(a)to be detained in such place under such conditions, including
conditions as to maintenance, discipline and punishment for breaches of
discipline, as the appropriate Government, may by general or special order
specify; and(b)to be removed from one place of detention to another place of
detention whether within the same State or in another State, by order of the
appropriate Government : Provided that no order shall be made by a State
Government under Cl. (b) for the removal of a person from one State to another
State except with the consent of the Government of that other State.

### 5. Detention Orders Not to Be Invalid Or Inoperative On Certain Grounds. -

No detention order shall be invalid or inoperative merely by reason-(a)that
the person to be detained thereunder is outside the limits of the territorial
jurisdiction of the Government or officer making the order, or(b)that the
place of detention of such person is outside the said limits.

### 6. Powers In Relation to Absconding Persons. -

(1)If the Central Government or the State Government or an officer specified
in subjection (2) of Section 3, as the case may be, has reason to believe that
a person in respect of whom a detention order has been made has absconded or
is concealing himself so that the order cannot be executed, that Government or
officer may-(a)make a report in writing of the fact to a Presidency Magistrate
or a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction in the place where the
said person ordinarily resides; and thereupon the provisions of Sees. 87, 88
and 89 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)16shall apply in
respect of the said person and his property as if the order directing that he
be detained where a warrant issued by the Magistrate;(b)by order notified in
the official Gazette directing the said person to appear before such officer,
at such place and within such period as may be specified in the order; and if
the said person fails to comply with such direction he shall, unless he proves
that it was not possible for him to comply therewith and that he had, within
the period specified in the order, informed the officer mentioned in the order
of the reason which rendered compliance therewith impossible and of his
whereabouts, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year or with fine or with both.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 (5 of 1898), every offence under Cl. (b)
of sub -section (1) shall be cognizable.

### 7. Grounds of Order of Detention to Be Disclosed to Persons Affected By
The Order. -

(1)When a person is detained in pursuance of a detention order, the authority
making the order shall, as soon as may be, but not later than five days from
the date of detention, communicate to him the grounds on which the order has
been made, and shall afford him the earliest opportunity of making a
representation against the order to the appropriate Government.(2)Nothing in
sub-section (1) shall require the authority to disclose facts which it
considers to be against the public interest to disclose.

### 8. Constitution of Advisory Boards. -

(1)The Central Government and each State Government shall, whenever necessary
constitute one or more Advisory Boards for the purposes of this Act.(2)Every
such Board shall consist of three persons who are, or have been , or are
qualified to be appointed as. Judges of a High Court, and such persons shall
be appointed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case
may be.(3)The appropriate Government shall appoint one of the members of the
Advisory Board who is or has been a Judge of a High Court to be its Chairman,
and in the case of a Union territory the appointment to the Advisory Board, or
any person who is Judge of the High Court of a State shall be with the
previous approval of the State Government :Provided that nothing in this sub-
section shall affect the power of any Advisory Board constituted before the
commencement of the Preventive Detention (Second Amendment) Act, 1952 (61 of
1952), to dispose of any reference under Section 9 pending before it at such
commencement.

### 9. Reference to Advisory Boards. -

In every case where a detention order has been made under this Act the
appropriate Government shall, within thirty days from the date of detention
under the order place before the Advisory Board constituted by it under
Section 8 the grounds on which the order has been made and the representation,
if any, made by the person affected by the order and in case where the order
has been made by an officer also the report by such officer under sub-section
(5) of Section 3

### 10. Procedure of Advisory Boards. -

(1)The Advisory Board shall after considering the materials placed before it
and, after calling for such further information as it may deem necessary from
the appropriate Government or from any person called for the purpose through
the appropriate Government or from the person concerned, and if in any,
particular case it considers it essential so to do or if the person concerned
desires to be heard, after hearing him in person, submit its report to the
appropriate Government within ten weeks from the date of detention.(2)The
report of the Advisory Board shall specify in a separate part thereof the
opinion of the Advisory Board as to whether or not there is sufficient cause
for the detention of the person concerned.(2A)When there is a difference of
opinion among the members forming the Advisory Board, the opinion of the
majority of such members shall be deemed to be the opinion of the
Board.(3)Nothing in this section shall entitle any person against whom a
detention order has been made to appear by any legal practitioner in any
matter connected with the reference to the Advisory Board, and the proceedings
of the Advisory Board and its report, excepting that part of the report in
which the opinion of the Advisory Board is specified shall be confidential

### 11. Action Upon The Report of Advisory Board. -

(1)In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is in its
opinion sufficient cause for the detention of a person, the appropriate
Government may confirm the detention Older and continue the detention of the
person concerned for such period as it thinks fit.(2)In any case where the
Advisory Board has reported that there is in its opinion no sufficient cause
for the detention of the persons concerned, the appropriate Government shall
revoke the detention order and cause the person to be released forthwith.

### 11A. Maximum Period of Detention. -

(1)The maximum period for which any person may be detained in pursuance of any
detention order which has been confirmed under Section 11 shall be twelve
months from the date of detention.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), every detention order which has been confirmed under Section
11 before the commencement of the Preventive Detention (Second Amendment) Act,
1952 (61 of 1952), shall, unless a shorter period is specified in the order,
continue to remain in force until the 1st day of April, 1953, or until the
expiration of twelve months from the date of detention, whichever period of
detention expires later.(3)The provisions of sub-section (2) shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 3 of the
Preventive Detention(Amendment) Act, 1952 (61 of 1952), but nothing contained
in this section shall affect the power of the appropriate Government to revoke
or modify the detention order at any earlier time.

### 12. Validity and Duration of Detention In Certain Cases. -

For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that-(a)every detention order
in force at the commencement of the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, 1951
(4 of 1951), shall continue in force and shall have effect as if it had been
made under this Act as amended by the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act,
1951 (4 of 1951); and(b)nothing contained in subjection (3) of Section 1 or
sub-section (1) of Section 12 of this Act as originally enacted shall be
deemed to affect the validity or duration of any such order.

### 13. Revocation of Detention Orders. -

(1)Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 21 of the General Clauses
Act, 1897-(10 of 1897), a detention order may at any time be revoked or
modified-(a)notwithstanding that the order has been made by an officer
mentioned to sub-section (2) of Section 3 by the State Government to which
that officer is subordinate or by Central Government;(b)notwithstanding that
the order has been made by a State Government, or by the Central Government,
33(2)The revocation of expiry of a detention order shall not bar the making of
a fresh detention order under Section 3 against the same person in any case
where fresh facts have arisen after the date of revocation or expiry on which
the Central Government or a State Government or an officer, as the case may
be, is satisfied that such an order should be made.

### 14. Temporary Release of Persons Detained. -

(1)The appropriate Government may at any time direct that any person detained
in pursuance of a detention order may be released for any specified period
either without conditions or upon such conditions specified in the directions
as that person accepts, and may at any time cancel his release.(2)In directing
the release of any person under sub-section (1), the appropriate Government
may require him to enter into a bond with or without sureties for the due
observance of the conditions specified in the direction.(3)Any person released
under subjection (1) shall surrender himself at the time and place, and to the
authority, specified in the order directing his release or cancelling his
release, as the case may be.(4)If any person fails without sufficient cause to
surrender himself in the manner specified in subjection (3), he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or both.(5)If any person released under sub-section (1) fails to fulfil
any of the conditions imposed upon him under the said sub-section or in the
bond entered into by him the bond shall be declared to be forfeited and any
person bound thereby shall be liable to the penalty thereof.

### 15. Protection of Action Taken Under The Act. -

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person
for anything in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this
Act.

### 16. Repeal. -

The Preventive Detention (Extension of Duration) Order, 1950, is hereby
repealed.

