## Union of India - Act

## Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2020

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2020

## Rule PROTECTION-OF-CHILDREN-FROM-SEXUAL-OFFENCES-RULES-2020 of 2020

  * Published on 9 March 2020 
  * Commenced on 9 March 2020 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 March 2020.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2020Published vide
Notification No. G.S.R. 165(E), dated 9.03.2020Last Updated 12th March,
2020G.S.R. 165(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 45 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of 2012), the
Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Rules, 2020.(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in
the Official Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of
2012);(b)"District Child Protection Unit" (DCPU) means the District Child
Protection Unit established by the State Government under section 106 of the
Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (2 of
2016);(c)"expert" means a person trained in mental health, medicine, child
development or other relevant discipline, who may be required to facilitate
communication with a child whose ability to communicate has been affected by
trauma, disability or any other vulnerability;(d)"special educator" means a
person trained in communication with children with disabilities in a way that
addresses the child's individual abilities and needs, which include challenges
with learning and communication, emotional and behavioural issues, physical
disabilities, and developmental issues.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
clause, the expression "disabilities", shall carry the same meaning as defined
in clause (s) of section 2 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,
2016 (49 of 2016);(e)"Person familiar with the manner of communication of the
child" means a parent or family member of a child or a member of child's
shared household or any person in whom the child reposes trust and confidence,
who is familiar with that child's unique manner of communication, and whose
presence may be required for or be conducive to more effective communication
with the child;(f)"support person" means a person assigned by the Child
Welfare Committee, in accordance with sub-rule (7) of rule 4, to render
assistance to the child through the process of investigation and trial, or any
other person assisting the child in the pretrial or trial process in respect
of an offence under the Act;(2)Words and expressions used and not defined in
these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them under the Act.

### 3. Awareness generation and capacity building.

(1)The Central Government, or as the case may be, the State Government shall
prepare age-appropriate educational material and curriculum for children,
informing them about various aspects of personal safety, including
-(i)measures to protect their physical, and virtual identity; and to safeguard
their emotional and mental well being;(ii)prevention and protection from
sexual offences;(iii)reporting mechanisms, including Child helpline-1098
services;(iv)inculcating gender sensitivity, gender equality and gender equity
for effective prevention of offences under the Act.(2)Suitable material and
information may be disseminated by the respective Governments in all public
places such as panchayat bhavans, community centers, schools and colleges, bus
terminals, railway stations, places of congregation, airports, taxi stands,
cinema halls and such other prominent places and also be disseminated in
suitable form in virtual spaces such as internet and social media.(3)The
Central Government and every State Government shall take all suitable measures
to spread awareness about possible risks and vulnerabilities, signs of abuse,
information about rights of children under the Act along with access to
support and services available for children.(4)Any institution housing
children or coming in regular contact with children including schools,
crèches, sports academies or any other facility for children must ensure a
police verification and background check on periodic basis, of every staff,
teaching or non-teaching, regular or contractual, or any other person being an
employee of such Institution coming in contact with the child. Such
Institution shall also ensure that periodic training is organised for
sensitising them on child safety and protection.(5)The respective Governments
shall formulate a child protection policy based on the principle of zero-
tolerance to violence against children, which shall be adopted by all
institutions, organizations, or any other agency working with, or coming in
contact with children.(6)The Central Government and every State Government
shall provide periodic trainings including orientation programmes,
sensitization workshops and refresher courses to all persons, whether regular
or contractual, coming in contact with the children, to sensitize them about
child safety and protection and educate them regarding their responsibility
under the Act. Orientation programme and intensive courses may also be
organized for police personnel and forensic experts for building their
capacities in their respective roles on a regular basis.

### 4. Procedure regarding care and protection of child.

(1)Where any Special Juvenile Police Unit (hereafter referred to as "SJPU") or
the local police receives any information under sub-section (1) of section19
of the Act from any person including the child, the SJPU or local police
receiving the report of such information shall forthwith disclose to the
person making the report, the following details:-(i)his or her name and
designation;(ii)the address and telephone number;(iii)the name, designation
and contact details of the officer who supervises the officer receiving the
information.(2)If any such information regarding the commission of an offence
under the provisions of the Act is received by the child helpline-1098, the
child helpline shall immediately report such information to SJPU or Local
Police.(3)Where an SJPU or the local police, as the case may be, receives
information in accordance with the provisions contained under sub-section (1)
of section 19 of the Act in respect of an offence that has been committed or
attempted or is likely to be committed, the authority concerned shall, where
applicable, -(a)proceed to record and register a First Information Report as
per the provisions of section154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974), and furnish a copy thereof free of cost to the person making such
report, as per sub-section (2) of section154 of that Code;(b)where the child
needs emergency medical care as described under sub-section (5) of section 19
of the Act or under these rules, arrange for the child to access such care, in
accordance with rule 6;(c)take the child to the hospital for the medical
examination in accordance with section 27 of the Act;(d)ensure that the
samples collected for the purposes of the forensic tests are sent to the
forensic laboratory immediately;(e)inform the child and child's parent or
guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confidence of the
availability of support services including counselling, and assist them in
contacting the persons who are responsible for providing these services and
relief;(f)inform the child and child's parent or guardian or other person in
whom the child has trust and confidence as to the right of the child to legal
advice and counsel and the right to be represented by a lawyer, in accordance
with section 40 of the Act.(4)Where the SJPU or the local police receives
information under sub-section (1) of section 19 of the Act, and has a
reasonable apprehension that the offence has been committed or attempted or is
likely to be committed by a person living in the same or shared household with
the child, or the child is living in a child care institution and is without
parental support, or the child is found to be without any home and parental
support, the concerned SJPU, or the local police shall produce the child
before the concerned Child Welfare Committee (hereafter referred to as "CWC")
within 24 hours of receipt of such report, together with reasons in writing as
to whether the child is in need of care and protection under sub-section (5)
of section 19 of the Act, and with a request for a detailed assessment by the
CWC.(5)Upon receipt of a report under sub-rule (3), the concerned CWC must
proceed, in accordance with its powers under sub-section (1) of section 31 of
the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 (2 of 2016), to make a determination within
three days, either on its own or with the assistance of a social worker, as to
whether the child needs to be taken out of the custody of child's family or
shared household and placed in a children's home or a shelter home.(6)In
making determination under sub-rule (4), the CWC shall take into account any
preference or opinion expressed by the child on the matter, together with the
best interests of the child, having regard to the following considerations,
namely: -(i)the capacity of the parents, or of either parent, or of any other
person in whom the child has trust and confidence, to provide for the
immediate care and protection needs of the child, including medical needs and
counselling;(ii)the need for the child to remain in the care of parent's,
family and extended family and to maintain a connection with them;(iii)the
child's age and level of maturity, gender, and social and economic
background;(iv)disability of the child, if any;(v)any chronic illness from
which a child may suffer;(vi)any history of family violence involving the
child or a family member of the child; and,(vii)any other relevant factors
that may have a bearing on the best interests of the child:Provided that prior
to making such determination, an inquiry shall be conducted in such a way that
the child is not unnecessarily exposed to injury or inconvenience.(7)The child
and child's parent or guardian or any other person in whom the child has trust
and confidence and with whom the child has been living, who is affected by
such determination, shall be informed that such determination is being
considered.(8)The CWC, on receiving a report under sub-section (6) of section
19 of the Act or on the basis of its assessment made under sub-rule (5), and
with the consent of the child and child's parent or guardian or other person
in whom the child has trust and confidence, may provide a support person to
render assistance to the child in all possible manner throughout the process
of investigation and trial, and shall immediately inform the SJPU or Local
Police about providing a support person to the child.(9)The support person
shall at all times maintain the confidentiality of all information pertaining
to the child to which he or she has access and shall keep the child and
child's parent or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and
confidence, informed regarding the proceedings of the case, including
available assistance, judicial procedures, and potential outcomes. The Support
person shall also inform the child of the role the Support person may play in
the judicial process and ensure that any concerns that the child may have,
regarding child's safety in relation to the accused and the manner in which
the Support person would like to provide child's testimony, are conveyed to
the relevant authorities.(10)Where a support person has been provided to the
child, the SJPU or the local police shall, within 24 hours of making such
assignment, inform the Special Court in writing.(11)The services of the
support person may be terminated by the CWC upon request by the child and
child's parent or guardian or person in whom the child has trust and
confidence, and the child requesting the termination shall not be required to
assign any reason for such request. The Special Court shall be given in
writing such information.(12)The CWC shall also Seek monthly reports from
support person till the completion of trial, with respect to condition and
care of child, including the family situation focusing on the physical,
emotional and mental well being, and progress towards healing from trauma;
engage with medical care facilities, in coordination with the support person,
to ensure need-based continued medical support to the child, including
psychological care and counselling; and shall ensure resumption of education
of the child, or continued education of the child, or shifting of the child to
a new school, if required.(13)It shall be the responsibility of the SJPU, or
the local police to keep the child and child's parent or guardian or other
person in whom the child has trust and confidence, and where a support person
has been assigned, such person, informed about the developments, including the
arrest of the accused, applications filed and other court proceedings.(14)SJPU
or the local police shall also inform the child and child's parents or
guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and confidence about
their entitlements and services available to them under the Act or any other
law for the time being applicable as per Form-A. It shall also complete the
Preliminary Assessment Report in Form B within 24 hours of the registration of
the First Information Report and submit it to the CWC.(15)The information to
be provided by the SJPU, local police, or support person, to the child and
child's parents or guardian or other person in whom the child has trust and
confidence, includes but is not limited to the following:-(i)the availability
of public and private emergency and crisis services;(ii)the procedural steps
involved in a criminal prosecution;(iii)the availability of victim's
compensation benefits;(iv)the status of the investigation of the crime, to the
extent it is appropriate to inform the victim and to the extent that it will
not interfere with the investigation;(v)the arrest of a suspected
offender;(vi)the filing of charges against a suspected offender;(vii)the
schedule of court proceedings that the child is either required to attend or
is entitled to attend;(viii)the bail, release or detention status of an
offender or suspected offender;(ix)the rendering of a verdict after trial;
and(x)the sentence imposed on an offender.

### 5. Interpreters, translators, special educators, experts and support
persons.

(1)In each district, the DCPU shall maintain a register with names, addresses
and other contact details of interpreters, translators, experts, special
educators and support persons for the purposes of the Act, and this register
shall be made available to the SJPU, local police, magistrate or Special
Court, as and when required.(2)The qualifications and experience of the
interpreters, translators, special educators, experts and support persons
engaged for the purposes of sub-section (4) of section 19, sub-sections (3)
and (4) of section 26 and section 38 of the Act,and rule 4 respectively shall
be as indicated in these rules.(3)Where an interpreter, translator, or special
educator is engaged, otherwise than from the list maintained by the DCPU under
sub-rule (1), the requirements prescribed under sub-rules (4) and (5) of this
rule may be relaxed on evidence of relevant experience or formal education or
training or demonstrated proof of fluency in the relevant languages by the
interpreter, translator, or special educator, subject to the satisfaction of
the DCPU, Special Court or other authority concerned.(4)Interpreters and
translators engaged under sub-rule (1) should have functional familiarity with
language spoken by the child as well as the official language of the state,
either by virtue of such language being child's mother tongue or medium of
instruction at school at least up to primary school level, or by the
interpreter or translator having acquired knowledge of such language through
child's vocation, profession, or residence in the area where that language is
spoken.(5)Sign language interpreters, special educators and experts entered in
the register under sub-rule(1) should have relevant qualifications in sign
language or special education, or in the case of an expert, in the relevant
discipline, from a recognised University or an institution recognised by the
Rehabilitation Council of India.(6)Support person may be a person or
organisation working in the field of child rights or child protection, or an
official of a children's home or shelter home having custody of the child, or
a person employed by the DCPU:Provided that nothing in these rules shall
prevent the child and child's parents or guardian or other person in whom the
child has trust and confidence from seeking the assistance of any person or
organisation for proceedings under the Act.(7)Payment for the services of an
interpreter, translator, special educator, expert or support person whose name
is enrolled in the register maintained under sub-rule (1) or otherwise, shall
be made by the State Government from the Fund maintained under section 105 of
the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 (2 of 2016), or from other funds placed at the
disposal of the DCPU.(8)Any interpreter, translator, special educator, expert
or support person engaged for the purpose of assisting a child under this Act,
shall be paid a fee which shall be prescribed by the State Government, but
which, shall not be less than the amount prescribed for a skilled worker under
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948).(9)Any preference expressed by the
child at any stage after information is received under sub-section(1) of
section 19 of the Act, as to the gender of the interpreter, translator,
special educator, expert or support person, may be taken into consideration,
and where necessary, more than one such person may be engaged in order to
facilitate communication with the child.(10)The interpreter, translator,
special educator, expert, support person or person familiar with the manner of
communication of the child engaged to provide services for the purposes of the
Act shall be unbiased and impartial and shall disclose any real or perceived
conflict of interest and shall render a complete and accurate interpretation
or translation without any additions or omissions, in accordance with section
282 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).(11)In proceedings
under section 38, the Special Court shall ascertain whether the child speaks
the language of the court adequately, and that the engagement of any
interpreter, translator, special educator, expert, support person or other
person familiar with the manner of communication of the child, who has been
engaged to facilitate communication with the child, does not involve any
conflict of interest.(12)Any interpreter, translator, special educator, expert
or support person appointed under the Act shall be bound by the rules of
confidentiality, as described under section 127 read with section 126 of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872).

### 6. Medical aid and care.

(1)Where an officer of the SJPU, or the local police receives information
under section 19 of the Act that an offence under the Act has been committed,
and is satisfied that the child against whom an offence has been committed is
in need of urgent medical care and protection, such officer, or as the case
may be, the local police shall, within 24 hours of receiving such information,
arrange to take such child to the nearest hospital or medical care facility
center for emergency medical care:Provided that where an offence has been
committed under sections 3, 5, 7 or 9 of the Act, the victim shall be referred
to emergency medical care.(2)Emergency medical care shall be rendered in such
a manner as to protect the privacy of the child, and in the presence of the
parent or guardian or any other person in whom the child has trust and
confidence.(3)No medical practitioner, hospital or other medical facility
center rendering emergency medical care to a child shall demand any legal or
magisterial requisition or other documentation as a pre-requisite to rendering
such care.(4)The registered medical practitioner rendering medical care shall
attend to the needs of the child, including:(a)treatment for cuts, bruises,
and other injuries including genital injuries, if any;(b)treatment for
exposure to sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) including prophylaxis for
identified STDs;(c)treatment for exposure to Human Immunodeficiency Virus
(HIV), including prophylaxis for HIV after necessary consultation with
infectious disease experts;(d)possible pregnancy and emergency contraceptives
should be discussed with the pubertal child and her parent or any other person
in whom the child has trust and confidence; and,(e)wherever necessary, a
referral or consultation for mental or psychological health needs, or other
counselling, or drug de-addiction services and programmes should be
made.(5)The registered medical practitioner shall submit the report on the
condition of the child within 24 hrs to the SJPU or Local Police.(6)Any
forensic evidence collected in the course of rendering emergency medical care
must be collected in accordance with section 27 of the Act.(7)If the child is
found to be pregnant, then the registered medical practitioner shall counsel
the child, and her parents or guardians, or support person, regarding the
various lawful options available to the child as per the Medical Termination
of Pregnancy Act 1971 and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of
Children) Act 2015 (2 of 2016).(8)If the child is found to have been
administered any drugs or other intoxicating substances, access to drug
dedication programme shall be ensured.(9)If the Child is a divyang (person
with disability), suitable measure and care shall be taken as per the
provisions of The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016).

### 7. Legal aid and assistance.

(1)The CWC shall make a recommendation to District Legal Services Authority
(hereafter referred to as "DLSA") for legal aid and assistance.(2)The legal
aid and assistance shall be provided to the child in accordance with the
provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 (39 of 1987).

### 8. Special relief.

(1)For special relief, if any, to be provided for contingencies such as food,
clothes, transport and other essential needs, CWC may recommend immediate
payment of such amount as it may assess to be required at that stage, to any
of the following:-(i)the DLSA under Section 357A; or;(ii)the DCPU out of such
funds placed at their disposal by state or;(iii)funds maintained under
section105 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act,2015
(2 of 2016);(2)Such immediate payment shall be made within a week of receipt
of recommendation from the CWC.

### 9. Compensation.

(1)The Special Court may, in appropriate cases, on its own or on an
application filed by or on behalf of the child, pass an order for interim
compensation to meet the needs of the child for relief or rehabilitation at
any stage after registration of the First Information Report. Such interim
compensation paid to the child shall be adjusted against the final
compensation, if any.(2)The Special Court may, on its own or on an application
filed by or on behalf of the victim, recommend the award of compensation where
the accused is convicted, or where the case ends in acquittal or discharge, or
the accused is not traced or identified, and in the opinion of the Special
Court the child has suffered loss or injury as a result of that
offence.(3)Where the Special Court, under sub-section (8) of section 33 of the
Act read with sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 357A of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) makes a direction for the award of compensation to
the victim, it shall take into account all relevant factors relating to the
loss or injury caused to the victim, including the following:-(i)type of
abuse, gravity of the offence and the severity of the mental or physical harm
or injury suffered by the child;(ii)the expenditure incurred or likely to be
incurred on child's medical treatment for physical or mental health or on
both;(iii)loss of educational opportunity as a consequence of the offence,
including absence from school due to mental trauma, bodily injury, medical
treatment, investigation and trial of the offence, or any other
reason;(iv)loss of employment as a result of the offence, including absence
from place of employment due to mental trauma, bodily injury, medical
treatment, investigation and trial of the offence, or any other reason;(v)the
relationship of the child to the offender, if any;(vi)whether the abuse was a
single isolated incidence or whether the abuse took place over a period of
time;(vii)whether the child became pregnant as a result of the
offence;(viii)whether the child contracted a sexually transmitted disease
(STD) as a result of the offence;(ix)whether the child contracted human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as a result of the offence;(x)any disability
suffered by the child as a result of the offence;(xi)financial condition of
the child against whom the offence has been committed so as to determine such
child's need for rehabilitation;(xii)any other factor that the Special Court
may consider to be relevant.(4)The compensation awarded by the Special Court
is to be paid by the State Government from the Victims Compensation Fund or
other scheme or fund established by it for the purposes of compensating and
rehabilitating victims under section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 or any other law for the time being in force, or, where such fund or
scheme does not exist, by the State Government.(5)The State Government shall
pay the compensation ordered by the Special Court within 30 days of receipt of
such order.(6)Nothing in these rules shall prevent a child or child's parent
or guardian or any other person in whom the child has trust and confidence
from submitting an application for seeking relief under any other rules or
scheme of the Central Government or State Government.

### 10. Procedure for imposition of fine and payment thereof.

(1)The CWC shall coordinate with the DLSA to ensure that any amount of fine
imposed by the Special Court under the Act which is to be paid to the victim,
is in fact paid to the child.(2)The CWC will also facilitate any procedure for
opening a bank account, arranging for identity proofs, etc., with the
assistance of DCPU and support person.

### 11. Reporting of pornographic material involving a child.

(1)Any person who has received any pornographic material involving a child or
any information regarding such pornographic material being stored, possessed,
distributed, circulated, transmitted, facilitated, propagated or displayed, or
is likely to be distributed, facilitated or transmitted in any manner shall
report the contents to the SJPU or local police, or as the case may be, cyber-
crime portal (cybercrime.gov.in) and upon such receipt of the report, the SJPU
or local police or the cyber-crime portal take necessary action as per the
directions of the Government issued from time to time.(2)In case the "person"
as mentioned in sub-rule (1) is an "intermediary" as defined in clause (w) of
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act,2000, such
person shall in addition to reporting, as provided under sub-rule(1), also
hand over the necessary material including the source from which such material
may have originated to the SJPU or local police, or as the case may be, cyber-
crime portal (cybercrime.gov.in) and upon such receipt of the said material,
the SJPU or local police or the cyber-crime portal take necessary action as
per the directions of the Government issued from time to time.(3)The report
shall include the details of the device in which such pornographic content was
noticed and the suspected device from which such content was received
including the platform on which the content was displayed.(4)The Central
Government and every State Government shall make all endeavours to create
widespread awareness about the procedures of making such reports from time to
time.

### 12. Monitoring of implementation of the Act.

(1)The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (hereafter
referred to as "NCPCR") or the State Commission for the Protection of Child
Rights (hereafter referred to as "SCPCR"), as the case may be, shall in
addition to the functions assigned to them under the Commissions for
Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006), perform the following
functions for implementation of the provisions of the Act -(a)monitor the
designation of Special Courts by State Governments;(b)monitor the appointment
of the Special Public Prosecutors by the State Governments;(c)monitor the
formulation of the guidelines described in section 39 of the Act by the State
Governments, for the use of non-governmental organisations, professionals and
experts or persons having knowledge of psychology, social work, physical
health, mental health and child development to be associated with the pretrial
and trial stage to assist the child, and to monitor the application of these
guidelines;(d)monitor the designing and implementation of modules for training
police personnel and other concerned persons, including officers of the Centre
and State Governments, for the effective discharge of their functions under
the Act;(e)monitor and support the Central Government and State Governments
for the dissemination of information relating to the provisions of the Act
through media including the television, radio and print media at regular
intervals, so as to make the general public, children as well as their parents
and guardians aware of the provisions of the Act.(f)call for a report on any
specific case of child sexual abuse falling within the jurisdiction of a
CWC.(g)collect information and data on its own or from the relevant agencies
regarding reported cases of sexual abuse and their disposal under the
processes provided under the Act, including information on the
following:-(i)number and details of offences reported under the
Act;(ii)whether the procedures prescribed under the Act and rules were
followed, including those regarding time frames;(iii)details of arrangements
for care and protection of victims of offences under this Act, including
arrangements for emergency medical care and medical examination;
and,(iv)details regarding assessment of the need for care and protection of a
child by the concerned CWC in any specific case;(h)use the information so
collected to assess the implementation of the provisions of the Act. The
report on monitoring of the Act shall be included in a separate chapter in the
annual report of the NCPCR or the SCPCR.(2)The concerned authorities mandated
to collect data, under the Act, shall share such data with the Central
Government and every State Government, NCPCR and SCPCRs.

### 13. Repeal.

\- The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012 are hereby
repealed, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such
repeal.Form -AEntitlement of children who have suffered sexual abuse to
receive information and services

### 1\. To receive a copy of the FIR.

### 2\. To receive adequate security and protection by Police.

### 3\. To receive immediate and free medical examination by civil
hospital/PHC etc.

### 4\. To receive Counselling and consultation for mental and psychological
well being

### 5\. For Recording of statement of child by woman police officer at child's
home or any other place convenient to child

### 6\. To be moved to a Child Care Institution where offence was at home or
in a shared household, to the custody of a person whom child reposes faith.

### 7\. For Immediate aid and assistance on the recommendation of CWC.

### 8\. For being kept away from accused at all times, during trial and
otherwise.

### 9\. To have an interpreter or translator, where needed.

### 10\. To have special educator for the child or other specialized person
where child is disabled.

### 11\. For Free Legal Aid.

### 12\. For Support Person to be appointed by Child Welfare Committee.

### 13\. To continue with education.

### 14. To privacy and confidentiality.

### 15. For list of Important Contact No.'s including that of the District
Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police.

Duty Officer(Name & Designation to be mentioned)Date:I have received a copy of
'Form-A'(Signature of Victim/Parent/Guardian)(Note : The form may be converted
in local and simple Child friendly language)Form-BPreliminary Assessment
Report

Parameters | Comment  
---|---  
1. | Age of the victim |   
2. | Relationship of child to the offender |   
3. | Type of abuse and gravity of the offence |   
4. |  Available details and severity of mental andphysical harm/injury suffered by the child |   
5. |  Whether the child is disabled (physical, mentalor intellectual) |   
6. |  Details regarding economic status of victim'sparents, total number of child's family members, occupation ofchild's parents and monthly family income. |   
7. |  Whether the victim has undergone or isundergoing any medical treatment due to incident of the presentcase or needs medical treatment on account of offence. |   
8. |  Whether there has been loss of educationalopportunity as a consequence of the offence, including absencefrom school due to mental trauma, bodily injury, medicaltreatment, investigation and trial or other reason? |   
9. |  Whether the abuse was a single isolated incidentor whether the abuse took place over a period of time? |   
10. |  Whether the parents of victim are undergoing anytreatment or have any health issues? |   
11. | Aadhar No. of the child, if available. |   
  
Date:Station House Officer

