## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Regulations made under the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958

TAMILNADU  
India

# Regulations made under the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958

## Rule REGULATIONS-MADE-UNDER-THE-TAMIL-NADU-BHOODAN-YAGNA-ACT-1958 of 1958

  * Published on 12 December 1968 
  * Commenced on 12 December 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Regulations made under the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958In exercise of
the powers conterred by sub sections (1) and (2) of sections 27 of the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XV of 1958) and after
consultation with the Government of Tamil Nadu, the Tamil Nadu State Bhoodan
Yagna Board hereby makes the following Regulations:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These regulations may be called the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Regulations,
1961.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Adult"
means any person who is not less than 21 years of age;(b)"Local Committee"
means a local committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section
15;(c)"Rules" means the 'Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Rules, 1959;(d)all
expressions not defined in the regulations but defined either in the Act or
the Rules shall have the respective meaning assigned to them in the Act, or as
the case may be, the Rules.

### 3. Membership.

(a)All the adult residents of Gramdan village, who hive opted for Gramdan,
shall be the members of Sarvodaya Panchayat.(b)A register of such members
shall be prepared, revised and brought up-to-date on the 31st March of every
year by the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

### 4. Election of Panchayatdars.

\- Any person-(i)who is not a citizen of India;(ii)who is of unsound mind,
dumb, deaf, and mute; and(iii)who has been convicted for any criminal offence
other than of political character or an offence involving moral delinquency,
such sentence not having been reversed or pardoned or a period of 5 years from
the date of expiration of such sentence has not elapsed.shall be disqualified
for membership in Sarvodaya Panchayat. Subject to such control of the General
body of the Sarvodaya Panchayat which may pass necessary resolution, from time
to time, the executive management of the day-to-day affairs of the villagers
shall vest in a Sarvodaya Panchayat consisting of not less than five and not
more than 15 members elected among themselves unanimously.In the event of
there being more candidates than the required number seeking for the
membership of the panchayat, then, the members of the panchayat shall be
elected by casting lots. Any dispute regarding the election shall be referred
to the Chairman, State Board whose decision in the matter is final.

### 5. Term of members of Sarvodaya panchayat and filling up of vacancies.

(1)The term of office of the Sarvodaya Panchayatdars shall, save as otherwise
expressly provided, be three years from the first April to the end of 31st
March (financial year).(2)The ordinary and casual vacancy that may arise be
generally filled according to regulation 4.(3)A panchayatdar appointed in such
vacancy shall hold the office only so long as he would have been entitled to
hold office if he had been elected before the occurrence of the vacancy.(4)Any
of the Panchayatdar may, at any time, tender his resignation in writing to the
Secretary of the Sarvodaya Panchayat, but such resignation should be
unconditional and shall take effect only from the date on which it was
accepted by the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

### 6. Election of Chairman and Secretary.

\- After the Panchayatdars of the Sarvodaya Panchayat are elected, they shall
elect among themselves a Chairman and a Secretary within thirty days from the
date of election of the Panchayatdars.

### 7. Meeting of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- The Chairman of the Local Committee will call for the first meeting for
electing the. office bearers. The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall meet once in a
fortnight or often if necessary to conduct the affairs of the Sarvodaya
Panchayat.

### 8. Quorum for the meeting.

\- The quorum for a meeting of the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be the majority
of the strength fixed for the Sarvodaya Panchayat

### 9. Proceedings of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- All the questions before the panchayat shall be decided unanimously. Should
there be any difference of opinion, it shall be decided by casting lots.

### 10. Absence of a member consecutively from Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- A Panchayatdar who absents himself from four meetings consecutively shall
automatically cease to be a Panchayatdar of the Sarvodaya Panchayat unless he
is reinstated by a resolution of the Sarvodaya Panchayat in the subsequent
meeting by condoning such absence

### 11. Power of the several office bearers of the Panchayat.

\- Subject to such resolution as the Sarvodaya Panchayat may pass, from lime
to time, the several office bearers of the panchayat shall exercise the
following powers:-(a)The Chairman shall exercise over all and general control
over all the affairs of Sarvodaya Panchayat and shall be the ex-officio
treasurer and shall have the custody of all the moveable properties of the
Sarvodaya Panchayat.(b)The Secretary shall, subject to the control of the
Chairman, be responsible for the executive administration of the Sarvodaya
Panchayat.(c)The Secretary shall be the Officer to sue or be sued on behalf of
the Sarvodaya Panchayat and all instruments and contracts by, or on behalf of,
the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be in the name of the Secretary(d)Whenever the
Secretary requires relief from work, it shall be competent for the Chairman to
grant such relief by making such suitable arrangements as necessary for the
conduct of the work by utilising the services of one or more panchayatdars of
the panchayat.

### 12. Establishment of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- Subject to the budget allotment sanctioned by the general body of the
village, it shall be competent for the Sarvodaya Panchayat to prescribe, from
time to time, the strength of the establishment and the scale of pay and
allowances admissible to each member thereof. All the members of the
establishment of the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be appointed by the Chairman,
Sarvodaya Panchayat and the State Bhoodan Yagna Board shall be the controlling
authority.

### 13. Funds of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- The funds of the Sarvodaya Panchayat may be raised in any or all of the
following ways and means as resolved by the general body of the Sarvodaya
Panchayat.

### 1\. Grants, Donations, gifts, subscription loans from the State
Government, Local authority, or persons or State Board or Local Committee.

### 2\. It may collect a levy either in cash or in kind from every family in
the Gramdan village for being utilised for purposes of common benefit to the
village.

### 14. Maximum borrowing power of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- The lands gifted to the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be valued at least once
in 3 years by an Officer authorised by the Collector on this behalf. The
borrowings of the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall not, at any time, exceed 50'S of
the market value of the lands gifted. Only in exceptional cases, the State
Bhoodan Yagna Board may, after getting the approval of the Government, grant
loans to the Sarvodaya Panchayat in excess of the borrowing power. The
Sarvodaya Panchayat shall arrange for repayment of the loans on the due
dates.The receipts shall be issued by the Secretary for all moneys paid to the
Sarvodaya Panchayat. In the case of borrowings, the bond or agreement executed
by the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be signed by 3 members of the Sarvodaya
Panchayat of whom the Chairman or the Secretary shall be one. A form of
agreement to be executed in this regard is appended (annexure).

### 15. Budget.

\- The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall submit to the State Bhoodan Yagna Board the
budget estimate for the next year and the revised estimate for the current
year before the 15th August of the yearThe Sarvodaya Panchayat shall assess
the financial requirements of the Gramdan village every year in advance by the
end of February in respect of agricultural and allied operations, such as
sinking of new wells, deepening of old wells, reclamation, purchase of pumpse
ts purchase of bulls, purchase of seeds and manures and cottage industries and
its general working in the nature of a Budget with reference to the overall
plan prepared for the development of the village. The budget should have the
approval of the local committee The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be responsible
for the proper utilisation and the timely repayment of the funds involved.

### 16. Borrowings.

\- The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall not borrow without the previous permission of
the local committee and shall abide by the conditions imposed by the local
committees in this regard.

### 17. Travelling Allowance.

\- The Services of the members of the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be honorary,
but they may be paid travelling allowance for the journeys performed by them
in connection with the affairs of the Sarvodaya Panchayat at the following
rate provided funds are allotted in the annual budget and available for
disbursement:-

### 1\. Single III Class Railway fare for the journeys by rail plus daily
allowance of Rs 2 per day for the absence exceeding 8 hours from the
headquarters.

### 2\. Actual bus fare for the journeys by bus plus daily allowance.

### 3\. Mileage at 12 Nps per mile for the journeys not connected by bus or
rail.

### 4\. A daily allowance of Rs. 2 per day provided the journeys so performed
exceeds a radius of 5 miles from the village where the Sarvodaya Panchayat is
situated.

### 18. Accounts of Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall maintain proper accounts and vouchers for the
funds handled by it in addition to the following registers and records:-

### 1\. Register of lands held by the Sarvodaya Panchayat and their market
value to be revised every 3 years.

### 2\. Register showing the adult persons in the Sarvodaya, Panchayat (to be
prepared, revised and brought up-to-date on the 31st March of every year).

### 3\. Register showing the names of the panchayat members and the date of
election and the term of office.

### 4\. Register showing the names of the persons disqualified and the nature
of disqualification.

### 5\. Minutes Book.

### 6\. Receipt Book.

### 7\. Voucher file.

### 8\. Cashbook.

### 9\. Personal ledger of advances made to members.

### 10\. Cultivation accounts.

### 11\. Borrowing Ledger.

### 12\. General Ledger.

### 13\. Monthly statement of receipts and charges.

### 14\. Property Register (Register of lands vested with the State Board in
the area).

### 15\. After the expiry of the financial year ending 31st March, the
Sarvodaya Panchayat shall prepare immediately or a t least within 30 days.

### 1\. A Statement of receipts and charges for the previous year.

### 2\. A Statement of income and expenditure for the previous year.

### 3\. A statement of funds available and obligation to be fulfilled, (i. e.
assets and liabilities) as it stood on the last day of the previous year.

### 4\. Such other statement as may be prescribed by the Local committee and
the State Board. These statements shall be placed before the general body and
sent to the Local committee and State Board.

### 19. Audit of the accounts of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

\- The accounts of the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall be audited either by the
Extension Officer (Co-operation) or Extension Officer (Panchayat) of the block
every year before the end of the month of May, free of cost and a certificate
issued by him together with the audited statements.In the case of Sarvodaya
Panchayat situated outside the blocks, the nearest block officers will attend
to the audit. All funds, which the panchayat shall be deposited in a bank
approved by the Government or th e State Board.

### 20. Expulsion from membership.

\- It shall be open for the general body to expel any member from the
panchayat-(i)who dishonestly deceives, the Sarvodaya Panchayat by false or
fraudulent statement or in any other way;(ii)who intentionally causes or does
anything detrimental to the interest of the Sarvodaya Panchayat; and(iii)who
conducts himself in such a manner as to render his removal necessary in the
interest of the Sarvodaya Panchayat.

### 21. Regulation for local committee.

(a)The Chairman of the Local committee shall have a general control over the
administration of the local committee both general and executive.(b)The local
committee shall maintain all registers prescribed for and by the State Board
in respect of its jurisdiction.(c)The accounts of the local committee shall be
audited by tire Local Fund Account Department free of cost annually.

### 22. Service conditions of employees of State Board & Local Committee Head
Clerk.

\- Qualification. - He should have put in not less than three years of service
as Assistant under the Bhoodan Yagna Board.Pay and allowances. - He will be
paid in the time scale of pay applicable for similar post in Government
service .AssistantsQualifications. - (a) They should have completed their
probation in the cadre of Junior Assistants.(b)They should have passed the
test on the District Office Manual and the Account Test for Subordinate
Officers - Part I.Pay and allowances. - They will be Paid in the time scale of
pay applicable for similar posts in Government service.ClerksQualification. -
They should be eligible for college course.Age. - Should be not less than 18
years and should not exceed 25 years.Pay and allowances. - They will be paid
according to the scale prescribed by the Government for similar posts in
Government sendee.TypistQualification. - They should be eligible for college
course and should have passed the Higher Grade Typewriting examination.Age. -
Should not be less than 18 years and should not be more than 25 years.Pay and
allowances. - They will be paid according to the Government scale of pay for
similar posts in Government Service.Last Grade ServantsQualification. - They
should be able to read and write well in Tamil.Age. - Should be not less than
18 years and should not be more than 25 years.Pay and allowances. - They will
be paid according to the scale of pay prescribed by the Government for similar
posts in Government service.Jeep DriverQualification. - He should hold a
driving licence of a light vehicle.Age. - He should be more than 18 years of
age and the age should not have exceeded 30 years.Pay and allowances. - He
will be paid according to the scale of pay for similar post in Government
service.Bhoodan InspectorsQualification. - They should have at least appeared
for the S. S. L. C Examination. They should have experience in Sarvodaya
Work.Age. - They should be not less than 18 years and not more than 25 years
In the case of Sarvodaya Worker, age and qualification will be relaxed at the
discretion of the Chairman, State Board.Pay and allowances. - They will be
paid according to the scale of pay for lower Division Clerks in the Government
Service.Explanation I. - The employees of the State Board, who appointed for
the first time to the categories of Junior Assistants, Typists, Bhoodan
Inspectors and Jeep Drivers shall be on probation for a total period of two
years on duty within a continuous period of three years; and in the case of
promotion to a higher post, the period of probation shall be one year on duty
within a continuous period of two years .Explanation II. - The employees of
the State Board shall, with effect on and from the 12th December 1968, be
allowed the benefits of increments and leave as in the case of Government
servants. In the matter of emoluments, leave and privileges, they shall not be
entitled to concessions or benefits in excess of those enjoyed by Government
servants of equal status and standing.Explanation III. - Tire requirement of
probation shall be waived in the case of those who have put in not less than
three years of service in the State Board; and they shall be deemed to have
completed their probation, provided that their conduct has been found
satisfactory by the State Board.Explanation IV. - The Special Officer shall be
the appointing authority for the posts of Junior Assistants, Typists, Bhoodan
Inspectors, Jeep Drivers and peons under the Statue Board. Appointment to the
said posits shall be made from among the candidates selected by a Committee
consisting of the Chairman, Secretary and the Special officer. All
appointments to the posts of Junior Assistants, Typists, Jeep Drivers and
peons in the State Board shall be made only from the list of candidate
furnished by the District Employment Exchange concerned.Explanation V. - An
appeal shall lie to the Chairman of the State Board against any orders of the
Special Officer.Explanation VI. - Any employees aggrieved by the orders of the
Chairman shall be entitled to prefer a revision petition so the Government
within sixty days from the date of receipt of the orders of the
Chairman.AnnexureThis Agreement entered into this ................ day of One
thousand nine hundred and.............. Between The Tamil Nadu State Bhoodan
Yagna Board (hereinafter called "the Board" which expression shall, where the
context admits, include its successors and assigns) of the one part......And
The..............Sarvodaya Panchayat, a Sarvodaya Panchayat, constituted under
the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XV of 1958), having its
registered office at. hereinafter called The Sarvodaya Panchayat which
expression shall, where the context admits, include its successors and
assigns) of the other part;Whereas the Sarvodaya Panchayat has applied to the
Board for an advance of a sum of Rs........for the purchase of pumpsets/
agricultural implements/Bulls/Sheep for the purpose of bee keeping/poullry
farming/hand-loom weaving and for deepening of wells and for sinking of new
wellsAnd Whereas the Board has agreed to advance the said sum on and subject
to the terms and conditions hereinafter contained.Now This Indenture
Witnesseth As Follows:-

### 1\. In consideration of the sum of
Rs.........................(Rupees................only) now advanced and paid
by the Board to the Sarvodaya Panchayat (receipt where of the Sarvodaya
Panchayat both hereby acknowledge the Sarvodaya Panchayat covenants with the
Board that the Sarvodaya Panchayat shall duly and punctually repay the Board
at the said sum of Rs.......(Rupees .................. only) by equal annual
payments of the sum of Rs...... (Rupees..........) during the period
of........years, the first of such payments to be made on the..............day
of..........One thousand nine hundred and sixty and the subsequent payments
tobe made on the...........day of.........in each subsequent year.

### 2\. The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall utilise the a amount advanced under
these presents only for the purpose herein before stated.

### 3\. The Sarvodaya Panchayat shall, at all times and from time to time,
furnish to the Board such information as it may, from time to time, required
by notice in writing.

### 4\. If it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Board, that the whole
or any part of tire amount hereby advanced has not been utilised by the
Sarvodaya Panchayat for the purpose herein before stated or if the Sarvodaya
Panchayat shall be guilty of any breach or non-observance of all or any of the
covenants and conditions herein contained and to be performed and observed by
the Sarvodaya Panchayat, then, and in any such case and without prejudice to
the Board's other rights and remedies arising on such default, and
notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, the total amount
due under these presents shall forthwith become payable and it shall be lawful
for the Board or its duly authorised agents and servants at any time
thereafter in addition to and without prejudice to the other rights and
remedies of the Board, to recover any amounts that may from time to time be
due and payable by the Sarvodaya Panchayat as if it were an arrear of land
revenue under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery' Act 1864,
(Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864).

In Witness Whereof.............................. the three members including
the Secretary of the Sarvodaya Panchayat acting for and on behalf of the
Sarvodaya Panchayat and Sri the Chairman, acting for and on behalf of the
Board hath hereunto set their hands.Signed by the above named

### 1\. Secretary of the Sarvodaya Panchayat

### 2\. .....................................

### 3\. .....................................

In the presence of Witnesses:-

### 1\.

...............

### 2\.

...............Signed by the above named.In the presence ofChairman.The Tamil
Nadu State Bhoodan Yagna BoardSeal of the Board has here unto been
affixed.Witnesses:-

### 1\. .................

### 2\. .................

