## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Revised Roster of Appointment Issued by the Government

TAMILNADU  
India

# Revised Roster of Appointment Issued by the Government

## Rule REVISED-ROSTER-OF-APPOINTMENT-ISSUED-BY-THE-GOVERNMENT of 2008

  * Published on 6 November 2008 
  * Commenced on 6 November 2008 
  * [This is the version of this document from 6 November 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Revised Roster of Appointment Issued by the GovernmentPublished vide
Notification No. G.O. (Ms.) No. 206, Personnel and Administrative Reforms (K)
Department, dated 6th November 2008AbstractSub: Public Services - Reservation
of appointments in Public Services - Reservation provided for the Backward
Class Christians withdrawn to enable them to compete within the reservation
provided for Backward Classes - Modification to the Revised Roster - Orders -
Issued.Read:(1) G.O. (Ms) No. 241, Personnel and Administrative Reforms (K)
Department, dated 29.10.2007.(2) G.O. (Ms) No. 101, Personnel and
Administrative Reforms (K) Department, dated 30.5.2008.(3) Government Letter
No. 40321/K2/2008-1, Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department, dated
29.7.2008.(4) [Tamil Nadu Ordinance No. 9 of 2008] [Now replaced as an Act of
the Tamil Nadu Legislature, namely, the Tamil Nadu Backward Class Christians
and Backward Class Muslims (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions
including Private Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the
services under the State) Amendment Act, 2008.]Order

### 1.

Pursuant to the Tamil Nadu Backward Class Christians and Backward Class
Muslims (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions including Private
Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the services under
the State) Ordinance, 2007 [(Tamil Nadu Ordinance No. 4 of 2007)] [Now
replaced as an Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislature, namely, the Tamil Nadu
Backward Class Christians and Backward Class Muslims (Reservation of Seats in
Educational Institutions including Private Educational Institutions and of
Appointments or Posts in the services under the State) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu
Act 33 of 2007).], the Government issued orders in the Government Order first
read above, revising the 100 point roster prescribed in Schedule III to the
General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services into 200 point
roster providing reservation for the Backward Class Christians and the
Backward Class Muslims at three and one-half; per cent respectively, within
the thirty per cent reservation available for Backward Classes. In the
Government Order second read above, the aforesaid roster has been revised as
to ensure adequate representation to the Backward Class Christians and the
Backward Class Muslims.

### 2.

Based on the representation received from the Christian community, the
Government in [Tamil Nadu Ordinance No. 9 of 2008] [Now replaced as an Act of
the Tamil Nadu Legislature, namely, the Tamil Nadu Backward Class Christians
and Backward Class Muslims (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions
including Private Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the
service under the State) Amendment Act, 2008.] fourth read above, have now
amended the Tamil Nadu Backward Class Christians and Backward Class Muslims
(Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions including Private
Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the services under
the State) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 2007), thereby withdrawing the 3.5
per cent reservation provided for the Backward Class Christians so as to
enable them to compete within the reservation provided for the Backward
Classes.

### 3.

In pursuance of the aforesaid [Tamil Nadu Ordinance No. 9 of 2008], [Now
replaced as an Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislature, namely, the Tamil Nadu
Backward Class Christians and Backward Class Muslims (Reservation of Seats in
Educational Institutions including Private Educational Institutions and of
Appointments or Posts in the service under the State) Amendment Act, 2008.]
the roster prescribed in the Government Order second read above is revised as
in the Annexure to this order. The Government direct that the roster
prescribed in this order shall be made applicable in respect of those
selections made by the recruiting agencies and appointments made on or after
22.10.2008, namely, the date of publication of the said Ordinance in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette. However, the recruiting agencies/appointing
authorities are informed that the selections/ appointments, if any, already
made with reference to the 200 point roster prescribed in the Government
Orders first and second read above need not be reopened and for further
selections/appointments, the revised roster prescribed in this Government
Order shall be continued by the recruiting agencies/ appointing authorities
from the last turn upto which the selection was already made.

### 4.

The rotations/turns earmarked in respect of Women, Destitute Widows and Ex-
servicemen in this regard shall be issued separately.

### 5.

Necessary amendments to the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services Rules
shall be issued separately.Annexure

### 1\. General Turn

### 2\. Scheduled Castes

### 3\. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 4\. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 5\. General Turn

### 6. Scheduled Castes

### 7. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 8. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 9. General Turn

### 10. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 11. General Turn

### 12. Scheduled Castes

### 13. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 14. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 15. Backward Class Muslims

### 16. Scheduled Castes

### 17. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 18. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 19. General Turn

### 20. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 21. General Turn

### 22. Scheduled Castes

### 23. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 24. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 25. General Turn

### 26. Scheduled Castes

### 27. General Turn

### 28. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 29. General Turn

### 30. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 31. General Turn

### 32. Scheduled Castes

### 33. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 34. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 35. General Turn

### 36. Scheduled Castes

### 37. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 38. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 39. General Turn

### 40. Backward Class Muslims

### 41. General Turn

### 42. Scheduled Castes

### 43. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 44. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 45. General Turn

### 46. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 47. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 48. General Turn

### 49. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 50. Scheduled Tribes

### 51. General Turn

### 52. Scheduled Castes

### 53. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 54. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 55. General Turn

### 56. Scheduled Castes

### 57. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 58. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 59. General Turn

### 60. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 61. General Turn

### 62. Scheduled Castes

### 63. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 64. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 65. General Turn

### 66. Scheduled Castes

### 67. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 68. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 69. General Turn

### 70. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 71. General Turn

### 72. Scheduled Castes

### 73. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 74. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 75. General Turn

### 76. Scheduled Castes

### 77. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 78. Backward Class Muslims

### 79. General Turn

### 80. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 81. General Turn

### 82. Scheduled Castes

### 83. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 84. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 85. General Turn

### 86. Scheduled Castes

### 87. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 88. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 89. General Turn

### 90. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 91. General Turn

### 92. Scheduled Castes

### 93. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 94. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 95. General Turn

### 96. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 97. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 98. General Turn

### 99. Backward Class Muslims

### 100. General Turn

### 101. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 102. Scheduled Castes

### 103. General Turn

### 104. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 105. General Turn

### 106. Scheduled Castes

### 107. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 108. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 109. General Turn

### 110. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 111. General Turn

### 112. Scheduled Castes

### 113. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 114. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 115. General Turn

### 116. Scheduled Castes

### 117. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 118. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 119. General Turn

### 120. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 121. General Turn

### 122. Scheduled Castes

### 123. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 124. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 125. General Turn

### 126. Scheduled Castes

### 127. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 128. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 129. General Turn

### 130. Backward Class Muslims

### 131. General Turn

### 132. Scheduled Castes

### 133. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 134. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 135. General Turn

### 136. Scheduled Castes

### 137. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 138. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 139. General Turn

### 140. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 141. General Turn

### 142. Scheduled Castes

### 143. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 144. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 145. General Turn

### 146. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 147. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 148. General Turn

### 149. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 150. Scheduled Tribes

### 151. General Turn

### 152. Scheduled Castes

### 153. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 154. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 155. General Turn

### 156. Scheduled Castes

### 157. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 158. Backward Class Muslims

### 159. General Turn

### 160. Backward Classes (Other of an Backward Class Muslims)

### 161. General Turn

### 162. Scheduled Castes

### 163. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 164. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 165. General Turn

### 166. Scheduled Castes

### 167. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 168. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 169. General Turn

### 170. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 171. General Turn

### 172. Scheduled Castes

### 173. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 174. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 175. General Turn

### 176. Scheduled Castes

### 177. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 178. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 179. General Turn

### 180. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 181. General Turn

### 182. Scheduled Castes

### 183. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 184. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 185. General Turn

### 186. Scheduled Castes

### 187. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 188. Backward Class Muslims

### 189. General Turn

### 190. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 191. General Turn

### 192. Scheduled Castes

### 193. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 194. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 195. General Turn

### 196. Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities

### 197. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 198. General Turn

### 199. Backward Classes (Other than Backward Class Muslims)

### 200. General Turn.

