## Union of India - Act

## Rice-Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Rice-Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958

## Act 21 of 1958

  * Published on 18 May 1958 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rice-Milling Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958(Act No. 21 of 1958)Last Updated
18th January, 2020[Dated 18.05.1958]An Act to regulate the rice-milling
industry in the interests of the general public.Be it enacted by Parliament in
the Ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Rice- Milling Industry (Regulation) Act,
1958.(2)It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.(3)It shall come into force on such date, as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.

\- It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that
Union should take under its control the rice- milling industry.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)["defunct rice mill"
means- [Subsection by Act 29 of 1968, section 2, for clause (a) (w.e.f.
1-5-1970).](i)a rice mill in existence at the commencement of this Act but in
which rice- milling operations have not been carried on for a continuous
period of one year prior to such commencement; and(ii)a rice mill (whether
established before or after such commencement) in which rice- milling
operations are not carried on for a continuous period of one year at any time
after the commencement of the Rice- Milling Industry (Regulation) Amendment
Act, 1968 ;](b)"existing rice mill" means a rice mill carrying on rice-
milling operations at the commencement of this Act, and includes a rice mill
in existence at such commencement which is not carrying on rice- milling
operations but in which rice- milling operations have been carried on at any
time within a period of one year prior to such commencement:[Provided that if
in any such rice mill rice- milling operations are not carried on for a
continuous period of one year at any time after the commencement of the Rice-
Milling Industry (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1968 , then, such mill shall, on
the expiry of the said period of one year, cease to be an existing rice mill
and be deemed to be a defunct rice mill;] [Added by Act 29 of 1968, section 2
(w.e.f. 1-5-1970).](c)"licensing officer" means an officer appointed as such
under section 4;(d)[ "milling- rice" , with its grammatical variations, means-
[Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 2 for clause (d) (w.e.f.
1-5-1970).](i)recovering rice or any product thereof from paddy;(ii)polishing
rice, with the aid of power;](e)"new rice- mill" means a rice mill other than
an existing rice mill or a defunct rice mill;(f)"notified order" means an
order notified in the Official Gazette;(g)"owner", in relation to a rice mill,
means the person who, or the authority which, has the ultimate control over
the affairs of the rice mill, and where the said affairs are entrusted to a
manager, managing director or managing agent, such manager, managing director
or managing agent shall be deemed to be the owner of the rice mill;(gg)[
"polishing" in relation to rice means the removal of bran from the kernel of
rice;] [Inserted by Act 29 of 1968, section 2 (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).](h)"
prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(i)" rice mill"
means the plant and machinery with which, and the premises, including the
precincts thereof, in which or in any part of which, rice- milling operation
is carried on.

### 3A. [ Application of the Act to rice- hullers. [Inserted by Act 29 of
1968, section 3 (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).]

\- The provisions of this Act shall apply to rice- hullers attached to, or
maintained with, any flour, oil, dal or other mill, or pumping set as they
apply to rice mills subject to the modification that any reference to the
commencement of this Act in those provisions shall, in their application to
such rice- hullers, be construed as a reference to the commencement of the
Rice- Milling Industry (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1968.]

### 4. Appointment of licensing officers.

\- The Central Government may, by notified order,-(a)appoint such persons,
being gazetted officers of Government, as it thinks fit to be licensing
officers for the purposes of this Act; and(b)define the limits within which a
licensing officer shall exercise the powers conferred on licensing officers by
or under this Act.

### 5. Grant of permits in respect of new or defunct rice mills.

(1)Any person or authority may make an application to the Central Government
for the grant of a permit for the establishment of a new rice mill; and any
owner of a defunct rice mill may make a like application for the grant of a
permit for re- commencing rice- milling operation in such mill.(2)Every
application under sub- section (1) shall be made in the prescribed form and
shall contain the particulars regarding the location of the rice mill, the
size and type thereof and such other particulars as may be prescribed.(3)If,
on receipt of any such application for the grant of a permit, the Central
Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for ensuring adequate
supply of rice, it may, subject to the provisions of sub- section (4) and sub-
section (5), grant the permit specifying therein the period within which the
mill is to be established or, as the case may be, the mill is to re- commence
is rice- milling operation and [such other conditions (including such
conditions as to improvements to existing machinery, replacement of existing
machinery and use of improved methods of rice- milling, as may be necessary to
eliminate waste, obtain maximum production and improve quality) as it may
think fit] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 4, for 'such other
conditions as it may think fit' (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).] to impose, in accordance
with the rules, if any, made in this behalf.(4)Before granting any permit
under sub- section (3), the Central Government shall cause a full and complete
investigation to be made in the prescribed manner in respect of the
application and shall have due regard to-(a)the number of rice mills operating
in the locality;(b)the availability of paddy in the locality;(c)the
availability of power and water supply for the rice mill in respect of which a
permit is applied for;(d)whether the rice mill in respect of which a permit is
applied for will be of the huller type, sheller type or combined sheller-
huller type;(e)whether the functioning of the rice mill in respect of which a
permit is applied for would cause substantial unemployment in the
locality;(f)such other particulars as may be prescribed.(5)[ (a) In granting a
permit under this section (whether for the establishment of a new rice mill or
for re- commencing rice- milling operation in a defunct rice mill), the
Central Government shall give preference-(i)to a Government company or a
corporation owned or controlled by the Government over every other
applicant;(ii)to a farmers' co- operative society over every other applicant
not being a Government company or a corporation owned or controlled by the
Government, notwithstanding that such other applicant has applied for the
grant of a permit for re- commencing rice- milling operation in a defunct rice
mill.(b)Subject to the provisions of clause (a), in granting a permit under
this section, the Central Government shall give preference to a defunct rice
mill over a new rice mill. Explanation. - In this sub- section,-(i)"Co-
operative society" means a society registered or deemed to be registered under
the Co- operative Societies Act, 1912 (2 of 1912 ) or any other law relating
to co- operative societies for the time being in force in any State and"
farmers" co- operative society" means a co- operative society the members
whereof include farmers and the voting rights in which are, according to its
rules and bye- laws, restricted to the following classes of its members,
namely:-(a)farmers,(b)State Governments,(c)primary agricultural credit
societies as defined in clause (cii) of section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934 (2 of 1934 );(ii)"Government company" has the same meaning as in the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956 ).](6)A permit granted under this section
[shall be valid] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, for 'shall be effective'
(w.e.f. 1-5-1970).] for the period specified therein or for such extended
period as the Central Government may think fit to allow in any case:[Provided
that if in a mill in respect of which a permit has been granted under sub-
section (3) rice- milling operation is not carried on for a continuous period
of one year at any time after the commencement of the Rice- Milling Industry
(Regulation) Amendment Act, 1968 , then, such permit shall cease to be valid
upon the expiry of the said period of one year and a fresh permit shall be
necessary for re- commencing rice- milling operation in that mill.] [Added by
section 4, Act 29 of 1968 (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).]

### 6. Grant of licences.

(1)Any owner of an existing rice mill or of a rice mill in respect of which [a
permit granted under section 5 is effective] [Substituted by section 5, Act 29
of 1968, for 'a permit has been granted under section 5' (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).]
may make an application to the licensing officer for the grant of a licence
for carrying on rice- milling operation in that rice mill.(2)Every application
under sub- section (1) shall be made in the prescribed form and shall contain
the particulars regarding the location of the rice mill, the size and type
thereof and such other particulars as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of any
such application for the grant of a licence, the licensing officer shall grant
the licence on such conditions [including such conditions as to improvements
to existing machinery, replacement of existing machinery and use of improved
methods of rice- milling, as may be necessary to eliminate waste, obtain
maximum production and improve quality and conditions relating to the
polishing of rice] [Substituted by section 5, Act 29 of 1968, for certain
words (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).] on payment of such fees and on the deposit of such
sum, if any, as security for the due performance of the conditions as may be
prescribed.(4)[ A licence granted under this section shall be valid for the
period specified therein and may be renewed from time to time for such period
and on payment of such fees and on such conditions (including such conditions
as to improvements to existing machinery, replacement of existing machinery
and use of improved methods of rice- milling, as may be necessary to eliminate
waste, obtain maximum production and improve quality) as may be
prescribed:Provided that if in a mill in respect of which a licence has been
granted under sub- section (3) rice- milling operations are not carried on for
a continuous period of one year at any time after the commencement of the
Rice- Milling Industry (Regulation) Amendment Act, 1968 , then, such licence
shall cease to be valid upon the expiry of the said period of one year and a
fresh licence shall be necessary for carrying on rice- milling operations in
that mill.] [Substituted by section 5, Act 29 of 1968, for sub-section (4)
(w.e.f. 1-5-1970 ).]

### 7. Revocation suspension and amendment of licences.

(1)If the licensing officer is satisfied, either on a reference made to him in
this behalf or otherwise, that-(a)a licence granted under section 6 has been
obtained by misrepresentation as to an essential fact, or(b)the holder of a
licence has, without reasonable cause, failed to comply with the conditions
subject to which the licence has been granted or has contravened any of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder. then without prejudice to
any other penalty to which the holder of the licence may be liable under this
Act, the licensing officer may, after giving the holder of the licence an
opportunity of showing cause, revoke or suspend the licence or forfeit the
sum, if any, or any portion thereof deposited as security for the due
performance of the conditions subject to which the licence has been
granted.(2)Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, the licensing
officer may also vary or amend a licence granted under section 6.

### 8. Certain restrictions on rice mills.

(1)No person or authority shall, after the commencement of this Act, establish
any new rice mill except under and in accordance with a permit granted under
section 5.(2)No owner of a rice mill shall, after the commencement of this
Act, carry on rice- milling operation except under and in accordance with a
licence granted under section 6: Provided that nothing in this sub- section
shall apply to an existing rice mill for such period as may be specified in
this behalf by the Central Government by notified order.(3)No owner of a rice
mill,-(a)in respect of which a licence has been granted under section 6, shall
carry on rice- milling operation in that mill [after the licence has ceased to
be valid.] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 6 for certain words (w.e.f.
1-5-1970).](b)in respect of which the licence has been revoked or suspended
under section 7, shall carry on rice- milling operation in that mill after the
revocation or, as the case may be, during the period for which the licence has
been suspended;(c)shall, without the previous permission of the Central
Government, change the location of the whole or any part of the rice mill in
respect of which a licence has been granted under section 6;(d)shall, after
the commencement of this Act, effect any expansion of the rice mill except
with the previous permission of the Central Government:[Provided that no such
permission shall be necessary,-(i)where such expansion is in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the permit or licence granted under this Act in
respect of the rice mill; or(ii)for the replacement merely of any parts of the
machinery of the rice mill if such replacement does not result in an increase
in the productive capacity of the rice mill.]Explanation. - For the purposes
of clause (a) of this sub- section, the period of the validity of a licence
shall not be deemed to have expired, if an application for its renewal is
pending before the licensing officer.

### 9. Power of inspection.

\- For the purpose of ascertaining the position or examining the working of
any rice mill or for any other purpose mentioned in this Act or the rules made
thereunder, the licensing officer or any person authorised by the Central
Government in this behalf shall have the right-(a)to enter and inspect any
rice mill;(b)to order the production of any document, book, register or record
in the possession or power of any person having the control of, or employed in
connection with, any rice mill; and(c)to examine any person having the control
of, or employed in connection with, any rice mill.

### 10. Decision of Central Government final respecting certain matters.

\- If, for the purposes of this Act, any question arises as to
whether,-(a)there has been an expansion of a rice mill, or(b)the replacement
of any parts of the machinery of a rice mill has resulted in an increase in
the productive capacity of the rice mill, the Central Government may, after
giving the owner of the rice mill an opportunity of being heard, decide the
question and the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.

### 11. Returns.

\- Every owner of a rice mill shall furnish to the Central Government such
returns relating to the affairs of the rice mill and in such forms as may be
prescribed.

### 12. Appeals.

(1)Any person aggrieved by a decision of a licensing officer under section 6
or section 7 may, within thirty days from the date on which the decision is
communicated to him, prefer an appeal to an appellate officer who shall be a
person nominated in this behalf by the Central Government:Provided that the
appellate officer may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period
of thirty days, if he is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of an appeal
under sub- section (1), the appellate officer shall, after giving the
appellant an opportunity of being heard, dispose of the appeal as
expeditiously as possible.

### 13. [ Penalties. [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 7, sub-section
(1) (w.e.f. 1-5-1970).]

(1)If any person contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the
contravention of any of the provisions of section 8 or sub- section (2) of
section 18, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or
with both, and in the case of a continuing contravention, with an additional
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which such
contravention continues after conviction for the first such
contravention:Provided that where such contravention, attempt or abetment
relates to sub-section (1), or sub- section (2), or clause (a) or clause (b)
of sub- section (3) of section 8, or sub-section (2) of section 18, he shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one
month.] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 6, for the proviso (w.e.f.
1-5-1970 ).](2)If any person.-(a)when required by this Act or by any order
under this Act to make any statement or furnish any information makes any
statement or furnishes any information which is false in any material
particular and which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or does not
believe to be true, or(b)makes any such statement as aforesaid in any book,
account, record, declaration, return or other document which he is required to
maintain or furnish under this Act, or(c)contravenes any rule the
contravention of which is made punishable under this sub- section he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a tern which may extend to three months, or
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

### 14. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub- section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,-(a)"company"
means any body corporate, and includes a firm or other association of
individuals; and(b)"director" , in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm.

### 14A. [ Burden of proof in certain cases. [Insertion by Act 29 of 1968,
section 8 (w.e.f. 1-5-1970 ).]

\- Where paddy, husk, rice or broken rice is recovered from the premises of a
mill, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved by the owner, that
rice- milling operations are carried on in that mill.

### 14B. Confiscation of plant and machinery.

\- Where any person has been convicted for contravention of any of the
provisions of section 8 or of sub-section (2) of section 18, then the court
convicting such person may order confiscation of the plant and machinery with
which rice-milling operations in contravention of such provision were carried
on:Provided that where such person is convicted for a second or subsequent
offence, the court shall order confiscation of such plant and machinery.]
[Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 4, for sub- section (5) (w.e.f.
1-5-1970 ).]

### 15. Cognizance of offences.

\- No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on a report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made by
the licensing officer or any person duly authorised by the Central Government
or the licensing officer in this behalf.

### 16. Jurisdiction of courts.

\- No court inferior to that of a presidency magistrate or a magistrate of the
first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 17. Special provision regarding fines.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 32 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ), it shall be lawful for any magistrate of the
first class or for any presidency magistrate to pass a sentence of fine
exceeding two thousand rupees on any person convicted of any offence under
this Act.

### 18. Power to exempt in special cases.

(1)If the Central Government is of opinion, having regard to the necessity for
ensuring an adequate supply of rice in any area or to the conditions
prevailing therein, that it would not be in the public interest to apply all
or any of the provisions of this Act to the rice mills or to any class of rice
mills in that area, it may, by notified order, exempt for such period and
subject to such conditions as it may think fit to impose, all the rice mills
or such class of rice mills in that area as it may specify in the order from
the operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or
order made thereunder.(2)Where any notified order under sub- section (1)
granting an exemption is cancelled, no owner of a rice mill shall carry on
rice- milling operation in that rice mill, after the expiry of such period as
may be specified in the order cancelling the exemption, except under and in
accordance with a licence granted to him under section 6.

### 19. Delegation of powers.

\- The Central Government may, by notified order, direct that any power
exercisable by it under this Act shall, in relation to such matters and
subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be
exercisable also by-(a)such officer or authority subordinate to the Central
Government, or(b)such State Government or such officer or authority
subordinate to a State Government, As may be specified in the direction.

### 20. Licensing officers, etc., to be public servants.

\- The licensing officers and every person duly authorised to discharge any
duties imposed on him by this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860 ).

### 21. Protection of action taken under the Act.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against [any
officer or authority] [Substituted by Act 29 of 1968, section 9, for 'any
person' (w. e. f. 1- 5- 1970 ).] for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made
thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule
or order made thereunder.

### 22. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, subject to the condition of previous
publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
form of application for the grant of a permit under section 5 and the
particulars it may contain;(b)the manner in which an investigation is to be
made in respect of an application for a permit and the matters to be taken
into account in granting or refusing a permit;(bb)[ the form of a permit under
section 5 and the conditions (including conditions relating to improvements to
existing machinery, replacement of existing machinery and use of improved
methods of rice-milling) subject to which a permit may be granted and the time
within which such conditions shall be complied with;] [Inserted by Act 29 of
1968, section 10 (w. e. f. 1- 5- 1970 ).](c)the form of application for the
grant or renewal of a licence in respect of a rice mill and the particulars it
may contain;(d)the form of a licence which may be granted or renewed under
section 6 and the conditions subject to which the licence may be granted or
renewed, [including conditions relating to improvements to existing machinery,
replacement of existing machinery, use of improved methods of rice-milling and
polishing of rice, the time within which such conditions shall be complied
with] [Substituted by section 10, Act 29 of 1968, for certain words (w. e. f.
1- 5-1970 ).], the fees to be levied for the grant or renewal of a licence and
the deposit of any sum as security for the performance of such
conditions;(e)the circumstances under which licences may be varied or amended
under sub- section (2) of section 7;(f)the submission of returns relating to a
rice mill by the owner and the forms in which, and the authorities to which,
such returns may be submitted; and the collection of any information or
statistics in relation to rice mills;(g)the form and manner in which appeals
may be filed under section 12 and the procedure to be followed by appellate
officers in disposing of the appeals;(h)any other matter which has to be, or
may be, prescribed under this Act.(3)Any rule made under this section may
provide that a contravention thereof shall be punishable under sub- section
(2) of section 13.(4)[ Every rule made by the Central Government under this
section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the
expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately
following, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.] [Substituted by Act
29 of 1968, section 10, for sub- section (4) (w. e. f. 1- 5- 1970 ).]

### 23. Application of other laws not barred.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other Central Act for the time being in force.

### 24. Act not to apply to rice mills owned by Government.

\- The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any rice mill owned by
Government.

### 25. Repeal and savings.

(1)If, immediately before the commencement of this Act, there is in force in
any State to which this Act extends any law or order relating to the
regulation or control of rice mills in that State, that law or order shall
stand repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, any certificate of
registration, permit or licence granted in respect of any existing rice mill,
under any such law or order hereby repealed and in force immediately before
the commencement of this Act, shall continue to be in force for such period as
may be allowed under the proviso to sub- section (2) of section 8 for the
licensing of such rice mill under the provisions of this Act, and for the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of section 6 of
the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897 ), shall apply in relation to such
repeal, as they apply in relation to the repeal of an enactment by a Central
Act.

