## Union of India - Act

## Right to Information Rules, 2012

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Right to Information Rules, 2012

## Rule RIGHT-TO-INFORMATION-RULES-2012 of 2012

  * Published on 31 July 2012 
  * Commenced on 31 July 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Right to Information Rules, 2012Published vide Notification New Delhi, the
31st July, 2012Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and
Pensions(Department of Personnel and Training)G.S.R. 603(E). - In exercise of
the powers conferred by Section 27 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (22
of 2005) and in supersession of the Central Information Commission (Appeal
Procedure) Rules, 2005 and the Right to Information (Regulation of Fee and
Cost) Rules, 2005 except as respects things done or omitted to be done before
such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Right to Information Rules, 2012.(2)They
shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Right to Information Act, 2005 (22 of 2005);(b)"Commission" means the Central
Information Commission constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the
Act;(c)"First Appellate Authority" means an officer in the public authority
who is senior in rank to the Central Public Information Officer to whom an
appeal under sub-section (1) of Section 19 of the Act lies;(d)"Registrar"
means an officer of the Commission so designated and includes an Additional
Registrar, Joint Registrar and Deputy Registrar;(e)"Section" means a Section
of the Act;(f)all other words and expressions used herein but not defined in
these rules shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Application Fee.

\- An application under sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Act shall be
accompanied by a fee of rupees ten and shall ordinarily not contain more than
five hundred words, excluding annexures, containing address of the Central
Public Information Officer and that of the applicant:Provided that no
application shall be rejected only on the ground that it contains more than
five hundred words.

### 4. Fees for providing information.

\- Fee for providing information under sub-section (4) of Section 4 and sub-
sections (1) and (5) of Section 7 of the Act shall be charged at the following
rates, namely :-(a)rupees two for each page in A-3 or smaller size
paper;(b)actual cost or price of a photocopy in large size paper;(c)actual
cost or price for samples or models;(d)rupees fifty per diskette or
floppy;(e)price fixed for a publication or rupees two per page of photocopy
for extracts from the publication;(f)no fee for inspection of records for the
first hour of inspection and a fee of rupees 5 for each subsequent hour or
fraction thereof; and(g)so much of postal charge involved in supply of
information that exceeds fifty rupees.

### 5. Exemption from Payment of Fee.

\- No fee under rule 3 and rule 4 shall be charged from any person who is
below poverty line provided a copy of the certificate issued by the
appropriate Government in this regard is submitted alongwith the application.

### 6. Mode of Payment of fee.

\- Fees under these rules may be paid in any of the following manner,
namely:-(a)in cash, to the public authority or to the Central Assistant Public
Information Officer of the public authority, as the case may be, against a
proper receipt; or(b)by demand draft or bankers cheque or Indian Postal Order
payable to the Accounts Officer of the public authority; or(c)by electronic
means to the Accounts Officer of the public authority, if facility for
receiving fees through electronic means is available with the public
authority.

### 7. Appointment of Secretary to the Commission.

\- The Central Government shall appoint an officer not below the rank of
Additional Secretary to the Government of India as Secretary to the
Commission.

### 8. Appeal to the Commission.

\- Any person aggrieved by an order passed by the First Appellate Authority or
by non-disposal of his appeal by the First Appellate Authority, may file an
appeal to the Commission in the format given in the Appendix and shall be
accompanied by the following documents, duly authenticated and verified by the
appellant, namely:-(i)a copy of the application submitted to the Central
Public Information Officer;(ii)a copy of the reply received, if any, from the
Central Public Information Officer;(iii)a copy of the appeal made to the First
Appellate Authority;(iv)a copy of the Order received, if any, from the First
Appellate Authority;(v)copies of other documents relied upon by the appellant
and referred to in his appeal; and(vi)an index of the documents referred to in
the appeal.

### 9. Return of Appeal.

\- An appeal may be returned to the appellant, if it is not accompanied by the
documents as specified in rule 8, for removing the deficiencies and filing the
appeal complete in all respects.

### 10. Process of appeal.

(1)On receipt of an appeal, if the Commission is not satisfied that it is a
fit case to proceed with, it may, after giving an opportunity of being heard
to the appellant and after recording its reasons, dismiss the appeal:Provided
that no appeal shall be dismissed only on the ground that it has not been made
in the specified format if it is accompanied by documents as specified in rule
8.(2)The Commission shall not consider an appeal unless it is satisfied that
the appellant has availed of all the remedies available to him under the
Act.(3)For the purposes of sub-rule (2), a person shall be deemed to have
availed of all the remedies available to him under the Act:(a)if he had filed
an appeal before the First Appellate Authority and the First Appellate
Authority or any other person competent to pass order on such appeal had made
a final order on the appeal; or(b)where no final order has been made by the
First Appellate Authority with regard to the appeal preferred, and a period of
forty five days from the date on which such appeal was preferred has elapsed.

### 11. Procedure for deciding appeals.

\- The Commission, while deciding an appeal may.-(i)receive oral or written
evidence on oath or on affidavit from concerned or interested
person;(ii)peruse or inspect documents, public records or copies
thereof;(iii)inquire through authorised officer further details or
facts;(iv)hear Central Public Information Officer, Central Assistant Public
Information Officer or the First Appellate Authority, or such person against
whose action the appeal is preferred, as the case may be;(v)hear third party;
and(vi)receive evidence on affidavits from Central Public Information Officer,
Central Assistant Public Information Officer, First Appellate Authority and
such other person against whom the appeal lies or the third party.

### 12. Presence of the appellant before the Commission.

(1)The appellant shall be informed of the date at least seven clear days
before the date of hearing.(2)The appellant may be present in person or
through his duly authorised representative or through video conferencing, if
the facility of video conferencing is available, at the time of hearing of the
appeal by the Commission.(3)Where the Commission is satisfied that the
circumstances exist due to which the appellant is unable to attend the
hearing, then, the Commission may afford the appellant another opportunity of
being heard before a final decision is taken or take any other appropriate
action as it may deem fit.

### 13. Presentation by the Public Authority.

\- The public authority may authorise any representative or any of its
officers to present its case.

### 14. Service of notice by Commission.

\- The Commission may issue the notice by name, which shall be served in any
of the following modes, namely:-(i)service by the party itself;(ii)by hand
delivery (dasti) through Process Server;(iii)by registered post with
acknowledgement due;(iv)by electronic mail in case electronic address is
available.

### 15. Order of the Commission.

\- The order of the Commission shall be in writing and issued under the seal
of the Commission duly authenticated by the Registrar or any other officer
authorised by the Commission for this purpose.AppendixFormat of Appeal(See
Rule 8)

1. | Name and address of the appellant |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Name and address of the Central PublicInformation Officer to whom the application was addressed |   
3. |  Name and address of the Central PublicInformation Officer who gave reply to the Application |   
4. |  Name and address of the First AppellateAuthority Who decided the First Appeal |   
5. | Particulars of the application |   
6. |  Particulars of the order(s) including number, ifany, against which the appeal is preferred |   
7. | Brief facts leading to the appeal |   
8. | Prayer or relief sought |   
9. | Grounds for the prayer or relief |   
10. | Any other information relevant to the appeal |   
11. | Verification/authentication by the appellant | 

