## Union of India - Act

## Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950

## Act 64 of 1950

  * Published on 4 December 1950 
  * Commenced on 4 December 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 December 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950(64 of 1950)

### 223.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Road Transport Corporations Act, 1948
(XXXII of 1948), was enacted with a view to enable the Provincial Governments,
who may so desire, to establish Road Transport Corporations. This Act has been
found defective because the provisions of sections 3(2), 4 and 5 of the Act,
insofar as they require certain provisions to be made by a Provincial law, are
ultra vires of the Government of India Act, 1935, as adapted. Under the latter
Act, the power to legislate in respect of trade and commerce is given to the
provincial Legislatures and the power to legislate for the incorporation of
trading corporations is given to the Central Legislature. The creation of
statutory Transport Corporations has been held as amounting to incorporation
of trading corporations and, as such, ultra vires of the Provincial
Legislature. In order to remove the above mentioned legal flaw, it is proposed
to replace the existing Act, by a comprehensive Act, enabling such of the
Provincial Governments, who may so desire, to set up Transport Corporations,
with the object of providing efficient, adequate, economical and property co-
ordinated system of road transport services.Amendment Act 63 of 1982-Statement
of Objects and Reasons.-The Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 was enacted
to enable State Governments to set up Transport Corporations with the object
of providing efficient, adequate, economical and properly co-ordinated system
of road transport services. In the light of the changed circumstances, the
suggestions which have been received from the State Governments, different
Ministries of the Central Government and other agencies concerned, it is
proposed to make certain amendments in the said Act with a view primarily to
secure the better functioning of the Road Transport Corporations under the
Act.2\. The more important amendments proposed in the Bill are the
following:-(a) Section 1 of the Act is being amended to provide for the
extension of the Act to the Union territory of Mizoram (vide clause 2).(b) The
organisational set up of the Road Transport Corporations under the Act is
being modified to provide for each Corporation a Board of Directors consisting
of a Chairman and other Directors in place of the Chairman and members of the
Corporation. This approach would help in keeping the agency through which a
Corporation has to function distinct from the Corporation itself. It is also
proposed to provide that in addition to the Chairman, each Board may consist
of not less than five and not more than seventeen other Directors (vide clause
3).(c) Section 8 of the principal Act is being amended, inter alia, for
including therein provisions for removal of the Chairman or any other Director
on grounds of misconduct (including abuse of power and corruption vide clause
5(b).)(d) In the context of the growing activities of the Corporations, it is
felt that certain activities of a Corporation could be better attended to by
subsidiary Corporations. To facilitate this process, provision is being
included to enable each Road Transport Corporation to frame, with the
concurrence of the State Government concerned and the Central Government,
scheme or schemes providing for the establishment of one or more subsidiary
Corporations (vide clause 10).(e) At present, a Road Transport Corporation
cannot raise any share capital where loan capital has been provided to it by
the Central Government and the State Government. With a view to augmenting the
resources of the Corporation and to enable the Corporations to undertake
developmental schemes, section 23 of the principal Act is being amended to
enable a Corporation which has received a loan capital from the Central
Government and the State Government to raise share capital. Opportunity is
also being taken to enable the Central Government or the State Government to
convert the whole or any part of the loan capital provided by it under the
said section 23 into share capital (vide clause 12).(f) Section 26 of the
principal Act relating to borrowing powers of Road Transport Corporations is
being substituted by a new section to enable a Corporation, with the approval
of the State Government, to borrow money not only in the open market, but also
from the nationalised banks, State Financial Corporations, the Industrial
Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development Bank of India, the
Life Insurance Corporation of India, or any other financial institution
providing credit which is subject to the Control of the Reserve Bank of India.
Such borrowing may be either for the purpose of raising working capital or for
meeting any expenditure of a capital nature (vide clause 13).[ 4th December,
1950 ]An Act to provide for the incorporation and regulation of Road Transport
Corporations.Be it enacted by parliament as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title,extent and commencement .(1) This Act may be called The
Road Transport Corporations Act , 1950.

(2)It extends to the whole of India [* * *] [The words " the State of Jammu
Kashmir and" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f.
15.8.1968).][* * *] [The words " except the Union territory of Delhi" omitted
by Act 71 of 1971, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 3.11.1971).][Provided that on and from
the commencement of the Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971,this
Act, as amended by the said Act, shall extend to, and be in force in, the
Union territory of Delhi:] [Inserted by Act 71 of 1971, Section 2 (w.e.f.
3.11.1971).][Provided further that on and from the commencement of the Road
Transport Corporations(Amendment) Act, 1982, this Act, as amended by the said
Act, shall extend to the Union territory of Mizoram.] [Inserted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 2 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).](3)It shall come into force in a State on
such [date] [The Act was brought into force in Bombay on 6th December, 1950;
Bihar, on 1st September, 1952; Hyderabad and Kutch, on 1st December, 1952;
West Bengal, on 2nd March, 1953; Saurashtra, on 1st August, 1953; Madhya
Pradesh, on 1st August, 1953; Punjab, on 10th August, 1954; Madhya Bharat, on
2nd October, 1954; Patiala and East Punjab States Union, on 10th March, 1955;
Andhra pradesh, on 1st December, 1957; Orissa, on 1st June, 1956; Himachal
Pradesh, on 28th March, 1958; Masore, on 1st August, 1958; Tripura, on 1st
March 1961; Rajasthan, on 5th September, 1964; Kerala, on 1st January, 1965;
Assam, on 10th March, 1970; Delhi, on 3rd November, 1971; Uttar Pradesh, on
1st April, 1972 and Uttaranchal, on 19th August, 2002.] as The Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette appoint in this behalf
for such State and different dates may be appointed for different states.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 1,(i)
in sub-S. (2), the words except the Union territory of Delhi shall be
omitted;(ii) to sub-S. (2), add the following proviso, namely:Provided that on
and from the commencement of the Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act,
1971,this Act, as amended by the said Act, shall extend to, and be in force
in, the Union territory of Delhi.(iii) sub-S. (3) shall be omitted.Delhi Road
Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f . 3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 2. Definitions

.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a)ancillary service means
any subsidiary service which provides amenities or facilities to persons
making use of any road transport service of a Corporation;[(aa ) Board means
the Board of Directors of a Corporation;] [Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section
16 and Sch. (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).](b)Corporation means a Road Transport
Corporation established under section 3;[(bb ) Director means a member of the
Board;] [Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch. (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).](c)extended area means any area or route to which the operation
of any road transport service of a Corporation has been extended in the manner
provided in section 20;(d)prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(e)road transport service means a service carrying passengers or goods or
both by road in vehicles for hire or reward;(f)vehicle means any mechanically
propelled vehicle, used or capable of being used for the purpose of road
transport, and includes a tram-car, a trolly-vehicle and a trailer;(g)words
and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the [Motor
Vehicles Act, 1939] [Now see the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).],have
the meaning assigned to them in that Act;[* * *] [Clause (h) omitted by the
Adaptation of Laws (No. 3) Order, 1956.]

## Chapter II  
Road Transport Corporations

### 3. Establishment of Road Transport Corporations in the States

.The State Government having regard to(a)the advantages offered to the public,
trade and industry by the development of road transport;(b)the desirability of
Co-ordinating any form of road transport with any other form of
transport;(c)the desirability of extending and improving the facilities for
road transport in any area and of providing an efficient and economical system
of road transport service therein,may , by notification in the Official
Gazette, establish a Road Transport Corporation for the whole or any part of
the State under such name as may be specified in the notification.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 3, for
the words for the whole or any part of the State, substitute for the whole or
any part of the Union territory of Delhi .Delhi Road Transport Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971
).  
---  
  
### 4. Incorporation

.Every Corporation shall be a body corporate by the name notified under
section 3 having perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall by the said
name sue and be sued.

### 5. [ Management of corporation and Board of Directors [Substituted by Act
63 of 1982, Section 3, for Section 5 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

(1)The general superintendence,direction and management of the affairs and
business of a Corporation shall vest in a Board of Directors which, with the
assistance of its committees and Managing Director, may exercise all such
powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the
Corporation.(2)The Board shall consist of a Chairman and such other Directors,
being not less than five and not more than seventeen, as the State Government
may think fit to appoint.(3)The State Government may, if it so thinks fit,
appoint one of the other Directors as the Vice-Chairman of the Board.(4)Rules
made under this Act shall provide for the representation, both of the Central
Government and of the State Government concerned, on the Board in such
proportion as may be agreed to by both the Government and of appointment by
each Government of its own representatives thereto and where the capital of a
Corporation is raised by the issue of shares to other parties under sub-
section (3) of section 23, provision shall also be made for the representation
of such share-holders on the Board and the manner in which the representatives
shall be elected by such share-holders.(5)The term of office of and the manner
of filling casual vacancies among the Directors shall be such as may be
prescribed.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in sub-S. (3)
ofSection 5, for the words both of the Central Government and of the State
Government concerned in the Corporation in such proportion as may be agreed to
by both the Government and of nomination by each Government, substitute of the
State Government in the Corporation and of nomination by that Government.Delhi
Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 6. Disqualification for being chosen as, or for being, a [Director of a
Corporation] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 4, for " member of a
Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

. [(1)] [Section 6 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 28 of 1959,
Section 2.] A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, or for being,
a [Director of a Corporation] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 4, for "
member of a Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).](a)if he is found to bea lunatic
or a person of unsound mind; or(b)if he has been adjudged insolvent; or(c)if
he has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; or(d)if he has,
directly or indirectly, any interest in any subsisting contract made with, or
in any work being done for,the Corporation except as a share-holder (other
than a director) in an incorporated company, provided that where he is a
share-holder he shall disclose to the State Government the nature and extent
of shares held by him in such company; or(e)if he has any financial interest
in any other road transport undertaking.(2)[ Nothing in clause(d) of sub-
section (1) shall be deemed to disqualify the [Managing director] [Inserted by
Act 28 of 1959, Section 2.] of a Corporation for being chosen as, or for
being, a [Director] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 4, for " member"
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] thereof.](3)[ Nothing in clause(e) of sub-section (1)
shall be deemed to disqualify,(a)any officer or other employee of the
Government for being chosen as, or for being, a Director of a
Corporation.(b)any officer or other employee of a Corporation for being chosen
as, or for being, a Director of another Corporation.]

### 7. Resignation of office by the Chairman or a [Director] [Substituted by
Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " member" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

.The Chairman or any other [Director] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section
16 and Sch., for " member" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of a Corporation may resign
his office by giving notice in writing to the State Government and, on such
resignation being accepted by that Government, shall be deemed to have vacated
his office.

### 8. Removal of Chairman and [Directors] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 5, for " member" and " member" , respectively (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]
from office

. [1] [Section 8 renumbered as sub-Sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 5 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] The State Government may remove from office
the Chairman or any other [Director] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section
5, for " member" and " member" , respectively (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of the
Corporation who(a)is or becomes subject to any of the disqualifications
mentioned in section 6; or(b)without excuse sufficient in the opinion of the
State Government, is absent for more than four consecutive meetings of the
[Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 5, for " Corporation" (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).].Provided that no [Director appointed] [Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 5, for " member nominated" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] by the Central
Government shall be removed from office without the concurrence of that
Government.(2)[ The State Government may terminate the appointment of any
Director after giving him notice for such period (being not less than one
month) as may be prescribed:Provided that the appointment of a Director
appointed by the Central Government shall not be terminated under this sub-
section without the concurrence of that Government.] [Inserted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 5 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).][Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 4
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 8, the
proviso shall be omitted.Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71of
1971), Section 7 and Sch . I(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 9. Vacancies amongst members or defect in the constitution not to
invalidate acts or proceedings of a [Corporation or its Board ] [Substituted
by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).]

.No act or proceeding of a [Corporation or its Board] [Substituted by Act 63
of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] shall
be invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy [in its Board]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 5, for " amongst its members" (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).] or any defect in the constitution thereof.

### 10. Temporary association of persons with a [Board] [Substituted by Act 63
of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] for
particular purposes

(1)A [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for "
Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] may associate with itself for any
particular purpose in such manner as may be determined by regulations made
under this Act any person whose assistance or advice it may desire.(2)A person
associated with it by the [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16
and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] under sub-section (1) for
any purpose shall have a right to take part in the discussions of the [Board]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation"
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a right to
vote at a meeting of the [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16
and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).].

### 11. Meetings of [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and
Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

(1)A [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for "
Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] shall meet at such times and places and
shall, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), observe such
rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings as may
be provided by regulations made under this Act:Provided that the [Board]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation"
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] shall meet at least once in every three months.(2)The
person to preside at a meeting of a [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] shall be the
chairman thereof, or in his absence from any meeting the Vice-Chairman, if
any, or in the absence of both the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, [such
Director as may be chosen by the Directors present] [Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " such member as may be chosen by the members
present" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] from among themselves to preside.(3)All
questions at a meeting of a [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16
and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] shall be decided by a
majority of votes of the members present, and in the case of equality of
votes, the Chairman or, in his absence, any other person presiding shall have
a second or casting vote.

### 12. Power to appoint committees and delegate functions

. [(1)] [Section 12 renumbered as sub-Section (1) thereof by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 6 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] A [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 6, for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] may,from time to time, by
resolution passed at a meeting(a)appoint committees [consisting of Directors]
[[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 6, for " of its members"
(w.e.f.13.11.1982).]] for performing such functions as may be specified in the
resolution;(b)delegate to any such committee or to the chairman or Vice-
Chairman, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any,as may be
specified in the resolution, such of its powers and duties as it may think
fit;(c)authorised the [Managing Director] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 6, for " Chief Executive Officer or General Manager" (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).] [or any other officer of the Corporation] [Inserted by Act 28 of
1959, Section 3.] subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may
be specified in the resolution to exercise such powers and perform such duties
as it may deem necessary for the efficient day-to-day administration of its
business.(2)[ The Chairman,Vice-Chairman or Managing Director may delegate any
of his powers and duties including powers and duties delegated to him under
sub-section (1) to Any officer of the Corporation, and the officer to whom
such powers and duties are delegated, shall exercise and perform such powers
and duties under the control and supervision of the Managing Director.]
[Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 6 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

[Delhi] .In its application to the Union territory of Delhi, in Section 12, in
Cl . (b),for the words Chairman or Vice-Chairman, substitute Chairman, Vice-
Chairman,Chief Executive Officer, the General Manager, the Deputy General
Manager or the Chief Accounts Officer of the Corporation. Delhi Road Transport
Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f
.3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 13. [ Authentication of orders and other instruments [Substituted by Act
63 of 1982, Section 7, for Section 13 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

.All orders and decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the signature
of the Secretary or by any such other officer of the Corporation as may be
authorised in this behalf by the Board or under the regulations made under
section 45 and all other instruments issued by a Board shall be authenticated
by the signature of the Managing Director or any other officer of the
Corporation authorised in like manner in this behalf.]

### 14. Officers and servants of the Corporation

. [(1) Every Corporation shall have a Managing Director, a Chief Accounts
Officer and a Financial Adviser, appointed by the State Government:Provided
that the same person may be appointed as the Chief Accounts Officer and the
financial Adviser.] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 8, for Sub-Section
(1) (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).](2)A Corporation may appoint [a Secretary and such
other officers and employees] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 8, for "
such other officers and servants" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] as it considers
necessary for the efficient performance of its functions,(3)[ The conditions
of appointment and service and the scales of pay of the officers and employees
of a Corporation shall(a)as respects the Managing Director, the Chief Accounts
Officer and the Financial Adviser, or, as the case may be, the Chief Accounts
Officer-cum-Financial Adviser, be such, as may be prescribed, and(b)as
respects the other officers and employees, be such, as may, subject to the
provisions of section 34, be determined by regulations made under this Act.]

### 15. [ Managing director, Chief Accounts Officer and Financial Adviser
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 9, for Sub-Section 15 (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).]

(1)The Managing director shall be the executive head of the Corporation and
all other officers and employees of the Corporation shall be subordinate to
him.(2)The Managing Director shall obtain the views of the Chief Accounts
Officer and the Financial Adviser or, as the case may be, the Chief Accounts
Officer-cum-Financial Adviser, on every proposal involving revenues, or
expenditure from the fund, of the Corporation and shall cause such views to be
placed before the Board prior to the consideration of such proposal by the
Board.] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 8, for Sub-Section (3) (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).]

### 16. General disqualification of all officers and servants

.No person who has directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner or agent,
any share or interest in any contract, by or on behalf of a Corporation, or in
any other road transport undertaking shall become or remain an [officer or
other employee] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for "
officer or servant" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]of the Corporation.

### 17. Appointment of Advisory Council

.The State Government may, after ascertaining the views of the Corporation, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute one or more Advisory Councils
consisting of such number of persons, on such terms, and for the purpose of
advising the Corporation on such matters, as may be specified in that
notification.[Chapter II-A [Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 10 (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).] Subsidiary Corporations

### 17A. Establishment of Subsidiary Corporations

(1)Where a Corporation (hereinafter in this section referred to as the parent
Corporation) is satisfied that it is expedient or necessary so to do for the
more efficient discharge of its functions under this Act, it may, with the
concurrence of the State Government and the Central Government, frame by
notification in the Official Gazette a scheme or schemes providing for the
establishment of one or more subsidiary corporations.(2)A scheme framed under
sub-section (1) shall specify the subsidiary corporation or corporations which
shall become established thereunder , the date or dates with effect from which
they shall be so established, the powers and functions of the parent
Corporation which such subsidiary corporation or corporations may exercise and
discharge,the conditions and limitations subject to which such powers may be
exercised,the management of the affairs of each such subsidiary corporation by
a Board of Directors, the capital of each such subsidiary corporation and all
other matters relating to such subsidiary corporations corresponding to the
various matters for which provisions have been made in this Act with respect
to the parent Corporation:Provided that(a)no subsidiary corporation shall
start operation on any new route without the previous approval of the parent
Corporation;(b)the representatives of the Central Government on the Board of
Directors of a subsidiary Corporation shall be in proportion to its
contribution to the capital of the parent corporation;(c)the liability of The
Central Government to provide contribution to the capital of the subsidiary
corporation or to the parent Corporation shall not be increased without the
approval of the Central Government;(d)a subsidiary corporation shall have a
Managing Director, a Chief Accounts Officer and a Financial Adviser or a Chief
Accounts Officer-cum-Financial Adviser, and such officers shall be appointed
by the State Government;(e)the State Government and the parent Corporation
shall have power to give directions to a subsidiary corporation in respect of
any matter, including directions relating to recruitment conditions of service
and training of the employees of the subsidiary corporation, wages to be paid
to such employees, reserves to be maintained by the subsidiary
corporation;(f)the capital budget,the revenue budget and the annual
development plans of a subsidiary Corporation shall be submitted for approval
to the parent Corporation and where such budget or plan involves any deficit,
also to the State Government.(3)Every subsidiary corporation established under
a scheme framed under sub-section (1)shall be a body corporate, by the name
specified in the scheme having perpetual succession and a common seal and
shall by the said name sue and be sued.]

## Chapter III  
Powers And Duties Of Corporation

### 18. General duty of corporation

.It shall be the general duty of a Corporation so to exercise its powers, as
progressively to provide or secure or promote the provision of,an efficient,
adequate, economical and properly Co-ordinated system of road transport
services in the State or part of the State for which it is established and in
any extended area:Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed as
imposing on a Corporation, either directly or indirectly, any form of duty or
liability enforceable by proceedings before any Court or Tribunal, to which it
would not otherwise be subject.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 18,
for the words State or part of the State, substitute Union territory of Delhi
or part thereof. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),
Section 7 and Sch .I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 19. Powers of Corporation

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, a Corporation shall have power(a)to
operate road transport services in the State and in any extended area;(b)to
provide for any ancillary service;(c)to provide for its employees suitable
conditions of service including fair wages, establishment of provident fund,
living accommodation, places for rest and recreation and other amenities;=[(d)
to authorise the issue of passes to its employees and other persons either
free of cost or at concessional rates and on such conditions as it may deem
fit to impose; [Inserted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 4.](e)to authorise the
grant of refund in respect of unused tickets and concessional
passes.](2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) shall include power(a)to manufacture, purchase, maintain and
repair rolling stock, vehicles, appliances, plant, equipment or any other
thing required for the purpose of any of the activities of the Corporation
referred to in sub-section (1);Explanation .In this clause, the expression
manufacture does not include the construction of the complete unit of a motor
vehicle except for purposes of experiment or research;(b)to acquire and hold
such property, both movable and immovable, as the Corporation may deem
necessary for the purpose of any of the said activities, and to lease, sell or
otherwise transfer any property held by it;(c)to prepare schemes for the
acquisition of,and to acquire, either by agreement or compulsorily in
accordance with the law of acquisition for the time being in force in the
State concerned and with such procedure as may be prescribed, whether
absolutely or for any period, the whole or any part of any undertaking of any
other person to the extent to which the activities thereof consist of the
operation of road transport services in that State or in any extended
area;(d)to purchase by agreement or to take on lease or under any form of
tenancy any land and to erect thereon such buildings as may be necessary for
the purpose of carrying on its undertaking;(e)to authorise the disposal of
scrap vehicles, old tyres , used oils, [any other stores of scraps value, or
such other stores as may be declared to be obsolete in the prescribed manner]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 11, for " or any other stores of scrap
value" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).];(f)to enter into and perform all such contracts
as may be necessary for the performance of its duties and the exercise of its
powers under the Act;(g)to purchase vehicles of such type as may be suitable
for use in the road transport services operated by the Corporation;(h)to
purchase or otherwise secure by agreement vehicles, garages, sheds, office
buildings, depots, land, workshops, equipment,tools, accessories to and spare
parts for vehicles, or any other article owned or possessed by the owner of
any other undertaking for use thereof by the Corporation for the purposes of
its undertaking;(i)to do anything for the purpose of advancing the skill of
persons employed by the Corporation or the efficiency of the equipment of the
Corporation or of the manner in which that equipment is operated, including
the provision by the Corporation, and the assistance by the Corporation to
others for the provision of facilities for training, education and
research;(j)to enter into and carry out agreements with any person carrying on
business as a carrier of passengers or goods providing for the carriage of
passengers or goods on behalf of the Corporation by that other person at a
thorough fare or freight.(k)to provide facilities for the consignment, storage
and delivery of goods;(l)to enter into contracts for exhibition of posters and
advertising boards on and in the vehicles and premises of the Corporation and
also for advertisement on tickets and other forms issued by the Corporation to
the public;(m)with the prior approval of the State Government to do all other
things to facilitate the proper carrying on of the business of the
Corporation.(3)Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorising a
Corporation, except with the previous approval of the State Government(i)to
manufacture or maintain anything which is not required directly or indirectly
for use for the purpose of the undertaking of the Corporation or to repair,
store, or provide any service for, any vehicle which does not belong to the
Corporation or is not used directly or indirectly for the purpose of its
undertaking;(ii)to purchase any vehicle for the purpose of sale to another
person;(iii)to sell or supply to any person lubricants, spare parts, or
equipment for or accessories to,vehicles;(iv)to let vehicles on hire for the
carriage of passengers or goods except as expressly provided by or under this
Act.(4)Except as otherwise provided by this Act nothing in the foregoing
provisions shall be construed as authorising the Corporation to disregard any
law for the time being in force.(5)Where a Corporation acquires the whole or
any part of an undertaking of any other person, the Corporation shall, in
appointing its [officers and other employees] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 11, for " officers and servants" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).], take into
consideration the claims of employees employed in that undertaking.(6)The
provisions of this section shall not be construed as limiting any power of a
Corporation conferred by or under any subsequent provision of this Act.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 19,(i)
in sub-S. (1), in Cl . (a), for State,substitute Union territory of Delhi
;(ii) in sub-S. (2), in Cl . (c), for the words State concerned,substitute
Union territory of Delhi , and for the words that State, substitute that Union
territory;(iii) after Cl . (m), insert the following new clause,namely:(n) to
determine with the previous approval of the State Government, and in case of a
road transport service operated in any extended area, also with the previous
approval of the Government of the State within which such extended area is
situated, fares and freights for the carriage of passengers and goods in any
road transport service provided by the Corporation.Delhi Road Transport Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),Section 7 and Sch . (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
Sections 19-A and 19-B

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , after Section
19,insert, the following new section, namely,19-A. Disposal of unclaimed
articles and property.(1) When any articles or goods have come into the
possession of a Corporation for carriage or otherwise and are not claimed by
the owner or any other person appearing to the Corporation to be entitled
thereto, the Corporation shall, if such owner or other person is known, cause
a notice to be served upon him requiring him to remove the articles or goods
within seven days of the service of such notice.(2) If such owner or other
person is not known or the notice cannot be served upon him or he does not
comply with the requisition in the notice, the Corporation may, after
expiration of such period as may be specified by regulations made under this
Act, sell the articles or goods by public auction and shall, after deducting
from the sale-proceeds expenses for holding the sale or any amount which may
be due to the Corporation, credit the surplus sale-proceeds, if any, to the
Fund of the Corporation; and the sale proceeds so credited may be paid on
demand to any person who establishes his rights thereto in a Court of
competent jurisdiction or within one year of such sale to the satisfaction of
the Corporation.19-B. Corporation to obtain the approval of the Central
Government in certain cases.In exercise of any of its powers under this Act,
the Corporation shall not incur on any single work, service or scheme or for
any other purpose a capital expenditure of more than twenty-five lakhs of
rupees except with the previous approval of the Central Government. Delhi Road
Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 20. Extension of the operation of the road transport service of a
Corporation to areas within another State

(1)If a Corporation considers it to be expedient in the public interest to
extend the operation of any of its road transport services to any route or
area situated within another State, it may, with the permission of the State
Government,negotiate with the Government of the other State regarding the
proposed extension.(2)If the Government of the other State approves the
proposed extension, the Corporation shall prepare a scheme for the purpose and
forward the same to the other Government for its consent, and after such
consent has been received, the Corporation may, with the previous approval of
the State Government, sanction the scheme.(3)After the scheme has been so
sanctioned, it shall be competent for the Corporation to extend the operation
of its road transport service to such route or area and when the operation of
such service is so extended, the Corporation shall operate the service on that
route or in that area subject to the provisions of any law in force in the
other State within which such route or area is situated.(4)The Corporation
may, from time to time, alter or extend the scheme sanctioned under sub-
section (2) by a supplementary scheme prepared and sanctioned in the manner
provided in the foregoing provisions of this section.

### 21. Carriage of mails

.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, a
Corporation shall, if so required by the Central Government, carry mails at
such rates and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in this behalf
by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 21,
for the words the Central Government in consultation with the State
Government,substitute that Government. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment)
Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
## Chapter IV  
Finance,Accounts And Audit

### 22. General principle of Corporations finance

.It shall be the general principle of a Corporation that in carrying on its
undertaking it shall act on business principles.

### 23. Capital of the Corporation

(1)The Central Government and the State Government may provide to a
Corporation established by the State Government, in such proportion as may be
agreed to by both the Government, any capital that may be required by the
Corporation for the purpose of carrying on the undertaking or for purposes
connected therewith on such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act,as the State Government may, with the previous approval
of the Central Government, determine.(2)[ The Corporation may, whether or not
any capital is provided to it under sub-section (1), raise by the issue of
shares such capital (hereafter in this section referred to as the authorised
share capital) as may be authorised in this behalf by the State
Government:Provided that where any capital is provided to the Corporation
under sub-section (1), no capital may be raised under this sub-section without
the previous approval of the Central Government.(2-A) Any capital raised under
sub-section (2) with the previous approval of the Central Government may
be,(a)in addition to the capital provided to the Corporation under sub-section
(1);(b)subscribed to by the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, by converting the whole or any part of the capital provided
whether before or after the commencement of the Road Transport Corporations
(Amendment) Act, 1982 to the Corporation by that Government under sub-section
(1).](3)The [authorised share capital] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section
12, for " authorised capital" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of the Corporation shall
be divided into such number of shares as the State Government may determine;
and the number of shares which shall be subscribed by the State Government,
the Central Government and other parties (including persons whose undertakings
have been acquired by the Corporation) shall also be determined by the State
Government in consultation with the Central Government.(4)The allotment of
shares to other parties mentioned in sub-section (3) shall be made by the
Corporation in such manner as may be prescribed.(5)The shares of the
Corporation shall not be transferable except in accordance with the rules made
under this Act.(6)The Corporation may at any time, with the previous approval
of the State Government, redeem the shares issued to the other parties under
sub-section (4) in such manner as may be prescribed.[Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 12, for Sub-Section (2) (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 23,(1)
For sub-S. (1), substitute the following sub-section, namely,(1) The State
Government may provide to a Corporation established by that Government any
capital that may be required by the Corporation for the purpose of carrying on
its undertaking or for purposes connected there with on such terms and
conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as that
Government may determine.(2) In sub-S. (3), the words the Central Government
and in consultation with the Central Government shall be omitted.Delhi Road
Transport Laws (Amendment)Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 24. Additional capital of the Corporation

.If, after the issue of shares under section 23 a Corporation requires any
further capital, the Corporation may, with the previous sanction of the State
Government, raise such additional capital by the issue of new shares and the
provisions of sub-sections (2) [(2-A)] [Inserted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16
and Sch., (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).], (3), (4), (5)and (6) of the said section
shall apply to the issue of such shares.

### 25. Guarantee by the State Government

.The shares of a Corporation shall be guaranteed by the State Government as to
the payment of the principal and the payment of the annual dividend at such
minimum rates as may be fixed by the State Government by notification
published in the Official Gazette at the time of issuing the shares.

### 26. [ Borrowing powers [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 13, for
Section 26 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]

.A Corporation may, with the previous approval of the State Government, borrow
money for the purpose of raising its working capital or meeting any
expenditure of a capital nature in the open market or from a corresponding new
bank constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), or section 3 of the Banking
Companies(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980), a
State Finance Corporation established under section 3 of the State Financial
Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951), the Industrial Finance Corporation of
India, established under section 3 of the Industrial Finance Corporation
Act,1948 (15 of 1948), the Industrial Development Bank of India, established
under section 3 of the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of
1964),the Life Insurance Corporation of India, established under section 3 of
the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of 1956), or any other financial
institution providing credit which is subject to the control of the Reserve
Bank of India.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 26, in
sub-S. (2), the words and the Central Government shall be omitted.Delhi Road
Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 27. Fund of the Corporation

(1)Every Corporation shall have its own fund and all receipts of the
Corporation shall be carried thereto and all payments by the Corporation shall
be made therefrom .(2)Except as otherwise directed by the State Government,all
moneys belonging to that fund shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India
or with the agents of the Reserve Bank of India, [or with the corresponding
new banks constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies(Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, or section 3 of the Banking Companies
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980,] [Inserted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 14 (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] or invested in such securities as may
be approved by the State Government.

### 28. Payment of interest and dividend

(1)Where [the whole or part of the capital of a Corporation] [Substituted by
Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " the capital of a Corporation"
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] is provided by the Central Government and the State
Government under sub-section (1) of section 23, the Corporation shall pay
interest on such capital at such rate as may, from time to time, be fixed by
the State Government in consultation with the Central Government and such
interest shall be deemed to be a part of the expenditure of the
Corporation.(2)Where the Corporation [raises the whole or any part of its
capital] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " raises its
capital" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] by issue of shares, it shall pay dividend on
such shares at such rate as may, from time to time, be fixed by the
Corporation, subject to any general limitations which may have been imposed by
the State Government in consultation with the Central Government, and such
dividend shall be deemed to be a part of the expenditure of the Corporation.

[Delhi] .In its application to the Union territory of Delhi, in Section 28, in
sub-Ss. (1) and (2), the words in consultation with the Central Government
shall be omitted Delhi Road transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),
Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 29. Provision for depreciation and reserve and other funds

(1)A Corporation shall make such provisions for depreciation and for reserve
and other funds as the State Government may, from time to time, direct.(2)The
management of the said funds, the sums to be carried from time to time to the
credit thereof and the application of the moneys comprised therein shall be
determined by the Corporation:Provided that no fund shall be utilised for any
purpose other than that for which it was created without the previous approval
of the State Government.

### 30. Disposal of net profits

.After making provision for payment of interest and dividend under section 28
and for depreciation, reserve and other funds under section 29, a Corporation
may utilise such percentage of its net annual profits as may be specified in
this behalf by the State Government for the provision of amenities to the
passengers using the road transport services, welfare of labour employed by
the Corporation and for such other purposes as may be prescribed with the
previous approval of the Central Government, [and out of the balance such
amount as may, with the previous approval of the State Government and the
Central Government, be specified in this behalf by the Corporation, may be
utilised for financing the expansion programmes of the Corporation and the
remainder, if any, shall be made over to the State Government for the purpose
of road development.] [Substituted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 6, for " and the
balance shall be made over to the State Government for the purpose of road
development" .]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 30,
the words and the Central Government shall be omitted.Delhi Road Transport
Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f
.3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 31. Power of the Corporation to spend

.A Corporation shall have power to spend such sums as it thinks fit on objects
authorised under this Act and such sums shall be treated as expenditure
payable out of the fund of the Corporation.

### 32. Budget

(1)Every Corporation shall, by such date in each year as may be prescribed,
prepare and submit to the State Government for approval a budget for next
financial year showing the estimated receipts and expenditure during that
financial year in such form as may be prescribed.(2)Subject to the provisions
of sub-sections (3) and (4),no sum shall be expended by or on behalf of a
Corporation unless the expenditure of the same is covered by a current budget
grant approved by the State Government.(3)[Subject to such conditions and
restrictions as may be specified in this behalf by the State Government, a
Corporation may sanction] [Substituted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 7, for " A
Corporation may sanction" ] any re appropriation within the grant from one
head of the expenditure to another or from a provision made for one scheme to
that in respect of another, subject to the condition that the aggregate budget
grant is not exceeded.(4)A Corporation may, within such limits and subject to
such conditions as may be prescribed, incur expenditure in excess of the limit
provided in the budget approved by the State Government under any head of
expenditure or in connection with any particular scheme.

### 33. [ Accounts and audit [Substituted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 8, for
Section 33.]

(1)The Corporation shall maintain proper accounts and other records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts including the profit and loss account
and the balance sheet in such form as may be prescribed by the State
Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India.(2)The accounts of a Corporation shall be audited annually by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or his nominee and any expenditure
incurred by him in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Corporation to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.(3)The Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India and Any person appointed by him in connection
with the audit of the accounts of a Corporation shall have the same rights,
privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India has in connection with the audit of the Government
accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the production of
books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and papers and to
inspect any of the offices of the Corporation.(4)The accounts of the
Corporation as certified by the comptroller and Auditor-General of India or
any person appointed by him in this behalf together with the audit report
thereon shall be forwarded annually to the State Government; and that
Government shall cause the same to be laid before the Legislature of the
State.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 33, in
sub-S. (4), for the words the Legislature of the State, substitute each House
of Parliament. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),
Section 7 and Sch . I (w.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 34. Directions by the State Government

(1)The State Government may, after consultation with a Corporation established
by such Government, give to the Corporation general instructions to be
followed by the Corporation, and such instructions may include directions
relating to the recruitment, conditions of service and training of its
employees, wages to be paid to the employees, reserves to be maintained by it
and disposal of its profits or stocks.(2)In the exercise of its powers and
performance of its duties under this Act, the Corporation shall not depart
from any general instructions issued under sub-section (1) except with the
previous permission of the State Government.

### 35. Returns and reports

(1)Every Corporation shall furnish to the State Government such returns,
statistics,accounts and other information with respect to its property or
activities or in regard to any proposed scheme as the State Government may
from time to time require.(2)Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section (1),a Corporation shall, as soon as possible after the end of each
financial year,submit to the Central and the State Governments a report on the
exercise and performance by it of its powers and duties under this Act during
that year and on its policy and programme .(3)[ The State Government shall
cause the annual report referred to in sub-section (2) to be laid before the
Legislature of the State.] [Inserted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 9.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 35,(i)
in sub-S. (2), for the words Central and State Government, substitute State
Government; and(ii) in sub-S. (3), for the words the Legislature of the State,
substitute each House of Parliament. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act,
1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 36. Power to order Enquiries

(1)The State Government, with a view to satisfy itself that the powers and
duties of a Corporation established by that Government are being exercised and
performed properly, may, at any time, appoint any person or persons to make
Enquiries into all or any of the activities of the Corporation and to report
to the State Government the result of such Enquiries.(2)The Corporation shall
give to the person or persons so appointed all facilities for the proper
conduct of the Enquiries and shall produce before, or furnish to the person or
persons any document, account or information in the possession of the
Corporation which such person or persons demand for the purposes of the
Enquiries.

### 37. Power to control a part of the undertaking of a Corporation

(1)If on receipt of the report of any enquiry held under section 36 or
otherwise, the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in
the public interest,the State Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, authorise any person to take over from the Corporation, and so long
as that notification is in force, to administer in accordance with such
directions as may be issued from time to time by the State Government such
part of the undertaking of the Corporation as may be specified in the
notification,and any person so authorised may, for the purpose of so
administering the said part of the undertaking exercise all or any of the
powers of the Corporation or of any [officer of the Corporation under this
Act,issue such directions as he thinks fit to the [officers or other
employees] [Substituted for " officers or servants" by Act 63 of 1982, Section
16 and Sch. (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of the Corporation and employ any outside
agency.(2)The State Government may by such notification direct that all
charges and expenses incurred by the person so authorised together with such
remuneration as the State Government may allow from time to time to such
person shall be paid within such time as may be fixed by the State Government
from the fund of the Corporation, and if the expenses are not so paid, the
State Government may make an order directing the persons having the custody of
that fund to pay to the person so authorised such expenses in priority to any
other charges against such fund and he shall,so far as the funds to the credit
of the Corporation admit, comply with the order of the State Government.(3)[
Every notification issued under this section together with a report on the
circumstances leading to its issue shall be laid before the Legislature of the
State, as soon as may be, after it is issued.] [Inserted by Act 28 of 1959,
Section 10.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 37, in
sub-S. (3), for the words the Legislature of the State, substitute each House
of Parliament. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),
Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 38. Power to supersede a Corporation

(1)If the State Government is of opinion that a Corporation established by
that Government is unable to perform, or has persistently made default in the
performance of the duties imposed on it by or under the provisions of this Act
or has exceeded or abused its powers, the State Government may, with the
previous approval of the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette, supersede the Corporation for such period as may be specified in the
notification:Provided that before issuing a notification under this sub-
section the State Government shall give a reasonable time to the Corporation
to show cause, why it should not be superseded and shall consider the
explanation and objections, if any, of the Corporation.(2)Upon the publication
of a notification under sub-section(1) superseding a Corporation(a)all the
[Directors] [Substituted for " member" by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of the Corporation shall, as from the date of
supersession ,vacate their offices as such [Directors] [Substituted for "
member" by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch. (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).];(b)all
the powers and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this Act or of
any other law, be exercised or performed by or on behalf of the Corporation
shall, during the period of supersession , be exercised and performed by such
person or persons as the State Government may direct;(c)all property vested in
the Corporation shall, during the period of supersession ,vest in the State
Government.(3)On the expiration of the period of supersession specified in the
notification issued under sub-section (1), the State Government may(a)extend
the period of supersession for such further term as it may consider necessary;
or(b)reconstitute the Corporation in the manner provided in section 5.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 38,
the words with the previous approval of the Central Government shall be
omitted.Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),Section 7
and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 39. Liquidation of a Corporation

(1)No provision of any law relating to the winding up of companies or
corporations shall apply to a Corporation, and no Corporation shall be placed
in liquidation save by order of the State Government concerned and save in
such manner as maybe directed by that Government:Provided that no such order
shall be made by any State Government except with the previous approval of the
Central Government.(2)In the event of a Corporation being placed in
liquidation, the assets of the Corporation, after meeting the liabilities, if
any, shall be divided among the Central and the State Government and such
other parties, if any, as may have subscribed to the capital in proportion to
the contribution made by each of them to the total capital of the Corporation.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 39, in
sub-S. (2), for the words Central and the State Government, substitute State
Government Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of1971),
Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 40. Compensation for acquisition of road transport undertakings

.Whenever a Corporation acquires under this Act the whole or any part of any
undertaking, there shall be paid by the Corporation compensation the amount of
which shall be determined in the manner and in accordance with the procedure
hereinafter set out, that is to say,(a)where the amount of compensation can be
fixed by agreement, it shall be paid in accordance with such
agreement;(b)where no such agreement can be reached, the amount shall be
determined by an arbitral Tribunal consisting of one nominee of the
Corporation, one nominee of the person to be compensated, and a Chairman to be
nominated by the Chief Justice of the High Court exercising jurisdiction in
relation to the State concerned;(c)an appeal shall lie to the High Court
against the decision of the Tribunal and the order of the High Court on such
appeal shall be final.

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 40,(a)
in Cl . (b),for the words High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to
the State concerned, substitute High Court of Delhi;(b) in Cl . (c),for the
words lie to the High Court, substitute lie to the High Court of Delhi and for
the words order of the High Court, substitute order of that High Court. Delhi
Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I
(w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 41. Corporation to be deemed to be a local authority and provision as to
third party risks

.[Repealed by the Road Transport Corporations (Amendment) Act, 1959 (28 of
1959), section11 (w.e.f . 1-9-1959 ).]

### 42. Power of entry

.Whenever it is necessary for a Corporation to carry out any of its works or
to make any survey, examination or investigation, preliminary or incidental to
the exercise of powers or the performance of duties by the Corporation under
this Act, Any officer or other employee of the Corporation generally or
specially empowered by the Corporation may, with the previous permission of
the District Magistrate, enter upon any land or premises between sunrise and
sunset, after giving reasonable notice of the intention to make such entry to
the owner or occupier of such land or premises, and at any other time, with
the consent in writing of the owner of occupier of such land or premises, for
the purpose of the carrying out of such works or the making of such survey,
examination or investigation.

### 43. [Directors] [[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for
" member" (w.e.f.

13.11.1982).]] [Officers and other employees] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 16 and Sch., for " officers and servants" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of a
Corporation to be public servants.All [Directors] [[Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " member" (w.e.f.13.11.1982).]] of a
Corporation, and all [Officers and other employees] [Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " officers and servants" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).]
of a Corporation whether appointed by the State Government or the Corporation,
shall be deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Actor of any other law to be public servants within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 44. Power to make rules

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
[rules] [See A.P. State Road Transport Corporation Rules, 1958; West Bengal
State Road Transport Corporation Rules, 1960; Madhya Pradesh State Road
Transport Corporation Rules, 1962; Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation
Rules, 1964; Kerala State Road Transport Corporation Rules, 1965; Orissa State
Road Transport Corporation Rules, 1967; Assam State Road Transport Corporation
Rules, 1970; and Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Rules.] to give
effect to the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely:[(a) the conditions and manner of
appointment of Directors of a Corporation, the representation in the Board of
the Central and State Governments, and where shares are issued to other
parties under sub-section (3) of section 23 of such shareholders and generally
all matters relating to the constitution of the Board;] [Substituted by Act 63
of 1982, Section 16 and Sch. (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).][ (b) remuneration ,
allowances or fees paid to the Directors of the Corporation or other persons
associated with the Board under section 10;](c)the term of office of, the
manner of filling casual vacancies among [Directors] [Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " members" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] of the
Corporation;(d)the number of [Directors] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982,
Section 16 and Sch., for " members" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] necessary to
constitute a quorum at a meeting of the [Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of
1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).];(e)the
conditions of appointment and service and the scales of pay of the [Managing
Director, the Chief Accounts Officer, the Financial Adviser or, as the case
may be, the Chief Accounts Officer-cum-Financial Adviser] [Substituted by Act
63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Chief Executive Officer or General
Manager and the Chief Accounts Officer" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).];(f)the number
and term of office of, the allowances to be paid to, the procedure to be
followed by, and the manner of filling casual vacancies among, members of an
Advisory Council;[(ff ) the procedure in accordance with which any stores may
be declared obsolete under sub-section (2) of section 19] [Inserted by Act 63
of 1982, Section 16 and Sch. (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).];(g)the manner in which the
shares of the Corporation shall be allotted, transferred or redeemed;(h)the
manner in which the net profits of the Corporation shall be utilised ;(i)the
date by which, and the form in which, the budget shall be prepared and
submitted in each year under sub-section (1) of section 32;(j)[ the form in
which the annual statement of accounts shall be prepared; ] [Substituted by
Act 28 of 1959, Section 12, for Clause(j).][* * * *] [Clause (k) omitted by
Act 28 of 1959, Section 12.](l)the form in which the returns, statistics or
reports shall be submitted under section 35;(m)the procedure to be followed by
an arbitral Tribunal under section 40;(n)any other matter which has to be, or
may be, prescribed.[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch. (w.e.f.
13.11.1982).]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 44,(i)
in sub-S. (2), in Cl . (a), for the words the Central and the State
Government, substitute the State Government;(ii) after Cl . (m), insert the
following clause, namely,(mm) the service of notices and orders under this
Act. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7
and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 45. Power to make regulations

(1)A Corporation may with the previous sanction of [the State Government and
by notification in the Official Gazette] [Substituted by Act 4 of 2005,
Section 2 and Sch., for " the State Government" (w.e.f. 11.1.2005).], make
regulations, not inconsistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder ,
for the administration of the affairs of the Corporation.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations
may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the manner in
which,and the purposes for which, persons may be associated with the [Board]
[Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for " Corporation"
(w.e.f.13.11.1982).] under section 10;(b)the time and place of meetings of the
[Board] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for "
Corporation" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).] and the procedure to be followed in regard
to transaction of business at such meetings;(c)the conditions of appointment
and service and the scales of pay of officers and [other employees of the
Corporation other than the Managing Director, the Chief Accounts Officer and
the Financial Adviser, or as the case may be, the Chief Accounts Officer-cum-
Financial Adviser;] [Substituted by Act 63 of 1982, Section 16 and Sch., for "
servants of the Corporation, other than the Chief Executive Officer or General
Manager and the Chief Accounts Officer" (w.e.f. 13.11.1982).](d)[ the issue of
passes to the employees of the Corporation and other persons under section 19;
[Inserted by Act 28 of 1959, Section 13.](e)the grant of refunding respect of
unused tickets and concessional passes under section 19.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , in Section 45, in
sub-S. (2), after Cl . (e), insert the following clauses, namely:(f) the
period after the expiration of which unclaimed articles or goods may be sold
by public auction;(g) the regulation of the carriage of passengers and goods
in the road transport services of the Corporation. Delhi Road Transport
Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f
.3-11-1971 ).  
---  
  
### 46. Penalty for breach of rules

.The State Government may, by rule, provide that the breach of any rules made
by it under section 44 shall be punishable, with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees, and when the breach is a continuing one, with a further fine
not exceeding twenty rupees for every day after the date of the first
conviction during which the offender is proved to have persisted in the
offence.

[Delhi] .In its application to the Union territory of Delhi, in Section 46,
after the words rules made by it under section 44, insert the words for any
regulations made by a Corporation under section 45.Delhi Road Transport Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of1971), Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971
).  
---  
  
### 47. Special provisions relating to Bombay

(1)The body known as the Bombay State road Transport Corporation and the Board
thereof, referred to in the notification of the Government of Bombay, No.
1780/5, dated the 16th November,1949 (hereinafter referred to as the existing
corporation, and Board respectively shall, notwithstanding any defect in, or
invalidity of, the enactment or order under which they were constituted, be
deemed for all purposes to have been validly constituted as if all the
provisions of the said notification had been included and enacted in this
section and this section had been in force continuously on and from the said
date and accordingly(a)all action by, and all transactions with, the existing
Corporation or Board, including any action or transaction by which any
property, asset or right was acquired or any liability or obligation, whether
by contract or otherwise, was incurred, shall be deemed to have been validly
and lawfully taken or done; and(b)no suit, prosecution or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government of Bombay or any member of the
Board or Any officer or servant of the existing Corporation in respect of any
action taken by, or in relation to the setting up of, the existing Corporation
or Board merely on the ground of any defect in, or invalidity of, the
enactment or order under which the existing Corporation or Board was
constituted.(2)On the establishment of a Corporation under section 3 in the
State of Bombay (hereinafter referred to as the new Corporation),(a)the
existing Corporation and Board shall be deemed to be dissolved and shall cease
to function;(b)all property and assets vesting in the existing Corporation
shall vest in the new Corporation;(c)all rights, liabilities and obligations
of the existing Corporation, whether arising out of any contract or
otherwise,shall be the rights, liabilities and obligations, respectively, of
the new Corporation; and(d)all licences and permits granted to, all contracts
made with,and all instruments executed on behalf of, the existing Corporation
or Board shall be deemed to have been granted to, made with or executed on
behalf of,the new Corporation and shall have effect accordingly.[47-A. Special
provision for reconstitution or dissolution of certain Corporations [Inserted
by Act 87 of 1956, Section 2.](1)Where on account of the reorganisation of
States under the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, [or any other enactment
relating to reorganisation of States, the whole or any part of a State in
respect of which a Corporation was, immediately before the day on which the
reorganisation takes place,] functioning and operating, is transferred on that
day to another State and by reason of such transfer, it appears to the State
Government necessary or expedient that the Corporation should be reconstituted
or reorganised in any manner whatsoever or that it should be dissolved, the
State Government may frame a scheme for the reconstitution, reorganisation or
dissolution of the Corporation including proposals regarding the formation of
new Corporations the amalgamation of the Corporation with any other
Corporation, body corporate or a commercial undertaking of another State
Government, the transfer of the assets, rights and liabilities of the
Corporation in whole or in part to any other Corporation, body corporate or a
commercial undertaking of another State Government, and the transfer or re-
employment of any workmen of the Corporation, and the State Government may
forward the scheme to the Central Government for approval.Explanation .For the
purpose of framing any scheme under this sub-section, State Government,(i)[ in
relation to the Bombay State Road Transport Corporation, shall mean the
Government of the State of Maharashtra or of Gujarat as formed under the
Bombay Reorganisation Act, 1960] [Substituted by Act 11 of 1960, Section 71,
for Clause (i).];and(ii)in relation to the PEPSU Road Transport Corporation,
shall mean the Government of the State of Punjab , as formed under the
provisions of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956;(iii)[ in relation to the
Assam State Road Transport Corporation,shall mean the Government of the State
of Assam or of Meghalaya as formed under the North-Eastern Areas
(Reorganisation )Act, 1971.] [Inserted by the North-Eastern Area
(Reorganisation) Act 81 of 1971, Section 72 (w.e.f. 21.1.1972).](2)On receipt
of any such scheme, the Central Government may, after consultation with the
State Governments concerned, approve the scheme with or without modifications
and for the purpose of giving effect to the approved scheme, the Central
Government may, from time to time, make such order in relation thereto as it
thinks fit and every order so made shall have effect notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act.(3)Any order made under sub-section (2) may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)the dissolution of the
Corporation, notwithstanding anything contained in section 39;(b)the
reconstitution or reorganisation in any manner whatsoever, of the Corporation
including the establishment, where necessary, of more than one Corporation in
any State;(c)the amalgamation of two or more Corporations, or of one
Corporation with any other body corporate or a commercial undertaking of any
other State Government;(d)the extension of the area for which the Corporation
is established, or the exclusion of any area therefrom ;(e)the transfer, in
whole or in part, of the assets, rights and liabilities of the Corporation
including the transfer of any licences or permits granted to the Corporation,
to any other Corporation, body corporate or a commercial undertaking of any
other State Government, and the terms and conditions of such transfer;(f)the
transfer or re-employment of any workmen of the Corporation to, or by, any
such transferee and, subject to the provisions of section 111 of the States
Reorganisation Act, 1956, [or any other enactment relating to reorganisation
of States] [Inserted by Act 11 of 1960, Section 71. ] the terms and conditions
of service applicable to such workmen after such transfer or re-
employment;(g)such incidental,consequential and supplemental matters as may be
necessary to give effect to the approved scheme.(4)Where an order is made
under this section transferring the assets, rights and liabilities of any
Corporation, then, by virtue of that order, such assets, rights and
liabilities of the Corporation shall vest in,and be the assets, rights and
liabilities of, the transferee.]Section 47-B

[ West Bengal].In its application to the State ofWest Bengal, after Section
47-A,insert the following new section, namely:47-B. Special provisions
relating toWest Bengal. (1) On the establishment of a Corporation under
section 3 in the State ofWest Bengal(a) all properties, movable or immovable,
and all assets of the State Government in use immediately before the
establishment of the Corporation, for the purpose of the Transport Undertaking
of the State Government (hereinafter in this section referred to as the State
Undertaking)within the State or part thereof for which such Corporation is
established shall vest in the Corporation:Provided that the State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exclude from the operation of
the provisions of this clause such properties or assets as may be specified in
the notification;(b) all rights acquired, all debts and obligations incurred,
all contracts entered into, and all matters and things engaged to be done,
before the establishment of the Corporation, by the State Government in
connection with the State Undertaking, shall be deemed to have been acquired,
incurred, entered into or engaged to be done, by the Corporation;(c) all suits
or other legal proceedings instituted or which might but for the establishment
of the Corporation have been instituted by or against the State Government in
connection with the State undertaking may be continued or instituted by or
against the Corporation and in all such suits or other legal proceedings
pending immediately before$$$$$$ such establishment, the Corporation shall
stand substituted in place of the State Government;(d) registration of all
motor vehicles of the State Government used in connection with the State
Undertaking except those which may be specified in the notification issued
under the proviso to clause (a)made, and certificates of such registration
issued, under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, in favour of the State Government,
and continuing in force immediately before the establishment of the
Corporation shall, after such establishment, be deemed to have been made or
issued in favour of the Corporation and in all such cases or application by
the Corporation the Corporation shall be substituted in place of the State
Government in the records of the registering authority and in such
certificates of registration;(e) any scheme prepared by, any permit granted to
and, generally, anything done or any action taken by or in favour of, the
State Government in respect of the State Undertaking shall be deemed to have
been prepared by, granted to or done or taken by or in favour of the
Corporation;(f) persons employed by the State Government in connection with
the State Undertaking and continuing in office immediately before the
establishment of the Corporation shall be employed by the Corporation on such
terms and conditions, not less advantageous than what they were entitled to
immediately before such establishment, as may be determined by the
Corporation;(g) all rules and orders made and notifications issued from time
to time under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, in so far as the yare applicable
to the State Undertaking, and continuing in force immediately before the
establishment of the Corporation, shall, after such establishment,continue in
force and be applicable to the Corporation until they are altered,repealed or
amended.(h) all rules and orders made and notifications issued by or under the
authority of the State Government in respect of the State Undertaking and
continuing in force immediately before the establishment of the Corporation,
shall, insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
continue in force after such establishment, as if they had been made or issued
by the appropriate Authority under the Act until the yare altered, repealed or
amended.(2) All sums which the State Government may, not later than six months
after the establishment of the Corporation, declare to have been incurred by
the State Government before such establishment or capital account in
connection with the properties and assets vesting in the Corporation under
clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be capital advanced by the
State Government to the Corporation under section 23 and the terms and
conditions thereof shall be such as the State Government may determine.W.B.Act
28 of 1959, Section 3 (w.e.f .31-3-1960 ).  
---  
  
### 48. [ Transitional provision relating to Bombay State Road Transport
Corporation [Inserted by Act 11 of 1960, Section 71. ]

.Notwithstanding anything contained in section 47-A it shall be lawful for the
Government of the State of Bombay to frame a scheme under sub-section (1)
thereof and forward the same to the Central Government before the 1st day of
May, 1960, and in such a case, the power conferred on the Central Government
to make an order under sub-section(2) thereof may be exercised before that day
but no order so made shall take effect till that day.]

[Delhi].In its application to the Union territory of Delhi , after Section
48,insert the following sections, namely:Chapter VI Special Provisions
Applicable To The Union Territory Of Delhi49\. Prosecution and cognisance of
offences. (1) No Court shall proceed to the trial of any offence made
punishable by or under this Act except on the complaint of, or on an
information received from,the General Manager of the new Corporation or a
person authorised by him by general or special order in this behalf in
writing.(2) All offences against this Act or any rule or regulation made
thereunder , or any bye-law continued thereunder , whether committed within or
without the limits of the Union territory of Delhi , shall be cognisable by a
Magistrate.50\. Appointment of Magistrates.(1) The State Government may
appoint one or more Magistrates of the first or second class for the trial of
offences against this Act or any rule or regulation made thereunder or any
bye-law continued thereunder and may prescribe the time and place at which
such Magistrate or Magistrates shall sit for the dispatch of business.(2) Such
Magistrates and the members of their staff shall be paid such salary, pension,
leave and other allowances as may ,from time to time, be fixed by the State
Government.(3) The new Corporation shall, out of its fund, pay to the State
Government the amounts of the salary, pension, leave and other allowances as
fixed under sub-section (2) together with all other incidental charges in
connection with the establishments of the said Magistrates.(4) Such
Magistrates shall have jurisdiction over the whole of the Union territory of
Delhi .(5) For the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1898, all
Magistrates appointed under this section shall be deemed to be Magistrates
appointed under section 12 of that Code.51\. Composition of offences.(1) The
General Manager of the new Corporation or any officer or other employee
specially empowered by him in this behalf in writing may, either before or
after the institution of the proceedings, compound any offence made punishable
by, or under this Act.(2) Where an offence has been compounded, the offender,
if in custody, shall be discharged and no proceedings shall be taken against
him in respect of the offence so compounded.52\. Limitation of time for
prosecution.No person shall be liable to punishment for any offence against
this Act or any rule or regulation made thereunder , unless complaint of such
offence is made before a Magistrate within six months next after,(a) the date
of commission of such offence, or(b) the date on which the commission or
existence of such offence was first brought to the notice of the
complainant.53\. Power of Magistrate to hear cases in absence of accused when
summoned to appear.If any person summoned to appear before a Magistrate to
answer a charge of an offence against this Actor any rule or regulation made
thereunder , or any bye-law continued thereunder , fails to appear at the time
and place mentioned in the summons, or on any date to which the hearing of the
case is adjourned, the Magistrate may hear and determine the case in his
absence, if(a) service of the summon son such person is proved to his
satisfaction, and(b) no sufficient cause is shown for the non-appearance of
such person. Delhi Road Transport Laws(Amendment) Act, 1971 (71 of 1971),
Section 7 and Sch . I (w.r.e.f .3-11-1971 ).  
---

