## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Rules Under Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Rules Under Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963

## Act 1047 of 1966

  * Published on 7 October 1966 
  * Commenced on 7 October 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 October 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules Under Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963Published vide Notification No. G. O. MS. No. 2984, Revenue, dated
7th October, 1966 - S.R.O. No. A-1047 of 1966G. O. MS. NO. 2984, Revenue,
Dated The 7th October, 1966 - S.R.O. No. A-1047 of 1966. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by section 62(2) and 73 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of1963),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-Rules under
section 62(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963).

### 1.

A person who was employed in the administration of an inam estate immediately
before the notified date and who is not willing to serve under the Government
after such date shall be formally discharged; and it shall not be necessary
for the Government to give him a calendar month's notice or one month's pay in
lieu thereof.

### 2.

A person who is willing to continue in service and who is accordingly retained
shall be paid pending the fixation of pay or scale of pay, at the rate at
which or the scale in which he drew pay immediately before the date on which
the management of the inam estate was assumed by the Government.

### 3.

All the rules governing the service conditions of Government servants are
applicable to a retained inam estate employee excepting that he will be
eligible for increments only from the date of his regular absorption in
Government service.

### 4.

The retained inam estate employee shall be regularly absorbed in Government
service, provided that he acquires the minimum general educational
qualification prescribed for the post.

### 5.

Where any person who is retained possesses qualifications which fall short of
the qualifications prescribed for the corresponding post in Government
service, his pay shall be fixed as follows:-(i)If his pay fixed under rule 2
is less than the minimum of the time-scale for the post in Government service,
his pay shall be fixed at such minimum.(ii)If his pay fixed under rule 2 is
higher than the minimum of the time-scale for the post in Government service,
his pay shall be fixed at the stage next below the pay fixed under rule 2 and
personal pay may be granted to him to avoid any loss of emoluments and the
personal pay so granted shall be absorbed in future increments.(iii)If, at any
time, he acquires the qualification referred to in rule 4, he shall be allowed
with effect on and from the date on which he acquired that qualification to
draw pay in the scale of pay applicable to qualified persons and his pay shall
be fixed in that scale with reference to the provisions in the Fundamental
Rules.(iv)In the case of a person whose pay was fixed under rule 2 in an
increment scale of pay that was in force in the inam estate in which he was
working, he shall be treated as if he was transferred to a new post carrying
the new pay and Fundamental Rule 23 shall apply to him.

### 6.

A retained employee shall be allowed to count his service from the date of
taking over of the inam estate for the purpose of pension and gratuity.

