## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Rules for the Grant of Marriage Advances to the Employees of the
Municipalities

TAMILNADU  
India

# Rules for the Grant of Marriage Advances to the Employees of the
Municipalities

## Rule RULES-FOR-THE-GRANT-OF-MARRIAGE-ADVANCES-TO-THE-EMPLOYEES-OF-THE-
MUNICIPALITIES of 1982

  * Published on 15 April 1982 
  * Commenced on 15 April 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 April 1982.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules for the Grant of Marriage Advances to the Employees of the
MunicipalitiesPublished vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 558, Rural
Development and Local Administration, dated 15th April 1982 - No. SRO
A-145/82[Published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Part III-Section
1(a), dated the 16th June 1982, page 256.]In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) of section 303 of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities
Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of1920), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
the following rides: -

### 1. Scope of the scheme.

\- Advance will be sanctioned to the municipal employees including last grade
servants for the celebration of the marriage of themselves and their sons,
daughters, step sons and step daughters. In the case of marriages of the
municipal employees themselves, the advance is admissible provided the
Municipal Employees's father or mother has not applied for it.

### 2. Amount of advance.

\- In the case of marriages of "female" municipal employees and daughters of
municipal employees - The advance will be limited to rupees three thousand
(Rs.3,000).In the case of marriages of "male" municipal employees and sons of
municipal employees - The advance will be limited to rupees one thousand and
five hundred (Rs. 1,500):Provided that only 75 per cent of the advance shall
be sanctioned in both cases subject to the availability of funds if the
particulars contained in the application for the advance is found to be
correct after scrutiny and enquiry. After production of the utilisation
certificate in Form VI appended to these rules i.e. after the marriage is
celebrated the balance amount of 25 per cent shall be sanctioned:Provided
further that 25 per cent of the balance amount shall be sanctioned if the
utilisation certificate is endorsed by another municipal employee to the
effect that he is personally aware that the marriage Has been celebrated'.

### 3. Eligibility.

(a)Permanent municipal employees and non-permanent municipal employees
employed in a regular capacity who are approved probationers at the time of
application for the advance will be eligible for the advance. Municipal
employees on leave other than extraordinary leave without allowances are
eligible to apply for the advance. If municipal employee's wife/husband or
his/her father or mother is also a municipal employee, only one of them will
be entitled to the advance for the same marriage in their family. Adopted sons
or daughters of the Hindu municipal employees are eligible for sanction of
marriage advance, subject to production of documents or other valid proof in
support of such adoption and such document should be produced before according
sanction. Provided that the borrower has declared with details of name and
age. As and when a change occurs, the original particulars should be up-dated.
A separate file containing the declaration from each one of the employee in an
office shall be maintained by the executive authority.(b)Adopted sons or
daughters of Muslim and Indian Christian municipal employees are not eligible
for the grant of marriage advance, since the personal laws applicable to them
do not recognise the principle of adoption.(c)Sanitary workers who are paid
monthly wages at fixed rate and who are classified as menials and others like
engineering road gang coolies, avenue coolies paid from contingencies are not
eligible for the grant of marriage advance.(d)No advance shall be sanctioned
to a municipal employee for re-marriage.(e)Municipal employees, whose "carry
home salary" falls below 25 per cent of their total emoluments after recovery
of the instalment of this advance, if sanctioned, shall not be eligible for
the sanctions of the advance.Explanation. - "Carry home salary" is the money
left behind from the gross salary and allowances after making all deductions
therefrom in a month.(f)No second advance shall be sanctioned to a municipal
employee, when a previous advance is pending recovery.(g)No third advance
shall be sanctioned to a municipal employee, if he has drawn two advances
towards celebration of marriage (In other words two advances alone be
sanctioned during his/her entire service).(h)The sanction of the advance shall
be subject to availability of funds in the provision made in the budget for
that year under the head of account.(i)There shall not be any deficit under
general fund accounts of the Municipality.(j)The advance cannot be demanded or
claimed as a matter of right.(k)Advance is subject to the sanction of the
Municipal Council.

### 4. Application.

(a)An application for an advance shall be made in Form I appended to these
rules. The application shall be made to the executive authority of the
Municipality or Township Committee, as the case may be, and forwarded to the
Director of Municipal Administration or the Regional Director of Municipal
Administration concerned, as the case may be. It shall be accompanied by an
Agreement in Form II appended to these rules. An advance copy of the
application shall be sent direct to the Director of Municipal Administration
or Regional Director of Municipal Administration concerned, as the case may
be.(b)No application for an advance shall be entertained before six months of
the anticipated date of the marriage.(c)No application shall be entertained
from a municipal employee under suspension and no advance shall be sanctioned
or disbursed to a municipal employee under suspension or against whom serious
charges are pending which are likely to result in his removal, dismissal or
compulsory retirement from Municipal Service.

### 5. Surety.

(a)The advance shall be disbursed only after obtaining personal security Bond
in Form III appended to these rules duly executed by the borrower and another
municipal employee either permanent or with not less than 10 years of regular
service, as surety drawing a pay not less than that of the borrower and not
retiring before complete re-payment of the advance with interest guaranteeing
the re-payment of advance.(b)A municipal employee either permanent or with not
less than 10 years of regular service, shall stand surety to only one
municipal employee.

### 6. Interest.

\- The advance shall bear interest which shall be calculated on the following
formula:

| Amount of Advance X Number of Instalment500  
---  
  
### 7. Disbursement of the advance.

(a)The advance shall be disbursed not earlier than two months of the
anticipated date of celebration of the marriage for which it is
sanctioned.(b)The entry in the Service Register shall be made for having
sanctioned the advance.(c)The advance shall be sanctioned and drawn even after
the date of celebration of the marriage, provided the applicant has applied
for the advance before the date of the marriage and the delay in sanctioning
or drawing the advance is due to reasons beyond the control of the
applicant.(d)If the funds allotted in a particular year of sanction of
marriage advances have been exhausted, all pending cases whether advances have
been sanctioned or not, will lapse. If in any such case, the marriage is
conducted from private funds, such cases cannot be carried forward to the next
year for sanction of advances on the ground that advance has been applied for
in the previous year before conducting the marriage. If the marriage has not
been conducted, the applicant may renew his application next year when funds
become available in which case, the application will be dealt with under the
rules as a fresh application.

### 8. Recovery.

(a)The principal of the loan shall be recoverable in not more than 60 (sixty)
monthly instalments. The recovery shall be regulated in such a manner that the
advance together with the interest thereon is fully recovered from the pay of
the Municipal employee before his retirement. The recoveries shall be in whole
rupees which shall be effected from the pay or leave salary bill of the
municipal employee by compulsory deduction, irrespective of the fact whether
the municipal employee is on duty or on leave.(b)The recovery of the monthly
instalments of the advance shall commence from the pay of the municipal
employee concerned for the calendar month immediately subsequent to the month
in which the marriage has been celebrated or from the pay bill of the third
calendar month subsequent to the drawal of the advance whichever is earlier.
No extension of time for commencement of recovery will ordinarily be
granted.(c)The recovery of interest shall commence on completion of the
recovery of the principal. If the amount of interest does not considerably
exceed the amount of the monthly instalment fixed for the recovery of the
principal, it shall be recovered in one instalment. Otherwise, it shall be
recovered, in amounts not exceeding the monthly instalments fixed for the re-
payment of the principal.

### 9. Procedure in case of failure to satisfy the rule.

(a)The advance received by a municipal employee, if not utilised for the
purpose for which it has been sanctioned within three months from the date of
drawal, shall be refunded to Municipal Funds in one lump sum together with the
interest due thereon. No extension of time for utilisation of the advance will
ordinarily be granted.(b)Extension of time up to a period of one month for
utilisation of advance may be granted to the loanee municipal employee by the
sanctioning authority on the merits of the case. If the advance is not
utilised within the extended period of one month, orders of the Government
shall be obtained, if further extension is considered necessary by sanctioning
authority. The sanctioning authority shall decide in each case whether the
request for extension of time is really deserving or not.(c)In case where
municipal employees, who have drawn the advance die before the re-payment is
completed, the outstanding balance and the interest due shall be the first
charge on the Death-cum Retirement Gratuity payable to the legal heir or heirs
of the borrower as stipulated in the Agreement.(d)The advance granted to a
municipal employee shall be subject to summary recovery, if it is proved
subsequently that it was not utilised for the purpose for which it was
sanctioned.(e)In cases where the executive authorities of the Municipality is
unable to recover the amount in one lump sum, but referred the case to
Government through the Director of Municipal Administration, Regional Director
of Municipal Administration concerned, as the case may be, pending receipt of
orders from Government, the recovery of not less than 1 /10 of the balance
amount together with interest shall be effected from the salary of such
municipal employee, who has misused the marriage advance.

### 10. Utilisation Certificate.

\- The municipal employee receiving the advance shall produce to the
sanctioning authority through the disbursing authority, a certificate of
utilisation in Form IV appended to these rules within one month from the date
of celebration of the marriage or within three months from the date of drawal
of the advance, whichever is earlier. If the actual expenditure incurred on
account of the marriage is less than the advance drawn, the difference shall
be refunded to Municipal Council or Township Committee forthwith.

### 11. Sanctioning Authority.

(a)The applicants to whom the advances may be sanctioned and the amount of
such advances shall be determined subject to the maximum prescribed in rule 2,
the Director of Municipal Administration, in the case of municipal employees
of I, II and III Grade Municipalities and the Township Committees for which
the Collectors are the Chairman functioning under their
jurisdiction.(b)Sanction may be accorded by the authorities mentioned in sub-
rule (b) above without a reference to the Director of Municipal
Administration, but subject to the instructions issued by Government in the
Finance Department, from time to time, and in the Directorate of Municipal
Administration, a copy of the proceedings sanctioning the advance shall be
communicated immediately to the Director of Municipal Administration.

### 12. Provision of funds.

\- The Council may provide necessary funds in the Budget each year. When the
appropriation is expected to have been spent on the basis of the sanction
already accorded, the sanctioning authority may stop or continue further
sanctions with reference to the decision of the Council and take steps to
provide for additional funds, if necessary.AppendixForm I(See rule 4)Form of
Application for the Sanction of Advance For The Celebration of Marriages (to
be Submitted to the Sanctioning Authority Through Proper Channel).

Name of the applicant (in block letters) |   
---|---  
Sex |   
Designation and Office in which the applicantemployed |   
Whether permanent, if not, date of first regularappointment in Municipal Service and total period of regularservice |   
Amount of advance applied for and number ofinstalments in which the advance may be recovered |   
Residential address |   
Permanent address |   
Date of birth |   
Scale of pay in the present post underFundamental Rule 9(21) |   
Gross monthly salary (with details) |   
Nature of deduction from gross pay and theamount deducted |   
General Provident Fund - |   
(a) Subscription |   
(b) Recoveries towards temporary advance |   
Festival Advance |   
Conveyance advances for bicycle/motorcycle/Scooter/ motor car |   
House building advances |   
Towards other miscellaneous advances |   
Khadi, Handloom Cloth/Postal Life Insurance |   
Salary Savings Scheme under Life insuranceCorporation |   
Typewriter advance |   
Dues recoverable towards the Co-operative CreditSociety or Bank |   
Other miscellaneous advances such as flood,cyclone, etc. |   
Net salary received |   
Percentage of the net salary in the gross salary |   
Income from other resources |   
Date of marriage |   
For whose marriage the advance is applied for(self/ daughter/son) |   
Date of birth of the son/daughter |   
Name and occupation of the son or daughter forwhose marriage advance is applied for |   
If the advance is for the marriage of themunicipal employee himself/herself, whether father or mother ofthe applicant is a municipal employee. |   
If so, has any of them applied for the advanceor has been sanctioned an advance for this marriage |   
Are with the Finance and Finance MunicipalServants and if so, have both of them applied for advance forthe same marriage or have been sanctioned an advance for thesame marriage, (a certificate shall be obtained from him/herthat he/she has not applied for the advance as the case may befor the same marriage) |   
Whether the applicant has already applied for orwas sanctioned any marriage advance or any application for theadvance rejected previously |   
Amount of such advance |   
Number and date of order in which such advancewas sanctioned |   
Whether any amount of such advance isoutstanding repayment. (Principal and interest to be shownseparately). |   
Details of surety |   
Name of surety |   
Designation |   
Office in which employed |   
Residential address |   
Permanent address |   
Permanent post |   
If not permanent, period of regular service inthe officiating post or posts |   
Date of birth |   
Scale of pay |   
Pay as defined under Fundamental Rule 9 (21) |   
Gross salary (details to be specified) |   
Net salary |   
Whether he has stood surety for anothermunicipal employee for the grant of advance |   
I hereby declare that the particulars furnishedabove are true to the best of my knowledge and belief. |   
  
Station: |   
---|---  
Date: | Signature of applicant.  
|  
  
To be filled by the Head of the OfficeWhether the applicant is eligible for
the advance applied for.If so, maximum amount of advance to which the
applicant is eligible.Amount of advance recommended.Number of instalments in
which advance should be recovered.Whether charges are pending against the
applicant or surety.Certified that the particulars regarding the applicant's
service, pay and recoveries from pay have been checked up with his service
register, pay bills, etc., and found to be correct.Station: Date:Signature and
designation of the Head of the Office.Form II(See rule 4)Form of Agreement to
be Executed While Applying for an Advance for the Celebration of the Marriage
in the family of a Municipal EmployeeAn agreement made this...............day
of............One thousand nine hundred and ............ between..........
Thiru .......... son of ..........employed as........in the office
of......(hereinafter referred to as the "Borrower", which expression shall
where the context so admits, include his/her heirs, administrators, executors
and legal representatives of the ONE PART and the Municipal Council/Township
Committee, a statutory body established under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) (hereinafter referred to
as the Municipal Council/Township Committee, which expression shall, where the
context so admits, include its successors and assignees) of the Other
Part;Whereas the Borrower has under the rules for the grant of advance to
municipal employees/Township Committee employees of Tamil Nadu issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 2255, Rural Development and Local Administration Department, dated the
14th November 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules, which
expression shall, where the context so admits, include any amendments thereof
or addition thereto for the time being in force) applied to the Municipal
Administration/Regional Director of Municipal Administration/Township
Committee and the Director of Municipal Administration concerned for an
advance of Rs........ (Rupees ......... only) for the celebration of the
marriage of ......... on the terms and conditions hereinafter contained;And
whereas the application of the Borrower for the said advance is being
considered by the Municipal Council/Township Committee.Now it is Hereby Agreed
Between the parties hereto that in consideration of the sum of Rs to be paid
by the Municipal Council/Township Committee to the Borrower if and when the
Municipal Council/Township Committee sanction the said advance the Borrower
hereby agrees: -(i)to repay to the Municipal Council/Township Committee the
said advance with interest calculated according to the said rules by monthly
deductions from his/her salary as provided for in the said rules and hereby
authorised the Municipal Council/Township Committee to make such
deductions;(ii)within two months from the date of drawal of the advance to
expend the full amount of the said advance in the celebration of the aforesaid
marriage or if the actual expenditure incurred on account of the marriage is
less than the advance, to repay the difference to the Municipal
Council/Township Committee forthwith;(iii)in the event of Borrower's reversion
from municipal service before the advance drawn together with interest is
fully repaid, in one lump sum, the amount outstanding and the interest due
before the Borrower is actually relieved from the municipal service;(vi)to
refund forthwith the amount of advance together with interest in one lump sum
if the aforesaid marriage could not be celebrated or the amount of advance
could not be utilised for the purpose for which it was sanctioned; and(v)if
within the period already fixed for recovery of the principal and interest
thereon, the Borrower becomes insolvent or quit the service of the Municipal
Council, Township Committee or dies, the whole amount of the advance and
interest occurred thereon or such portion of the amount as stands outstanding
with interest shall immediately become due and payable, and it is hereby
further agreed and declared that if the Borrower dies before the advance is
repaid, to have the balance outstanding together with interest due, recovered
from the Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity payable to the legal heirs of the
Borrower.In witness whereof Thiru...........the Borrower and Thiru............
Municipal Commissioner / Executive Officer/acting for and on behalf of and by
the order and direction of the Municipal Council/Township Committee have
hereinto set their respective hands on the day, month and year first above
written.Signed by the said Borrower in the presence of -(Signature and
designation of the Borrower).(Signature of witnesses) -

### 1\. First witness:

Address:Occupation:

### 2\. Second Witness

Address:Occupation:Signed by......(name and designation) acting for and on
behalf of and by the order and direction of the Municipal Council/Township
Committee.....(Signature and designation of the Officer)(Signature of
witnesses)

### 1\. First witness -

Address:Occupation:

### 2\. Second witness:

Address:Occupation:Form III(See rule 5)Form of Personal Security Bond to be
Executed by a Municipal Employee Applying for a Marriage Advance Along with
another Municipal Employee Either Permanent or with not Less than ten Years of
Regular Service as Surety.Know all men by these Presents that we
Thiru........................of ........Municipal Council/Township Committee
and Thiru Surety of.........are held and firmly bound up to the Municipal
Council/ Township Committee in the sum of Rs..........to be paid to the
Municipal Council/Township Committee, a statutory body established under the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), their
successors or assignees or their attorney or attorneys for which payment to be
well and truly to be made we bind ourselves and each of us and each of our
heirs executors, administrators and legal representatives firmly by these
presents;Whereas the above bounden who at present holds the office of the
Municipal Council/Township Committee has applied to the Municipal
Council/Township Committee and the Director of Municipal
Administration/Regional Director of Municipal Administration/Collector for the
grant to him/her an advance of Rs (Rupees ) for the purpose of celebrating the
marriage of........And whereas the Municipal council/Township Committee and
the Director of Municipal Administration/Regional Director of Municipal
Administration/Collector have agreed to sanction the said advance upon the
said and the above bounden............as his/her surety entering into a bond
in the above mentioned sum of Rs with such conditions as in hereunder written
for the repayment of the said advance as and when they fall due and for the
observance and performance by the said......of the several conditions
hereunder laid down in the rules relating to the advance issued in G.O. Ms.
No. 2255, Rural Development and Local Administration Department, dated the
14th November 1969 or any modification thereof relating to the above said
advance.Now the above written bond is conditioned to be void in either of the
cases following: -(1)If the said.........his/her heirs, executors,
administrators, or legal representatives shall, from time to time, and at all
times hereafter well and truly pay or cause to be paid to the Municipal
Council/Township Committee all such sums of money as shall, from time to time,
become due and owing to the Municipal Council/Township Committee from the
said..........in respect of the advance above mentioned and when such sum or
sums of money shall respectively become due and payable.(2)If the
said.......shall at any time or times hereafter made default in payment of any
such sums or sum of money aforesaid, the said .............. or his/her heirs,
executors, administrators and legal representatives shall within the time of
one calendar month after receiving notice in writing of such default and of
the amount Rules for the grant of Marriage Advances of Municipal Employees
thereof from the Municipal Council/Townships Committee well truly pay or cause
to be paid to the Municipal Council/Township Committee the sum of money stated
in the said notice to be and being the amount of the said default.Signed and
sealed and delivered ............. by the said bounden) ............... in the
presence of -(signature of the bounden)Witnesses -

### 1\.

### 2\.

Signed, sealed and delivered by the said....(surety) in the presence of
-Signature of the suretyWitnesses:

### 1\.

### 2\.

Form IV(See rule 2)Utilisation CertificateI, ........... employed as in the
Municipality/Township Committee hereby certify that 75 per cent of the amount
of marriage advance of Rs............(Rupees) sanctioned to me in the
Proceeding No. ..........dated .............. of the Director of Municipal
Administration/Regional Director of Municipal Administration/Collector has
been fully utilized by me for meeting the expenses incurred/celebrated
on.........atI require the balance of Rs........(Rupees.........) (being the
25 per cent of the loan sanction) towards meeting the expenditure already
incurred in connection with the celebration of this marriage. I certify that
the above facts are true and I am fully aware that if they are found proved to
be wrong at a late date, I am liable for criminal prosecution.Signature of the
borrower.EndorsementI am personally aware that the marriage has been
celebrated on..........at.......Counter signedSignature of the endorsee with
his designation (Municipal Employee/ Township Committee Employee)Signature of
the Executive Authority of the Municipality.

