## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Rules Under the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess
Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Rules Under the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess
Act, 1963

## Act 1 of 1964

  * Published on 30 December 1963 
  * Commenced on 30 December 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 December 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules Under the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess
Act, 1963Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. 3613, Revenue, dated the
30th December 1963 - S.R.O. No. A-1 of 1964In exercise of the power conferred
by section 14 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional
Water Cess Act, 1963 (Madms Act 8 of 1963), the Governor of [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
hereby makes the following rides:-

### 1. Short title.

\- (i) These rules may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and
Additional Water Cess Rules, 1963.(ii)They shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 1st day of July 1962.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(i)"Act" means the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess Act,
1963 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 8 of 1963;(ii)"assessing authority" means the
authority or officer competent to levy additional water cess or to assess
additional assessment under the Act;(iii)"form" means a form appended to these
rules;(iv)"section" means a section of the Act.

### 3. Fixation of additional assessment.

(1)The assessing authority shall provisionally fix the additional assessment
with reference to sections 3 and 4 of the Act and issue a notice to the
assessee in Form I.(2)The notice shall be served-(i)by giving or tendering the
same to the person to whom it is addressed; or(ii)if such person is not found,
by leaving the notice at his last known place of abode or business or by
giving or tendering the same to some adult member of his family; or(iii)by
sending the notice to such person by registered post with acknowledgment due;
or(vi)if none of the modes aforesaid is practicable, by affixing the same in
some conspicuous part of such place of abode or business.(3)Objections to the
proposed levy, if any, shall be made in writing by the assessee to the
assessing authority and shall be presented either i n person or by agent
within the time specified in the notice.(4)After considering the assessee's
objections, if any, the assessing ; authority shall pass an order assessing
the additional assessment payable subject to such modifications as may be
found necessary after the land revenue payable for the fasli is finally
settled. He shall communicate a copy I of the order in Form II to the
assessee.

### 4. Unit for assessment.

\- The unit for land for purposes of the assessment under the Act shall be I a
survey number or sub-division for which a separate assessment is noted I in
the settlement register.

### 5. Procedure to be followed by the assessing, appellate and revisional
authorities.

(1)The proceeding of the assessing authority or the appellate or the
revisional authority shall be summary and shall be governed, as far as
practicable, by the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908) with regard to -(a)the issue and service of summons;(b)the
examination of parties and witnesses;(c)the production of documents.(2)The
assessing authority or the appellate or the revisional authority, as the case
may be, shall have powers to summon witnesses and call for the production of
documents. A summons requiring the attendance of any person or a summons for
the production of any documents shall be in Form III(3)The assessing authority
or the appellate or the revisional authority, as the case may be, by summons,
require any person whose evidence it considers necessary for the purpose of an
enquiry under the Act or these rules to appear before it and give evidence.
The assessing authority or the appellate or the revisional authority may
examine such person on oath or affirmation.

### 6. Appeal.

(1)(i)Every appeal against the order of an assessing authority under the Act
shall be in Form IV and shall be verified in the manner specified
therein.(ii)Every appeal shall be presented in person or by an authorised
agent or his pleader or sent by registered post to the appellate authority
having jurisdiction who shall endorse the date of receipt.(iii)when an appeal
is presented after sixty days, but before the expiry of ninety days from the
date of the service of the order of assessment, it shall be accompanied by a
petition supported by an affidavit setting forth the reasons for the
delay.(2)If the appellate authority finds any defect or defects in the appeal
petition, it shall call upon the appellant, by a notice, to rectify the defect
or defects within a reasonable period. If the defect or defects are not
rectified within the period allowed, the appellate authority may dismiss the
appeal.(3)(i)If the appeal is admitted, a date shall be fixed for hearing the
appellant. The appellate authority shall issue a notice to the appellant
informing him of the date on which and the time and place at which the appeal
shall be heard. Such notice shall also state that if the appellant does not
appear on the day so fixed or on any other day to which the hearing may be
adjourned, the appeal will be liable to be dismissed for default or disposed
of on merits ex-parte.(ii)On the date fixed for hearing or on any other date
to which the hearing may be adjourned, the appellant shall, ordinarily, be
heard in support of his appeal.(iii)If the appellate authority is of opinion
that any witness should be examined in connection with an appeal, it may,
instead of examining him, issue a direction to the assessing authority having
jurisdiction to examine the witness or witnesses in the presence of the
appellant, who shall have a right to cross examine him or them.(iv)The
appellate authority may, at any stage and on such terms it thinks fit, adjourn
the hearing of any appeal. An application for adjournment shall, ordinarily,
be presented in person. If, however, such an application is sent by post, the
party shall make his own arrangements for obtaining intimation of the date of
adjournment at his own cost.(v)Every order of the appellate authority shall be
in writing, and it shall be communicated to the appellant and the assessing I
authority concerned.(vi)Where, in an appeal, the additional assessment as
determined by the assessing authority is found to be less than the correct
amount payable by the assessee, the appellate authority shall, before passing
orders, determine the correct amount of additional assessment payable by the
assessee and issue a notice to him to show-cause against the proposed
enhancement and make such enquiries as it may consider necessary.(4)Every
order passed by the appellate authority shall be given effect to by the
assessing authority without delay. On receipt of a copy of the order, the
assessing authority shall refund any excess amount of additional assessment
which is found to be due as if it were an additional assessment levied by him,
without interest and within two months from the date of communication of the
order.

### 7. Authority to decide remissions.

\- The question referred to in sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act shall
be decided by the Deputy Tahsildar in-charge of a sub-taluk or the Tahsildar
in-charge of a taluk or range, as the case may be, on the basis of the records
1 relating to the grant of remission of land revenue or water cess in respect
of I that land and after such enquiry as he may deem fit in this regardForm
I[See Rule 3(i)]Notice of Provisional Additional Assessment Under Section 3
and/ or 4 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional Water
Cess Act, 1963To............ (Land holder)Take notice that you have been
provisionally assessed under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and
Additional Water Cess Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 8 of 1963) to an
additional assessment of Rs.....(in figures and words) only from 1st July 1962
for each fasli. Objections, if any, should be submitted within.........days
from the date of service of this notice failing which the provisional
assessment will be confirmed subject to such modifications as may be found
necessary after the land revenue payable for the fasli is finally settled.The
basis for arriving at the amount is as follows:

Name of the district, taluk and village | Survey number | Local name of the field, if any |  Classification Single crop wet double crop wetand compounded wet | Class of source of irrigation of the land | Extent  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Land revenue assessment | Percentage of increase of |  Additional assessment fixed as a percentagesubject to the maximum prescribed in the Act | Number of Patta | Name of the patadar  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
Place : |   
---|---  
Date : | Assessing Authority.  
  
Form II[See Rule 3(4)]Order of Final Additional Assessment under section 3
and/ or 4 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional Water
Cess Act, 1963.To................ (Land holder)Take notice that you have been
finally assessed under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional
Water Cess Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 8 of 1963) to an additional assessment of
Rs. .....................(in figures and words) only from 1st July 1962 for
each fasli, subject to any revision which may be found necessary after the
land revenue payable for the fasli is family settled and that you have to pay
the same along with land revenue kist.The basis for arriving at the amount is
as follows:-

Name of the district, taluk and village | Survey number | Local name of the field, if any |  Classification Single crop wet double crop wetand compounded wet | Class of source of irrigation of the land | Extent  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Land revenue assessment | Percentage of increase of |  Additional assessment fixed as a percentagesubject to the maximum prescribed in the Act | Number of Patta | Name of the patadar  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
  
Place : |   
---|---  
Date : | Assessing Authority.  
  
Form III[See Rule 5 (2)]Form of Summons under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional
Assessment and Additional Water Cess Act, 1963Summons to appear in person and
or to produce documents.To.............................Whereas, your
attendance is necessary to give evidence.And Whereas, the following
documents................(here describe the documents in sufficient detail)
are required for the purposes of an enquiry-under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess Act, 1963 [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act 8 of 1963).............(here enter briefly the subject of the enquiry) now
pending before me, you are hereby summoned ............. on the ..............
day................ of .. 19.... at ...............O'clock at
(place)............and not to depart thence until permitted by me and -Given
under my hand Seal this ................. day of .................. 19
................SignatureDesignation of authority.Form IV[See Rule 6]Form of
Appeal to the Appellate Authority under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Additional
Assessment and Additional Water Cess Act, 1963ToThe Revenue Divisional
Officer,............DivisionThe Collector of district..........[The Board of
Revenue, [Chennai] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980, any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference
to the State Government.]The ..................... day of ......19

1. | Name (s) of appellants (s)  
---|---  
2. | Assessing authority passing the assessment order  
3. |  District in which assessment was made to appearIn person before me to produce or cause be produced the saiddocuments before me  
4. | Assessment year fasli (19.... to 19.....)  
5. |  Date of communication of the order of the assessing authoritynow appealed against.  
6. |  Address to which the appellant or his authorizedagent as the case may be undertakes to receive the notice.  
|  (a) Amount of additional assessment determinedby the assessing authority
passing the order of additionalassessment disputed.  
| (b) Amount of additional assessment disputed.  
7. | Relief claimed on appeal  
  
(Signed)Appellant(s).(Signed)Authorized representative, if any.VerificationI/
We, ........................ The appellant (s) hereby declare that what is
stated above is true to the best of my/ our knowledge and belief.Verified to-
day the..........day of..........19........(Signed)Appellant
(s)(Signed)Authorized representative, if any.Note. - (1) The appeal petition
should be affixed with a Court-fee label of the value of Rs. 2 in the case of
appeals to the Board of Revenue and Rs. 1 in other cases.(2)It should be
accompanied by the order appealed against in original or by a certified copy
thereof.(3)Proof of payment of Additional Assessment admitted by the
appellant(s) to be due shall be furnished along with the appeal petition.

