## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Rules Under The Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Rules Under The Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956

## Act 4785 of 1957

  * Published on 1 January 1957 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules Under The Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956Published vide
Notification No. S.R.O. No A-4785 of 1957In exercise of the powers conferred
by section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1956), the Governor of [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] hereby makes the foil owing rules to carry out the purposes of the said
Act: -

## Part I – 1.

Every application under section 3 or section 4(2) shall be in writing, shall
be signed and verified by the applicant. An application under section 3 shall
be stamped with Court-fee stamp of the value of two rupees. An application
under section 4(2) (a) need not be stamped.

### 2.

Every such application shall be restricted to a single village or part
thereof.

### 3.

Where such application is made by the State Government or by any person other
than the landholder of the non-ryotwari area, the landholder shall be made a
respondent to the application.

### 4.

Every such application shall contain the following particulars, namely:
-(a)Name of the District.(b)Name of the taluk.(c)Name of the non-ryotwari area
and particulars sufficient to localise it.(d)Name of the applicant.(e)Whether
he is the landholder or not.(f)If he is not the landholder, the name of the
interest possessed by him in the said area.(g)Nature of the applicant's case
and the nature of the evidence he desires to adduce in support of his
contention.

### 5.

(a)An application under section 4(2) (b) shall be in the form of a memorandum,
as set out in the Annexure to Part III to these rules, and shall be signed by
the appellant or his advocate and presented by such appellant or his Advocate
or the registered clerk of the Advocate at the office of the Registrar, High
Court during working hours.(b)Such application need not be stamped.(c)The
memorandum shall set forth briefly the grounds of objection to the decision
appealed from.(d)The memorandum shall be accompanied by a vakalathnama duly
executed if the appellant appears by the Advocate, by a certified copy of the
order appealed from and by as many authenticated copies of the memorandum as
there are respondents to be served, together with the process-fee prescribed
for service of process on the Appellate Side of the High Court.(e)(1) As soon
as the appeal is numbered, it shall be placed before the Registrar for orders
as to issue of notice and the preparation of the record for the hearing of the
appeal.(2)The record of the case the use of the Special Appellate Tribunal
shall consist of all material papers on which either party proposes to rely at
the hearing of the appeal.(3)Unless otherwise ordered by the Special Appellate
Tribunal or the Registrar at the instance of a party, the record shall be
translated, if need be, and typed the Office of the Registrar and the charge
therefor shall be calculated at the rates prescribed in the rules of the High
Court, Appellate Side.(4)In case the record is to be prepared at the Office of
the Registrar, the appellant shall, within two weeks after the receipt of an
Office Memorandum to that effect, pay into the Registrar's Office such
charges, as may be specified in the said Office Memorandum.(5)The respondent
shall, within three weeks from the date of service of the notice of appeal on
him, obtain the directions of the Registrar as to the preparation of the
record and shall pay the charges therefor within such time as may be fixed by
the Registrar.

## Part II – 1.(1) The notice referred to in section 6 shall specify the date
on which and the place at which the Tribunal proposes to hear the applicant
and shall be published -

(i)by affixture in a village chavadi in the area to which the application
relates or, if there is no village chavadi, in some other conspicuous public
place in the said area;(ii)by beat of tom-tom in the area; and(iii)by
affixture on the notice board of the Office of the Tribunal.(2)A copy of the
notice shall be served -(i)on the applicant;(ii)on the landholder if the
applicant is not the landholder;(iii)on the person in occupation of the land
if the landholder is the applicant; and(iv)on the Collector of the district in
which the area concerned is situated, if the State Government is not the
applicant.(3)Such service shall be effected by giving or tendering the notice
to the person concerned or if it cannot be so effected, by sending the notice
to him by registered post or by affixture to his last known residence.(4)In
the case of non-ryotwari area belonging to a religious institution, a copy of
the notice shall be sent to the Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments (Administration) Department [Chennai] [Substituted tor the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).].(5)The notices shall be in the form given below: -Form of
NoticeNotice to the Collector of .......... District, the landholder and all
persons claiming an interest in any land in the area noted in the
Schedule.Notice is hereby given that an application has been filed before this
Tribunal under section 3/4 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
(Supplementary) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1956) by for a
declaration that the non-ryotwari area, specified in the Schedule is an estate
or part of an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1956).is not an
estate or part of an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of
1956)is an inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7) of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of 1948).is not an inam estate as defied in section 2,
clause (7) of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion, into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of 1948).The
application has been posted for hearing on the day of 20 ........... at
............ (hours) at........................(place).All persons interested
are hereby called upon to file before the Tribunal statements bearing on the
question, adduce oral or documentary evidence as is necessary and be present
at the hearing.A copy of the application is appended hereto.

## Schedule

Name of the district | Name of the Taluk |  Name of the non-ryotwari area concerned (withparticulars to localise it)  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
To the applicant in duplicate, though the Tahsildar................../Manager
of Estates.............for causing service, obtaining the acknowledgement and
returning the original before the date of hearing.In duplicate through the
Tahsildar................... /Manager of Estates ..............for causing
publication in the area concerned by affixture in the village chavadi or other
conspicuous public place and by beat of tom-tom and for returning the
original, with the certificate of publication.To the Collector
of.............district at..........for information and for arranging for
production before this Tribunal of all relevant documents in the possession of
the Government which have a bearing on the question, on or before the date of
hearing, through a responsible Revenue Official.(6)The publication of the
notice in the village chavadi or other conspicuous public place, as the case
may be, and by beat of tom-tom in the area concerned shall be duly certified
by the village headman or kamam having jurisdiction over the said area or any
portion of it.

### 2\. If any person in occupation of land in the area concerned or claiming
to be in occupation of the land, desires to participate in the enquiry, the
Tribunal may implead him as a party, either as a petitioner or as a
respondent, in the application.

### 3\. The decision of the Tribunal under section 3 or 4 shall be published
in the area concerned in the form given below and in the manner prescribed in
rule.

Form of NoticeIt is hereby notified for the information of all concerned that
under section 6 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Supplementary)
Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1956), the Tribunal has decided
that the non-ryotwari area specified in the Schedule is an estate or part of
an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Estates Land Act, 1908, and

is =| a zamindari 2(16)under tenure 2(15)| estate as defined in section of the
Tamil Nadu an Estate (Abolition and Conversion, into Ryotwari) Act, 1948
(Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948).  
---  
  
is not an estate or part of an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of
the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates, Land Act, 1908 is not an inam estate
as defied in section 2, clause (7) of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
(Abolition and Conversion, into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act XXVI of 1948).is not an inam estate as defied in section 2, clause (7) of
the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion, into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of 1948).Chairman
of the Tribunal.

## Schedule 2

Name of the district | Name of the Taluk |  Name of the non-ryotwari area concerned (withparticulars to localise it)  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
### 4\. The decision of the Tribunal shall be communicated to -

(i)the applicant;(ii)the landlord, where the applicant is not the
landholder;(iii)the State Government;(iv)the Collector of District
concerned;(v)the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished. Now,
Commissioner of Land Administration vide G.O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the
1st December 1980.] (Settlement of Estates), [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).];(vi)the Director of Settlement [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(vii)the Tahsildar /Manager of Estates for publication
in the area concerned by affixture in the village chavadi or other conspicuous
public place and by beat of tom-tom.

## Part III – 1. (1) Every appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be
in the form of a memorandum as set out in the Annexure to these rules and
shall be signed by the appellant or his advocate and presented by such
appellant or his advocate or the registered clerk of the Advocate at the
office of the Registrar, High Court, during working hours.

(2)The memorandum shall set forth briefly the grounds of objection to the
decision appealed from.(3)The memorandum shall be accompanied by a vakalatnama
duly executed if the appellant appears by advocate by a certified copy of this
order appealed from and by as many authenticated copies of the memorandum as
there are respondents to be served together with the process-fee prescribed
for service of process on the appellate side of the High Court:Provided that,
in the case of memorandum of appeal presented under sub-rule (1) of rule 2,
the process-fee shall be paid within three days after the delay is excused
under that rule.(4)The memorandum shall be stamped with Court-fee stamp of the
value of one hundred rupees:Provided that no Court-fee shall be required if
the State Government is the appellant.

### 2\.

(1)When an appeal is presented after the period of limitation prescribed
therefor in section 7 of the Act, it shall be accompanied by a petition for
excusing the delay. The petition shall be supported by an affidavit setting
forth the facts on which the applicant relies, to satisfy the Court that he
had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within such period.(2)The
petition shall then be posted for orders before the Special Appellate
Tribunal,

### 3\.

(1)As soon as the appeal is numbered, it shall be placed before the Registrar
for orders as to issue of notice and the preparation of the record for the
hearing of the appeal.(2)The record of the case for the use of the Special
Appellate Tribunal shall consist of all material papers on which either party
proposes to rely at the hearing of the appeal.(3)Unless otherwise ordered by
the Special Appellate Tribunal or the Registrar at the instance of a party,
the record shall be translated, if need be, and typed at the office of the
Registrar and the charges therefor shall be calculated at the rates prescribed
in the rules of the High Court, Appellate Side.(4)In case the record is to be
prepared at the office of the Registrar, the appellant, shall, within two
weeks after the receipt of an Office Memorandum to that effect, pay into the
Registrar's Office such charges as may be specified in the said Office
Memorandum.(5)The respondent shall, within three weeks from the date of
service of the notice of appeal on him, obtain the directions of the Registrar
as to the preparation of the record and shall pay the charges therefor within
such time as may be fixed by the Registrar.AnnexureForm of Memorandum of
AppealBefore the Special Appellate Tribunal under the Tamil Nadu Estates
(Supplementary) Act, 1956.

Appeal No ...... of 19 ..........  
---  
A. B | ....Appellant  
| v.  
C. D. and others | ..... Respondents  
  
The above named appeals to the Special Appellate Tribunal from the decision of
the Tribunal .......... dated ............ and sets forth the following
grounds of objections to the said decision appealed from, viz., ...........
(here set out the grounds).

## Part IV – 1. Not less than two members shall be necessary to constitute a
sitting of a Tribunal.

### 2\. [***] [Omitted by S.R.O. No. A-5631 of 1959, G.O. Ms. No. 2567,
Revenue dated 3rd September, 1959, with effect from 1st July 1959.]

### 3\. When the Chairman of a Tribunal is ill or absent for any other
reasons, the second judicial member of the Tribunal shall act as the Chairman.

### 4\. [***] [Omitted by S.R.O. No. A-5631 of 1959, G.O. Ms. No. 2567,
Revenue dated 3rd September, 1959, with effect from 1st July 1959.]

### 5\. The proceedings of a Tribunal shall be summary and shall be governed,
as far as practicable, by the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), particularly in regard to -

(a)the issue and service of summons;(b)the examination of parties and
witnesses;(c)the production of documents;(d)the amendment of
pleadings;(e)addition of parties;(f)the passing of ex parte orders and setting
them aside for good cause;(g)the ordering dismissal for default of appearance
and setting aside such orders for good cause;(h)the reviewing of orders passed
on the ground of apparent error; and(i)the passing of orders.

### 6\. Proceedings pending before any Tribunal may be transferred to any
other Tribunal by the State Government.

### 7.

(1)In any proceedings before a Tribunal or a Special Appellate Tribunal, a
party shall be entitled to be represented by a legal practitioner to act and
plead on his behalf.(2)The Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the
case maybe, may permit any agent duly authorised in writing by a party, to act
and plead on his behalf:Provided that the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal may, at any stage of the proceedings, cancel such permission:Provided
further that in the case of such cancellation, the party concerned shall be
informed of such cancellation and he shall be afforded reasonable opportunity
for his being thereafter represented before the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal by a legal practitioner or by any other agent duly
authorised in this behalf.

### 8. Any person interested in any inquiry under section 6 shall, on
satisfying the officer of the Government having possession or custody of a
document that such document has a bearing on the claim of the person
aforesaid, be entitled to examine the document and take a copy of it. Copies
of that document and of the other documents which are relied on by the
Tribunal in arriving at a decision on the subject-matter of the inquiry shall
form part of the records of the inquiry.

### 9. Every interlocutory application to a Tribunal shall bear a Court-fee of
seventy-five paise and the vakalatnama shall bear a Court-fee of one rupee and
eight annas. Such application filed on behalf of the Government need not be
stamped.

### 10. Every interlocutory application made to a Special Appellate Tribunal
shall bear a Court-fee of two rupees and the vakalatnama shall bear a Court-
fee of three rupees. Such an application filed on behalf of the Government
need not be stamped.

### 11. In proceedings before a Tribunal, process fees shall be levied at the
rates prescribed for District Courts on processes issued at the instance of
parties. In proceedings before a Special Appellate Tribunal, process fees
shall be levied in accordance with the Schedule of process fees prescribed
under section 20 of [the Court-fees Act, 1870] [This Act in its application to
the State of Tamil Nadu was repealed. Now, see Schedule II to the Tamil Nadu
Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1955.].

### 12. (a) No costs by way of process fee, Pleader's fee and witness batta
shall be allowed in proceedings before a Tribunal or Special Appellate
Tribunal in cases where the claim is uncontested or is decreed on admission or
compromise.

(b)Where an application/appeal is contested before a Tribunal/Special
Appellate Tribunal, but is allowed wholly or in part, costs shall be allowed
to the applicant/appellant in proportion to his success against contest and
the contesting party/respondent shall pay such costs to the applicant/
appellant.(c)Where an application/appeal is contested before a
Tribunal/Special Appellate Tribunal and is being dismissed wholly or in part,
costs shall be allowed to the contesting party respondent in proportion to his
success.(d)In the cases mentioned in clauses (b) and (c), the Pleader's fee
shall be allowed on the same scale as in money suits/appeals in Civil
Courts.(e)Where costs are awarded by a Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal,
the order for costs shall be executable by a Civil Court, having jurisdiction
over the area with reference to which the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal gave its decision as if it were a decree passed by such Court.(f)In
cases of frivolous or vexatious claims or defences, costs shall be allowed
also by way of compensation as laid down in section 35-A of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 12\.

-A. (i) The Estates Abolition Tribunals shall, in the cases mentioned in clauses (b) and (c) of rule 12, fix the fees payable to pleaders by its orders.(ii)In respect of a batch of connected cases in which the result is determined by a single case, the Tribunal shall fix one regulation fee only(iii)The Tribunal shall fix the fee payable to the pleaders in each case irrespective of whether it allows costs or not.

### 12\.

-B. (i) The Special Appellate Tribunal shall, in cases mentioned in clauses (b) and (c) of rule 12, fix the fee's payable to pleaders by its orders.(ii)In respect of a batch of connected cases in which the result is determined by a single case, the Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix one regulation fee only.(iii)The Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix the fee payable to the pleader in each case irrespective of whether it allows costs or not.

### 13. The provisions of rules 8, 9 and 10 shall apply to the proceedings
before one or more judges nominated under section 7(2) of the Act, as they
apply in relation to the proceedings before the Special Appellate Tribunal.

### 14. If the applicant does not appear before the Tribunal at the hearing,
the Tribunal shall dismiss the application. If any person interested, other
than the applicant, does not avail himself of the opportunity given to him for
appearing before the Tribunal or adducing such evidence as is necessary or
producing relevant documents, no further opportunity will be given to him and
the matter will be disposed of on merits on the material made available to it.

## Part V – 1. When any suit, appeal or other proceeding (other than those
pending before the High Court), pending at the commencement of the Act before
any Court or Tribunal or Settlement Officer as defined in section 2 clause
(13) of the Abolition Act, stands transferred under section 11 of the Act to
the appropriate Tribunal constituted under the Act. The Tribunal shall direct
the person who raised the question which occasions the transfer to furnish
before a date specified by it in this behalf, all particulars which the
Tribunal considers relevant as for an application under section 3 or section
4(2) (a), as the case may be, of the Act and rules 1,2,3 and 4 of Part I shall
apply mutatis mutandis.

### 2\. On receipt of the said particulars, the Tribunal shall proceed to
determine the question referred to in accordance with section 6, following as
far as may be, the procedure laid down in the rules in Part II. On the
completion of its proceedings, the Tribunal shall communicate its decision and
return the record to the Court from which the suit, appeal or other
proceedings, as the case may be, was transferred to it.

### 3\. Rules 5, 7, 8, 9,11,12 and 14 in Part IV shall apply mutatis mutandis
to proceedings before Tribunals referred to in this Part.

