## Union of India - Act

## Rules Of The Road Regulations, 1989

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Rules Of The Road Regulations, 1989

## Rule RULES-OF-THE-ROAD-REGULATIONS-1989 of 1989

  * Published on 12 June 1989 
  * Commenced on 12 June 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 June 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules Of The Road Regulations, 1989Published vide Notification S.O. 439(E),
dated 12.6.1989, published by in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(ii), dated 12.6.1989 (w.e.f. 1.7.1989).

### 17.

/757In exercise of the powers conferred by section 118 of the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1988 (59 of 1988), the Central Government hereby makes the following
regulations for the driving of motor vehicles, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement

.-(1) These regulations may be called The Rules of The Road Regulations,
1989.(2)They shall come into force on the first day of July, 1989.

### 2. Keep left

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall drive the vehicle as close to the left
hand side of the road as may be expedient and shall allow all traffic which is
proceeding in the opposite direction to pass on his right hand side.

### 3. Turning to left and right

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall,-(a)when turning to the left, drive as
close as may be to the left hand side of the road from which he is making the
turn and of the road which he is entering;(b)when turning to the right draw as
near as may be to the centre of the road along which he is travelling and
arrive as near as may be at the left hand side of the road which the driver is
entering.

### 4. Passing to the right

.-Except as provided in regulation 5, the driver of a motor vehicle shall pass
to the right of all traffic proceeding in the same direction as himself.

### 5. Passing to the left

.-The driver of a motor vehicle may pass to the left of a vehicle the driver
of which having indicated an intention to turn to the right has drawn to the
centre of the road and may pass on either side, a tram car or other vehicle
running on fixed rails whether travelling in the same direction as himself or
otherwise provided that in no case shall he pass a tram car at a time or in a
manner likely to cause danger or inconvenience to other users of the road
including persons leaving or about to enter tram cars.

### 6. Overtaking prohibited in certain cases

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall not pass a vehicle travelling in the
same direction as himself,-(a)if his passing is likely to cause inconvenience
or danger to other traffic proceeding in any direction;(b)if he is near a
point, a bend or corner or a hill or other obstruction of any kind that
renders the road ahead not clearly visible;(c)if he knows that the driver who
is following him has begun to overtake him;(d)if the driver ahead of him has
not signalled that he may be overtaken.

### 7. Overtaking not to be obstructed

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall not, when being overtaken or being
passed by another vehicle, increase speed or do anything in any way to prevent
the other vehicle from passing him.

### 8. Caution at road junction

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall slow down when approaching a road
intersection, a road junction, pedestrian crossing or a road corner, and shall
not enter any such intersection, junction or crossing until he has become
aware that he may do so without endangering the safety of persons thereon.

### 9. Giving way to traffic at road junction

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall, on entering a road intersection, at
which traffic is not being regulated, if the road entered is a main road
designated as such, give way to the vehicles proceeding along that road, and
in any other case give way to all traffic approaching the intersection on his
right hand.

### 10. Fire service vehicles and ambulance to be given free passage

.-Every driver shall, on the approach of a fire service vehicle or of an
ambulance allow it free passage by drawing to the side of the road.

### 11. Right of way

.-The pedestrians have the right of way at uncontrolled pedestrian crossings.
When any road is provided with footpath or cycle tracks specially for other
traffic, except with permission of a police officer in uniform, a driver shall
not drive on such footpath or track.

### 12. Taking `U' turn

.-No driver shall take a `U' turn where `U' turn is specially prohibited and
on busy traffic road. If a `U' turn is allowed the driver shall show signal by
hand as for a right turn, watch in the rear view mirror and turn when safe to
do so.

### 13. Signals to be given by drivers

.-The following signals shall be used by the drivers of all motor vehicles,
namely:-(a)When about to slow down, a driver shall extend his right arm with
the palm downward and to the right of the vehicle and shall move the arm so
extended up and down several times in such a manner that the signal can be
seen by the driver of any vehicle which may be behind him.(b)When about to
stop, a driver shall raise his right forearm vertically outside of and to the
right of the vehicle, palm to the right.(c)When about to turn to the right or
to drive to the right hand side of the road in order to pass another vehicle
or for any other purpose, a driver shall extend his right arm in a horizontal
position outside of and to the right of his vehicle with the palm of the hand
turned to the front.(d)When about to turn to the left or to drive to the left
hand side of the road, a driver shall extend his right arm and rotate it in an
anti-clockwise direction.(e)When a driver wishes to indicate to the driver of
a vehicle behind him that he desires that driver to overtake him he shall
extend his right arm and hand horizontally outside of and to the right of the
vehicle and shall swing the arm backward and forward in a semi-circular
motion.

### 14. Direction indicator

.-The signals referred to in regulation 12, may be simplified also by
mechanical or electrical devices.

### 15. Parking of the vehicle

.-(1) Every driver of a motor vehicle parking on any road shall park in such a
way that it does not cause or is not likely to cause danger, obstruction or
undue inconvenience to other road users and if the manner of parking is
indicated by any sign board or markings on the road side, he shall park his
vehicle in such manner.(2)A driver of a motor vehicle shall not park his
vehicle-(i)at or near a road crossing, a bend, top of a hill or a humpbacked
bridge;(ii)on a foot-path;(iii)near a traffic light or pedestrian
crossing;(iv)on a main road or one carrying fast traffic;(v)opposite another
parked vehicle or as obstruction to other vehicle;(vi)along side another
parked vehicle;(vii)on roads or at places or roads where there is a continuous
white line with or without a broken line;(viii)near a bus stop, school or
hospital entrance or blocking a traffic sign or entrance to a premises or a
fire hydrant;(ix)on the wrong side of the road;(x)where parking is
prohibited;(xi)away from the edge of the footpath.

### 16. Visibility of lamps and registration marks

.-(1) No load or other goods shall be placed on any motor vehicle so as to
mask or otherwise interrupt vision of any lamp, registration mark or other
mark required to be carried by or exhibited on any motor vehicle by or under
the Act, unless a duplicate of the lamp or mark so marked or otherwise
obscured is exhibited in the manner required by or under the Act for the
exhibition of the marked or obscured lamp or mark.(2)All registration and
other marks required to be exhibited on a motor vehicle by or under the Act
shall at all times be maintained in a clear and legible condition.

### 17\. One way traffic

.-A driver shall not-(i)drive a motor vehicle on roads declared "One Way"
except in the direction specified by sign boards;(ii)drive a vehicle in a
reverse direction into a road designed "One Way".

### 18. Driving on channelised roads (lane traffic)

.-(1) Where any road is marked by lanes for movement of traffic, the driver of
a motor vehicle shall drive within the lane and change the lane only after
giving proper signal.(2)Where any road is marked by a yellow line dividing
road, the vehicle proceeding in the same direction trying to overtake each
other shall not cross the yellow line.

### 19. Stop sign on road surface.-

(1)When any line is painted on or inlaid into the surface of any road at the
approach to the road junction or to a pedestrian crossing or otherwise, no
driver shall drive a motor vehicle so that any part thereof projects beyond
that line at any time when a signal to stop is being given by a police officer
or by means of a traffic control light or by the display of any traffic
sign.(2)A line for the purpose of this regulation shall be not less than 50
millimetres in width at any part and may be either in white, black or yellow.

### 20. Towing

.-(1) No vehicle other than a mechanically disabled motor vehicle or
incompletely assembled motor vehicle, a registered trailer or a side car,
shall be drawn or towed by any motor vehicle, except for purposes of delivery
and to the nearest filling station or garage.(2)No motor vehicle shall be
drawn or towed by any other motor vehicle unless there is in the driver's seat
of the motor vehicle being drawn or towed a person holding a licence
authorising him to drive the vehicle or unless the steering wheels of the
motor vehicle being towed, are firmly and securely supported clear of the road
surface by some crane or other device on the vehicle which is drawing or
towing it.(3)When a motor vehicle is being towed by another motor vehicle, the
clear distance between the rear of the front vehicle and the front of the rear
vehicle shall at no time exceed five metres. The tow ropes, or chains shall be
of a type easily distinguishable by other road users and there shall be
clearly displayed on the rear of the vehicle being towed in black letters not
less than seventy-five millimetres high and on a white background the words
"ON TOW".(4)No motor vehicle when towing another vehicle other than a trailer
or side car shall be driven at a speed exceeding twenty-four kilometres per
hour.

### 21. Use of horns and silence zones

.-A driver of a vehicle shall not-(i)sound the horn needlessly or continuously
or more than necessary to ensure safety;(ii)sound the horn in silence
zones;(iii)make use of a cut-out by which exhaust gases are released other
than through the silencer;(iv)fit or use any multitoned horn giving an harsh,
shrill, loud or alarming noise;(v)drive a vehicle creating undue noise when in
motion;(vi)drive a vehicle with a muffler causing alarming sound.

### 22. Traffic sign and traffic police

.-A driver of a motor vehicle and every other person using the road shall
obey-(a)every direction given, whether by signal or otherwise, by a police
officer or any authorised person for the time being in-charge of the
regulation of traffic ;(b)any direction applicable to him and indicated on or
by notice, traffic sign or signal fixed or operated by an authority, competent
to do so;(c)any direction indicated by automatic signalling devices fixed at
road intersections.

### 23. Distance from vehicles in front

.-The driver of a motor vehicle moving behind another vehicle shall keep at a
sufficient distance from that other vehicle to avoid collision if the vehicle
in front should suddenly slow down or stop.

### 24. Abrupt brake

.-No driver of a vehicle shall apply brake abruptly unless it is necessary to
do so for safety reasons.

### 25. Vehicles going uphill to be given precedence

.-On mountain roads and steep roads, the driver of a motor vehicle travelling
downhill shall give precedence to a vehicle going uphill wherever the road is
not sufficiently wide to allow the vehicles to pass each other freely without
danger, and stop the vehicle to the side of the road in order to allow any
vehicle proceeding uphill to pass.

### 26. Obstruction of driver

.-A driver of a motor vehicle shall not allow any person to stand or sit or
anything to be placed in such a manner or position as to hamper his control of
the vehicle.

### 27. Speed to be restricted

.-The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when passing or meeting a procession or
a body of troops or police on the march or when passing workmen engaged on
road repair, drive at a speed not exceeding more than 25 kilometres an hour.

### 28. Driving of tractors and goods vehicles

.-A driver when driving a tractor shall not carry or allow any person to be
carried on the tractor. A driver of goods carriage shall not carry in the
driver's cabin more number of persons than that is mentioned in the
registration certificate and shall not carry passengers for hire or reward.

### 29. Projection of loads

.-No person shall drive in any public place any motor vehicle which is loaded
in a manner likely to cause danger to any person in such a manner that the
load or any part thereof or anything extends laterally beyond the side of the
body or to the front or to rear or in height beyond the permissible limit.

### 30. Restriction to carriage of dangerous substances

.-Except for the fuel and lubricants necessary for the use of the vehicle, no
explosive, highly inflammable or otherwise dangerous substance, shall be
carried on any public service vehicle.

### 31. Restriction on driving backwards

.-No driver of a motor vehicle shall cause the vehicle to be driven backwards
without first satisfying himself that he will not thereby cause danger or
undue inconvenience to any person or in any circumstances, for any greater
distance or period of time than may be reasonably necessary in order to turn
the vehicle round.

### 32. Production of documents

.-A person driving a vehicle,-(i)shall always carry with him his driving
licence, certificate of registration, certificate of taxation and certificate
of insurance, of the vehicle and in case of transport vehicle the permit and
fitness certificate, also;(ii)shall on demand by police officer in uniform or
an officer of the Motor Vehicles Department in uniform or any other officer
authorised by the Government, produce the documents for inspection:-[Provided
that where any or all of the documents are not in his possession, he shall
produce in person an extract or extracts of the documents duly attested by any
police officer or by any other officer or send it to the officer who demanded
the documents, by registered post, within 15 days of the demand.] [ Inserted
by S.O. 329(E), dated 13.5.1992 (w.e.f. 13.5.1992).]

### 33.

Every driver must be conversant with the provisions of sections 112, 113, 121,
122, 125, 132, 134, 185, 186, 194 and 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.

