## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Rules Issued Under Sections 36 and 39 of the Chennai City Police Act, 1888

TAMILNADU  
India

# Rules Issued Under Sections 36 and 39 of the Chennai City Police Act, 1888

## Rule RULES-ISSUED-UNDER-SECTIONS-36-AND-39-OF-THE-CHENNAI-CITY-POLICE-
ACT-1888 of 1888

  * Published on 21 March 1950 
  * Commenced on 21 March 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 March 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Rules Issued Under Sections 36 and 39 of the Chennai City Police Act,
1888(Rules For Providing Safety and Convenience At All Places of Public
Entertainment or Resort In The City of Chennai)In exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 36 and 39 of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Police Act, 1888 ([Tamil Nadu ] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act III of
1888), and in supersession of all previous rules and orders on the subject,
the Commissioner of Police, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] with the approval of his Excellency the Governor of [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] is hereby pleased to make the following rules for ensuring order
and decency and for the public safety at all places of public entertainment or
resort in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]: -

## Part I – 1.

In these rules, -(i)"the Act" means the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Police Act, 1888 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act III of
1888);(ii)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Police, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(iii)"Electrical Engineer" means the
Electrical Engineer of the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).];(iv)"Engineer" means the Engineer of the Corporation of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(v)"Fire Master" means the
Officer in-charge of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996)]
City Fire-Bri-gades;(vi)"Health Officer" means the Health Officer of the
Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).];(vii)"permanent building" means a building which is constructed for
permanent use with stone, mud, brick, mortar, cement or other non-inflammable
material.Explanation. - Where the floor, side-walls, galleries and staircases
of a building are made on non-inflammable material, the building shall, for
the purposes of these rules, be deemed to be a permanent
building;(viii)"prescribed" means prescribed by order of the
Commissioner;(ix)"temporary buildings" means a building which is not a
permanent building.

## Part II – Permanent Buildings

### 2.

No licence shall be granted under the Act for the use of any permanent
building for public entertainment or resort unless.(a)the building is provided
on at least three of its sides with an open space of not less than 20 feet in
width or such greater width as may be required by the Commissioner on the
recommendation of the Health Officer;(b)the eaves of the building have a
height of not less than ten feet;(c)every doorway in the building is not less
than eight feet in height and not less than five feet in width; and(d)the
windows of the building are of such dimensions and number and in such
situations as may be required by the Commissioner on the recommendations of
the Health Officer and the aggregate area of all the windows in each of the
places to which the public are admitted is not less than one-tenth floor area
thereof:Provided that the Commissioner, in consultation with the Health
Officer, may -(i)permit the use of extractors or other artificial means of
ventilation to provide for a sufficient supply of fresh air in the building in
lieu of all or any of the windows required under clause (d); or(ii)require
such extractors or other artificial means of ventilation to be provided in
addition to the windows required under the said clause.

### 3.

Every person who may have obtained a licence under the Act for the use of any
permanent building for public entertainment or resort shall cause all windows
and other means of ventilation in the building to be maintained in good order
and efficient action during the period such building is used for public
entertainment or resort and for at least two hours before and for half an hour
after such use.

### 4.

The Commissioner may relax the conditions in rules 2 and 3 on the
recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 5.

The licensee shall cause the flooring of every part of such building to be
paved or otherwise made impervious and damp-free and shall keep such flooring,
at all times, in good order and repair and shall disinfect it at such times
and in such manner as may be prescribed on the recommendation of the Health
Officer.

### 6.

The licensee shall not permit any sand or such other dusty material to be
spread on any part of the floor of such building to which the public are
admitted.

### 7.

The licensee shall cause the carpets, matting or any other material used as a
covering for the floor to be cleaned and dusted at least once daily.

### 8.

The licensee shall cause all open spaces in the licensed premises to be paved
or gravelled to the satisfaction of the Commissioner.

### 9.

The licensee shall cause the walls of the building to be hotlime or to be
painted once in every two years or more often if so prescribed on the
recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 10.

The licensee shall cause the premises to be thoroughly cleansed and all refuse
matter to be removed at least once in every 24 hours or more often if so
prescribed on the recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 11.

The licensee shall provide suitable means of drainage to the building and also
sanitary convenience of such description and design as may be prescribed on
the recommendation of the Health Officer for exclusive use of person of each
sex according to the scale shown in Appendix I and shall cause the same to be
maintained in good order and sanitary conditions.

### 12.

The licensee shall, where a continuous supply of piped water is available,
provide such number of water taps and in such places, as may be prescribed on
the recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 13.

The licensee shall, where a continuous supply of piped water is not available,
provide drinking water in such places, in such manner and in such quantity, as
maybe prescribed on the recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 14.

The licensee shall provide spittoons of such description in such number and in
such places, as may be prescribed on the recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 14A.

The licensee shall not permit or suffer smoking within the auditorium during
matinee show or performance of any cinematograph exhibition or drama. The
licensee shall put up boards at prominent places within the building
deprecating smoking within the auditorium.Explanation. - For the purpose of
this rule, "auditorium" means such, portion of the building in which
accommodation is provided for the public to view such exhibition performance.

## Part III – Temporary Building and Enclosures

### 15.

No licence shall be granted under the Act for the use of any temporary
building or enclosed place for public entertainment or resort unless.(a)it is
provided on all sides with an open space which in no part less than four feet
in width:Provided that the Commissioner may, on the recommendation of the
Health Officer, grant a licence where the open space is not less than 20 yards
in width;(b)its eaves have a height of not less than eight feet; and(c)every
doorway in it is not less than six feet in height and not less than four feet
in width.

### 16.

Every person who may have obtained a licence under the Act for the use of any
temporary building or any enclosed place for public entertainment or resort
shall provide suitable and efficient means of ventilation for such building or
place and shall cause the same to be maintained to the satisfaction of the
Health Officer. There shall be ventilators or means of ventilation equal in
length to at least half the total length of the building.

### 17.

The licensee shall cause every part of the licensed building or place to be
maintained in proper sanitary condition.

### 18.

The licensee shall provide such sanitary conveniences as may be prescribed on
the recommendation of the Health Officer for the exclusive use for persons of
each sex according to the scale laid down in Appendix I and shall cause the
same to be maintained in good order and sanitary conditions.

### 19.

The licensee shall provide a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking water for
the use of persons employed in or frequenting such building or place, in such
situations, in such manner and in such quantity as may be prescribed on the
recommendation of the Health Officer.

### 20.

If there is a fence outside the building or enclosure, it shall be at least 10
feet away from such building or enclosure. No barbed wire shall be used for
fencing.

### 21.

In the case of fairs and festivals, no booth shall be longer than 60 feet and
no booth shall be closer to any other booth than 10 feet. No fence shall be
nearer any booth than 10 feet.

### 22.

The exits for any enclosure where there is a collection of booths or which is
reserved for the accommodation of a particular class or persons shall, in no
case, be farther apart than 200 feet.

## Part IV – General

### 23.

(1)Licences granted under the Act shall be either annual or
temporary.(2)Temporary licences may be granted for the period not exceeding
three months at a time.(3)For periods not exceeding two weeks at a time, a
special temporary short-term licence may be granted in respect of a building
or enclosed premises where the total number of persons to be accommodated at
any one time does not exceed one thousand.(4)Annual licences shall be granted
only in respect of permanent building.(5)Temporary licence including special,
temporary, short-term licences only may be granted in respect of temporary
buildings, but may be granted in respect of permanent buildings if they are
required only for occasional use as places of public entertainment or
resort.(6)In respect of walled enclosures which have no roof or
superstructure, either annual or temporary licences may be granted.(7)Any
licence granted may be renewed at the discretion of the Commissioner:Provided
that in the case of the temporary short-term licences, such renewal may be
permissible only if the rules in this Part have been complied with.

### 24.

In the event of an outbreak of an epidemic or contagious disease in the
locality, the Commissioner may, by order, direct that any building or enclosed
place in respect of which a licence has been granted under the Act shall not
be used for the purposes of public entertainment or resort for such period as
may be specified in the order, if in the opinion of the Health Officer, such
use is likely to spread the epidemic or contagious disease. The Commissioner
shall also have power to refuse to grant a licence in similar circumstances.

### 25.

For every licence granted under the Act, there shall be charged a fee of two
rupees:Provided that the fee chargeable for a temporary licence in respect of
a building or enclosure (which) is used by day and without lights, shall be
only one rupee.

### 25A.

Every application for the grant of renewal of a licence shall be accompanied
by a Government treasury receipt for the payment of fees at the prescribed
rates.In the case of refusal of the grant of renewal of a licence, one-half of
the fee collected shall be refunded to the applicant, provided that the
application for such refund is made by the applicant within one month from the
date of receipt of the order of rejection of his application for grant of
renewal of licence.

### 26.

Every licence granted under the Act shall be in the Form in Appendix II.

### 27.

(1)Every application for a licence shall be in duplicate and shall be made to
the Commissioner in the Form in Appendix III and shall be accompanied by
complete plans, elevations and sections in duplicate of the premises and all
erections or buildings thereon drawn correctly to a scale not less than one-
eighth of an inch to a foot and a block plan in duplicate on a separate sheet
showing the position of such premises in refation to any adjacent premises and
the public thoroughfares.(2)Every application for a licence (other than a
licence for a cinema) or for its renewal shall be referred by the Commissioner
to the Health Officer, the Engineer and the Electrical Engineer through the
Commissioner of the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).]. Every application for a cinema or for its renewal shall be
referred to the Health Officer only through the Commissioner of the
Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]. The
Executive Engineer, Public Works Department shall certify every year the
structural soundness of cinema premises.(3)No licence under the Act shall be
granted unless any licence or permission required under the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Act, 1919 [(Tamil Nadu
Act IV of 1919)] [Now, it is called as Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act,
1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919).], shall have been obtained.(4)Persons
applying for boxing entertainment licence shall furnish full particulars of
such entertainment to the Commissioner of Police at least 21 days prior to the
date on which the entertainment is to take place, including the names of the
Referees, Judges, Competitors, Assistant Surgeon, Time-keeper and Clerk or
Official-in-charge of boxers.(5)The Commissioner of Police shall, before the
first day of April in each year, in consultation with the Boxing Associations,
prepare a list of persons who are considered suitable to serve as Judges and
Referees for boxing entertainments, having regard among other things, to their
social and financial status, character and education.(6)Persons applying for
licences shall furnish to the Commissioner of Police full particulars of the
entertainment together with full synopsis of any drama to be performed, in the
case of temporary licences, at least 21 days prior to the date on which the
entertainment is to take place and in the case of special temporary short-term
licences, at least 10 days prior to such date.

### 28.

(1)No licence shall be granted under the Act in respect of any building or
enclosure unless the provisions of sub-rules (2) to (8) are complied
with.(2)Inside the building, there shall be gangways or passages all round and
at such other place and of such width, not less than four feet, as may be
determined by the Commissioner. Such gangways and passages shall, at all
times, be kept clear.(3)If there are galleries in the building, they shall be
strongly built to the satisfaction of the Engineer. The stairs or approaches
to such galleries shall be at least 4 feet in width. There shall be at least
two staircases or approaches to each gallery and if the sitting capacity of
the gallery is more than 500, there shall be one extra staircase or approach
for every additional 250 persons accommodated in the gallery. The seating
arrangements in such galleries shall be divided into blocks by gangways
running from the front to the rear and across the building of such width, not
less than four feet and at such intervals not more than 30 feet apart, as may
be determined by the Commissioner. Such gangways shall, at all times, be kept
clear. Parapets or rails shall be at least 3 feet high. If the main seating
accommodation is situated on any floor other than the ground floor, the
requirement in respect of seating arrangements and provision of stairs or
approaches shall be the same as for the galleries.(4)(a)The licensee shall not
permit a greater number of persons to be accommodated in the building than the
number prescribed. Such number shall not exceed that arrived at by calculating
at the rate of 20 persons per 100 square feet of floor area in respect of such
portions as are provided with chairs having backs and arms, and at the rate of
25 persons per 100 square feet of floor area in respect of other portions
after excluding the area of the entrances, the passages and gangways, the
stage, the staircases and all places to which the public are not
admitted.(b)The licensee shall cause a board to be hung in a prominent place
in the licensed premises, the maximum number of persons who can be
accommodated in the building under these rules:Provided that when more than
one class of accommodation is provided in the premises, the maximum number of
persons who can be accommodated in each class shall be indicated by means of a
board or otherwise.(c)The licensee shall provide separate and reasonably
sufficient accommodation for women.(d)The following provisions shall be
observed in providing seating accommodation: -(i)Chairs shall be battened
together in complete lengths.(ii)In all cases, there shall be an intervening
space at least one foot between the back of one seat and the front of the seat
immediately behind it, measured between perpendiculars.(iii)No seat shall be
more than ten feet from a gangway.(iv)The seating accommodation in every
building shall be so arranged as not to interfere with free access to the
exits, gangways, passages leading to exits and staircase. All such gangways,
passage and staircases shall, during the presence of the public in the
building, be kept free from obstruction.(5)Such building or place shall have
at least two main exits of not less than eight feet in height and not less
than six feet in width. Where these exits are closed by doors, the doors shall
be so made as to open outwards. Such exits shall be so arranged that they can
be pushed open easily and at once from inside.(6)When the area of such
building or place exceeds 1,000 square feet, at least one additional special
exit per 500 square feet of additional space shall be provided in the exterior
walls of such building or place of suitable distances. Each of such special
exits shall be eight feet in height and not less than eight feet in width.
Such special exits may be closed whilst such building or place is being used
as a place of public entertainment or resort, but the means adopted for using
them, in cases of emergency, shall be specified in item 5 of the licence. The
special exits may be made of covered or closed by mat, screen, tatties on
split bamboo frames and fastened by twine, or similar material which can be
removed by a slight pressure from inside the building:Provided that where the
building or enclosed place is not an entirely roofed or covered structure as
in sports stadiums, the number of special exits may with the permission of the
Commissioner, be provided at the rate of not less than one special exit for
every 500 persons prescribed as the maximum seating capacity under these
rules.(7)Every exit including the additional special exits referred to in sub-
rule (6) shall be indicated by a board on which shall be painted in large and
legible letters the word "Exit" and its equivalent in Tamil or Telugu.(8)The
licensee shall provide ample space for parking at least 25 motor cars or 50
motor cycles and 200 cycles or 20 motor cars, 5 motor cycles and 100 cycles
and employ watchman at the rate of one for every 25 cars or 50 motor cycles
and 200 cycles or 20 motor cars, 5 motor cycles and 100 cycles.The
Commissioner may, when special circumstances require, insist on any applicant
to provide space for parking of more than 25 motor cars and other vehicles and
to provide watchmen to look after the vehicles in the interest of the
public.Every person who has obtained a licence under this Act for the use of
any building or enclosed place for public entertainment or resort may collect
fees for parking of motor cars and vehicles in the space provided thereof at
the rates indicated below: -(i)Motor vehicles, including motor cycles.........
12 naye paise.(ii)Vehicles other than motor vehicles.......... 6 naye
paise:Provided that such fees shall not be charged where the owner has his own
driver or attendant to look after the vehicle.

### 29.

(1)The licensee shall, except when the licensed building is used in day time
and no artificial lighting is required, provide suitable lighting therein and
the open space attached thereto.(2)When electricity is used to illuminate the
premises or for other purpose, the electric wiring shall be armoured or put in
metal conduits so as to render it safe from risk of fires by short
circuit.(3)Ordinarily no open or naked lights or fires shall be allowed but if
the nature of performance or exhibition absolutely necessitates their use,
this fact shall be mentioned in the application and special permission for
their use obtained. All swinging lights shall be suspended by metal wires or
rods.(4)In the case of a temporary building, the licensee shall not permit or
suffer -(a)any light to be affixed to the side walls or posts of such building
or place; or(b)any light to be placed within five feet of the walls or roof of
such building or place; or(c)any firework to be ignited by his servants within
100 yards of any part of the outer walls or fencing of such building or place;
or(d)smoking within such building or place.

### 30.

The Commissioner may refuse a licence if the building is constructed a whole
or in part of a material which is in his opinion is inflammable as to be a
public danger or if in his opinion any portion of the building is dangerously
near to any other building.

### 31.

Every building or place for which a licence is granted shall be in
communication with the fire brigade by telephone which shall be fitted in such
place and manner as the Commissioner may direct.

### 32.

(1)The licensee shall provide water for fire-fighting purposes at the rate of
five gallons per 100 square feet of the total area of the building. Not less
than 33 percent of the water shall be stored in fire buckets of two or three
gallons capacity each and hung in a convenient and accessible position inside
the building, but so as not to cause obstruction. The buckets shall be painted
red with the word "fire" in four inch letters painted black. The balance of
the water shall be stored in tanks, cisterns, well or ornamental ponds outside
the building, but adjacent to it so as to be easily accessible.(2)A sufficient
number of two gallons Soda Acid Type of Fire Extinguishers, but not less than
four, shall be installed in a convenient position on the walls at adequate
height and shall be tested by discharge every six months and subjected to a
hydraulic pressure test of 300 Ib. per square inch annually, provided that
they need not be required to withstand a pressure exceeding 280 Ib. per square
inch until the 21st March 1950. The date of test by discharge shall be painted
conspicuously on the extinguishers. The number of such fire extinguishers to
be installed in excess of four shall be decided by the Inspecting Fire
Officer, according to the area of the building and any special fire risk. The
licensee shall cause to be installed at his expense any other type of fire
extinguishers in addition to the above as may be recommended by the Inspecting
Fire Officer, to provide against any special fire risk.(3)The licensee shall
provide, in special circumstances, hydrants connected to the Corporation water
mains. The number required and their location will be decided by the
Inspecting Fire Officer.(4)The licensee shall maintain at his cost in or near
the premises such number of fire engines and crew as may be prescribed on the
recommendation of the Inspecting Fire Officer.

### 33.

Every licence granted under the Act shall be subject to the following
additional conditions: -(1)No inflammable or explosive substance, such as
petroleum, kerosene oil, fireworks, or gunpowder, in excess of the quantity
required for one day's use shall be stored upon or within the licensed
premises.(2)The main doors, enumerated in item (5) of the licence shall always
be left unfastened and unobstructed whilst the public are using the licensed
premises.(3)No structural or material alteration shall be made in the licensed
premises except with the written permission of the Commissioner.(4)No leper
and no person suffering from an open sore or any loathsome infections or
contagious disease shall be permitted inside the licensed premises. If any
such person is found in any such premises, the licensee shall immediately
report the fact to the Health Officer or to the Commissioner and the licensee
shall, at his own cost, take such steps as may be required by the Health
Officer or Commissioner to disinfect the place to prevent the further spread
of infection.(5)The licensed premises shall not be kept open after 1-30 a.m.
on any day without obtaining special permission in writing from the
Commissioner in respect of such day.(6)The licence shall not be transferred
except with the permission of the Commissioner.(7)No person, other than the
licensee or manager or the person in charge named in the licence, shall carry
on any exhibition, performance, or other business in the place or building
without the permission in writing of the Commissioner.(8)The Commissioner of
the Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Naitie) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], the
Health Officer, the Engineer and the Electrical Engineer or any officer of the
Corporation authorised by them and any Police Officer deputed to keep order
while the licensed premises are being used as a place of entertainment or
resort shall, at all times, have free access to the said premises to see
whether the conditions of the licence are observed. Nothing contained in this
condition shall apply to cinema premises.(9)The Commissioner may add such
other conditions not inconsistent with these rules to the licensee as may deem
desirable in the interest of the health or safety of the public.(10)Nothing in
these conditions shall be construed as affecting the ordinary powers of
Police-officers under the Act.(11)The licensee shall, so far as lies in his
power, comply with any suggestion or instruction which may, from time to time,
be given by the Commissioner or by any Police-officer acting on his behalf for
the public safety and convenience or for the preservation of the public
peace.(12)No game of chance shall be allowed to be conducted within the
licensed premises.(13)The Commissioner may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, revoke or suspend the licence when he has reason to believe -(a)that
the licence has been fraudulently obtained; or(b)that the enclosed place, or
building has been used for other purposes of public resort or entertainment
than that for which the licence was granted; or(c)that the place or building
can no longer be safely used for the purpose for which the licence was
granted.(14)The licence shall be subject to cancellation for breach of any of
these rules or any of the conditions of the licence.

### 34.

The Commissioner may, in consultation with the Commissioner of the Corporation
of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' By the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or with the
approval of the State Government, relax any of the provisions of these rules
or the conditions of any licence issued under these rules.

## Part V – Special, Temporary, Short-Term Licences

### 35.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing rules, temporary,
short-term licences may be granted subject to the provisions in the following
rules.

### 36.

The licensee shall not permit a greater number of persons to be accommodated
than the number prescribed which shall not exceed 1,000 and which shall be
determined by calculating at the rate of 20 persons per 100 square feet of
floor area in respect of such portions as are provided with chairs having
backs and arms, and at the rate of 25 persons per 100 square feet of floor
area in respect of other portions, after excluding the area of the entrances,
the gangways and passages, the stage, the staircases and all places to which
the public are not admitted.

### 37.

There shall be at least two main exits of not less than eight feet in height
and not less than six feet in width, where the total accommodation fixed under
rule 36 is for more than 500 persons and of not less than six feet in height,
and less than four feet in width, when the total of accommodation fixed is for
less than 500 persons.

### 38.

Where the area of the building or place exceeds 1,000 square feet at least one
special exit per 500 square feet of additional space shall be provided at
suitable distances. The special exit or exits shall be total of 48 square feet
for every 500 square feet of additional space.

### 39.

The licensee shall take all fire precautions as are required by rule 32 (1) of
these rules.

### 40.

The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary conditions and a building
or a roofed enclosure, shall be sufficiently ventilated for the maximum
accommodation provided.

### 41.

There shall be an open space of not less than 20 yards in width all round the
building or enclosure.

### 42.

(1)The licensee shall, except when the licensed building is used in day time
and no artificial lighting is required, provide suitable lighting therein and
the open space attached thereto.(2)When electricity is issued to illuminate
the premises or for other purposes, the electric wiring shall be armoured or
put in metal conduits so as to render it safe from risks of fires by short
circuit.(3)Ordinarily no open or naked lights or fires shall be allowed but if
the nature of the performance or exhibition absolutely necessitates their use,
this fact shall be mentioned in the application and special permission for
their use obtained. All swinging lights should be suspended, by metal wires or
rods.(4)In the case of a temporary building, the licensee shall not permit or
suffer -(a)any light to be affixed to the side walls or posts of such building
or place; or(b)any light to be placed within five feet of the walls or roof of
such building or place; or(c)any firework to be ignited by his servants within
100 yards of any part of the outer walls or fencing of such building or place;
or(d)smoking within such building or place.

### 43.

Every such short-term licence shall be, subject to the following additional
conditions, namely: -(1)The Commissioner may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, revoke or suspend the licence when he has reason to believe -(a)that
the licence has been fraudulently obtained; or(b)that the enclosed place or
building has been used for other purposes of public resort or entertainment
than that for which the licence was granted; or(c)that the place or building
can no longer be safely used for the purpose for which the licence was
granted.(2)Such licence shall be subject to cancellation for the breach of any
of the rules in this Part or any of the conditions of the licence.

### 44.

The Commissioner may refuse a licence if the building is constructed in whole
or in part of a material which is in his opinion so inflammable as to be a
public danger or if in his opinion any portion of the building is dangerously
near to any other building.

### 45.

The licensee shall, so far as lies in his power, comply with any suggestion or
instruction which may, from time to time, be given by the Commissioner or by
any Police-officer acting on his behalf for the public safety and convenience
or for the preservation of the public peace.[Part VI] [Part VI (Rules 46 to
48) was added by G.O. Ms.No. 166, Home (Police - D), dated the 1st February
1993.] Licence To Video Games Parlours

### 46.

Licence to Video Games Parlour shall be granted by the Commissioner, after
considering the objections from the members of the public and upon the
conditions that.(a)the licensee shall not permit more than three persons,
including children, per machine;(b)the licensee shall not open the Video Games
Parlour before 10.00 a.m. and shall not keep it open after 10 p.m.;(c)the
licensee shall not allow any child in school uniform below the age of fifteen
years to play in the Video Games Parlour except on Sundays and holidays or
being accompanied by its parent, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.;(d)the licensee shall
not allow the premises of the Video Games Parlour to be used for the purpose
of gambling or betting in any manner;(e)the licensee shall not allow any
chance machine and chance games such as Good Luck, Poker Games, Skill Ball in
the Video Games Parlour;(f)a register showing the name, age and address of the
person who visits the Video Games Parlour with time of entry and time of exist
shall be maintained and kept in the Video Games Parlour for inspection by
Police authorities;(g)the licensee shall make arrangements for parking of
vehicles and there shall not be any obstruction to the traffic;(h)the music
played in the Video Games Parlour shall not, under any circumstance, be
audible beyond fifteen feet;(i)the licensee shall comply with the provisions
of the rules relating to building, electrical installations and fire;(j)the
licensee shall not permit smoking inside the Video Games Parlour;(k)the
premises of the Video Games Parlour shall be provided with reasonable,
sufficient number of spittoons in suitable places;(l)the licensee shall keep
the premises of the Video Games Parlour clean and in a reasonable state of
sanitation;(m)the licensee shall have the licence displayed in the premises of
the Video Games Parlour;(n)the licensee shall provide emergency lights in the
premises of the Video Games Parlour at suitable places;(o)the licensee shall
extend all facilities to the inspection staff and any defects pointed out then
and there by them shall be rectified, failing which his licence is liable to
be cancelled.

### 47.

Any Police-officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector of Police may enter
into the Video Games Parlour during the working hours to check whether there
is any contravention or violation of the conditions of licence.

### 48.

Every notice inviting objections from the members of the public shall be in
the Form in Appendix IV and shall be displayed in the premises of the Video
Games Parlour and the officer-in-charge of the Police Station shall also make
an entry in the station diary regarding such notice. The objection, if any, by
a member of the public shall be lodged within thirty days from the date of
such display.Appendix I(See rules 11 and 18)Scale of Sanitary Accommodation To
be Provided MenUrinals - For 100 persons one urinalLatrines - For every 200
persons one water closet.WomenSame scale as for men.Appendix II(See rule
26)Licence Granted Under Section 34 of The [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Police Act, 1888 For The Use of Enclosed Place or Building
For Public Entertainment or Resort

### 1. Name of the licensee and place of abode.

### 2\. Name of Manager or person in charge where he is not the licensee.

### 3\. Name of the owner of the place or building.

### 4\. Situation of the place or building.

### 5\. Size and description with number of main doors.

### 6\. Material of which the roof and enclosures are made or proposed to be
made.

### 7\. Whether the licence is annual or temporary.

### 8\. Purpose for which it is proposed to be used.

### 9\. Whether the premises are to be used during the day or during the
night.

### 10\. Maximum number of persons that may be admitted in each part of the
building.

### 11\. Provisions for preventing and extinguishing fire.

### 12\. Provisions for accommodation for parking of motor cars and other
vehicles and watchmen to look after them.

### 13\. Special conditions (if any) on which the licence is granted.

### 14\. Period for which licence is to continue in force.

### 15\. Fee paid.

Dated at [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]....... day of 20
....(Signed)Commissioner of Police.Appendix III(See rule 27)Application for A
Licence Under Section 34 of The [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] City Police Act, 1888 for the Use of the Enclosed Place/building for
the Public Entertainment or Resort

### 1\. Name of application and place of abode.

### 2\. Name of the owner of the place or building.

### 3\. Situation of the place of building.

### 4\. Size and description of the place or building.

### 5\. Material of which the roof and enclosures are made.

### 6\. Period for which the licence is required.

### 7\. Purpose for which the place or building is proposed to be used.

### 8\. Whether the place or building is to be used during day time without
lights or whether it is proposed to be used during day or night with lights.

I do hereby declare that I shall abide by the rules and conditions under which
the licence may be granted.Date:Place:Signature of the applicant.[Appendix IV]
[Appendix IV was added by G.O. Ms.No. 166, Home (Police-D), dated the 1st
February 1993.](See rule 48)Whereas Thiru............. Son
of...............aged about............years residing at...........has applied
to me for grant of Video Games Parlour Licence for the location of a
permanent/temporary premises for use as a place of public amusement, namely,
Video Games Parlour at.............Notice is hereby given that any member of
the public having any objection to the grant of a Video Games Parlour Licence
as aforesaid should lodge his objection in writing with the under-signed on or
before the...........Commissioner of Police,[Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).].Licensing Authority.

