## Union of India - Act

## Service Tax 1994

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Service Tax 1994

  * Published in Gazette of India on 1 April 1994 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 April 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

### 64. Extent, Commencement and Application.

(1)This Chapter extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and
Kashmir .(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint [ 1st July,1994 ](3)It
shall apply to taxable services provided on or after the commencement of this
Chapter.

### 65. Definitions.

(1)"advertisement" includes any notice, circular, label, wrapper, document,
hoarding or any other audio or visual representation made by means of light,
sound, smoke or gas;(2)"advertising agency" means any commercial concern
engaged in providing any service connected with the making, preparation,
display or exhibition of advertisement and includes an advertising
consultant;(3)"air travel agent" means any person engaged in providing any
service connected with the booking of passage for travel by air;(4)"Appellate
Tribunal" means the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal
constituted under section 129 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962);(5)"architect" means any person whose name is ,for time being, entered
in register of architects maintained under Section 23 of Architect's Act,
1972,and also includes any commercial concern engaged in any manner ,whether
directly or indirectly, in rendering services in the field of
architecture;(6)"assessee" means a person liable to any the service tax and
includes his agent;(7)"Board" means the Central Board of Excise and Customs
constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963(54 of 1963);(8)"body
corporate" shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under clause (7) of
section (2) of the Companies Act,1956;(9)"cab" means a motor cab or maxi
cab;(10)"caterer" means any person who supplies, either directly or
indirectly, any food, edible preparations, alcoholic or non-alcoholic
beverages or crockery and similar articles or accoutrements for any purpose or
occasion;(11)"Central Excise Officer" has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(b) of section 2 of the Central Excise Act, 1944(1 of 1994);(12)"clearing and
forwarding agent" means any person who is engaged in providing any service,
either directly or indirectly, connected with clearing and forwarding
operations in any manner to any other person and includes a consignment
agent;(13)"consulting engineer" means any professionally qualified engineer or
an engineering firm who, either directly or indirectly, renders any advice,
consultancy or technical assistance in any manner to a client in one or more
disciplines of engineering;(14)"courier agency" means a commercial concern
engaged in the door-to-door transportation of time-sensitive documents, goods
or articles utilizing the services of a person, either directly or indirectly,
to carry or accompany such documents, goods or articles;(15)"credit rating
agency" means any commercial concern engaged in the business of credit rating
of any debt obligation or of any project or programme requiring finance,
whether in form of debt or otherwise , and includes credit rating of any
financial obligation, instrument or security which has the purpose of
providing a potential investor or any other person any information pertaining
to the relative safety of timely payment of interest or principal;(16)"custom
house agent" means a person licensed, temporarily or otherwise, under the
regulations made under sub-section (2) of section 146 of the Customs
Act,1962);(17)"general insurance business" has the meaning assigned to it in
clause (g) of section 3 of the General Insurance Business (Nationalization)
Act, 1972;(18)"goods" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (7) of section
2 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930; 1a ](19)"insurer" means any person carrying
on the general insurance business in India;(20)"interior decorator" means any
person engaged , whether directly or indirectly , in the business providing by
way of advice ,consultancy ,technical assistance or in any other manner
services related to planning ,designing or beautification of spaces , whether
man-made or otherwise or includes a landscape designer;(21)"management
consultant" means any person who is engaged in providing any service ,either
directly or indirectly in connection with the management of any organization
in any manner and includes any person who renders advice, consultancy ,or
technical assistance relating to conceptualizing, devising, development,
modification, rectification or upgradetion of any working system of any
organization;(22)"mandap" means any immovable property as defined in section 3
of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), and includes any furniture,
fixtures, light fittings and floor coverings therein let out for consideration
for organizing any official, social or business function;(23)"mandap keeper"
means a person who allows temporary occupation of a mandap for consideration
for organizing any official, social or business function;(24)"manpower
recruitment agency" means any commercial concern engaged in providing any
service, directly or indirectly, in any manner for recruitment of manpower, to
a client;(25)" market research agency" means any commercial concern engaged in
providing any services ;(26)" maxi cab" has a meaning assigned to it in clause
(22) in section (2) of the Motor Vehicles Act ,1988;(27)" mechanized slaughter
house" means a commercial concern engaged in the business of slaughtering of
animals with the aid of machine;(28)"motor cab" has the meaning assigned to it
in clause (2) of section 2 of the Motor Vehicles Act,1988;(29)"pager" means an
instrument, apparatus or appliance which is a non-speech, one way personal
calling system with alert and has to capability of receiving, storing and
displaying numeric or alpha-numeric messages;(30)"policy holder" has the
meaning assigned to it in clause (2) of section 2 of the Insurance Act,
1938;(31)"practicing chartered accountant" means a person who is a member of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and is holding a certificate
of practice granted under the provisions of the Chartered Accountants Act.
1949, and includes any concern engaged in rendering services in the filed of
chartered accountancy;(32)"practicing cost accountant" means a person who is a
member of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India and is holding
a certificate of practice granted under the provisions of the Cost and Works
Accountants Act ,1959 and includes any concern engaged in rendering services
in the field of cost accountancy;(33)"practicing company secretary" means a
person who is a member of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and is
holding a certificate of practice granted under the provisions of the Company
Secretaries Act, 1980 and includes any concern engaged in rendering services
in the field of company secretary ship;(34)"prescribed" means prescribed by
rules made under this Chapter;(35)"real estate agent" means a person who is
engaged in rendering any service in relation to sale, purchase, leasing or
renting, of real estate, and includes a real estate consultant;(36)"real
estate consultant" means a person who renders in any manner, either directly
or indirectly, advice, consultancy or technical assistance in relation to
evaluation, conception. design, development, construction, implementation,
supervision, maintenance, marketing. acquisition or management, of real
estate;(37)"recognized stock exchange" has the meaning assigned to it in
clause (f) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,
1956;(38)"rent-a-cab scheme operator" means any person engaged in the business
of renting of cabs;(39)"securities" has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956
;(40)"security agency" means any commercial concern engaged in the business of
rendering services relating to the security of any property, whether movable
or immovable or of any person, in any manner and includes the services of
investigations, detection or verification of any fact or activity, whether of
a personal nature or otherwise, including the services of providing security
personnel;(41)"service tale" means tax leviable under the provisions of this
Chapter;(42)"ship" means a sea-going vessel and includes a sailing
vessel;(43)"shipping line" means any person who owns or charters a ship and
includes an enterprise which operates or manages the business of
shipping;(44)"steamer agent" means any person who undertakes, either directly
or indirectly,-(a)to perform any service in connection with the ship's
husbandry or dispatch including the rendering of administrative work related
thereto; or(b)to book, advertise or canvass for cargo for or on behalf of a
shipping line, or(c)to provide container feeder services for or on behalf of a
shipping line;(45)"stock-broker" means a stock-broker who has either made an
application for registration or is registered as a stock-broker in accordance
with the rules and regulations made under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992;(46)"sub-broker" means a sub-broker who has either made an
application for registration or is registered as a sub-broker in accordance
with the rules and regulations made under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992;(47)"subscriber" means a person to whom a telephone connection
or a pager has been provided by the telegraph authority;(48)"taxable service"
means any service provided-(a)to an investor, by a stock-broker in connection
with the sale or purchase, of securities listed on a recognized stock
exchanges;(b)to a subscriber, by the telegraph authority in relation to a
telephone connection;(c)to a subscriber by the telegraph authority in relation
to a pager;(d)to a policy holder, by an insurer carrying on general insurance
business in relation to general insurance business;(e)to a client, by an
advertising agency in relation to advertisements in any manner:(f)to a
customer, by a courier agency in relation to door-to-door transportation of
time-sensitive documents, goods or articles;(g)to a client, by a consulting
engineer in relation to advice, consultancy or technical assistance in any
manner in one or more disciplines of engineering,(h)to a client, by a custom
house agent in relation to the entry or departure of conveyances or the import
or export of goods;(i)to a shipping line, by a steamer agent in relation to a
ship's husbandry or dispatch or any administrative work related thereto as
well as the booking, advertising or canvassing of cargo including container
feeder services;(j)to a client by a clearing and forwarding agent an relation
to clearing and forwarding operations in any manner;(k)to a client, by a
manpower recruitment agency in relation to the recruitment of manpower in any
manner;(1)to a customer, by an air travel agent in relation to the booking of
passage for travel by air;(m)to a client, by a mandap keeper in relation to
the use of a mandap in any manner including the facilities provided to the
client in relation to such use and also in services, if any, rendered as a
caterer:(n)to any person by a tour operator in relation to a tour;(o)to any
person by a rent-a-cab scheme operator in relation to the renting of a
cab;(p)to a client, by an architect in his professional capacity in any
manner;(q)to a client, by an interior decorator in relation to planning design
or beautification of spaces, whether man-made or otherwise, in any
manner,(r)to a client, by a management consultant in connection with the
management of any organization in any manner;(s)to a client by a practicing
chartered accountant in his professional capacity in any manner;(t)to a
client, by a practicing cost accountant in his professional capacity, in any
manner,(u)to a client, by a practicing company secretary in his professional
capacity, in any manner;(v)to a client, by real estate agent in relation to
real estate,(w)to a client, by a security agency in relation to the security
of any property or person, by providing security personnel or otherwise and
includes the provision of services of investigation, detection or verification
of any fact or activity,(x)to a client, by a credit rating agency in relation
to credit rating of any financial obligation, instrument or security;(y)to a
client by a market research agency in relation to market research of any
product service or utility, in any manner;(z)to a client, by an underwriter in
relation to underwriting in any manner;(za)to any person, by a mechanized
slaughter house in relation to the slaughtering of bovine
animals;(49)"telegraph authority" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (6)
of section 3 of the Indian, Telegraph Act, 1885 and includes a person who has
been granted a license under the first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 4
of that Act;(50)"tour" means a journey from one place to another irrespective
of the distance between such places;(51)"tourist" vehicle has the meaning
assigned to it in clause (43) of section 2 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988;(52)"tour operator" means any person engaged in the business of operating
tours in a tourist vehicle covered by a tourist permit granted under the Motor
Vehicle Act, 1988 or Rules made thereunder;(53)"underwriter" has the meaning
assigned to it in clause (f)of rule 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Underwriters) Rules, 1993;(54)"underwriting" has the meaning assigned
to it in clause (g) of rule 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Underwriters) Rules, 1993;(55)words and expressions used but not defined in
this Chapter and defined in the Central Excise Act, 1944 or the rules made
thereunder, shall apply, so far as may be, in relation to service tax as they
apply in relation to duty of excise;

### 66. Charge of Service Tax.

(1)On and from the date of commencement of this Chapter 1ba , there shall be
levied a tax (hereinafter referred to as the service tax), at the rate of five
per cent. of the value of the taxable services referred to in sub-clauses0(a),
(b) and (d) of clause (41) of section 65 collected in such a manner as may be
prescribed.(2)With effect from the date notified under 1bb section 85 of the
Finance (No. 2) Act, 1996 (33 of 1996), there shall be levied a service tax at
the rate of five per cent. of the value of the taxable services referred to in
sub-clauses (c), (e) and (f) of clause (41) of section 65 collected in such a
manner as may be prescribed.(3)With effect from the date notified (T) under
section 84 of the Finance Act, 1997, there shall be levied a service tax at
the rate of five per cent. of the value of the taxable services referred to in
sub-clauses (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q) and (r) of
clause (41) of section 65 collected in such a manner as may be
prescribed.(4)With effect from the date notified under section 116 of the
Finance (No. 2) Act, 1998 1bd , there shall be levied a service tax at the
rate of five per cent of the value of the taxable services referred to in sub-
clauses (p), (q) and (r),(s), (t), (w), (x), (y) and (z) of clause (41) of
section 65 collected in such a manner as may be prescribed.(5)With effect from
the date notified under section 116 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1998 , there
shall be levied a service tax at the rate of one thousand per annum of the
taxable services referred to in sub-clauses (za) of clause (48) of section 65
collected in such a manner as may be prescribed. 1b.

### 67. Valuation of Taxable Services for Charging Service Tax.

For the purposes of this Chapter, the value of taxable services, -(a)in
relation to service provided by a stock-broker, shall be the aggregate of the
commission or brokerage charged by him on the sale or purchase of securities
from the investors and includes the commission or brokerage paid by the stock-
broker to any sub-broker;(b)in relation to telephone connections provided to
the subscribers, shall be the gross total amount (including adjustments made
by the telegraph authority from any deposits made by the subscribers at the
time of applications for telephone connections) received by the telegraph
authority from the subscribers.Explanation : For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that the value of taxable service in this clause shall not
include the initial deposits made by the subscribers at the time of
applications for telephone connections;(c)in relation to services of general
insurance business provided to the policy holders, shall be the total amount
of the premium received by the insurer from the policy holders.[ 1c Amendment
of insertion clauses (d) and (e) not known - insert it. 1c ](d} in relation to
service provided by an advertising agency to a client shall be the gross
amount charged by such agency from client for the services in relation to
advertisement.(e)in relation to service provided by an courier agency to a
customer shall be the gross amount charged by such agency from customer the
services in relation to door-to-door transportation of time sensitive
,documents .goods and articles;[ 1d (f) in relation to service provided by a
consulting engineer to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such
engineer from the client for advice, consultancy or technical assistance in
any manner in one or more disciplines of engineering;(g)in relation to service
provided by a custom house agent to a client, shall be the gross amount
charged by such agent from the client for services rendered in any manner in
relation to the entry or departure of conveyances or in relation to the import
or export of goods;(h)in relation to service provided by a steamer agent to a
shipping line, shall be the gross amount charged by such agent from the
shipping line for services in relation to a ship's husbandry or dispatch or
any administrative work related thereto or in relation to the booking,
advertising or canvassing of cargo, container feeder services, including the
commission paid to such agent;(i)in relation to service provided by a clearing
and forwarding agent to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such
agent from the client for services of clearing and forwarding operations in
any manner;(j)in relation to service provided by a manpower recruitment agency
to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such agency from the client
in relation to the recruitment of manpower in any manner;(k)in relation to
service provided by an air travel agent to a customer, shall be the gross
amount charged by such agent from the customer for services in relation to the
booking of passage for travel by air excluding the airfare but including the
commission, if any, received from the airline in relation to such booking;[ 1c
(l) in relation to service provided by a mandap keeper to a client, shall be
the gross amount charged by such keeper from the client for the use of mandap
including the facilities provided to the client in relation to such use and
also the charges for catering, if any;(m)in relation to service provided by a
tour operator to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such operator
from the client for services in relation to a tour and includes the charges
for any accommodation, food or any other facilities provided in relation to
such tour;(n)in relation to the service provided by a rent a cab scheme
operator to any person, shall be the gross amount charged by such operator
from such person for services in relation to the renting of a cab and includes
such rental. 1c ][ 1d (o) in relation to the service provided by an architect
to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such architect from the
client for services rendered in professional capacity in any manner;(p)in
relation to the service provided by an interior decorator to a client, shall
be the gross amount charged by such decorator from the client for services
rendered in relation to planning, design or beautification of spaces in any
manner;(q)in relation to the service provided by a management consultant to a
client, shall be the gross amount charged by such consultant from the client
for services rendered in connection with the management of any organization in
any manner;(r)in relation to the service provided by a practicing cost
accountant to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such accountant
from the client for services rendered in professional capacity in any
manner;(s)in relation to the service provided by a practicing cost accountant
to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such accountant from the
client for services rendered in professional capacity in any manner;(t)in
relation to the service provided by a practicing company secretary to a
client, shall be the gross amount charged by such secretary from the client
for services rendered in professional capacity in any manner;(u)in relation to
the service provided by a real estate agent to a client, shall be the gross
amount charged by such agent from the client for services rendered in
connection with the sale, purchase, leasing or renting of real estate
including any advice, consultancy or technical assistance relating to
evaluation, conception, design, development, construction, implementation,
supervision, maintenance, marketing, acquisition or management, of real
estate;(v)in relation to the service provided by a security agency to a
client, shall be the gross amount charged by such agency from the client for
service rendered in connection with the security of any property or person,
and includes services of investigation, detection or verification of any fact
or activity including services of providing security personnel;(w)in relation
to the service provided by a credit rating agency to a client, shall be the
gross amount charged by such agency from the client for services rendered in
connection with credit rating of any financial obligation, instrument or
security in any manner;(x)in relation to the service provided by a market
research agency to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by such agency
from the client for services rendered in connection with market research of
any product, service or utility in any manner;(y)in relation to the service
provided by an underwriter to a client, shall be the gross amount charged by
such underwriter from the client for services rendered in relation to
underwriting in any manner. 1d ]

### 68. Payment of Service Tax.

(1)Every person providing taxable service to any person shall pay service tax
at the rate specified in section 66 in such manner and within such period as
may be prescribed.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in
respect of any taxable service notified by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette, the service tax thereon shall be paid by such person and in
such manner as may be prescribed at the rate specified at the rate specified
in section 66 and all the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to such
person as if he is the person liable for paying the service tax in relation to
such service. 1e ]

### 69. Registration.

Every person liable to pay the service tax under this Chapter or the rules
made thereunder shall, within such time and in such manner and in such form as
may be prescribed, make an application for registration to the Central Excise
Officer.

### 70. Furnishing of Returns.

Every person liable to pay the service tax shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Central Excise Officer, a return in such form and in such
manner and at such frequency as may be prescribed.

### 71. Assessment.

(1)For the purpose of making an assessment under this Chapter, the Central
Excise Officer may serve on any person who has furnished a return under
section 70, a notice requiring him to produce within such period as may be
specified therein, such accounts, documents or other evidence as he may deem
necessary for such assessment.(2)The Central Excise Officer, after considering
such accounts, documents or other evidence, if any, obtained under sub-section
(1) and after taking into account any relevant material which he has gathered,
shall, by an order in writing, assess the value of the taxable service and the
amount of service tax payable on the basis of such assessment.

### 72. Best Judgment Assessment.

If -(a)any person fails to make the return under section 70, or";(b)any person
having made a return fails to comply with all the terms of a notice issued
under sub-section (1) of section 71, or(c)the Central Excise Officer is not
satisfied with the correctness or the completeness of the accounts of the
assessee, the Central Excise Officer, after taking into account all the
relevant material which he has gathered, shall, by an order in writing, make
the assessment of the value of taxable service to the best of his judgment and
determine the sum payable by the assessee or refundable to the assessee on the
basis of such assessment.

### 73. Value of Taxable Services Escaping Assessment.

If -(a)the Central Excise Officer has reason to believe that by reason of
omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return under section
70 for any quarter or to disclose wholly and truly all material facts
necessary for his assessment for any quarter, the value of taxable service for
that quarter has escaped assessment or has been under assessed,
or(b)notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned
in clause (a) on the part of the assessee, the Central Excise Officer has, in
consequence of information in his possession, reason to believe that the value
of any taxable service assessable in any [ 1g prescribed period 1g ] has
escaped assessment or has been under assessed, orhe may, in cases falling
under clause (a), at any time within five years, and in cases falling under
clause (b), at any time within six months from the date for filing the
return,[ 1h serve on the assessee a notice and proceed to assess or reassess
the value of taxable service.] 1hExplanation: Where the services for the
notice is stayed by an order of a Court, the period of such stay shall be
excluded in computing aforesaid period of five years or six months 1i ]

### 74. Rectification of Mistake.

(1)With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, the Central
Excise Officer who passed any order under the provisions of this Chapter may,
within two years of the date on which such order was passed, amend the
order.(2)Where any matter has been considered and decided in any proceeding by
way of appeal or revision relating to an order referred to in sub-section (1),
the Central Excise Officer passing such order may, notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force, amend the order under that
sub-section in relation to any matter other than the matter which has been so
considered and decided.(3)Subject to the other provisions of this section, the
Central Excise Officer concerned -(a)may make an amendment under sub-section
(1) of his own motion; or(b)shall make such amendment if any mistake is
brought to his notice by the assessee or the Commissioner of Central Excise or
the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals).(4)An amendment, which has the
effect of enhancing an assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increasing
the liability of the assessee, shall not be made under this section unless the
Central Excise Officer concerned has given notice to the assessee of his
intention so to do and has allowed the assessee a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.(5)Where an amendment is made under this section, an order shall
be passed in writing by the Central Excise Officer concerned.(6)Subject to the
other provisions of this Chapter where any such amendment has the effect of
reducing the assessment, the Central Excise Officer shall make any refund
which may be due to such assessee.(7)Where any such amendment has the effect
of enhancing the assessment or reducing the refund already made, the Central
Excise Officer shall make an order specifying the sum payable by the assessee
and the provisions of this Chapter shall apply accordingly.

### 75. Interest on Delayed Payment of Service Tax.

Every person, liable to pay the tax in accordance with the provisions of
section 68 or rules made thereunder, who fails to credit the tax or any part
thereof to the account of the Central Government within the period prescribed,
shall pay simple interest at the rate of one and one-half per cent. for every
month or part of the month by which such crediting of the tax or any part
thereof is delayed.

### 76. Penalty for Failure to Pay Service Tax.

Any person, liable to pay service tax in accordance with the provisions of
section 68 or the rules made thereunder, who fails to pay such tax shall pay
in addition to paying such tax, and interest on that tax in accordance with
the provisions of section 75, a penalty which shall not be less than one
hundred rupees but which may extend to two hundred rupees for every day during
which such failure continues, so, however, that the penalty under this clause
shall not exceed the amount of service tax that he failed to pay.

### 77. Penalty for Failure to Furnish Prescribed Return.

If a person fails to furnish in due time the return which he is required to
furnish under section 70 or the rules made thereunder, he shall pay, by way of
penalty, a sum which shall not be less than one hundred rupees but which may
extend to two hundred rupees for every week or part thereof during which such
failure continues.

### 78. Penalty for Suppressing Value of Taxable Service.

If the Central Excise Officer in the course of any proceedings under this
Chapter is satisfied that any person has, with intent to evade payment of
service tax, suppressed or concealed the value of taxable service or has
furnished inaccurate value of such taxable service, he may direct that such
person shall pay by way of penalty, in addition to service tax and interest,
if any, payable by him, a sum which shall not be less than, but which shall
not exceed twice, the amount of service tax sought to be evaded by reason of
suppression or concealment of the value of taxable service or the furnishing
of inaccurate value of such taxable service :Provided that if the value of
taxable service (as determined by the Central Excise Officer on assessment) in
respect of which value has been suppressed or concealed or inaccurate value
has been furnished exceeds a sum of twenty-five thousand rupees, the Central
Excise Officer shall not issue any direction for payment by way of penalty
without the previous approval of the Commissioner Central Excise.

### 79. Penalty for Failure to Comply With Notice.

If the Central Excise Officer in the course of any proceedings under this
Chapter is satisfied that any person has failed to comply with a notice under
sub-section (1) of section 71, he may direct that such person shall pay, by
way of penalty, in addition to any service tax and interest, if any, payable
by him, a sum which shall not be less than ten per cent, but which shall not
exceed fifty per cent, of the amount of the service tax, if any, which would
have been avoided if the value of taxable service stated in the return by such
person had been accepted as the correct value of taxable service.

### 80. Penalty not to be Imposed in Certain Cases.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of section 76, section
77, section 78 or section 79, no penalty shall be imposable on the assessee
for any failure referred to in the said provisions if the assessee proves that
there was reasonable cause for the said failure.

### 81. Offences by Companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Chapter has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly :Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Chapter, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge and that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Chapter has been committed by
a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of,
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed be guilty
of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation: For the purposes of this section, -(a)"company" means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.

### 82. Power to Search Premises.

(1)If the [3 Commissioner of Central Excise has reason to believe 3 ] that any
documents or books or things which in his opinion will be useful for or
relevant to any proceeding under this Chapter are secreted in any place, he
may authorize any other Central Excise Officer to search or may himself search
for such documents or books or things.(2)The provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), relating to searches, shall, so far as
may be, apply to searches under this section as they apply to searches under
that Code.

### 83. Application of Certain Provisions of Act (1 of 1944).

The provisions of the following sections of the Central Excises Act, 1944, as
in force from time to time, shall apply, so far as may be, in relation to
service tax as they apply in relation to a duty of excise :-

### 9C.

, 9D, 11, 11B,[ 4 11BB, 12A 4 ], 12B, 12C, 12D, 12E, 14, 15, 35F to 35O (both
inclusive), 35Q, 36, 36A, 36B, 37A, 37B, 37C, 37D and 40.

### 84. Revision of Orders by the Commissioner Central Excise.

(1)The Commissioner of Central Excise may call for the record of a proceeding
under this Chapter which has been taken by the Central Excise Officer
subordinate to him and may make such inquiry or cause such inquiry to be made
and, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, pass such order thereon as he
thinks fit.(2)No order which is prejudicial to the assessee shall be passed
under this section unless the assessee has been given an opportunity of being
heard.(3)The Commissioner Central Excise shall communicate the order passed by
him under sub-section (1) to the assessee, the Central Excise Officer and the
Board.(4)No order under this section shall be passed by the Commissioner of
Central Excise in respect of any issue if an appeal against such issue is
pending before the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals).(5)No order under
this section shall be passed after the expiry of two years from the date on
which the order sought to be revised has been passed.

### 85. Appeals to the Collector of Central Excise Appeals).

(1)Any person aggrieved by any assessment order passed by the Central Excise
Officer under section 71, section 72 or section 73, or denying his liability
to be assessed under this Chapter, or by an order levying interest or penalty
under this Chapter, may appeal to the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals)
.(2)Every appeal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the
prescribed manner.(3)An appeal shall be presented within three months from the
date of receipt of the decision or order of the Central Excise Officer,
relating to service tax, interest or penalty under this Chapter :Provided that
the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals) may, if he is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within
the aforesaid period of three months, allow it to be presented within a
further period of three months.(4)The Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals)
shall hear and determine the appeal and, subject to the provisions of this
Chapter, pass such orders as he thinks fit and such orders may include an
order enhancing the service tax, interest or penalty :Provided that an order
enhancing the service tax, interest or penalty shall not be made unless the
person affected thereby has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against such enhancement.(5)Subject to the provisions of this Chapter,
in hearing the appeals and making orders under this section, the Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals) shall exercise the same powers and follow the same
procedure as he exercises and follows in hearing the appeals and making orders
under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944).

### 86. Appeals to Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Any assessee aggrieved by an order passed by a Commissioner of Central
Excise under section 84, or an order passed by a Commissioner of Central
Excise (Appeals) under section 85, may appeal to the Appellate Tribunal
against such order.(2)The Board may, if it objects to any order passed by the
Commissioner of Central Excise under section 84, or the Commissioner of
Central Excise may, if he objects to any order passed by the Commissioner of
Central Excise (Appeals) under section 85, direct the Central Excise Officer
to appeal to the Appellate Tribunal against the order.(3)Every appeal under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be filed within three months of the
date on which the order sought to be appealed against is received by the
ssessee, the Board or by the Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may
be.(4)The Central Excise Officer or the assessee, as the case may be, on
receipt of a notice that an appeal against the order of the Commissioner of
Central Excise or the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals) has been
preferred under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by the other party may,
notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against such order or any part
thereof, within forty-five days of the receipt of the notice, file a
memorandum of cross-objections, verified in the prescribed manner, against any
part of the order of the Commissioner of Central Excise or the Commissioner of
Central Excise (Appeals), and such memorandum shall be disposed of by the
Appellate Tribunal as if it were an appeal presented within the time specified
in sub-section (3).(5)The Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the
filing of a memorandum of cross-objections after the expiry of the relevant
period referred to in sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) if it is satisfied
that there was sufficient cause for not presenting it within the period.(6)An
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
verified in the prescribed manner and shall, except in the case of an appeal
referred to in sub-section (2) or a memorandum of cross-objections referred to
in sub-section (4), be accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees.(7)Subject
to the provisions of this Chapter, in hearing the appeals and making orders
under this section, the Appellate Tribunal shall exercise the same powers and
follow the same procedure as it exercises and follows in hearing the appeals
and making orders under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944).

### 87. Willful Attempt to Evade Service Tax, Etc.

If a person willfully attempts in any manner whatsoever to evade collection or
payment of any service tax, interest or penalty chargeable or imposable under
this Chapter, or to suppress or conceal the total value of taxable services,
he shall, without prejudice to any penalty that may be imposable on him under
any other provisions of this Chapter, be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to seven years and with fine.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section, a willful attempt to evade payment of any service
tax, interest or penalty chargeable or imposable under this Chapter shall
include a case where any person -(i)has in his possession or control any books
of account or other documents (being books of account or other documents
relevant to any proceeding under this Chapter) containing a false entry or
statement; or(ii)makes or causes to be made any false entry or statement in
such books of account or other document; or(iii)willfully omits or causes to
be omitted any relevant entry or statement in such books of account or other
documents; or(iv)causes any other circumstances to exist which will have the
effect of enabling such person to evade payment of any service tax, interest
or penalty chargeable or imposable under this Chapter.

### 88. Failure to Furnish Prescribed Returns.

If a person fails to furnish the return which he is required to furnish by a
notice given under sub-section (2) of section 70, he shall, without prejudice
to any penalty that may be imposable on him under any other provision of this
Chapter, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and with fine.

### 89. False Statement in Verification, Etc.

If a person makes a statement in any verification under this Chapter or any
rule made thereunder, or delivers an account or statement, which is false, and
which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not believe to be true,
he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and with fine.

### 90. Abetment of False Return, Etc.

If a person abets or induces in any manner another person to make and deliver
an account or a statement or declaration relating to any taxable service which
is false and which he either knows to be false or does not believe to be true
or to commit an offence under section 87, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and with fine.

### 91. Certain Offences to be Non-Cognizable.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), an offence punishable under section 87 or section 88 or section 89
or section 90 shall be deemed to be non-cognizable within the meaning of that
Code.

### 92. Institution of Proceedings.

A person shall not be proceeded against for any offence under section 87 or
section 88 or section 89 or section 90 except with the previous sanction of
the Principal Commissioner of Central Excise.

### 93. Power to Grant Exemption from Service Tax.

(1)If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
generally or subject to such conditions as may be specified in the
notification, taxable service of any specified description from the whole or
any part of the service tax leviablethereon.(2)If the Central Government is
satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by
special order in each case, exempt any taxable service of any specified
description from the payment of whole or any part of the service tax leviable
thereon, under circumstances of exceptional nature to be stated in suchorder.

### 94. Power to Make Rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Chapter.(2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:(a)collection and
recovery of service tax under sections 66 and 68;(b)the time and manner and
the form in which application for registration shall be made under section
69;(c)the form, manner and frequency of the returns to be furnished under
section 70;(d)the form in which appeal under section 85 or under sub-section
(6) of section 86 may be filed and the manner in which they may be
verified;(e)the manner in which the memorandum of cross objections under sub-
section (4) of section 86 may be verified;(f)any other matter which by this
Chapter is to be or may be prescribed. 7 ](3)The power to make rules conferred
by this section shall on the first occasion of the exercise thereof include
the power to give retrospective effect to the rules or any of them from a date
not earlier than the date on which the provisions of this Chapter come into
force.(4)Every rule made under this Chapter and every notification issued
under section 93 shall be laid, as soon as may be, after it is made or issued,
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or notification or both Houses agree that the rule
should not be made or the notification should not be issued, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

### 95. Power to Remove Difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this
Chapter, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official
Gazette, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter, remove the
difficulty :Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the date on which the provisions of this Chapter come
into force.(2)Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 96. Consequential Amendment.

In the Economic Offences (Inapplicability of Limitation) Act, 1974 (12 of
1974), in the Schedule, after Entry 7 relating to the Central Excises and Salt
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944),the following entry shall be inserted, namely :

