## Union of India - Act

## Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982

## Act 4 of 1982

  * Published on 19 March 1982 
  * Commenced on 19 March 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 March 2008.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by The Sugar Development Fund (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act 30 of 2002) on 1 January 2002] 
  2. [Amended by THE SUGAR DEVELOPMENT FUND (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2008 (Act 04 of 2008) on 24 March 2008] 

Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982Act No. 4 of 1982

### 1146.

Objects and Reasons.- With the view of providing assistance for the purposes
of rehabilitation and modernisation of sugar factories, for development of
sugarcane in the areas in which sugar factories are situated and for
encouraging research aimed at development of sugar industry, this Bill seeks
to provide for the formation of a fund to be known as the Sugar Development
Fund, and to provide for all matters connected therewith.2\. The cess on sugar
collected under the provisions of the Sugar Cess Bill, 1981, after deducting
the cost of collection, would be credit to the said fund. The purposes for
which the monies in the fund may be applied have been specified in clause 4 of
the Bill. For the purpose of securing speedy consideration and disposal of
application for assitance from the fund, clause 6 provides for the
constitution of a committee of officers of the Central Government.Amending Act
64 of 1982.- The Bill is a sequel to the Sugar Cess (Amendment) Bill, 1962.
For the purpose of generating the necessary funds for maintaining buffer stock
of sugar, the Sugar Cess (Amendment) Bill, 1982, seeks to amend the Sugar Cess
Act, 1982, for increasing the rate at which cess may levied under the Act on
sugar. This Bill seeks to amend the Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982, to
provide that the Sugar Development Fund under the Act, to which the proceeds
of the duty of excise levied and collected under the Sugar Cess Act, 1982 as
reduced by the cost of collection, are required to be credited after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law, may be utilised also for the purpose
of defraying some holding costs and interest charges to sugar mills for
building up and maintenance of buffer stocks of sugar.[ 19th March, 1982.]An
Act to provide for the financing of activities for development of sugar
industry and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.BE it
enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows :-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982.(2)It extends
to the whole of India.(3)It shall come into force on such [date] [ 1-6-1982
:vide notification No.G.S.R.436 (E) dated 29-5-1982,Gazette of India
Extraordinary 1982 ,Pt.II Section 3(I) ] as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definiations.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Committee" means
the Committee constituted under section 6;(b)"Fund" means the Sugar
Development Fund formed under section 3;(c)"prescribed" means prescribed by
rules made under this Act;(d)all other words and expressions used in this Act
and not defined; but defined in the Sugar Cess Act, 1982, shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Sugar Development Fund.

(1)There shall be formed a fund to be called the Sugar Development Fund.(2)An
amount equivalent to the proceeds of the duty of excise levied and collected
under the Sugar Cess Act, 1982, reduced by the cost of collection as
determined by the Central Government, together with any moneys received by the
Central Government for the purposes of this Act, shall, after due
appropriation made by Parliament by law, be credited to the Fund.(3)The Fund
shall consist of the amounts credited under sub-section (2) and any income
from investment of such amounts.

### 4. Application of Fund.

(1)The Fund shall be applied by the Central Government,-(a)for making loans
for facilities the rehabilitation and modernisation of any sugar factory or
any unit thereof or the undertaking of any scheme for development of sugarcane
in the area in which any sugar factory is situated;(aa)[ for making loans to
any sugar factory or any unit thereof for bagasse-based co-generation power
projects with a view to improving their viability;[Inserted by Act No. 30 of
2002](aaa)for making loans to any sugar factory or any unit thereof for
production of anhydrous alcohol or ethanol from alcohol with a view to
improving their viability;](b)for making grants for the purpose of any
research project aimed at development of sugar industry;(bb)[ for defraying
expenditure for the purpose of building up and maintenance of buffer stocks of
sugar with a view to establishing price of sugar;] [ Inserted by Act 64 of
1982 s.z.(w.e.f.13-11-1982) ](bbb)[ for defraying expenditure on internal
transport and freight charges to the sugar factories on export shipments of
sugar with a view to promoting its export;] [Inserted by Act No. 30 of
2002](bbbb)[ for defraying expenditure for the purpose of financial assistance
to sugar factories towards interest on loans given in terms of any scheme
approved by the Central Government from time to time] [New clause added by
Sugar Development Fund (Amendment) Act, 4 of 2008 ](c)for defraying any other
expenditure for the purpose of this Act.(2)The manner in which any loans or
grants may be made under this section and the terms and conditions subject to
which such loans or grants may be made shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 5. Applications for loans or grants Committee.

\- Every application for loan or grant under section 4 shall be made to the
Committee in such manner and in such form as may be prescribed.

### 6. Committee.

(1)For the purpose of securing speedy consideration and disposal of
applications received under section 5 and for considering any problems arising
in the course of the administration of this Act, the Central Government may
constitute a committee of officers of that Government.(2)The composition of
the Committee and the procedure to be followed by the Committee in the
discharge of its functions under this Act shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7. Annual report of activities financed under the Act.

\- The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, after the end of each
financial year, cause to be published in the Official Gazette, a report giving
an account of the activities financed under this Act during the financial
year, together with a statement of accounts.

### 8. Power to call for reports and returns.

\- The Central Government may require an occupier of a sugar factory or
furnish, for the purposes of this Act, such statistical and other information,
in such form and within such period as may be prescribed.

### 9. Power to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, be notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide
for,-(a)the manner in which any loans or grants may be made and the terms and
conditions subject to which such loans or grants may be made under section
4;(b)the manner and form in which applications may be made under section
5;(c)the composition of the Committee under section 6 of the procedure to be
followed by the Committee in the discharge of its functions under this
Act;(d)the form in which and the period within which statistical and other
information may be furnished under section 8;(e)any other matter which is
required to be or may be prescribed.(3)Every rules made under this section
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive session, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

