## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Rules, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Rules, 2003

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-TAX-ON-CONSUMPTION-OR-SALE-OF-ELECTRICITY-RULES-2003 of
2003

  * Published on 13 June 2003 
  * Commenced on 13 June 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 June 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Rules, 2003Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 52 Energy (B1) Department dated 13.06.2003In
exercise of the powers conferred by section 15 of the Tamil Nadu Tax on
Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act No 12 of2003),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules.

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of
Electricity Rules, 2003.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act
No.12 of 2003);(b)"Form" means Form appended to these Rules;(c)"Government
Treasury" means a treasury or sub-treasury of the Government and includes any
office, branch or agency of the State Bank of India transacting treasury
business for the Government;(d)"Inspecting Officer" means Electricity Tax
Inspecting Officer appointed under section 12 of the Act;(e)"non - licensee"
means a person who is not a licensee as defined in clause (10) of section 2 of
the Act;(f)"tax" means the tax payable under section 3 of the Act;

### 3. Collection charge.

\- The collection charge for the purpose of sub-section (2) of section 3 of
the Act shall be half percent of the tax collected by the person referred to
in the said section 3.

### 4. Manner of calculating the electricity tax.

(1)Where monthly billing is made by the licensee for his charges, including
tax, the tax payable in respect of the sale of electricity during the period
between the date of coming into force of the Act and the date of first meter
reading recorded thereafter (hereinafter called "the period first aforesaid")
shall be computed on the total sale for the period intervening between the
readings immediately preceding and immediately following the enforcement of
the Act (hereinafter called "the period second aforesaid") as follows:(i)If
the period first aforesaid is 8 days or more but is less than 16 days 25% of
the tax which would have been payable on the total consumption for the period
second aforesaid(ii)if the period of first aforesaid is 16 days or more but is
less than 24 days 50% of the tax which would have been payable on the total
consumption for the period second aforesaid.(iii)if the period first aforesaid
is 24 days or more but is less than 32 days 75% of the tax which would have
been payable on the total consumption for the period second aforesaid.(iv)if
the period first aforesaid is 32 days and above. The full amount of
electricity tax which would have been payable on the total consumption for the
period second aforesaid:Provided that in case the licensee is unable to
include the amount of tax in the bill immediately following the enforcement of
the Act for want of time, he may do so in the next bill.(2)Where bimonthly
billing is made by the licensee for his energy charges, including tax, the tax
payable in respect of the sale of electricity during the period between the
date of coming into force of the Act and the date of first meter reading
recorded thereafter (hereinafter called "the period first aforesaid") shall be
computed on the total sale for the period intervening between the readings
immediately preceding and immediately following the enforcement of the Act
(hereinafter called "the period second aforesaid") as follows:(i)if the period
first aforesaid is 8 days or more but is less than 16 days 12.5 % of the tax,
which would have been payable on the total consumption for the period second
aforesaid;(ii)if the period first aforesaid is 16 days or more but is less
than 24 days 25% of the tax which would have been payable on the total
consumption for the period second aforesaid.(iii)if the period first aforesaid
is 24 days or more but is less than 32 days 37.5% of the tax, which would have
been payable on the total consumption for the period second aforesaid.(iv)if
the period first aforesaid is 32 days or more but is less than 40 (jays 50% of
the tax which would have been payable on the total consumption for the period
second aforesaid(v)if the period first aforesaid is 40 days or more but is
less than 48 days 62.5% of the tax, which would have been payable on the total
consumption for the period second aforesaid.(vi)if the period first aforesaid
is 48 days or more but is less than 56 days 75% of the tax which would have
been payable on the total consumption for the period second aforesaid.(vii)if
the period first aforesaid is 56 days or more but is less than 64 days 87.5%
of the tax, which would have been payable on the total consumption for the
period second aforesaid.(viii)If the period first aforesaid is 64 days and
above. The full amount of tax which would have been payable on the total
consumption for the period second aforesaid:Provided that in case the licensee
is unable to include the amount of tax in the bill immediately following the
enforcement of the Act for want of time he may do so in the next bill:Provided
further that the Tax amount shall be rounded of to the nearest ten paise.

### 5. Registration.

(1)An application under section 5 of the Act for Registration shall be made in
duplicate to the "registering authority" in Form A1 along with a fee of
Rs.200/- (Rupees Two hundred only) for every generating plant. On receipt of
the application, the "registering authority" may grant to the applicant a
certificate of registration for such plant in Form A-2 subject to such
conditions as maybe specified therein. The Registration Number shall be quoted
in the register maintained in Form A-3 and in the return of tax required to be
submitted under rule 15. Certificate of registration shall be valid for a
period of three years.(2)The application under sub-rule (1) shall be submitted
by the person within seven days from the date of purchase or procurement of
such plant or seven days before the expiry of the certificate of
registration.Provided that in the case of an existing plant, such application
shall be submitted within seven days from the 16th June, 2003.(3)All captive
generating plants owned by a person for installation at a particular location
shall be registered under one registration number, subsequent additions,
deletions or alterations being endorsed thereon by the "registering authority"
on receipt of applications from time to time.(4)If permanent cessation of
generation is intended by any person from any registered generating plant, he
shall apply to the "registering authority" for cancellation of the
registration of that plant forthwith.(5)The registering authority may cancel a
certificate of registration for violation of any conditions subject to which a
certificate of registration was granted, after giving the person concerned, an
opportunity of being heard.(6)If any person to whom a certificate of
registration was granted:(a)sells or otherwise disposes off, discontinues or
changes his name or place of business, or(b)changes the nature of his
consumption of energy, which is specified in his application for registration,
he or, in the event of his death, his legal representative, shall inform the
"registering authority" about such sale, disposal, discontinuance or change
within seven days of such sale, disposal, discontinuance or change, as the
case may be.(7)A duplicate certificate of registration may be issued on
payment of a fee of Rs.100/- (Rupees One hundred only), if the "registering
authority" is satisfied that the original certificate has been lost or defaced
or mutilated or destroyed.(8)A Register of registered captive generating
plants shall be maintained by the registering officer in Form A-3.(9)The
receipt under this rule shall be credited to the following head:

Major Head | : 0043 - Taxes and Duties on Electricity.  
---|---  
Minor Head |  : 101 - Taxes on Consumption and Sale ofElectricity:  
Sub Head |  : AC Receipts under the Tamil Nadu Tax onConsumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003  
Detailed Head | : 04 Registration Fees (DPC 043 00 101 AC 0407)  
  
(10)Every person to whom a Registration Number is assigned under sub-rule (1)
shall:(a)pay the tax payable in respect of calendar month within thirty days
after the expiry of the month under the head:

Major Head | : 0043 Taxes and Duties on Electricity  
---|---  
Minor Head |  : 101 Taxes on Consumption and Sale ofElectricity  
Sub Head |  : AC Receipts under the Tamil Nadu Tax onConsumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003  
Detailed Head |  : 02 Captive generating plants and non-licenseesfor consumption of Electricity (DPC 0043 00 101 AC 0203) into aGovernment Treasury.  
  
(b)forward a copy of the treasury challan to the Director and the Inspecting
Officer indicating therein the Registration Number assigned to him under sub-
rule (1).(c)submit a monthly return in Form C-2 on or before the 30th day of
the next month following the month to which the return relates.Explanation. -
For the purpose of this rule, "registering authority" means the Officer
appointed under section 5 of the Act.

### 6. Manner of payment of electricity tax to government for sale of
Electricity by licensees.

(1)Every licensee or every person other than a licensee shall:(a)credit such
tax in the Government Treasury under the Head of Account:

Major Head | : 0043 Taxes and Duties on Electricity  
---|---  
Minor Head |  : 101 Taxes on Consumption and Sale ofElectricity  
Sub Head |  : AC Receipts under the Tamil Nadu Tax onConsumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003  
Detailed Head |  : 01 Sale of Electricity (DPC 0043 00 101 AC0101)  
Detailed Head |  : 02 Captive generating plants and non-licenseesfor consumption of Electricity (DPC 0043 00 101 AC 0203)  
  
(b)send the duplicate copy of the treasury challan to the Director with a copy
to the Electricity Tax Inspecting Officer having jurisdiction over such
areas.(2)In respect of the tax to be paid for the periods of monthly or
bimonthly billings on and after, the date corresponding to the fifteenth meter
reading of monthly billing mode, the licensee shall credit in to the
Government Treasury -(a)an amount equal to the average monthly tax paid by him
during the preceding 12 months, within thirty days after the expiry of the
month for which the tax is levied.(b)an amount equal to the difference between
the amount payable under clause (a) and the tax actually recovered in that
month for the sale of electricity in accordance with section 6 of the Act
within further period of thirty days after the expiry of the thirty days
aforesaid in clause (a).(c)The non-preparation of the bill of charges
including the tax and non delivery thereof to the consumer shall not relieve
the licensee from payment of tax to the Government within the period of thirty
days aforesaid after the expiry of the calendar month for which the tax is
leviable. The licensee shall, under such circumstances, pay the amount of tax
payable in the previous month specified in clauses (a) and (b) subject to
subsequent adjustments.Explanation. - Where any licensee makes payment by
cheque, the date on which the amount of the cheque is actually transferred to
the credit of the State Government shall, for the purpose of these rules, be
deemed to be the date on which the licensee has paid the tax.

### 7. Rate of interest.

\- The rate of interest payable under clause (a) of section 7 of the Act is
twelve percent per annum for each calendar month of delay. The licensee shall
credit such interest into the Government Treasury under the Head of Account: -

Major Head | : 0043 Taxes and Duties on Electricity  
---|---  
Minor Head |  : 101 Taxes on Consumption and Sale ofElectricity  
Sub Head |  : AC Receipts under the Tamil Nadu Tax onConsumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003  
Detailed Head |  : 03 Interest on belated payments. (DPC 0043 00101 AC 0305)  
  
The licensee shall furnish the receipt of challan showing payment of interest
along with a statement showing the details of calculations of such interest to
the Director.

### 8. Time and manner of reimbursement of electricity tax for sale of
electricity to consumer by licensee.

(1)A licensee shall include the tax leviable under the Act as a separate item
in the bill of charges for the sale of electricity by him and shall recover
the same from the consumer along with his own charges for the sale of such
electricity.(2)If due to mistake, omission or oversight or due to incorrect
information furnished by the consumer or omission by the consumer to give
notice of any change in the data previously furnished, the licensee fails to
include, in his bill of charges, for any one month, tax or the correct amount
of tax payable by the consumer, then the licensee shall include the same after
necessary adjustment if any, as a separate item in his bill of charges for any
subsequent month and recover the same.

### 9. Reading of the meters for monthly billing.

(1)A licensee shall in respect of sale of electricity liable to tax under the
Act, take all reasonable steps to cause the meter to be installed and
maintained at any premises of a consumer registering the kind of sale of
electricity attracting the taxation, to be read, as for as possible on the
same date of every month, namely, not less than 25 days and not more than 35
days after the date of previous meter reading and record the readings of the
sale of electricity in that one month. The period between two such consecutive
readings shall be reckoned as one month for the purpose of calculation of
electricity charge, billing, tax and submission of returns under sub-rule (1)
of rule 15.(2)reading of the meters for bimonthly billing: Where bimonthly
billing is made in respect of any class of consumer, a licensee shall, in
respect of sale of electricity liable to taxation under the Act, take all
reasonable steps to cause the meter installed and maintained at any premises
of a consumer registering the kind of sale of electricity attracting the
taxation, to be read, as far as possible on the same date of every two months,
namely, not less than 50 days and not more than 70 days after the date of
previous meter reading and record the readings of the sale of electricity in
that two months. The period between two such consecutive readings shall be
reckoned as two months for the purpose of calculation of energy charge,
billing, tax and submission of returns under sub-rule (1) of rule
15.Explanation. - "Average month sale" of such two months period shall be
reckoned as sale per month for the purpose of calculation of tax and
submission of returns.

### 10. Installation of meters to measure the quantity of electricity For own
consumption or sale of surplus electricity to others.

(1)Meter shall be installed and maintained by the owner of the captive
generating plants to measure the quantity of electricity consumed for own use
and, or surplus electricity sold to others for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount of tax payable under section 3 of the Act. Any meter placed upon the
premises of captive generating plant shall be accurate and of appropriate
capacity not exceeding the limits of error specified in the Indian Electricity
Rues, 1956. Separate suitable and correct meters or sub-meters shall be
installed to register the quantities of electricity consumed for own use and
sold to other persons.Explanation. - A meter includes any maximum demand
indicator, associated current transformers, potential transformers, current
shunts or any other auxiliaries associated with a meter for registration of
the quantity of electricity consumed or supplied.(2)All meters, maximum demand
indicators and other apparatus for ascertaining the quantity of electricity
consumed or supplied shall be tested and calibrated before their first
installation and at such other intervals as may be specified in the Indian
Electricity Rules, 1956.(3)The owner of a meter shall arrange for testing the
correctness of the meter by an agency deemed qualified for the purpose by the
Chief Electrical Inspector to Government and present the test report of the
testing agency before Inspecting Officer.

### 11. Provisions of separate meters.

\- Where there is a combined installation, where part of a supply of
electricity is taxable and part is exempt, the consumer shall install and
maintain separate, suitable and correct meters or sub-meters to register the
quantities of the two kinds of consumption separately.

### 12. Procedure for refund.

(1)No consumer shall be entitled to the refund of the tax payable to the
Government in excess of the tax leviable under the Act, unless an application
for the refund of the tax supported by the original electricity bill and
receipt of payment made to the licensee, has been made to the Director within
twelve months from the date of payment of such excess tax.(2)On receipt of the
application under sub-rule (1), the Director may call for such documents and
necessary information as may be required by him and may, if satisfied, pass an
order for refund of the tax paid during the period of one year prior to the
date of the receipt of the application from the consumer.

### 13.

The rate of simple interest payable under section 11 of the Act is four
percent per annum for each calendar month of delay in making refund to a
licensee.

### 14. Keeping books of accounts etc.

(1)The books of accounts kept by a licensee, other than captive generating
plant under section 8 of the Act shall be in Form B-l and shall show
separately sales of electricity to the privileged consumers and other sales of
electricity chargeable under section 3 and shall contain the following
particulars, namely:(i)Name of the consumer;(ii)Address of the consumer's
premises with a brief description thereof;(iii)Number of units of electricity
sold to consumers under different tariff;(iv)Energy charge, fuel surcharge
other charges, if any, and net charge for the electricity supplied;(v)Amount
of tax chargeable, and(vi)Date of disconnection of supply of electricity on
failure of payment of tax.Provided that the licensee may furnish the
particular (ii) above in a separate statement to the satisfaction of the
Inspecting Officer.(2)The books of account to be kept by a captive generating
plant and a non-licensee in respect of the consumption for own use under
section 8 of the Act, shall be in Form B-2 and shall contain the following
particulars, namely: -(i)Place of generation of electricity;(ii)Number of
units of electricity generated;(iii)Amount of tax chargeable and paid
thereon;(3)The books of account to be kept by the owner of the captive
generating plant engaged in the sale of surplus electricity under section 8 of
the Act shall be in Form B-3 and shall contain the following
particulars:(i)Place of generation of electricity;(ii)Number of units of
electricity generated;(iii)Number of units of electricity sold by him to
others(iv)Amount of tax chargeable and recovered thereon.

### 15. Submission of returns.

(1)The following monthly returns shall be submitted in duplicate, one copy to
the Director and another to the Inspecting Officer, before fifteenth day of
the month next after that following the month to which the return relates
namely:(i)The return in Form C-l for sale of electricity, tax chargeable
thereon, by licensee other than captive generating plant(ii)A return in Form
C-2 for own consumption of electricity by captive generating plant or non-
licensee(iii)A return in Form C-3 for sale of surplus electricity and tax
chargeable thereon by captive generating plant.(2)The following monthly
returns shall be submitted by the licensee including the owner of the captive
generating plant(i)A return in Form D-l by licensee other than owner of the
captive generating plant; and(ii)A return in Form D-2 by the owner of the
captive generating plant containing the names and addresses of the consumers
who have made default payment of tax and the amount of tax which the licensee
has been unable to recover from such consumers.Provided that in the case of
any licensee, the State Government may, by special order, modify the Forms C
and D in which the above particulars shall be furnished in such manner as may
be considered suitable to meet the special conditions, if any arises.

### 16. Procedure for assessment of tax under section 9.

(1)Where it appears necessary to the Director to make an assessment under
section 9 in respect of the tax payable by any licensee, he shall serve a
notice in Form E-l upon him:(a)stating the return period or periods of a year
in respect of which the assessment is proposed.(b)requiring him to produce the
books of account and other documents which the authority wishes to examine
together with any objection if any which the licensee may wish to prefer, any
evidence which he may wish to produce in support thereof(2)After examining the
books of accounts, considering the objection preferred and evidence produced
in support thereof, the Director shall assess under section 9, the amount of
tax payable by the assessee, and he shall briefly but clearly record the
reasons on which his order is based.(3)If, after adjusting the amount of tax
paid by the assessee for the period in question, any such tax is found to be
due from a licensee or a person, assessed under section 9, the Director shall
serve a notice in Form E-2 on the assessee specifying the date within which
payment shall be made and he shall further specify the date on which and the
authority to whom the evidence in support of such payment shall be produced
and he shall also send a copy of the assessment order to the assessee along
with the said notice.(4)For the purpose of procedure for payment of tax found
due on assessment, the provisions of rule 4 to 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

### 17. Appeal and procedure for disposal of appeal.

(1)The appeal under section 10 of the Act:(i)shall contain the following
particulars, namely: -(a)the date of order appealed against;(b)the name and
designation of the officer who passed the order;(c)the grounds of appeal
briefly but clearly set out;(d)the date of receipt of the notice of the demand
arising out of assessment order.(e)the amount of tax and the amount of
interest admitted to be due from the appellant.(ii)shall be accompanied by a
copy of the order appealed against;(iii)shall be endorsed by the appellant or
by an agent authorised, in writing, by the appellant as follows:(a)that the
amount of tax or interest as the appellant admits to be due from him has been
paid;(b)that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the particulars set out
in the memorandum are correct.(iv)shall be signed by the appellant or by an
agent authorised, in writing, by the appellant.(2)If the appellant fails to
comply with the requirements either of clause (iii) or clause (iv) of sub-rule
(1), the appeal shall be summarily rejected and if the appellant fails to
comply with the requirements of clause (i) or clause (ii), the appeal may be
rejected only when the appellant is given such opportunity, as the Government
thinks fit to amend the appeal, so as to bring it in conformity with such
requirements and when the appellant fails to make such amendment within the
time allowed by the Government.(3)If the appeal is not rejected, then the
Government shall pass order in writing, after hearing, the appellant and
thereafter the Government shall send one copy of the said order to the
appellant and another copy of it to the Director, against whose order appeal
was preferred.

### 18. Power of entry of inspecting officer.

\- An inspecting Officer may enter any premises where electricity is, or
believed to be, generated for own consumption, or sale of surplus electricity
to others, for the purpose of:(a)verifying the statements made in the books of
account kept and return submitted by licensee;(b)checking the readings of the
meters; and(c)verifying the particulars required in connection with the levy
of tax

### 19. Inspection of books of account and checking of returns.

\- An Inspecting Officer may, at any time during the working hours of the
office of the licensee or non licensee, as the case may be require him to
produce for inspection at the registered or other office such books and
records in his possession or control as may be deemed necessary by the
Inspecting Officer for ascertaining or verifying the amount of tax payable
under the Act.

### 20. Application of rules in the case of generation of electricity by Any
captive generating plant or any non-licensee.

(1)Any person liable to pay tax under clause (b) and clause(c) of sub-section
(1) of section 3 of the Act, shall keep a register of the taxable electricity
consumed by him in Form B-2 and shall pay the amount of the tax into a
Government Treasury and also submit monthly return as per the provisions of
sub-rule (1) of rule 15.(2)Subject to provisions of sub-rule(l), the aforesaid
rules shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of the generation and
consumption of electricity by a captive generating plant or a non-licensee.

### 21. Application of the rules in the case of supply of surplus energy by
captive generating plants.

\- The provisions of rules 2 to 18 shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of
sale of surplus energy by captive generating plants.AppendixForm A-l[See rule
5(1)]Application For Registration by a Person Intending To Generate or
Intending To Continue of Electricity For His Own Use and, or Who Applies The
Same To Other Persons.

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant

### 2\. Location where the set is used or intended to be used

### 3\. Registration Number with its date, if any under this rule

### 4\. Details of the generating plant

(i)Make(ii)Rated capacity and rated voltage(iii)De-rated
capacity(iv)Manufacture's name(v)Manufacture's SI. No

### 5\. Date of purchase/ procurement Purpose for which the set is used or
intended to be used

### 6\. Whether the set is used at one fixed place or intended to be shifted
from place to place

### 7\. Date of commencement of generation

### 8\. Average daily consumption (i.e. number of units of energy consumed)

### 9\. Remarks

(applicant may include here any additional information)Place:Signature /
Designation the applicant on behalf ofDate:Form A-2[See rule 5(1)]Certificate
of Registration of Captive Generating Plant

Registered No..................... | Date......................  
---|---  
  
Registration is hereby granted to Thiru ..................... for captive
generating plants the particulars of which are endorsed hereunder. This
certificate is issued subject to the compliance with the conditions set out on
the reserve and also to the continued compliance with the conditions set out
under section.................of the Tamil Nadu Tax On Consumption or Sale of
Electricity Act,
2003.Signature________________Designation______________(Registering
Authority)Table of captive generating plants registered

S.No. | Manufacturer's name | Manufacturer's SI.No. | Kilowatt of Kilovolt Ampere rating | Voltage | Direct Current or Alternating Current | Date of purchase or procurement | Date of Endorsement of Registration | Initial of Registering Authority  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
All the captive generating plants owned by a particular person for
installation at a particular location shall be registered under one
certificate of registration vide sub-rule 3 of rule 5.Conditions

### 1\. Payment of tax due shall be made regularly.

### 2\. Register in Form B-2 shall be maintained properly.

### 3\. Monthly return in Form C-2 shall be submitted regularly. If there is
no consumption in any month, a nil return shall be submitted.

### 4\. Intimation in writing shall be sent to the issuing authority at least
7 days prior to the date of commencement of generation.

### 5\. Metering arrangements shall be made in conformity with the provisions
of rules 10 and 11 of the Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity
Rules, 2003.

### 6\. If any material information furnished in connection with the
registration is found

Form A-3[See rule 5(1)]

Registration Certificate | Date of issue_____________  
---|---  
No. Name___________________________  
Location of installation of the captivegenerating plants_____________  
  
S.No. | Manufacturer's name | Manufacture's SI.No. | Kilowatt of Kilovolt Ampere rating | Voltage | Direct Current or Alternating | Current Date of purchase or procurement | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form B-l[See rule 14(1)]

Name of consumer: | Purpose for which energy is consumed  
---|---  
Address: |   
Service Connection No. : | Tariff:  
  
Month |  Gross charge for energy supplied as per item 1(c)of Form C-1 |  Net charge for energy supplied as per item 1 (e)of Form C-1 | Balance Tax | Demand of Tax | Total tax to be paid | Collection |  Remarks with date of disconnection fornon-payment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
January |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
February |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
March |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
April |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
May |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
June |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
July |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
August |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
September |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
October |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
November |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
December |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form B-2[See rules 14(2) and 20(1)]Register of Taxable Electricity Consumed
From Captive Generating Plants To Be Kept by Owners of Captive Generating
PlantsName of the person or company generating
energy:..............................Address:.........................................Record
of units registered by meter No:................

Date of which meter was read | Meter reading | Number of units of electricity generated |  Number of units of electricity consumed month bymonth | Amount of tax payable | Details of payable  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Form B-3[See rules 14 (3) and 20(1)]Register of Taxable Surplus Electricity
Sold By Captive Generating PlantsTo be kept by owners of captive generating
plantsName of die person or company generating
energy:..............Address:......................................................Record
of units registered by meter No:.......................

Date of which meter was read | Meter reading | Number of units of electricity generated |  Number of units of surplus electricity sold monthby month | Amount of tax payable | Details of payable  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Signature:Form C-l[See rule 15(1)]Return For Supply of Electricity By
Licensee, The Tax Changed Thereon During The Month of
.........20............and the Tax Payable For the Month
of..............20.........

### 1\. (a) Aggregate energy charge for supply of electricity

Note 1: Energy charge does not include(i)Meter Charges(ii)Interest on delayed
payment(iii)Fuel surcharge of(iv)fuse-off call charges and reconnection
chargesNote 2: Energy charge includes the amount charged as energy charge,
demand charge and power factor surcharge.(b)Aggregate fuel surcharge and other
charges, if any, made by the licensee for the supply of electricity.(c)Gross
charge for electricity supplied [(a) + (b)](d)Rebate allowed by the licensee
for prompt payment and refund of fuel surcharge and other charges, if any, for
the supply of electricity.(e)Net charge for the electricity supplied [(c) -
(d)]

### 2\. Net charge for electricity exempted

(a)Under proviso of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 3.(i)Sale of
electricity for agricultural purposes,(ii)Sale of electricity for hut service
connections(b)Under proviso of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 3,
sale of electricity to the Board (namely, licensee)(c)Under Section 4(i)Sale
of electricity to any Government for consumption excluding consumption for
residential purposes.(ii)Sale of electricity to any local authority for
consumption excluding consumption for residential purposes.(iii)Sale of
electricity to any Railway administration as defined in the Railways Act 1989,
for consumption excluding consumption for residential purposes.(d)Under
Section 14 for electricity supplied for consumption by or in respect of(i)in
any institution or class of referred to in sub-clause (i) of Section 14.(ii)in
any place referred to sub-clause (ii) of section 14.(iii)in any premises
referred to in sub-clause (iii) of Section 14.(iv)in any vessel referred to in
sub-clause (iv) of Section 14.

### 3\. Balance charge for energy supplied on which tax is payable (Column
1(e) - Column 2 Total)

### 4\. Amount of tax payable for supply of electricity on the balance charge
in item 3.

### 5\. Less:

**(a) Amount of tax not recovered (namely, transfers to disconnected
ledgers)**(b) Refunds or adjustments allowed as per statement
attached.(c)Collection charges under sub-section (2) of Section 3 Total [(a) +
(b) + (c))

### 6\. Total net amount of tax payable for supply of electricity during the
month [Column 4 - Column S Total] Plus:

### 7\. Recoveries on account of previous **months, (namely, recoveries from
consumers disconnected)

### 8\. Total amount of tax payable in the month [Column 6+Column 7]

### 9\. Amount shown under item 8 is paid by challan(s) under
...............dated of...........(bank).

Dated: | Signature  
---|---  
Office seal. |   
  
* Statement showing authority for exemption should be attached to the return.** A schedule furnishing details under this item should be attached to this return.Form C -2[(See rules 15(l)(ii) and 20(1)]Return For Own Use of Electricity by Captive Generating Plants and Persons Other Than Licensees, The Tax To Be Charged Thereon During The Month ...............20 ...........and The Tax Payable For the Month of 20..

1. | Total Number of units of electricity consumed. |   
---|---|---  
2. | Amount of tax payable |   
3. | Less: |   
| Refunds or adjustments allowed as per statement attached |   
4. |  Total tax payable for consumption of electricity for the month(Column 2 - Column 3) |   
5. | Plus: |   
| Arrears on account of previous month |   
6. |  Total amount of tax payable for the month (Column 4 + Column5) |   
7. | Amount shown under item (6) is paid by challan(s) under .......... dated ...............of ............. (Bank) |   
  
Dated: | Signature  
---|---  
seal: |   
  
Form C-3[See rules 15(l)(iii) and 20(1)]Return For Sale of Surplus Electricity
By Captive Generating Plant The Tax Charged thereon During the Month of
.......20 .... and the Tax Payable For the Month of..........20...

1. |  (a) Aggregate energy charge for sale ofelectricity. |   
---|---|---  
|  (b) Aggregate other charges if any made by thecaptive generating plant for the sale of electricity. |   
| (c) Gross charge for energy supplied, (a + b) |   
|  (d) Rebate allowed if any, for the supply ofelectricity. |   
| (e) Net charge for energy supplied (c - d) |   
2. |  Net charge for energy exempted under proviso toclause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 |   
3. |  Balance charge for sale of electricity on whichtax is payable. (Column 1(e) - Column 2) |   
4. |  Amount of tax payable for sale of electricity onthe balance charge in item No.3 |   
5. | LESS: |   
|  (a) Refunds or adjustments allowed (as perstatement attached) |   
|  (b) Any other amount allowed under Act andRules. |   
| Total (a + b) |   
6. |  Total net amount of tax payable for sale ofelectricity during the month (Column 4 - Column 5 Total) |   
7. | PLUS: |   
| Recoveries on account of previous months. |   
8. |  Total amount of tax payable in the month (Column6 + Column 7) |   
9. | Amount shown under item 8 is paid by challan(s) under ................ dated .................. of ............. (Bank) |   
  
Dated: | Signature  
---|---  
Office seal: |   
  
Form D-l[See rules 15(2)(ii)]Return of Consumers who are in Default of Payment
of Electricity Tax Due on Account of Electricity Supplied, Payment For Which
Is Proposed to be Written off During In Month.........20...As Irrecoverable
(To Be Submitted by the Licensee).

Name and address of the consumer | Net charge concerned | Amount of tax | Amount that has become irrecoverable | Period for which tax is payable | Reference to Ledger account No. |  Remarks (Action taken if any/by the licensee forrecovery)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date:Signature:Note: Reasons should be noted for non recovery of any
individual item exceeding Rs. 100/-Form D-2[See rules 15(2)(ii) and 20
(1)]Monthly Return Showing Particulars of Persons To Whom Surplus Electricity
Is Sold by a Captive Generating Plant and who have Defaulted In Payment of Tax
During The Month of 20___________

Name and address of the person to whom surpluselectricity is supplied | No. of units of electricity supplied | Net charge | Amount of tax payable | Amount that has become irrecoverable under 4 | Period for which tax is payable | Reference to Ledger Account No. |  Remarks (Action taken if any, by the licensee forrecovery)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
SignatureForm E-l[See rule 16(1)]Notice of Assessment Under Section 9 of the
Tamil Nadu Tax On Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003To**(Name of the
licensee/person liable to pay electricity tax under Section
3)..............................................................(address)Whereas
-*(a) You being a licensee have not submitted the return(s) under Section 8 of
the Act in respect of the period(s) from ............to........*(b) You being
a person liable to pay tax under of sub-section (1) of Section 3 have not
submitted the return(s) under Section 8 of the Act in respect of the period(s)
from..........to.........*(c) The return(s) under Section 8 of the Act for the
period(s) clause (c) from..........to............Submitted by you
appears/appear to be incorrect or incomplete;And whereas it appears to me that
it is necessary to make an assessment under Section 9 of the Act in respect of
the above mentioned period(s) from to...........You are hereby directed to
attend at (place) on (date) at (item) and to produce there the books of
account (list of which is given below) together with any objection which you
may wish to prefer and any evidence you may wish to adduce in support
thereof.In the event of your failure to comply with this notice, I shall
assess the amount of tax under Section 9 of the Act to the best of my
judgement without further reference to you.

Dated: | Director  
---|---  
Office seal: |   
  
List of books of Account and document required to be produced(*) Strike out
which is not applicable.Form E-2[See rule 16(3)]Note of Demand of Tax Assessed
Under Section 9 of Tamil Nadu Tax On Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act,
2003.To......................................................................................................
of.....................................................................................(address)In
continuation of the notice in Form E-l served on you on..............you are
hereby informed that for the period(s) from.............tax payable by you has
been assessed as per details below:You are hereby directed to pay the sum of
Rs..................as per details below, into Government Treasury on or
before.......................(date) and to produce tile receipt in proof of
payment before....................(name of the authority) not later
than..............(date) failure which the unpaid amount shall be recoverable
from you as a public Demand.Details

Dated: | Director  
---|---  
Address:Seal: | 

