## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1971

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1971

## Act 11 of 1971

  * Published on 1 January 1971 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1971 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1971.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1971(Act No. 11 of
1971)Last Updated 17th December, 2019An Act to provide for the improvement and
clearance of slums in the State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas the number of slums in
certain areas in the State of Tamil Nadu is on the increase and the slums are
likely to become a source of danger to public health and sanitation of the
said area.And Whereas under the existing law, it has not been possible
effectively to arrest the growth of slums, to eliminate congestion and to
provide for certain basic needs such as streets, water -supply and drainage in
slums and to clear slums which are unfit for human habitation.And Whereas to
obviate this difficulty, it is expedient to provide for the removal of
unhygenic and insanitary conditions prevailing in slums, for better
accommodation and improved living conditions for slum dwellers, for the
promotion of public health generally and for the acquisition of land for the
purpose of improving or developing slum areas, re - developing slum clearance
areas and rehabilitating slum dwellers:And Whereas it is Directive principle
of State Policy embodied in the constitution that the State should regard the
improvement of public health as among its primary duties.Be it enacted by the
legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty -second year of the
Republic of India as follows:

## Chapter 1  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- This Act may be called Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance)
Act, 1971.

### 2. It extends to the whole of Tamil Nadu.

### 3. It should come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint and different dates may be appointed for different areas
and for different provisions of this Act:

Provided that any reference in any such provision to the commencement of this
Act shall be construed as a reference to the coming into force of that
provision.

### 2\. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires. -(a)"Board" means the
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, established under section 34;(b)"Building"
includes a house, out-house, stable, latrine, shed, hut, wall and any other
such structure, whether or masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or any other
materials whatsoever, but does not include part or machinery comprised in a
building;(c)"Court" means -(i)in the city of Madras, the Madras City Civil
Court;(ii)elsewhere, the Subordinate Judge's Court having jurisdiction and if
there is not such Subordinate Judge's Court, the District Court having
jurisdiction;(d)"erection" in relation to a building includes extension,
alteration or re-erection;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"land"
includes building and benefits to arise out of land and things attached to the
earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth or permanently
fastened to anything attached to the earth;(g)"occupier" includes-(i)any
person who for the time being is paying or is liable to pay to the owner the
rent or any portion of the rent of the land or building in respect of which
such rent is paid or is payable;(ii)an owner in occupation of, or otherwise
using his land or building;(iii)a rent-free tenant of any land or
building;(iv)a licensee in occupation of any land or building; and(v)any
person who is liable to pay to the owner damages for the use and occupation of
any land or buildings;(h)"owner" includes any person, who is receiving or is
entitled to receive the rent of any land or building whether on his own
account or on behalf and others or as an agent, trustee, executor,
administrator, receiver or guardian or who would so receive the rent or be
entitled to receive the rent, if the land or building were let to a
tenant;(i)"person interested" in relation to any land or building, includes
any person claiming, or entitled to claim, an interest in the compensation
payable on account of the acquistion of that land or building under this
Act;(j)"prescribed authority" means any authority or person authorized by the
Government in this regard, by notification;(k)"slum area" means any area
declared to be a slum area under sub -section (1) of section 3; (1) of section
3;(l)"slum clearance area" means any slum area declared to be a slum clearance
area under section 11;(m)"State Housing Board" means the Tamil Nadu State
Housing Board constituted under the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board Act, 1961
Tamil Nadu Act XVII of 1961);(n)"work of improvement" in relation to any
building in a slum area includes the execution of any one or more of the
following works, namely:-(i)necessary repairs;(ii)structural
alterations;(iii)provision of light points, water -taps and bathing
places;(iv)construction of drains, open or covered;(v)provision of latrines,
including conversion of dry latrines into water-borne latrines;(vi)provision
of additional or improved fixtures or fittings;(vii)opening up or paving of
Court-yards;(viii)removal of rubbish; and(ix)any other work including the
demolition of any building or any part there of which in the opinion of the
prescribed authority is necessary for executing any of the works specified
above.

## Chapter II  
Declaration Of Slum Areas

### 3\. Declaration of slum areas.

(1)Where the Government are satisfied that-(a)any area is or may be a source
of danger to the health, safety or convenience of the public of that area or
of its neighbourhood, by reason of the area being low -or of its
neighbourhood, by reason of the area being low-lying, insanitary, squalid,
overcrowded or otherwise; or(b)the buildings in any area, used or intended to
be used for human habitation are -(i)in any respect, unfit for human
habitation; or(ii)by reason of dilapidation, over-crowding, faculty
arrangement and design of such buildings, narrowness or faculty arrangement of
streets, lack of ventilation, light or sanitation facilities, or any
combination of these factors, detrimental to safety, health or morals, they
may by notification, declare such area to be a slum area.(2)In determining
whether a building is unfit for human habitation, for the purposes of this
Act, regard shall be had to its condition in respect of the following matters,
that is to say: -(i)repair,(ii)stability,(iii)freedom from damp,(iv)natural
light and air.(v)water-supply(vi)drainage and sanitary
conveniences,(vii)facilities for storage, preparation and cooking of food and
for the disposal of water waste;and the building shall be deemed to be unfit
as aforesaid, if and only if it is so defective in one or more of the said
matters that it is not reasonably suitable for occupation in that condition.

## Chapter III  
Prevention of Growth of Slums

### 4. Registration of building.

(1)(a)Within the period specified in clause (b) the owner or occupier of every
building situated in any slum area shall send to the prescribed authority a
statement in such form as may be prescribed.(b)The statement under clause (a)
shall be sent within such period as may be prescribed.(2)On receipt of the
statement under sub-section (1) the prescribed authority shall, on being
satisfied about the correctness of the statement, register the building in a
register maintained for the purpose and containing such particulars as may be
prescribed and shall issue, in the prescribed form a registration certificate
to the owner or occupier of the building.

### 5. Restriction on building, etc., in slum areas.

(1)The prescribed authority may, by notification, direct that no person shall
erect any building in a slum area except with the previous permission in
writing of the prescribed authority.(2)Every notification issued under sub-
section (1) shall cease to have effect on the expiration of two years from the
date thereof except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such
cesser.(3)Every person desiring to obtain permission referred to in sub
-section (1) shall make an application in writing to the prescribed authority,
in such form and containing such information in respect of the erection of the
building to which the application, the prescribed authority, after making such
enquiry as it considers necessary shall, by order in writing.-(a)either grant
the permission subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as may be
specified in the order; or(b)refuse to grant such permission;Provided that
before making an order refusing such permission, the applicant shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to show cause why the permission should not be
refused.(4)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to -(a)any works
of improvement required to be executed by a notice under sub- section (1) of
section 6 or in pursuance of an undertaking given under sub-section (2) of
Section 9; or(b)the erection of any building in any area in respect of which a
notification has been issued under sub -section (1) of Section 11.

## Chapter IV  
Improvement of Slum Areas.

### 6. Power of prescribed authority to require execution of works of
improvement to slum areas.

(1)Where the prescribed authority is satisfied that a reasonable
expense.(a)any slum area or any part thereof is capable of being improved so
as not to be a source of danger to the health, safety or convenience of the
public of that area; or(b)any building being unfit for human habitation in a
slum area can be rendered fit for human habitation.It may serve upon the owner
of the slum area or part thereof of the building, as the case any be, a notice
requiring him within such time not being less than sixty days, as may be
specified in the notice, to execute the works of improvement specified
therein:Provided that where the owner of the building is different from the
owner of the land on which the building stands and the works of improvement
required to be executed relate to provision of water-taps, bathing places,
construction of drains, open or covered as the case may be, provision of water
-borne latrines or removal of rubbish and such works are to be executed
outside the buildings, the notice shall be served upon the owner of the
land.(2)In addition to serving a notice under sub-section (1) on the other
concerned, the prescribed authority may serve a copy of the notice on any
other person having an interest in the slum area or part thereof or the
building or the land on which the building stands, whether as lessee,
mortgagee or otherwise.(3)In determining for the purposes of this Act, whether
at a reasonable expense the slum area or part thereof can be improved or the
building rendered fit for hum an habitation, regard shall be had to the
estimated cost of the works of improvement of the slum area or part thereof of
the works necessary to render the building fit for human habitation and the
estimated value that the slum area or part thereof or the building will have
when such works are completed.

### 7. Power to execute works of improvement to slum areas and to recover
expenses.

(1)If a notice under sub-section (1) of section 6 is not complied with, then,
after the expiration of the time specified in the notice, the prescribed
authority may itself execute the works required to be executed by the
notice.(2)All expenses incurred by the prescribed authority under this
section, together with interest, at such rate as the Government may, by order,
fix from the date when a demand for the expenses is made under payment, may be
recovered by the prescribed authority from the owner of the slum area or part
thereof or of the building or of the land on which the building stands, as the
case may be, as arrears of land revenue and all such expenses and interest
shall constitute a charge upon the slum area or part thereof or the building
or the land on which the building stands, as the case may be;Provided that if
the owner proves that he -(a)is receiving the rent merely as agent or trustee
for some other person; and(b)has not in his hands on behalf of that other
person sufficient money to satisfy the whole demand of the prescribed
authority, his liability shall be limited to the total amount of the money
which he has in his hands as aforesaid.

### 8. Expenses of maintenance of works of improvements, etc., to be
recoverable from the occupiers of the land or building.

(1)Where works of improvement have been executed in relation to any land or
building in a slum area, in pursuance of the provisions of sections 6 and 7,
the expenses incurred by the prescribed authority, or as the case may be, by
any local authority, in connection with the maintenance of such works of
improvement or the enjoyment of amenities and conveniences rendered possible
by such works, may be recovered from the occupier or occupiers of the land or
building as arrears of land revenue.(2)The amount of expenses referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be determined by order by the prescribed authority an d
in the case of expenses incurred by the local authority, the prescribed
authority shall consult the local authority before passing an order
determining the amount of expenses incurred by the local authority.

### 9. Power of prescribed authority to order demolition of building unfit for
human habitation.

(1)Where the prescribed authority on a report from the local authority
concerned or the State Housing Board or the Board or an officer authorized by
the Government for this purpose is satisfied that any building being unfit for
human habitation in a slum area is not capable at a reasonable expense of
being rendered so fit, it shall serve upon the owner of the building and upon
any other person having an interest in the building, whether as lessee,
mortgagee or otherwise, a notice to show cause, within such time as may be
specified in the notice, as to why an order of demolition of the building
should not be made.(2)If any of the persons upon whom a notice has been served
under sub-section (1) appears in pursuance thereof before the prescribed
authority and gives an undertaking to that authority that such person shall,
within such period as may be specified by the authority, execute such works of
improvement in relation to the building, as will in the opinion of the
authority, render the building fit for human habitation or that it shall not
be used for human habitation until that authority on being satisfied that it
has been rendered fir for that purpose cancels the undertaking, the authority
shall not make any order of demolition of the building.(3)If no such
undertaking as is mentioned in sub -section (2) is given, or if, in a case
where any such undertaking has been given, any work of improvement to which
the undertaking relates is not carried out within the specified period or the
building is at any time used in contravention of the terms of the undertaking,
the prescribed authority shall forthwith make an order of demolition of the
building, or require that the building shall be demolished within such period
as may be prescribed.

### 10. Procedure to be followed where demolition order has been made .

\- Where an order of demolition of building under section 9 has been made, the
owner of the building or any other person having an interest therein shall
demolish that building, within the period mentioned in sub-section (3) of
section 9; and if the building is not demolished within that time, the
prescribed authority shall enter and demolish the building and subject to the
provisions of section 61, sell the materials thereof.

## Chapter V  
Slum Clearance and Re-Development

### 11. Power to declare any slum area to be a slum clearance area.

(1)Where the Government, on a report from the Board or the prescribed
authority, or the local authority concerned or the State Housing Board or an
officer authorized by the Government for this purpose are satisfied as
respects any slum area that the most satisfactory method of dealing with the
conditions in the area is the clearance of such area and the demolition of all
the buildings in the area, they may, by notification, declare the area to be
slum clearance area, that is to say, an area to be cleared of all buildings in
accordance with the provisions of this Act:Provided that before issuing such
notification the Government shall call upon the owners of the land and
buildings in such slum area to show cause why such declaration should not be
made and after considering the cause, if any, shown by such owners, the
Government may pass such orders as they may deem fit.(2)Any part of the slum
area or any building in the slum area which is not fit for human habitation or
dangerous or injurious to safety, health or morals may be excluded from the
notification under sub section (1) if the Government consider it
necessary.(3)The notification under sub -section (1) shall specify each of the
buildings to be demolished and the area to be cleared.

### 12. Obligation to clear area and demolish buildings.

\- When a slum area has been declared to be a slum clearance area under sub
-section (1) of section 11, the owners of the lands and the buildings in that
area shall clear the area and demolish the buildings before the expiration of
such period as may be prescribed.

### 13. Power to clear slum clearance areas.

\- If any slum clearance area is not cleared or the buildings demolished
before the expiration of the period mentioned in section 12, the prescribed
authority shall enter and clear the area and demolish the buildings and
subject to the provisions of section 61, sell the materials thereof.

### 14. Owner may re-develop.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, where a notification under sub-
section (1) of section 11 has been issued, the owner of the land to which the
notification applies may re -develop the land in accordance with plans
approved by the prescribed authority and subject to such restrictions and
conditions (including a condition with regard to the time within which the re-
development shall be completed), if any, as that authority may think fit to
impose:Provided that an owner who is aggrieved by a restriction or condition
so imposed on the user of his land or by a subsequent refusal of the
prescribed authority to cancel or modify any such restriction or condition
may, within such time as may be prescribed, appeal to the Government and the
Government shall make such order in the matter as they think proper and their
decision shall be final.(2)No person shall commence or cause to be commenced
any work in contravention of a plan approved or a restriction or condition
imposed under sub-section (1).

### 15. Power of prescribed authority to re- develop clearance area.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 14, the
prescribed authority may, at any time, after the land has been cleared and the
buildings have been demolished in accordance with the foregoing pro visions of
this Chapter but before the work of re-development of that land has been
commenced by the owner, by order, determine to re -develop the land if that
authority is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest to do
so.(2)Where land has been cleared and the buildings have been demolished in
accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, the prescribed
authority, if it is satisfied that the land has been, or is being re
-developed by the owner thereof in contravention of plans approved by the
authority or any restrictions or conditions imposed under sub -section (1) of
section 14, or has not been re -developed within the time, if any, specified
under such conditions, may, by order, determine to re-develop the
land:Provided that before passing an order under sub -section (1) or sub-
section (2), the owner shall be given a reasonable opportunity to show cause
why the order should not be passed.(3)All expense incurred by the prescribed
authority under this section, together with interest at such rate as the
Government may, by order, fix from the date when a demand for the expenses is
made until payment, may be recovered by the prescribed authority from the
owner of the land as arrears of land revenue and all such expenses and
interest shall constitute a charge upon the land and the building.(4)The
amount of expenses referred to in sub -section (3) shall be determined by
order by the prescribed authority.

### 16. Rules to provide for transfer to previous occupants.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by rules,
provide for or regulate the transfer, to persons who immediately before the
transfer, to persons who immediately before the declaration of any slum area
to be a slum clearance area, were occupying lands or buildings in that area,
or lands or buildings in such slum clearance area after its re - development
and the conditions of such transfer.

## Chapter VI  
Acquisition of Land

### 17. Power to acquire land.

(1)Where the Government are satisfied that, for the purpose of executing any
work of improvement in relation to any slum area or any building in such area
or for the purpose of re -developing any slum clearance area, or for the
purpose of rehabilitating slum dwellers, it is necessary to acquire any land
within, adjoining or surrounded by any such area or any other land not lying
in such area, they may acquire the land by published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, a notice to the effect that they have decided to acquire
the land in pursuance of this section.(2)Be fore publishing a notice under
sub-section (1), the Collector, or any officer, authorized by the Government
in this behalf shall call upon the owner or any other person, who, in the
opinion of the Collector or the officer so authorized, may be interested in
such land, to show cause why it should not be acquired. The Collector or the
officer shall, after considering the cause, if any, shown by the owner or
other person interested in the land, make a report to the Government
containing his recommendations on the causes so shown, for the decision of the
Government. After considering such report, the Government may pass such orders
as they deem fit.

### 18. Land acquired to vest in Government free from all encumbrances.

\- When a notice under section 17 is published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, the land to which the said notice relates shall, on and from the date
on which the notice is so published, vest absolutely in the Government free
from all encumbrances.

### 19. Right to receive compensation.

\- Every person having any interest in any land acquired under this Act shall
be entitled to receive and be paid compensation as hereinafter provided.

### 20. Compensation.

(1)The compensation payable in respect of any land acquired under this Act
shall be the market-value of such land on the date of the publication of the
notice referred to in section 17.(2)The prescribed authority shall, after
holding an enquiry in the prescribed manner, determine by order the amount of
compensation under sub-section (1) 2 ***]. A copy of the said order shall be
communicated to the owner of the land and every person interested
therein.(3)Where the owner of the land and the owner of the building on such
land are different, the prescribed authority shall apportion the amount of
compensation between the owner of the land and the owner of the building (in
the same proportion as the market-value of the land bears to the market-value
of the building on the date of the acquisition).

### 21. Matters to be neglected in determining compensation.

\- In determining the amount of compensation under section 20.(1)no solatium
shall be payable in consideration of the compulsory nature of the
acquisition;(2)the following factors shall not be taken into account,
namely:-(a)the degree of urgency which has led to the acquisition:(b)any
disinclination of the person interested to part with the land acquired;(c)any
damage sustained by him which, if caused by a private person, would not render
such person liable to a suit;(d)any damage which is likely to be caused to the
land acquired after the date of the publication of the notice under sub-
section (1) of section 17, by or in consequence of the use to which it will be
put;(e)any increase to the value of the land acquired likely to accrue from
the use to which it will be put when acquired;(f)any increase to the value of
the other land of the person interested likely to accrue from the use to which
the land acquired will be put;(g)any increase to the value of the land by
reason of the use thereof in a manner which is detrimental to the health of
the occupants of the land or to the public health;(h)any outlay or improvement
on, or disposal of, the land acquired, commenced, made or effected without the
sanction of the prescribed authority after the date of the publication of the
notice under sub -section (1) of section 17.

### 22. Appeal against order of compensation.

\- Any person who does not agree to the amount of compensation determined by
the prescribed authority under sub-section (2) of section 20 may prefer an
appeal to the Court within such period as may be prescribed.

### 23. Apportionment of compensation.

(1)Where several persons claim to be interested in the amount of compensation
determined, the prescribed authority shall determine the persons who in its
opinion are entitled to receive compensation and the amount payable to each of
them.(2)If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of the compensation or
any part thereof, or as to the persons to whom the same or any part thereof is
payable, the prescribed authority may refer such dispute to the decision of
the Court and the Court shall, in deciding any such dispute follow as far as
may be, the provisions of Part III of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central
Act I of 1894).

### 24. Payment of compensation.

(1)After the amount of compensation has been determined, the prescribed
authority shall tender payment of the compensation to the persons entitled
thereto and shall pay it to them.(2)If the persons entitled to the
compensation do not consent to receive it or if there be no person competent
to alienate the land, or if there by any dispute as to the title to receive
compensation, or as to the apportionment of it, the prescribed authority shall
deposit the amount of compensation in the Court, and the Court shall deal with
the amounts so deposited in the manner laid down in sections 32 and 33 of the
Land Acquisition Act, 1984 (Central Act I of 1984).

### 25. Payment of interest.

\- When the amount of such compensation is not paid or deposited on or before
taking possession of the land, the prescribed authority shall pay the amount
with interest thereon at the rate of four percent, per annum from the time of
so taking possession until it shall have been so paid or deposited and such
interest shall be paid or deposited by the prescribed authority in the same
manner as provided for the amount of compensation.

### 26. Appeal to High Court.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act
V of 1908), applicable to appeals from original decrees, and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any enactment for the time being in force, a
second appeal shall only lie to the High Court from any decision of the Court
under this Act if the amount of compensation as determined by the prescribed
authority exceeds rupees twenty-five thousand.

### 27. Power of prescribed authority in relation to determination of
compensation etc.

(1)The prescribed authority may, for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of sections 20, 21, 23, 24 and 25, by order, require any person to
furnish such information in his possession relating to any land which is
acquired under this Act as may be specified in such order.(2)The prescribed
authority shall, while holding an enquiry under this Act, have all the powers
of a civil court, while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him an oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)reception of evidence on affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public
record from any Court or office;(e)issuing commission for examination of
witnesses.

### 28. Use of land acquired.

(1)Where any land has been acquired under this Act, the Government may
undertake or cause to be undertaken such measures as may be necessary for the
improvement, development, clearance or re -development of the land, or the
erection of buildings thereon, in accordance with such plan as may be approved
by them.(2)(i)For the purpose of undertaking the measures referred to in sub -
section (1), the Government may either hold the land under their own control
and management and undertake such measures themselves or through the Board on
such terms and conditions as may be determined by them, or transfer the land
to the local authority concerned or the Board for the purpose of undertaking
those measures.(ii)Where the land is transferred as provided in clause (i),
such land shall vest in the local authority concerned or the Board, as the
case may be, and the local authority or the Board shall-(a)pay to the
Government the cost of acquisition of the land or such portion thereof as the
Government may determine in each case; and(b)undertake the measures referred
to in sub -section (1) in accordance with such plans as may be approved by the
government, and subject to such directions as may, from time to time, be given
by the Government.

## Chapter VII  
Protection of (Occupants) in Slum Areas From Eviction

### 29. Proceedings for eviction of occupants not to be taken without
permission of the prescribed authority.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, no person shall except with the previous permission in writing of
prescribed authority -(a)institute, after the commencement of this Act any
suit or proceedings for obtaining any decree or order for the eviction an
occupant from any building or land in such area:or(b)where any degree or order
is obtained in any suit or proceeding instituted before such commencement for
the eviction of an occupant from any building or land in such area, execute
such decree or order.(2)Every person desiring to obtain the permission
referred to in sub -section (1) shall make an application in writing to the
prescribed authority in such form and containing such particulars as may be
prescribed.(3)On receipt of such application, the prescribed authority after
giving an opportunity to the parties of being heard and after making such
summary enquiry into the circumstances of the case as it thinks fit shall by
order in writing, either grant or refuse to grant such permission.(4)In
granting or refusing to grant permission under sub -section (3), the
prescribed authority shall take into account the following factors, namely:-
(a) Whether alternative accommodation within the means of the occupant would
be available to him if he were evicted:(b)Whether the eviction is in the
interest of improvement and clearance of the slum area;(c)such other factors,
if any, as may be prescribed.(5)Where the prescribed authority refuses to
grant the permission, it shall record a brief statement of the reasons for
such refusal and furnish a copy thereof to the applicant.Explanation. - In,
this section and, in sections 31, 32, and 33, 'occupant' means an occupier,
not being an owner in occupation of, or otherwise using, his hand or building.

### 30. Appeal against order refusing permission.

\- Any person aggrieved by an order of the prescribed authority, refusing to
grant the permission under sub -section (4) of Section 5 or under sub-section
(3) of section 29 may, within such time as may be prescribed, prefer an appeal
to the Government and the Government may, after hearing the appellant, decide
such appeal and their decision shall be final.

### 31. Restoration of possession of premises vacated by an occupant .

(1)Where an occupant in occupation of any building in a slum area vacates any
building or is evicted therefrom on the ground that it may be required for the
purpose of executing any work of improvement or for the purpose of re
-direction of the building, the an occupant may, within such time as may be
prescribed, file a declaration with the prescribed authority that he desires
to be replaced in occupation of the building after the completion of the work
of improvement or re -erection of the builiding as the case may be.(2)On
receipt of such declaration, the prescribed authority shall, by order, require
the owner of the building to furnish to it, within such time as may be
prescribed, the plan of the work of improvement or re-erection of the building
and estimates of the cost thereof land such other particular as may be
necessary and shall, on the furnished and having regard to the provisions of
sub -section (3) of section 32 and after holding such enquiry as to may think
fit, provisionally determine the rent that would be payable by the occupant if
he were to be replaced in occupation of the building in pursuance of the
declaration made by him under sub-section (1)(3)The rent previously determined
under sub-section (2) shall be communicated in the prescribed manner to the
occupant if he were to be replaced in occupation of the building in pursuance
of the declaration made by him under sub -section (1).(4)If the occupant ,
after the receipt of such communication, intimates in writing to the
prescribed authority within such time as may be prescribed that when he is
replaced in occupation of the building in pursuance of the declaration made by
him under sub-section (1), he would pay to the owner, until the rent is
finally determined under section 32, the rent provisionally determined under
sub-section (2), the prescribed authority shall direct the owner to place the
occupant in occupation of the building after the completion of the work of
improvement or re -erection of the building, as the case may be, and the owner
shall be bound to comply with such direction.

### 32. Rent of buildings in slum areas. - (1) Where any building in a slum
area is let to an occupant after the execution of any work of improvement of
after it has been re-erected, the rent of the building shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of this section.

(2)Where any such building is let to an occupant other than an occupant who is
placed in possession of the building in pursuance of a direction issued under
sub - section (4) of Section 31, the occupant shall be liable to pay to the
owner -(a)if there is a general law relating to the control of rents in force
in the area in which the building is situated and applicable to that building,
the rent determined in accordance with the provisions of that law of the
agreed rent whichever is less;(b)if there is no such law in force in such
area, such rent as may be agreed to between the owner and the occupant
.(3)Where any such building is let to occupant shall, not withstanding any law
relating to the control of rents in force in the area, be liable to pay to the
owner -(a)if any work of improvement has been executed in relation to the
building, an annual rent of a sum equivalent to the aggregate of the following
amounts, namely:-(i)the annual rent the occupant was paying immediately before
he vacated the building for the purpose of execution of the work of
improvement;(ii)six per cent, of the cost of the work of improvement;
and(iii)six per cent, of a slum equivalent to the compensation payable in
respect of any land which may have been acquired for the purpose of effecting
such improvements as if such land were acquired under section 17 on the date
of the commencement of the work of improvement;(b)if the building has been re-
erected, an annual rent of a sum equivalent to four per cent, of the aggregate
cost of re -erection of the building and the cost of the land on which the
building is re-erected.Explanation. - For the purpose of the clause, the cost
of the land shall be deemed to be a sum equivalent to the compensation payable
in respect of the land if it were acquired under section 17 on the date of
commencement of the re-erection of the building.(4)The rent payable by an
occupant in respect of any building under sub - section (3) shall, on an
application made by the occupant or the owner, be determined by the authority
referred to in sub-section (5);Provided that an application for determination
of such rent by the owner or the occupant shall not, except for sufficient
cause, be entertained by such authority after the expiry of ninety days from
the date of completion of the work of improvement or re - erection of the
building as the case may be.(5)The authority to which the application referred
to in sub -section (4) shall be made, shall be-(a)Where there is a general law
relating to the control of rents in force in the area in which the building is
situated, the authority to whom applications may be made for fixing of rents
of buildings situated in that area; and for the purposes of determining the
rent under this section that authority may exercise all or any of the powers
it has under the said general law; and the provisions of such law including
provisions relating to the appeals shall apply accordingly;(b)if there is no
such law in force in that area such authority as may be specified by rule made
in this behalf by the Government and such rules may provide the procedure that
will be followed by that authority in determining the rent and also for
appeals against the decision of such authority.(6)Where the rent is finally
determined under this section, then the amount of rent paid by the occupant
shall be adjusted against the rent so finally determined and if the amount so
paid falls short of, or is in excess of, the rent finally determined the
occupant shall pay the deficiency or be entitled to a refund, as the case may
be.

### 33. Chapter not to apply to occupant of certain buildings.

\- Nothing in this Chapter shall pay to or in relation to an occupant of any
building situated in a slum area and belonging to the Government or Board or
any local authority.

## Chapter VIII  
Slum Clearance Board

### 34. Establishment of Slum Clearance Board.

(1)with effect from such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint
in this behalf there shall be established by Board by the name of the Tamil
Nadu Slum Clearance Board.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate having
perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall, by the said name sue and be
sued.

### 35. Constitution of the Board.

(1)The Board shall consist of a Chairman and such number of other official and
non-official members not exceeding fifteen as may be prescribed.(2)The
Chairman and other members of the Board shall be appointed by the
Government.(3)No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by reason
only by the existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect in the
appointment of a member thereof.

### 36. Conditions of service of members.

\- The terms and conditions of the service of members of the Board shall be
such as may be prescribed.

### 37. Appointment of officers and servants.

(1)The Secretary to the Board shall be appointed by the Government.(2)The
Secretary shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Board.(3)The Board may
appoint such other officials and servants as it considers necessary forth
efficient performance of its functions.

### 38. Conditions of service of officers and servants.

(1)The pay and other conditions of service of the officers and servants of the
Board shall be such as may be prescribed.(2)Where any officer or servant of
the State Housing Board is appointed in the Board, his conditions of service
(including conditions as to pay, provident fund, pension and gratuity) shall
be subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf by the Government.

### 39. General disqualification of members, officers and servants.

\- No person who has directly or indirectly by him self, or his partner or
agent, any share or interest in any contract by or on behalf of the Board,
shall become or remain a member or officer or servant of the Board.

### 40. Functions of the Board.

\- The functions of the Board shall be -(a)to exercise the powers of the
prescribed authority in cases where the Government have, by notification,
directed the powers of the prescribed authority shall be exercised by the
Board;(b)such other functions as may be prescribed.

### 41. Finance, accounts and audit.

\- The provisions of Chapter XII of the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act XVII of 1961), relating to finance, accounts and audit
shall apply, as far as may be, to the Board as the said provisions apply to
the State Housing Board.

### 42. No disqualification in certain cases.

\- No person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, or for being a member
of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council by reason only of
the fact that he is a Chairman or a member of the Board.

### 43. Power of Board to make regulations.

\- The Board may make regulations in regard to the meetings of the Board and
the conduct of business.

### 44. Board to comply with directions of Government.

\- It shall be the duty of the Board to comply with such directions as the
Government may, from time to time, issue either generally or in regard to any
particular matter.

### 45. Powers of the State Housing Board to cease.

\- With effect from the date of the establishment of the Board, the State
Housing Board shall cease to exercise any function under the Tamil Nadu State
Housing Board Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act XVII of 1961), in respect of matters
dealt with in this Act and in particular, the improvement of the slum area,
the clearance of a slum area and the re-development of a slum clearance area.

### 46. Transfer of certain assets and liabilities of the State Housing Board
to the Board.

(1)All property, assets, rights and liabilities of the State Housing Board
shall, in so far as such property, assets, rights and liabilities are
relatable immediately before the date of the establishment of the Board to the
improvement of the slum area, the clearance of the slum area and the re
-development of the slum clearance area, stand transferred to and vested in
the Board.(2)(a)If any dispute arises whether any property, assets, rights and
liabilities stand transferred to and vested in the Board under sub-section
(1), the dispute shall be referred to the decision of the Government and their
decision shall be final.(b)Before giving any decision on any such dispute the
Government shall give an opportunity to the State Housing Board and to the
Board to make representations.

### 47. Board to enforce certain Contracts and agreements.

(1)All contracts, agreements and other instruments of whatever nature
subsisting or having effect immediately before the date of the establishment
of the Board and to which the State Housing Board is a party, in so far as
such contracts, agreements and instruments are relatable to the improvement of
a slum area, the clearance of a slum area and the re - development of the slum
clearance area shall be of as full force and effect against or in favour of
the Board and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectually as if,
instead of the State Housing Board, the Board had been a party thereto or as
if they had been entered into or issued in favour of the Board.(2)If, on the
date of the establishment of the Board, any suit, appeal or other legal
proceeding of whatever nature by or against the State Housing Board is
pending, then such suit, appeal or other legal proceeding in so far as it is
relatable to the improvement of the slum area, the clearance of a slum area
and the re -development of a slum clearance area, shall not abate, be
discontinued or be in anyway pre-judicially affected by reason of the transfer
to the Board of the property, assets, rights and liabilities of the State
Housing Board or of anything done under this Act, but the suit, appeal or
other legal proceedings may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or
against the Board.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub -section, legal
proceedings' includes any proceeding under the Land Acquisition Act, 1984
(Central Act I of 1894).

### 48. Payment of certain amount by the State Housing Board to the Board.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 46, the State Housing Board shall, out
of its funds, as on the date of the establishment of the Board, pay to the
Board, such amount as the Government may, in consultation with the State
Housing Board, specify.

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 49. Board to exercise the powers of prescribed authority.

\- The Government may, by notification, direct that any power exercisable by
the prescribed authority under this Act, may be exercised, by the Board in
such cases, and subject to such conditions if any, as may be specified in the
notification and on the issue of such notification, the prescribed authority
shall not exercise the power in respect of the matters specified in such
notification.

### 50. Service of notices and orders.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this Act and subject to the provisions of
this section and of any rules made in this behalf every notice issued or order
made under this Act shall -(a)in the case of any notice or order of a general
nature or affecting a class of persons, be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette;(b)in the case of any notice or order affecting an
individual corporation or firm, be served in the manner provided for the
service of summons in rule 2 of Order XXIX or rule 3 or Order XXX, as the case
may be, in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908); and(c)in the case of any notice or order affecting an
individual person (not being a corporation or firm), be served on such
person-(i)by delivering or tendering it to that person; or(ii)if it cannot be
so delivered or tendered, by delivering or tendering it to the head of the
office in which such person is employed, or to any adult male servant of such
person, or to any adult male member of the family of such person, or by
affixing a copy thereof on the outer door or on some conspicuous part of the
premises in which that person is known to have last resided or carried on
business or personally worked for gain; or(iii)failing service by any of the
means aforesaid, by post or by affixing a copy of the said notice or order on
some conspicuous part of the land or building to which it relates.(2)Where the
notice or order cannot be served without undue delay, due to any dispute in
the ownership of the land or building or due to the person to whom the notice
or order is intended being not readily traceable, the notice or order may be
served by publishing it in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and where
possible, by affixing a copy thereof on some conspicuous part of the land or
building to which it relates.

### 51. Powers of entry.

\- It shall be lawful for any person authorized by the prescribed authority in
this behalf to enter into or upon any land or building in any slum area or
slum clearance area with or without assistance or workmen, in order to make
any enquiry, inspection measurement, valuation or survey, or to execute any
work which is authorized by or under this Act or which it is necessary to
execute for any of purposes or in pursuance of any of the provisions of this
Act or of any rule or order made there under.

### 52. Powers of inspection.

(1)The Government may, by general or special order, authorise any person
-(a)to inspect any drain, latrine, urinal, cesspool, pipe, sewer or channel in
or on any land or building in a slum area or slum clearance area, and in his
discretion to cause the ground to be opened for the purpose of preventing or
removing any nuisance arising from the drain, latrine, urinal, cesspool, pipe,
sewer or channel as the case may be;(b)to examine works under construction in
the slum area or to take level or to remove, test, examine, replace or read
any meter.(2)if no such inspection, the opening of the ground is found to be
necessary for the prevention or removal of a nuisance, the expenses thereby
incurred shall be paid by the owner or occupier of the land or building, but
if it is found that no nuisance exists or but for such opening would not have
arisen, the ground or portion of any building, drain, or other work opened,
injure d or removed, for the purpose of such inspection shall be filled in,
reinstated, or made good, as the case may be, by the Government.

### 53. Power to enter land adjoining land where work is in progress.

(1)Any person authorized by the Government in this be half may, with or
without assistants or workmen, enter on any land within forty -five meters of
any work authorized by or under this Act for the purpose of depositing thereon
any soil, gravel, stone or other materials, or for obtaining access to such
work or for any other purpose connected with the carrying on of the
same.(2)The person so authorized shall, before entering on any land under sub-
section (1), state the purpose thereof, and shall, if so required by the
occupier or owner fence off so much of the land as may be required for such
purpose.(3)The person so authorized shall, in exercising any power conferred
by this section do as little damage, as may be, an compensation shall be
payable by the Government to the owner or occupier of such land or to both for
any such damage whether permanent or temporary in accordance with such rules
as may be made.

### 54. Power to enter into buildings.

\- It shall be lawful for any person authorized by the prescribed authority in
this behalf to enter into any place or to open or cause to be opened any door,
gate or other barrier -(a)if he considers the opening thereof necessary for
the purpose of such entry; and(b)if the owner or occupier is absent, or being
present refuses to open such door, gate or barrier.

### 55. Entry to be made in the day time.

\- No entry authorised by or under this Act shall be made except between the
hours of sunrise and sunset.

### 56. Occupier's consent ordinarily to be obtained.

\- Save as provided in this Act, no land or building shall be entered without
the consent of the occupier, or if there be no occupier, of the owner thereof,
and no such entry shall be made without giving the said occupier or owner, as
the case may be, not less than twenty-four hours written notice of the
intention to make such entry:Provided that no such notice shall be necessary
if the place to be inspected is a shed for cattle or a latrine, urinal or a
work under construction.

### 57. Powers of eviction.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the prescribed
authority is satisfied either upon a representation from the owner of a
building or upon other information in its possession that the occupants of the
building have not vacated it in pursuance of -(i)any notice, order or
direction issued by the prescribed authority; or(ii)any notice or direction
issued by the owner; the prescribed authority shall, if satisfied that such
eviction is necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act, by order, direct
the eviction of the occupants from the building, in such manner and within
such time as may be specified in the order and may for that purpose use or
cause to be used such force as may be necessary: -Provided that, before making
any order under the section, the prescribed authority shall call upon the
occupants of the building to show cause why they should not be evicted
therefrom and after considering the cause if any, shown by any occupants, the
prescribed authority may pass such orders as it deems fit.

### 58. Power to remove dangerous or offensive trades from slum areas.

\- The prescribed authority may, by order in writing, direct any person
carrying on any dangerous or offensive trade in a slum area to remove the
trade from that area within such time as may be specified in the
order:Provided that before making any order under the section the prescribed
authority shall call upon the person carrying on the trade to show cause why
the order should not be made and after considering the cause, if any, shown by
such person, the prescribed authority may pass such orders as it deems fit.

### 59. Appeal.

(1)Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, any person aggrieved by
any notice, order or direction issued by the prescribed authority may, within
such time as may be prescribed, appeal to the Government.(2)Every appeal under
this Act shall be made by petition in writing accompanied by a copy of the
notice order or direction appealed against.(3)On the admission of an appeal,
all proceedings to enforce the notice, order or direction and all prosecutions
for any contravention thereof shall be held in abeyance pending the decision
on the appeal and the notice, order or direction is set aside on appeal,
disobedience thereto shall not be deemed to be an offence.(4)No appeal shall
be decided under this section unless the appellant has been heard or has had a
reasonable opportunity or being heard.(5)The decision of the Government on
appeal shall be final and shall not be questioned in any Court.

### 60. Order of demolition of buildings in certain cases.

\- Where the erection of any building has been commenced, or is being carried
out, or has been completed, in contravention of any restriction or conditions
imposed under section 14 or of a plan for the re -development of any slum
clearance areas or in contravention of any notice, order or direction issued
under this Act, the prescribed authority may in addition to any other remedy
that may be resorted to under this Act, or under any other law, make an order
directing that such building shall be demolished by the owner thereof, within
such time, not exceeding sixty days, as may be specified in the order, and on
the failure of the owner to comply with the order within the time specified,
the prescribed authority may itself cause the building to be demolished and
subject to the provisions of section 61, sell the materials thereof:Provided
that, before making any order under this section, the prescribed authority
shall call upon the owner to show cause why the order should not be made and
after considering the cause, if any, shown by such owner, the prescribed
authority may pass such orders as it deems fit.

### 61. Disposal of proceeds or sale of materials of demolished building and
recovery of expenses.

(1)Where the materials of any building demolished by the prescribed authority,
under section 10, section 13 or section 60 are sold, the prescribed authority
shall apply the proceeds of such sale in or towards payment of the expenses
incurred by that authority under that section and pay any surplus accruing
from such sale to the owner or other person entitled thereto on demand made
within twelve months from the date of sale. If no such demand is made, such
surplus shall be deposited with the Government or authority specified by
them.(2)Any expenses referred to in sub-section (1), if not satisfied out of
the sale proceeds of the materials of any building referred to in that sub
-section, may be recovered by the prescribed authority from the owner of the
building or any other person having an interest therein as arrears of land
revenue.

### 62. Penalties.

(1)Any person who -(a)commences or causes to be commenced any work in
contravention of any restriction or condition imposed under section 14 or of
any plan for the re -development of a slum clearance area; or(b)contravenes or
fails to comply with any other provision of this Act or of any rule made
thereunder or of any notice, order or direction issued in pursuance of any of
the provisions of this Act or the rules made there under shall be punishable
for the first offence with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both and
for a second or any subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both and for a second or any subsequent
offence with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with
fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.(2)Any person who
obstructs any person authorised under any of the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder to enter into or upon any land or building or molests
such person after such entry shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees.

### 63. Offenses by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge, or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of the offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is
proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this section -(a)'Company' means a body corporate and includeds
a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)'director' in relation to a
firm means a partner in the firm.

### 64. Prosecution and trial of offence.

(1)No prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act shall be
instituted except with the previous sanction of the prescribed authority.(2)No
Court inferior to that of a salaried presidency magistrate of a salaried
magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 65. Bar of jurisdiction of civil courts.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil court shall have
jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the Government are, or the
prescribed authority is, empowered by or under this Act, to determine and no
injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any
action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under
this Act.

### 66. Prescribed authority, etc. to be public servants.

\- The prescribed authority and any person authorised by it under this Act
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 67. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith, done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government or the prescribed authority or any
authority or officer subordinate to the Government or the prescribed authority
for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is, in good
faith, done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder.

### 68. Delegation of powers of Government.

(1)The Government by notification, may authorise any authority or officer to
exercise any of the powers vested in them of this Act (except the power to
acquire land under sub -section (1) of section 17 and the power to make rules
under section 70) and may in like manner withdraw such authority.(2)The
exercise of any power delegated under sub-section (1) shall be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed or as may be specified in the
notification and also to control and revision by the Government or by such
officer as may be empowered by the Government in this behalf. The Government
shall also have power to control and revise the acts or proceedings of any
officer so empowered.

### 69. Act to override other law.

\- The provisions of this Act and the rules made there under shall have effect
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any law for the
time being in force, or any custom, usage or contract or decree or order of a
Court or other authority.

### 70. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules whether prospectively or retrospectively for
carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may
provide for or regulate -(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by this
Act to be prescribed;(b)the fees payable in respect of any application or
statement under this act;(c)the manner of authentication of notices, orders
and other instruments of the prescribed authority; and(d)the preparation of
plans for the development of any slum area or slum clearance area and matters
to be included in such plans.

### 71. Application of the Act to certain pending cases of acquisition.

(1)The provisions of this Act shall apply also to any case or cases in which
proceedings have been started before the commencement of this Act for the
acquisition of any land in a slum area under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894
(Central Act I of 1894) (here-in-after in this section referred to as the said
Act), but no award has been made by the Collector under section II of the said
Act before such commencement, as if -(i)the notification published under sub-
section (1) of section 4 of the said Act, or(ii)the declaration made under
section 6 of the said Act,(iii)the notice given under sub-section (1) of
section 9 of the said Act, were a notice to show cause against the acquisition
of the land served by the Government under the provision to section 17 of this
Act.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply in relation to any
land unless and until after the Government have published a notice in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette to the effect that the said land is required for
any of the purposes specified in section 17 of this Act.

### 72. Publication of the rules, the date of the commencement of the rules
and notifications and placing of rules and notifications on the table of the
Legislature.

(1)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(2)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature, and if, before the expiry of the
session, both Houses agree in making any modification in any such rule or
notification or both Houses agree that the rule or notification should not be
made or issued, the rule or notification shall there after have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be with our prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 73. Repeal of Tamil Nadu Act XI of 1954.

\- The Tamil Nadu Slum Improvement (Acquisition of Land) Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu
Act XI of 1954), is hereby repealed.

