## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment) Act, 2022

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment) Act, 2022

## Act 46 of 2022

  * Published on 28 December 2022 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 December 2022.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventy-
third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment)
Act, 2022.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Amendment of section 2.

In section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998 (hereinafter
referred to as the principle Act),(1)for clause (aa), the following clause
shall be substituted, namely:-(aa)“domestic enterprise” means any enterprise
located in the State, which manufactures or produces goods or provides or
renders services within the State and which fulfills the criteria to qualify
as a micro or small enterprise as may be notified by the Central Government
under clause (1) of section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, 2006 (Central Act 27 of 2006).(2)after clause (aa) as so
substituted, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-(aaa)“domestic
enterprise owned by Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes” means—(i)any
domestic enterprise located in the State, which is owned by any person
belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe; or(ii)any domestic
enterprise, which is a firm or limited liability partnership, having its
registered office and place of business in the State, where notless than
three-fourths of the partners belong to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes; or(iii)any domestic enterprise, which is a company having its
registered office and place of business in the State where,--(1)more than
fifty per cent. of the ordinary shareholdings pertain to persons belonging to
the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes; and(2)the control of the company, as
defined in section 2 (27) of the Companies Act,2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013)
vests with persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes.(3)clause (ee) shall be relettered as clause (eee) and before clause
(eee) as so relettered, the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:-(ee)“Scheduled Castes” and “Scheduled Tribes” shall have the meanings
assigned to them respectively under clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of
the Constitution.(4)after clause (eee), the following clauses shall be
inserted, namely:-(eeee)“State” means the State of Tamil Nadu.”.

### 3. Amendement of section 10.

In section 10 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after the third
proviso, the following proviso shall be added, namely:-Provided also that the
Tender Accepting Authority shall accept the tender of the domestic enterprises
owned by Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, not being the lowest tender,
upon satisfaction of such conditions as may be prescribed, in respect of goods
manufactured or produced and services provided or rendered by them, to the
extent of five per cent. of the total requirement in that procurement, if such
enterprise is willing to match the price of the lowest tender.

