## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance Rules, 1951

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance Rules, 1951

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MINISTERS-TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-RULES-1951 of 1951

  * Published on 23 January 1952 
  * Commenced on 23 January 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 January 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance Rules, 1951Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 42, Finance, Dated 23rd January 1952In exercise
of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
the following rules: -

### 1.

These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance Rules,
1951.

### 2. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 980, Public (Establishment-I and L.W.), dated the
31st May 1989 (with effect from 27th January 1989).]

(1)(a)The [Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister]may, when he travels by
rail, reserve a saloon or tourist car;(b)The security staff and the personal
staff accompanying the Chief Minister may travel with the Chief Minister in
the saloon or the tourist car;(c)The security staff and the personal staff
though entitled to travel by first class, shall not purchase separate tickets,
if they travel with the Chief Minister in the saloon or the tourist car since
the expenditure relating to the travel in the saloon or the tourist car is
being met by the Government;(d)The claims in the travelling bills of the
security staff and the personal staff be restricted only to the daily
allowance admissible for the journey if they travel with the Chief Minister in
the saloon or the tourist car; and(e)[ One person may travel with the Chief
Minister in any mode of travel in the same class in which the Chief Minister
travels without payment of any fare.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1430, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 12th December 1996 (with effect
from 13th May 1996).](2)A Minister may, when he travels by rail, reserve a
two-berthed or four-berthed first class compartment or an air-conditioned
coupe or a four-berthed air-conditioned compartment for himself, if he deems
it necessary to do so.]

### 3.

A Minister, not travelling in a reserved compartment, may draw a single fare
of the class by which he actually travels (including air-conditioned class)
and, in addition, fractional fare calculated at forty-five paise for every ten
kilometres or part thereof, if the part exceeds five kilometers, but he shall
himself pay for his private servants and personal luggage.

### 4.

(1)When a Minister travels in a reserved compartment, the charge for the
compartment shall be borne by the Government department concerned, subject to
adjustment with the Railway Administration, as hereinafter provided and the
Minister may draw fractional fare calculated at forty-five paise for every ten
kilometers, or part thereof, if the part exceeds five kilometers.(2)[ When a
Minister travels in a reserved railway compartment on tour, not more than one
person, being a relative of the Minister, may subject to the authorised
capacity of the compartment, travel with him in such compartment without
payment of any fare.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 392, Public (Elections-IV), dated the
25th February 1970.](3)[ Other persons travelling with the Minister in the
reserved compartment shall pay the usual railway fares by purchasing the
necessary tickets, and the Minister shall specify in his travelling allowance
bill the number of persons who travelled with him and also certify therein
that the necessary tickets were purchased by them.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 392,
Public (Elections-IV), dated the 25th February 1970.](4)[ The fares paid by
the persons travelling with the Minister shall be adjusted as follows:
-(a)When the number of persons occupying the compartment (including the
Minister) exceeds the minimum number of fares for which the compartment can be
reserved for a member of the public, the fares for the number of occupants in
excess of such minimum shall be retained by the Railway
Administration.(b)Fares which are not so retained shall be credited to the
Government department concerned by deduction from the bill submitted to it by
the Railway Administration.](5)[ Before beginning his journey in the reserved
compartment, the Minister shall have the number and the other details or the
tickets, purchased for the persons travelling with him in the compartment,
entered by the station master of the station from which his journey is
commenced on the form of requisition for reservation and issue of the special
ticket.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 392, Public (Elections-IV), dated the 25th
February 1970.](6)[ If any person travels with the Minister in the reserved
compartment after the issue of the special ticket to the Minister, the number
and the other details of the tickets purchased for such person shall be
invariably noted by the Minister or an officer authorised by him on his
behalf, on the special ticket issued by the Railway with the following
certificates: -"Certified that the fares have been duly paid
for..........first-class passengers travelling in the same compartment holding
ticket No.............from............. to...............Note. - The procedure
in sub-rules (3) to (6) is laid down for the purpose of enabling the necessary
adjustment to be made.between the Government department concerned and the
Railway Administration.]

### 5.

[(1) A Minister may draw mileage, for journeys by road, at [two rupees only
per kilometer if he engages a taxi for the journey] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1750,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 13th October 1984.] and at thirty two
paise per kilometer, if he travels in any other conveyance, provided the cost
of its use or propulsion is met by him.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 392, Public
(Elections-IV), dated the 25th February 1970.](2)A Minister may also undertake
journey by a taxi engaged by the District Collectors for which the expenditure
will be met from Government funds by the District Collectors according to the
powers delegated to them. For such journeys, a Minister is not eligible for
mileage.Note. - It is not the intention that any specific certificate as to
the Ministers meeting the cost of its use of propulsion should be called for.

### 6.

A Minister may draw mileage at [forty-eight paise per kilometer for journeys]
[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 392, Public (Elections-IV), dated the 25th February 1970.]
by canal.

### 7.

(1)A Minister, when travelling by steamer, may recover actual travelling
expenses, appending to his bill a certificate as follows: -"I certify that I
have actually paid the amount of this bill and that it does not include any
charge for the transport of any stores or goods other than my personal
luggages."Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, stores carried for
consumption on tour shall be treated as personal luggage.(2)A Minister may
also draw, in addition, a daily allowance at the rate of [fifty rupees per day
for days spent on the journey] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 518, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 27th March 1984 (with effect from 1st April
1984).], including days of halt.

### 8. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 2905, Public (Elections-IV), dated the 11th
September 1975.]

In cases not governed by rule 4, a Minister may draw daily allowance for days
of halts at the rate of fifty-five rupees per day when touring within the
State.Note. - Daily allowance may be drawn for each complete period of 24
hours of halt or halts and journeys by road and/or rail, for which no mileage
or fractional fare is claimed.]

### 8A. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 2905, Public (Elections-IV), dated the 11th
September 1975.]

Where a Minister, while on tour, stays in metropolitan cities including stay
at Tamil Nadu House, New Delhi, other State Head Quarters and other places
outside the State, he may draw the rates of daily allowance as shown in the
Table below: -

Delhi, Mumbai and Calcutta | Other State Headquarters  
---|---  
Stay in Hotel |  Stay in Government Guest House Public SectorGuest House/Joint Sector Guest House/Separate privatearrangements (Other than Tamil Nadu House, New Delhi) | Stay in Hotel |  Stay in Government Guest House Public SectorGuest House/Joint Sector Guest House/Separate privatearrangements  
Boarding | Lodging | Boarding and Lodging | Boarding | Lodging | Boarding and Lodging  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
75 | 600 | 150 | 75 | 300 | 120]  
  
### 9.

Outside the State (Other than StateHeadquarters)  
---  
Stay in Hotel |  Stay in Government Guest House Public SectorGuest House/Joint Sector Guest House/Separate privatearrangements |   
Boarding | Lodging | Boarding and Lodging |   
(7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
50 | 100 | 75 | 100  
  
A Minister may draw the actual cost of transporting at owner's risk, a motor
car by railway. Such cost shall include a single-third class fare for a
chauffeur or cleaner:Provided that if the motor car is transported in any
other manner, the Minister may draw the cost which would have been incurred,
if it had been transported by train, steamer or other craft, as the case may
be.Note. - If the motor car so transported belongs to the Government any loss
or damage sustained in respect thereof which is not recoverable from the
Railway shall be borne by the Government.

### 10.

(1)A Minister may draw for a journey by air, the fare paid by him for such
journey and in addition daily allowance at the rate of [fifty-five rupees]
[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 730, Public (Special-B), dated the 5th July 1993.] per day
when touring within the State and at the rate of eighty-five rupees per day
when touring outside the State. If, however on the same day, before or after
the journey by air, he makes a journey by any other means of locomotion, he
may at his option draw in lieu of daily allowance, the mileage allowance, if
any, admissible for the journey so made.(2)[ A Minister who makes a journey
outside India may draw, as travelling for the journey, the fare paid by him
for such journey by air, steamer or railway and may draw in addition, the
actual expenses incurred by him, connected with the journey including the
period of halt.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 147, Public (Establishment-I), dated the
27th January 1986 (with effect from 1st April 1982).](3)[ Ministers shall be
reimbursed the annual premium as may be fixed at the Insurance Companies, from
time to time, and paid by them for taking a comprehensive insurance policy up
to rupees one lakh with any Insurance Company of their choice against personal
accidents during their travel by air, rail and road and also when they visit
places of riots, strikes and civil commotion on production of receipts. The
claim for the reimbursement of the annual premium for the comprehensive
Insurance Policy will be made, year after year, after the expiry of the
validity of the policy for each year.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 971, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 26th May 1978.]Note. - (1) For the purposes of
this rule, "journey by air" means journeys performed in the machines of Public
Air Transport Companies regularly flying for hire, including free transit by
air, in a Government machine or in a machine charted by Government, and
includes journeys performed by private aeroplanes or air taxis.(2)If
available, return tickets at reduced rates should always be purchased, if the
Minister expects to perform the return journey by air with in the period
during which a return ticket is available.(3)The restriction in sub-rule
(10)(1) to the drawal of both daily allowance and mileage will apply only in
the case of continuous journeys. In other cases, where a journey is performed
separately on the same day, the travelling allowance as admissible for that
part may also be drawn.(4)The Minister may travel by air from Chennai to
Trivandrum and from Trivandrum to Nagercoil by road and return to Chennai by
the same routes whenever they visit Kanniyakumari district on duty.

### 10A. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 2150, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 17th
November 1978.]

A Minister may draw an advance towards the travelling expenses during a
journey on tour. The amount so drawn shall not, in any circumstances, exceed
the amount of travelling allowance to which the Minister is entitled for the
journey which has not already commenced and shall not also exceed the sum
likely to be required to meet his travelling expenses for the month or for the
probable duration of the tour, whichever is shorter. The advance shall be
charged to the final head of expenditure concerned. When the Minister returns
to Headquarters on completing the tour, the advance drawn should be adjusted
at once in full, in the detailed travelling allowance bill for the month. When
the Minister has drawn an advance, the second advance shall not be drawn
unless the balance on the advance drawn, if any, is remitted into the bank and
the adjustment travelling allowance bill has been presented at the Pay and
Accounts Office.Explanation. - (1) "Headquarters" means the City of
Chennai.(2)"Bank" means any office or branch of the Banking Department of the
Reserve Bank of India.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 392, Public (Elections-IV), dated
the 25th February 1970.]

### 10B. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 107, Public (Allowances-I) dated the 26th May
1981.]

Where a Minister proceeding on tour reserves accommodation for the air journey
and subsequently cancels it in the exigencies of public service, an
expenditure involved for the cancellation of the accommodation shall be met
from the State funds. The cancellation or postponement of such air journeys
shall, however, be intimated to Air lines Corporation, as soon as possible, so
that the cancellation fee charged by the Corporation may be minimised.]

### 11.

The State Government may, by order, relax the provision of these rules in any
particular case to such extent or subject to such conditions or modifications,
as may be specified in such order and also fix the rates of travelling and
daily allowances applicable to the case.

