## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 1994

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-OILPALM-REGULATION-OF-PRODUCTION-AND-PROCESSING-RULES-1994
of 1994

  * Published on 28 November 1994 
  * Commenced on 28 November 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 November 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules,
1994Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 677, Agriculture (OS), dated
28th November 1994 - No. SRO A-III (b)/94G.O. Ms. No. 677. - In exercise of
powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 24 of the Tamil Nadu Oilpalm
(Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of
1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules, namely : -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production
and Processing) Rules, 1994.(2)They shall come into force on and from the
Twelfth day of December 1994.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(i)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 34 of 1994);(ii)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;(iii)"Inspector" means the Oilpalm Inspector as defined in clause (j) of
section 2 of the Act;(iv)"occupier" means the occupier of the factory as
defined in clause (d) of section 2 of the Act.

### 3. Copy of the Act, Rules, etc., to be kept in the office.

\- The copies of the Act and the rules framed thereunder and notifications
issued thereunder shall be kept in the offices of the Commissioner of
Agriculture, Oilpalm Commissioner and Joint Director of Agriculture of the
factory zones for perusal, free of charge.

### 4. Conduct of Zonal Committee meetings.

(1)The meetings of the Zonal Committee shall, ordinarily, be held at District
Head quarters of the factory zone, but the Oilpalm Commissioner may, for
special reasons, summon a meetings at any other place within the factory
zone.(2)The Member-Secretary of the Zonal Committee shall send to the members,
in writing, notice of the meeting at least 15 days before the date of
meeting.(3)Notice of a resolution or motion to be moved by any member of the
Zonal Committee shall be given to the Member, Secretary of the Zonal Committee
at least 10 days before the meeting.(4)The agenda shall be communicated to all
members at least 7 days before the meeting.(5)All meetings shall be presided
over by the Chairman. In the absence of the Chairman, any member of the Zonal
Committee nominated by the Chairman shall preside over such meetings.(6)Five
members shall constitute the quorum for the meeting.(7)No business other than
that contained in the agenda shall be transacted at a meeting except with the
consent of the Chairman.(8)No motion or amendment shall be discussed at a
meeting unless it is seconded.(9)Any motion or amendment of which notice has
been given by a member may be withdrawn with the permission of the
Chairman.(10)The Chairman shall have a casting vote in case the votes of the
members are equally divided.(11)The Chairman shall have powers to decide any
point of order or to dissolve or adjourn a meeting.(12)When a meeting is
adjourned to a subsequent date by the Chairman for want of quorum, no quorum
shall be necessary for the adjourned meeting.(13)In respect of any matter not
provided for by this rule, the ruling of Chairman in so far as the Zonal
Committee functioning is concerned, shall be final.(14)The Zonal Committee
meeting shall be held once in three months.

### 5. Dissolution of Zonal Committee.

\- The Oilpalm Commissioner may dissolve the Zonal Committee with the approval
of the Government -(i)when the Zonal Committee does hot safeguard the interest
of the oil-palm growers and the factory; and(ii)when the Zonal Committee
meetings are not held once in three months.

### 6. The Chairman to convene the meetings of the Zonal Committee.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Chairman shall convene and
conduct the meetings of the Zonal Committee.

### 7. Powers and functions of the Inspectors.

(1)The Inspector shall be the Member-Secretary of the Zonal Committee.(2)He
shall inspect the factory premises and ensure for the correct weighment and
payment for the produce to the oilpalm growers in time and proper maintenance
of the connected Registers.(3)He shall verify the records, reports, statements
and registers maintained by the factory and direct the occupier of the factory
to produce them for his verification.(4)He shall carry out the resolutions of
the Zonal Committee.(5)He shall furnish to the Zonal Committee the progress
made in carrying out the resolutions.(6)He shall bring forward in time all
matters to the notice of the Zonal Committee for which approval or sanction of
the Zonal Committee is necessary.(7)He shall report to the Zonal Committee the
financial position including the receipts and expenditure(8)He shall conduct
all official correspondences in implementing the programme.(9)He shall keep
accounts of the Zonal Committee in accordance with the instructions issued,
from time to time, and produce them before audit or other authorities.

### 8. Purposes for which Zonal Committee Fund may be expended.

\- The fund of the Zonal Committee may be expended for the following purposes,
namely : -(a)for acquisition or requisitioning of any site or building or
purchase of other assets for the Zonal Committee for carrying out the purposes
for which it is established;(b)for providing easy transportation of Fresh
Fruit Bunches from the field to the factory including the construction of
roads, culverts and bridges in the oil palm area of the factory zone;(c)for
payment of interests on the loan raised by the Zonal Committee;(d)for
collection and dissemination of information regarding all matters relating to
statistics in respect of Fresh Fruit Bunches;(e)for payment towards publicity
and propaganda for the promotion off activities regarding oilpalm development
programme;(f)for imparting training to oilpalm growers and extension workers;
and(g)for such other matters as may arise in the implementation of the
programme.

### 9. Forms and Returns.

(1)The occupier of every factory shall maintain in Form III a correct daily
account of the oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches entering the factory for
consumption or use by the factory.(2)Within a period of twenty-five days of
the close of each month, the occupier shall pay into the treasury the amount
due as tax on the quantity of oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches which has entered
the factory during such month.(3)Within a period of twenty-five days of the
close of each month, the occupier shall submit to the Oilpalm Commissioner a
return in Form-I showing the quantity of oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches that has
entered the factory during the month and the amount of tax paid by him in the
treasury with the receipt in support thereof.(4)The Oilpalm Commissioner
shall, on receipt of such return, verify that the amount of tax had been
correctly calculated and the full amount thereof has been remitted into the
treasury.(5)If the occupier, -(a)fails to keep correct daily account in Form-
III or fails to submit on or before the due date; or(b)fails to credit into
the treasury on or before the due date, the full amount payable on account of
the tax or credits an amount less than the correct amount, or(c)fails to
submit the monthly return in Form-I, with the treasury receipts showing that
the amount of tax has been duly credited into the treasury, he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to rupees five thousand only.(6)The
estimate of oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches to be submitted to the Oil-palm
Commissioner shall be in Form-III;(7)The occupier shall maintain a register of
oilpalm growers in the Zone attached to the factory in the Form-IV. The
registers maintained under this rule shall be kept for inspection.(8)The
occupier shall issue a book to all oilpalm growers in the zone on oil-palm
grown, assistance extended, loans taken. Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches supplied
and all other details as may be necessary for oilpalm development. Guidelines
may be issued by the Oilpalm Commissioner, from time to time.

### 10. Weightments of Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches.

(1)All the transactions in connection with purchase of Oilpalm Fresh Fruit
Bunches shall be made in terms of Metric Tonnes and Kilograms and it shall not
be lawful to use any other weight.(2)No Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches shall be
purchased without actual weighment.(3)The net weight of Oilpalm Fresh Fruit
Bunches shall be recorded to the nearest kilogram.(4)The occupier shall
provide platform balances at the collection centres for weighment of Oilpalm
Fresh Fruit Bunches.(5)Wherever possible, that part of the mechanism of a
scale or weigh bridge by which its adjustments is controlled shall, be kept
suitably sealed or locked.(6)All weigh bridges, scales and weights used, kept
or possessed for the purchase of Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches shall be open to
inspection, examination and test by an Inspector at all times without notice
and shall be made available for such inspection, examination and test by the
occupier or purchasing agent concerned at every purchasing centre.(7)An
occupier or purchasing agent shall cause all weigh bridges or scales used,
kept or possessed by him to be tested as per the laws in this regard in force
and shall maintain a record of such test which shall, on demand, be shown to
the Inspector.(8)At every purchasing centre, adequate facilities for weighment
to the satisfaction of the Oilpalm Commissioner shall be provided by the
occupier or purchasing agent to avoid congestion and under weighing in the
weighment of Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches and carts shall not be kept waiting
for more than five hours without sufficient cause.(9)An occupier shall,
-(a)provide regular entry to and exit from all the weighbridges of the factory
premises to such distance, as may be required;(b)provide reasonable space for
parking of carts and other vehicles waiting their turn for approach to the
weigh bridge; and(c)provide sheds and cattle troughs at the factory
gate.(10)No deduction shall be made from the weight of the Oilpalm Fresh Fruit
Bunches on the ground that the Oilpalm Fresh Fruit Bunches is improperly
brought or on any other ground whatsoever.AppendixForm I[See rule 9(3)]

Factory Zone | Month, Year:  
---|---  
  
Quantity of Oilpalm FFB which entered thefactory |  Amount of tax due at the rate issued byGovernment | Amount of tax paid into the Treasury | Number and Date of the Treasury Chalan  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
MT. Kg. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. |   
|  |  |   
  
Signature of the occupier.Form II[See rule 9(6)]

1\. Name of the Factory |  |   
---|---|---  
2\. Site of the Factory |  | Village  
|  | Taluk  
|  | District  
3\. Proposed period of crushing |  | :  
4\. Number of days involved |  | :  
5\. Crushing capacity per day |  | :  
6\. Quantity of Oilpalm FFB required during theentire crushing period : |  |   
7\. Approximate area involved |  | :  
8\. Quantity of Oilpalm FFB proposed to besupplied by the growers |  | :  
Area: |  |   
Quantity: |  |   
  
Signature of the occupier.Form III[See rule
9(1)]Date..........................................

Sl. No. | Name of the farmer | Village |  Net weight of fresh fruit bunches received atthe factory | Signature of weighman | Signature of the farmer | Signature of the occupier  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form IV[See rule 9(7)]

Sl. No. |  Name of the farmer with Father's/.Husband'sname | Survey Number | Area planted in hectare | Variety | Date of planting | Date of harvest  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
|  |  |  |  |  | MT. Kg.  
  
Quantity harvested | Price fixed (Per Metric ton) | Total amount payable to the grower | Date of payment  
---|---|---|---  
8 | 9 | 10 | 11  
|  |  |   
  
Signature of the occupier.NotificationDesignation of Certain Officer as
Oilpalm Commissioner to Exercise the Powers and Perform the Functions Under
Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994[G.O.
Ms. No. 678, Agriculture (OS), dated 28th November 1994]No. II (2)/AG/4944
(G-2)/94. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Tamil Nadu
Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 34
of 1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby designates the Additional Director
of Agriculture (Oil Seeds), Chennai as the Oilpalm Commissioner to exercise
the powers and perform the functions of the Oilpalm Commissioner under the
said Act.

