## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Tax On Entry of Motor Vehicles to Local Areas Act, 1990

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Tax On Entry of Motor Vehicles to Local Areas Act, 1990

## Act 13 of 1990

  * Published on 20 February 1990 
  * Commenced on 20 February 1990 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 February 1990.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Tax On Entry of Motor Vehicles to Local Areas Act, 1990(Act No.13
of 1990)Last Updated 30th November, 2019An Act to provide for the levy of tax
on the entry of motor vehicles into Local areas for use or sale thereinBe it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the [Sixty
Sixth Year], [These words were added as per Gazette No 217 dated 14.10.2015.]
[Forty-first year] [These words were added as per Gazette No 217 dated
14.10.2015.] of the Republic of India as follows :-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Tax on Entry of Motor Vehicles into
Local Areas Act, 1990.(2)[It shall come into force on such date as the State
Government may, by notification, appoint] [These words were added as per
Gazette No 217 dated 14.10.2015.] It extends to the whole of the State of
Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 20th February,
1990.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"accessories" means
the car air-conditioner, music system and any other article fitted to a motor
vehicle and which is not included in the original invoice;(b)"appellate
authority" means an appellate authority appointed under Section
6;(c)"assessing authority" means an assessing authority appointed under
Section 5;(d)"entry of motor vehicle into a local area" with all its
grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means entry of motor vehicle
into a local area from any place outside the State for use or sale
therein;(f)"Government" means the State Government;(g)"importer" means a
person who brings a motor vehicle into a local area from any place outside the
State for use or sale therein; and who owns the vehicle at the time of its
entry into the local area;(h)"local area" means the area within the limits
of,-(i)the City of Madras as defined in the Madras City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1919, or(ii)the City of Madurai as defined in the Madurai City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1971, or(iii)the City of Coimbatore as defined in the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981, or(iv)any other Municipal
Corporation that may be constituted under any law for the time being in force,
or(v)a municipality under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920,
or(vi)a township under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920, or
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958, or the Mettur Township Act, 1940, or the
Courtrallam Township Act, 1954 or the Bhavanisagar Township Act, i954, or any
other law for the time being in force, or(vii)a panchayats under the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 ;(i)"motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle as defined
in clause (28) of Section 2 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988;(j)"person"
includes any company or association or body of individuals whether
incorporated or not, and also a Hindu undivided family, a firm, a local
authority, the Government of any other State or Union Territory;(k)"purchase
value" means the value of a motor vehicle, as ascertained from the original
invoice and includes the value of accessories fitted to the vehicle,
insurance, excise duties, countervailing duties, sales tax, transport fee,
freight charges and all other charges incidentally levied on the purchase of a
motor vehicle:Provided that, where purchase value of a motor vehicle is not
ascertainable on account of non-availability or non-production of an original
invoice or when the invoice produced is proved to be false or if the motor
vehicle is acquired or obtained otherwise than by way of purchase, then the
purchase value shall be the value or price at which motor vehicle of like kind
or quality is sold or is capable of being sold, in open market;(l)"State"
means the State of Tamil Nadu;(m)words and expressions used but not defined in
this Act shall have the meanings assigned to them under the General Sales Tax
Act.

## Chapter II  
Levy Of Tax

### 3. Levy of tax.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, there shall be levied and collected
a tax on the entry of any motor [vehicles] [The word 'vehicles' appearing here
is as it is in the Amendment Act 31 of 1998, published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 519 dated 7th September 1998; it is apparently a grammatical
error as the word should be in the singular in view of the words 'which is
liable for registration' appearing later in this subsection.] into any local
area for use or sale therein which is liable for registration, or for the
assignment of a new registration mark, in the State under the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988). The rate of tax shall be at such rate or
rates, not exceeding twenty per cent, as may be fixed by the Government, by
notification, on the purchase value of the motor vehicles;Provided that in
respect of any motor vehicle which was registered in any Union Territory or
any other State under the law relating to motor vehicle :-(a)before the 10th
September 1996, no tax shall be levied and collected, if the owner of such
vehicle applies for the assignment of a new registration mark in this State
after a period of fifteen months from the date of its registration;(b)on or
after 10th September 1996, no tax shall be levied and collected, if the owner
of such vehicle applies for the assignment of a new registration mark in this
State after a period of eighteen months from the date of its
registration.Explanation. - For the purpose of this proviso, the expression'
law relating to motor vehicle' means the Motor Vehicles Act, 1,939 or the
Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, as the case may be.(2)The tax shall be payable by an
importer in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed.G.O. ,Ms.
No. 69, Notification No. II(2)/CT/631(g)/2001 dated 18th August 2001.

SI. No.(1) |  Category(2) |  Rate of Tax on thepurchase Value %(3)  
---|---|---  
1. | (i)All two wheeler and three wheeler ; and | 13 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
|  (ii) All three wheeler chassis and bodies builtThereon |   
2. |  All cars, taxi-cabs, light motor vehicles,trucks, buses, jeeps, motor lorries, chassis of such vehicles andon all bodies built on chassis and on all trailers of thesevehicles. | 13 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
3. | All tractors and trailers. | 6 4 (from 01.01.2007)  
4. |  (i) Dumpers, loaders,scrappers, crawler’s tractor, excavators, bull dozers andwheel dozers(ii) Paver finishers, dragnet, druggets, roadrollers, crane lorries including floating cranes, breakdownlorries, road sweeper lorries, spraying lorries, concretemixerlorries, mobile workshop, mobile radiological units,ambulances, firefighting units including fire floats, drillingrigs mounted on motor vehicles and floating vessels, platformtrucks and fork lift trucks | 9 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
13 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
5. |  Tankers built on meant for mounting on motorvehicle | 20 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
6. |  All other vehicles not specifically mentioned inSerial Nos. 1 to 5 | 20 12.5 (from 01.01.2007)  
  
### 4. Reduction in tax liabilit.

(1)Where an importer of a motor vehicle liable to pay tax under this Act,
being a dealer in Motor vehicles, becomes liable to pay tax under the General
Sales Tax Act and additional sales tax under the Tamil Nadu Additional Sales
Tax Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu. Act XIV of 1970) by virtue of the sale of such
motor vehicle, then his liability under those Acts shall be reduced to the
extent of tax paid under this Act.(2)Where an importer who, not being a dealer
in motor vehicles, had purchased the motor vehicle for his own use in any
Union Territory, or any other State then his liability under this Act shall,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, be reduced to the extent of
the amount of tax paid, if any, under the law relating to general sales tax as
may be in force in that Union Territory or State.:

## Chapter III  
Tax Authorities

### 5. Assessing Authorities.

\- The Government may, by notification, appoint such officers as they think
fit to be the assessing authorities for the purposes of this Act and may
assign to them such local area or areas as the Government may think fit.

### 6. Appellate Authorities.

\- The Government may, by notification, appoint such officers as they think
fit to be the appellate authorities for the purposes of this Act and may
assign to them such local area or areas as the Government may think fit.

## Chapter IV  
Returns, Assessment, Payment, Recovery and Refund of Tax

### 7. Return.

(1)Every person liable to pay tax under this Act, shall furnish returns in
such form, for such period, by such dates, and to such authority, as may be
prescribed.(2)If any person liable to pay tax under this Act, having furnished
return under sub-section (1), discovers any omission or incorrect statement
therein he may furnish a revised return before the expiry of three months from
the last date prescribed for furnishing the return under sub-section (1).

### 7A. Powers to order production of accounts and powers of entry, inspection
etc.

(1)Any officer empowered by the Government in his behalf may require any
person liable to pay tax under this Act, to produce before him the accounts,
registers, records and other documents and to furnish any other information
relating to the entry of motor vehicles into the local areas effected by him
as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.(2)All accounts registers,
records and other documents maintained by a person liable to pay tax under
this Act relating to the entry of motor vehicles into the local area effected
by him and his officers, shops, godowns, vessels or vehicles shall be open to
inspection at all reasonable times by such officer:Provided that no
residential accommodation (not being a place of business - cumresidence) shall
be entered into and searched by such officer except on the authority of a
search warrant issued by the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area and
all searches under this sub-section shall, so far as may be, made in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act No. 2 of 1974)(3)If any such officer has reason to believe that
any person liable to pay tax under this Act had evaded, or is attempting to
evade the payment of any tax or other amount due from him under this Act, he
may, for reasons to be recorded in Writing, seize such accounts, registers,
records or other documents of such person as he may consider necessary, and
shall give such person a receipt for the same. The accounts, registers,
records and documents so seized shall be retained by such officer only for so
long as may be necessary for their examination and any inquiry or proceeding
under this Act;Provided that such accounts, registers, records, and documents
shall not be retained for more than thirty days at a time except with the
permission of the next higher authority, in which case they could be retained
up to a period of ninety days at a time.(4)Any such Officer shall, for the
purpose of sub-section(2) or sub-section(3), also have power to enter and
search any office, shop, godown, vessel, vehicle, building or place belonging
to any other person, if such officer has reason to believe that a person
liable to pay tax keeps, or is keeping any of his motor vehicles, accounts,
registers, records or other documents in such office, shop, godown, vessel,
vehicle, building or place.Explanation. - It shall be open to the Government
to empower different classes of officers for the purpose of taking action
under sub-section (1), (2) and (3)

### 8. Assessmen.

(1)The amount of tax due from a person liable to pay tax under this Act shall
be assessed separately for such period as may be prescribed.(2)If the
assessing authority is satisfied that the return furnished by a person liable
to pay tax, is correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax due
from the person on the basis of such return.(3)If the assessing authority is
not satisfied that the return furnished by a person liable to pay tax, is
correct and complete, and he thinks it necessary to require the presence of
the person or production of further evidence, he shall serve on such person in
the prescribed manner a notice requiring him on a date and at a place
specified therein, either to attend and produce or cause to be produced all
evidences on which the said person relies in support of his return, or to
produce such evidence as, is specified in the notice. On the date specified in
the notice, or as soon as may be, thereafter, the assessing authority shall,
after considering all the evidences which may be produced, assess the amount
of tax due from the person.(4)If a person fails to comply with the
requirements of any notice issued under sub-section (3), the assessing
authority shall determine the purchase value of the motor vehicle under the
proviso to clause (k) of Section 2 to the best of his judgment and assess the
amount of tax due from him.(5)No order of assessment under sub-section (3) or
(4) shall be made after the expiry of three years from the last date
prescribed for filing of returns of the particular period. If for any reason
such order is not made within the period aforesaid then the return so filed
shall be deemed to have been accepted as correct and complete for assessing
the tax due from such person.

### 9. Reassessment.

\- If, after a person, liable to pay tax has been assessed under Section 8,
for any period, the assessing authority has reason to believe that any
purchase value or part thereof, has, in respect of that period, escaped
assessment, or has been under assessed or assessed at a lower rate, then the
assessing authority may, within five ears from the date of the order of
assessment of the particular period, after giving the person a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, reassess, to the best of his judgment, the tax due
from him.

### 10. Payment of tax.

(1)The tax shall be paid in the manner hereinafter provided.(2)A person liable
to pay the tax, shall, before furnishing returns as required by sub-section
(1) of Section 7, first pay into the Government treasury in the prescribed
manner, or to the assessing authority in cash or by cheque or Demand Draft the
whole of the amount of tax due from him according to such return.(3)If a
person liable to pay the tax, furnishes a revised return in accordance with
sub-section (2) of Section 7, and if such revised return shows that a larger
amount of tax than already paid is payable, he shall first pay into the
Government treasury in the prescribed manner or to the assessing authority in
cash or by cheque or Demand Draft the additional amount of tax according to
such revised return.(4)The amount of-(i)tax due where return has been
furnished without full payment thereof,(ii)difference in the tax assessed
under Section 8 or reassessed under Section 9 for any period and the sum
already paid by the person in respect of such period, and(iii)penalty (if any)
levied under Section 15, shall be paid by the person, into the Government
Treasury, or to the assessing authority in cash or by cheque or Demand Draft
by such date as may be specified in the notice issued by the assessing
authority for this purpose, being a date not earlier than thirty days from the
date of service of the notice.(5)Any tax or penalty which remains unpaid after
the date specified in the notice for payment, shall be recoverable as if it
were an arrear of land revenue.

### 11. Refund of tax.

\- The assessing authority shall refund to a person the amount of tax and
penalty, if any, paid by such person in excess of the amount due from him. The
refund may be either by cash payment or, at the option of the person, by
deduction of such excess from the amount of tax and penalty, if any, due from
that person in respect of any other period:Provided that, the assessing
authority shall first apply such excess towards the recovery of any amount due
in respect of which a notice under sub-section (4) of Section 10 has been
issued, and shall then refund the balance, if any.

### 12. Exemptions.

\- Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the Government may, if it is
necessary so to do in the public interest, by notification, exempt any
specified class of importers from payment of the whole or part of the tax
payable under this Act.

## Chapter V  
Appeals and Revision

### 13. Appeals.

(1)An appeal from every original order under this Act shall lie to the
appellate authority appointed under Section 6.(2)In the case of an order
passed in appeal by the appellate authority, a second appeal shall lie to the
Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes.(3)No appeal shall be entertained by
the appellate authority or the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, unless
it is filed within 30 days from the date of receipt of the order appealed
against by the assessee, and unless the entire amount of tax and penalty, if
any, has been credited by the assessee in the Government treasury.(4)Subject
to such rules of procedure as may be prescribed, every appellate authority
(both in the first appeal or the second appeal) shall have the following
powers, namely:-(a)in an appeal against an order of assessment, it may
confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment; or it may set aside the
assessment and refer the case back to the assessing authority for making a
fresh assessment in accordance with the direction given by it and after making
such further inquiry as may be necessary, the assessing authority shall
thereupon proceed to make such fresh assessment and determine, where
necessary, the amount of tax payable on the basis of such fresh assessment;
and(b)in any other case, the appellate authority or the Joint Commissioner of
Commercial Taxes, as the case may be, may pass such orders in the appeal as it
deems just and proper.

### 14. Revision.

(1)The Commissioner of Commercial Taxes may suo motu or on an application made
in that behalf, call for and examine the record of the proceeding of any order
made by the assessing authority or, as the case may be, the appellate
authority and pass such order thereon as he thinks just and proper.(2)No
application under sub-section (1) shall be entertained, if it is not made
within a period of four months from the date of the order.(3)No order which
adversely affects any person shall be passed under this section, unless such
person has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard by the
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes.(4)Where an appeal lies under Section 13 and
no appeal is made, no proceedings in revision shall be entertained upon an
application.(5)Where the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes rejects any
application for revision under this section, he shall record the reasons for
such rejection.CHPTER VI Penalty

### 15. Penalty.

(1)Where any person liable to pay tax under this Act falls to comply with any
of the provisions of this Act, then the assessing authority may, after giving
such person a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by order in writing
impose on him in addition to any tax payable, a sum by way of penalty not
exceeding twice the amount of tax.(2)If the person does not, without
reasonable cause, pay the tax within the time he is required, by or under the
provisions of this Act to pay the assessing authority may, after giving such
person a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by order in writing,impose
upon him by way of penalty, in addition to the amount of tax and penalty under
sub-section (1) a sum equal to.-(a)one and one half per cent, of the amount of
tax for each month for the first three months, after the last date by which
the person should have paid that tax, and(b)two per cent, of the amount of tax
for each month thereafter during the time the person continues to make default
in the payment of tax.

### 15A. Impounding of motor vehicle. - If an importer liable to pay tax fails
to pay the tax in the manner prescribed, then the competent authority shall
forthwith impound the motor vehicle in respect of which tax has not been paid
and keep -the-motor vehicle impounded till the amount of tax and penalty due
and payable in respect of such motor vehicle is paid in full:

Provided that, if the amount of tax and penalty is not paid within one month
of impounding of the motor vehicle, the competent authority shall have power
to sell the motor vehicle by auction in such manner as may be prescribed and
apply the sale proceeds towards recovery of the tax, penalty and costs if any,
incurred in the sale of such motor vehicle. The remainder, if any, shall be
refunded to such importer:Provided further that, if, at any time before the
auction of the motor vehicle, the importer pays the tax, penalty and costs, if
any, then, the competent authority may after satisfying that all the dues as
aforesaid have been fully paid by the importer, cancel the auction and return
the motor vehicle to the importer.Explanation. - For the purpose of this
section competent authority' means the assessing authority and such other
person or authority authorised by the Government by notification, to perform
the functions of the competent authority under this section.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 16. Officers and servants appointed under this Act to be public servants.

\- All officers and servants appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 17. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government, or any public servant for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under this Act.

### 18. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for the following matters, namely:-(a)the duties
and powers of officers appointed for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
of this Act;(b)all matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be
prescribed;(c)generally regulating the procedure to be followed and the forms
to be adopted in the proceedings under this Act;(d)any other matter including
levy of fees for which there is no specific provision in this Act and for
which provision is, in the opinion of the Government, necessary for giving
effect to the purposes of this Act; and(e)the procedure for any other matter
incidental to the disposal of appeal and the value of Court-fee stamp which a
memorandum of appeal or revision should bear.(3)(a)All rules made under this
Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they
are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on
the day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this
Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day,
come into force on the day on which they are published.(4)Every rule made or
every notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it
is made or issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if,
before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session,
the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or notification or the
Assembly decides that the rule or notification should not be made or issued,
the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 19. Restriction on registration.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, where the liability to pay tax in respect of a motor -vehicle arises
under this Act and such motor vehicle is required to be registered in the
State under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, no registering officer shall
register any such motor vehicle, unless payment of such tax has been made by
the person concerned in respect of such vehicle.

### 19A. [ Automation. [Section 19A was inserted as per Gazette No 217 (Act No
17) Dated 14.10.2015]

(1)The Government may, by notification, provide that the provisions contained
in the Information Technology Act, 2000 (Central Act21 of 2000) and the rules
made and directions given under the said Act, including the provisions
relating to digital signatures, electronic governance, attribution,
acknowledgment and dispatch of electronic records, secure electronic records
and secure digital signatures and digital signature certificates as are
specified in the said notification, shall, insofar as they may, as far as
feasible, apply to the procedures under this Act.(2)Where any notice or
communication is prepared on any automated data processing system and is
properly served on any importer or person, such notice or communication shall
not be required to be personally signed by any officer or person and shall not
be deemed to be invalid only on the ground that it is not personally signed by
any such officer."]

### 20. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Tax on Entry of Motor Vehicles into Local Areas Ordinance,
1990, is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any
action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under this Act.

