## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Reports
of Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats) Rules, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Reports
of Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats) Rules, 1999

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-PREPARATION-AND-SUBMISSION-OF-ADMINISTRATION-
REPORTS-OF-PANCHAYAT-UNION-COUNCILS-AND-DISTRICT-PANCHAYATS-RULES-1999 of 1999

  * Published on 3 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Reports of
Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats) Rules, 1999Published vide
Notification No. G.O. MS. No. 247, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 3rd
December 1999 - No. SRO A-88 (a-1)/99Published in Part III - Section 1(a), of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th December
1999.G.O. MS. No. 247. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(2) of section 95, section 99 and sub-section (1) of section 242 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of
the rules relating to the submission of Administration Reports of Panchayat
Unions, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules maybe called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and
Submission of Administration Reports of Panchayat Union Councils and District
Panchayats) Rules, 1999.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Preparation of consolidated administration report.

\- The Commissioner of every panchayat union council shall, as soon as may be
not later than 30th June every year, prepare a consolidated report on the
administration of the panchayat union council and on the administration of all
village panchayats in the panchayat union during the preceding year in two
parts, namely, (a) embodying the particulars specified in the Appendix A; and
(b) the annual account indicating income and expenditure of the panchayat
union during the year in Appendix B.

### 4. Prescribed date for submission of report.

\- Once the Administration Report along with audit report is ready, their
copies shall be supplied to the members of the panchayat union council in
advance before they meet to consider the report. Ten copies of the report
together with a copy of the resolution of the panchayat union council shall be
submitted to the district panchayat not later than the 30th September of the
year following that to which the report relates. The report and the resolution
of the council thereon shall be kept in places accessible to the public, one
such copy being affixed to the notice board of the office of the panchayat
union council.

### 5. Prescribed date for submission of general report on the administration
by district panchayat.

\- The date before which the District Panchayat shall submit the general
report on the administration of panchayat union councils and village
panchayats of the panchayat district to the Government, with a copy of the
Inspector referred to in sub-section (3) of section 99 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) shall be the 30th October of
the year following that to which the report relates.

### 6. Publishing the general report on the administration.

\- The general report and the resolution of the district panchayat shall be
published in the District Gazette and be kept in places accessible to the
public in the district, copies being affixed in the notice board of the office
of the district panchayat and Inspector.Appendix-A(See rule 3)Consolidated
Report On The Administration of The Panchayat Union Council and Village
Panchayats In The Said Panchayat Union In The District Panchayat For The
Year.....................I. Constitution and Management:

### 1\. Jurisdiction. - (i) The area of the panchayat union as on 31st March
of the year to which the report relates in square kilometres.

(ii)Changes in the jurisdiction of the panchayat union during the year under
report, if any.(iii)Total number of wards.(iv)Number and names of village
panchayat coming within the panchayat union.(v)Details of population (as per
latest available census figures), (a) Male, (b) Female, (c) Total, (d) Density
of population per square metre, (e) Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
population, (f) percentage of women population in total population and (g)
Percentage of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe population in total population.

### 2\. Personnel. - (i) The council break up details of members and (a)
Number of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe members including women, (b)
Number of other women members, (c) others, (d) Vacancy, if any, (e) Total
number of members items (a) + (b) + (c) + (d).

(ii)Changes, if any, in the total strength.(iii)Number of seats fell vacant
(with ward members and category of reservation) and date from which they
are/were, vacant.(iv)Was election, of members ordinary or casual, held during
the year and, if so, date of election?(v)Whether elections have been held and
seats filled up within six months from the date of vacancy ?(vi)Date of first
meeting of the ordinary election.

### 3\. Holders of Different Office. - (i) Chairman and Vice-Chairman -
Briefly state on each of them mainly on the following: -

(a)Name and party affiliation;(b)Date of election and ward he
represents;(c)Date of taking oath and date of first meeting after ordinary
election; and(d)Removal of chairman, if any.(e)No confidence motion, if any,
moved.(ii)Panchayat Union Commissioner, Block Development Officer
(Panchayats), Deputy Block Development Officer Extension Officers: -Indicate
names, date of joining, etc., on each of them.

### 4\. Election. - (i) Ordinary Election;

(ii)Casual Elections; and(iii)Election disputes: Provide brief on the elected
members and election disputes, if any.

### 5\. Panchayat union council meeting, provide details of meeting conducted,
ordinary, urgent, special with dates and subjects decided, attendance of
members at meetings. - (i) Average percentage of attendance; and of meetings
adjourned, if any, for want of quorum with dates;

(ii)Total number of subjects -(a)Taken up in agenda;(b)Number disposed
of;(c)Number of items adjourned once or more with reasons therefor;
and(d)number of items on which action needs to be initiated, number disposed
of and number pending.

### 6\. Committees. - Details of statutory committees and other committees
formed, meeting held, with summary of working of the committees. Furnish
details on Joint Committees, if any, and the work done by them.

### 7. Establishment. - What is the sanctioned strength? What is the cost of
establishment? Expenditure incurred on plaints and suits and on law charges.
Location of the panchayat union office was the building repaired during the
year and, if so, the expenditure incurred. Are the prescribed forms and
registers maintained ?

### 8. Roads, bridges, ferries and buildings:

(A)Roads. - (i) Provide details on road density and facilities of- (a)
National Highway; (b) State Highways; (c) Major District roads; (d) Other
district roads; (e) Panchayat union roads; and (f) Village panchayat roads.

Furnish the following information on PanchayatUnion Roads: -  
---  
(a) Cement concrete | No..........................length  
(b) B.T. | No..........................length  
(c) Metalled | No..........................length  
(d) Gravelled | No..........................length  
(e) Earthern | No..........................length  
Total | No..........................length  
  
(ii)Bus route roads-No., length, Number of hamlets covered by route buses and
town buses;(iii)the expenditure on the maintenance of panchayat union roads,
with comparative figures for the last three years;(iv)whether a programme has
been drawn up for block-topping of metalled roads and unmetalled roads;(v)was
any road transferred to the control of State Government and, if so, the
length? was any road taken over from village panchayats and, if so, the number
and length;(vi)any encroachments of roads and the condition of
roads;(vii)details of gang mazdoors and Road Inspectors employed and
expenditure incurred on them;(B)Bridges. - (i) Details of capital works such
as bridges, causeway and culverts incurred in the year. Per cent of such
expenditure to the total amount spent on roads;(ii)Number of bridges,
culverts, causeways, etc., improved, repaired and the expenditure incurred
during the year;(iii)amount spent on (a) new works; (b) repairs.(C)Ferries. -
What is the total receipt and charges, the rate of charges, the method of
collection and the convenience offered ?(D)Panchayat Union buildings and other
assets. -(i)The building and other assets that are maintained by the panchayat
union;(ii)Any work of improvement and maintenance like white washing, colour
washing, painting carried out and the expenditure thereon;(iii)Whether any
maintenance grant received under any scheme, and give details;(iv)Was any new
asset created or new building completed and, if so, under which scheme?

### 9. Choultries, rest sheds, bus shelters and water sheds. - (i) Number of
choultries, rest sheds, bus shelters and water sheds maintained, the receipt
and charges therefrom;

(ii)Endowments, if any, for choultries and water shed and their
condition;(iii)Cost of free feeding, if any, and number of person fed.

### 10. Tools. - Plant, machinery and stores. -

(i)Total ordinary expenditure on tools, plants and stores;(ii)Percentage of
such expenditure on communication; Capita expenditure on tools, plants and
machinery, or vehicle; and expenditure oi repair charges, petrol, oil and
lubricant charges and their maintenance.

### 11. Lighting. - Number of street lights installed, under different
category. Expenditure incurred on new installation and cost of maintenance of
existing street lights.

### 12. Medical. - (i) Number of PHCs, rural dispensaries and other public
medical institutions in union area, the average population served by each
institution;

(ii)number of medical officers and other para medical and contingent staff of
panchayat union;(iii)number of private medical institutions, hospitals,
dispensaries and practitioners in the panchayat union area.

### 13. Health Service. - (i) Number of patients treated for minor ailments by
the rural dispensary and the expenditure per patient, expenditure on doctors,
non-medical staff and medicines;

(ii)is there any maternity ward, or inpatient facility available and, if so,
the number treated as inpatients and deliveries in the maternity ward;
and(iii)accommodation, equipment, etc., details may be given.

### 14. Maternity relief and family welfare. - (i) Number of maternity and
child welfare centres functioning. Does they workout to one centre for every
10,000 population. Do they have own building and facilities. Number of
panchayat union staff employed for these centres and the expenditure incurred
by the panchayat union; and

(ii)Family welfare. -(a)What is the birth rate, death rate, net population
growth rate, infant mortality rate, maternity mortality rate in the panchayat
union area;(b)Number of vasectomy and sterilisation done in the union area.

### 15. Endemic and epidemic diseases. - (i) The steps taken on the preventive
measures to control diseases affecting pregnant women, mother and children,
and on communicable diseases.

(ii)Value of medicines, vaccines and other materials supplied to the public
health staff for prevention of diseases.

### 16. Sanitation. - (a) Number of houses and per cent of houses having house
flush out toilets and school toilets. What is the general sanitary condition
in the panchayat union? Name the villages where all houses have toilets.

(b)Food Adulteration:(i)Steps taken to control food adulteration by means of
licencing of hotels, sweet, meat shop, etc.(ii)whether the Food Adulteration
Act has been extended to the union area ?(iii)whether the conditions of
licence enforced ?(c)Dangerous and offensive trades:(i)What are all the trades
identified and number of licences issued trade-wise, amount collected by way
of fees village panchayat-wise, and furnish other details.(ii)Indicate details
on industrial pollution affecting the environments and, if so, what steps
taken by the union to prevent such pollution.

### 17. Water supply. - (i) Total number of habitation having 300 population
and above and of which how many have piped water supply and 40 litres per
capital water supply;

(ii)Total number of habitation having bore well pumps, hand pumps;(iii)Number
of water supply installations available in the union; hand pumps, power pumps.
Ground Level Reservoir, Over Head Tank, etc.;(iv)Number of houses having water
supply connections and water charges collected by village panchayats during
the year.

### 18. Fairs and festivals. - Notified fairs and festivals controlled by the
panchayat union, dates of such festivals, estimated number of persons visiting
the festivals, special arrangements made for the health and comfort of such
persons, the expenditure incurred for such arrangements and the receipt by way
of auction-ery and issuing licences to shops in the fair and other receipts.

### 19. Veterinary service and dairy development. - (i) Number of veterinary
dispensaries functioning with location, number of animals were treated ?

(ii)artificial insemination centres and sub-centres functioning;(iii)is the
veterinary relief adequate ?(iv)number of milch animals in the panchayats
union Dairy Co-operative and furnish information on the same.

### 20. Eradication of untouchability. - (i) State the steps taken to
eradicate untouchability in the union, with special reference to service of
tea in tea stalls and meals in hotels, and

(ii)number of prosecution filed under the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955
(Central Act 22 of 1955) and the result of prosecution ?

### 21. Markets. - (i) Panchayat Union and village panchayat markets,
location, periodicity, receipt and charges from the markets, improvements
carried on in the year and the development needed for better services and
income;

(ii)private markets, number, licence fee realised, enforcement of licence
conditions;(iii)factories and industries located in the panchayat
union;(iv)industrial units run by the panchayat union, production, sales,
expenditure and profit and loss may be furnished.

### 22. Social forestry. - (i) Number and variety of trees available in
panchayat union roads and tanks;

(ii)What is the auction amount fetched byway of leasing the enjoyment of the
usufructs of such trees for the three years;(iii)Steps taken to plant more
trees on vacant road sides and tank beds;(iv)Whether forest department has
been permitted to raise social forestry in tanks and, if so, the name of tank,
extent covered;(v)Number of prosecution launched for illicit tree cuttings.

### 23. Land encroachment. - (i) Road side stalls are those obstructing
traffic flow? what is the receipt by way of collection of fees from such
stalls?

(ii)Encroachments:(a)number of encroachments existing, licenced and
depending;(b)number of encroachment found to be objectionable on inspection by
Commissioner; and(c)number of encroachments reported by Village Administrative
Officer and action taken to remove such encroachments.

### 24. Land utilisation and irrigation. - Extent of land cultivated.

(i)Extent of land: (a) wet (b) dry;(ii)Net cultivated area: (a) wet (b)
dry;(iii)Gross cultivated area: (a) wet (b) dry;(iv)Source of irrigation: (a)
wells (b) tanks (c) channels (Length in Kilometre) (d) others;(v)Tanks vested
with panchayat union and village panchayats;(vi)Number improved or desilted
during the year, and expenditure incurred execution of Kudimaramat. Amount of
excess Kudimaramat grant sanctioned by Government. Number of sources taken up
for Kudimaramat, number completed and area covered, amount of Kudimaramat fees
levied by panchayats.

### 25. Financial Position. - Income. -

(1)(i)Land revenue;(ii)Rate of local cess surcharge;(iii)Rate of local
irrigation fees.(2)The opening and closing balances and the extent of the
total receipt and expenditure during the year;(3)Balance pertaining to
remunerative enterprises, Government grants and loans due by the union;(4)Ways
and means position during the year;(5)(i)Receipt and expenditure on all
accounts; and(ii)Receipts and expenditure under general account ordinary.

### 26. Capital expenditure. - Total expenditure on capital works -

(i)on development works entrusted;(ii)other items;(iii)Government grant
received on the development works and contribution, if any, paid from
panchayat union funds; and(iv)expenditure incurred from loans.

### 27. Debt. - Debt in the beginning of the year, incurred during the year,
repaid during the year and balance at the close of the year. Total interest
paid on debt on account of the arrears of previous year and for the year under
reports.

### 28. Investment. - Details of amount invested, year of investment, nature
of securities, interest, date of maturity, etc.

### 29. Audit. - Inspection remarks of Assistant Director of Local Fund
Account.

### 30. Furnish details of assets and liabilities.

### 31. Visit of distinguished persons, notable activities of the Panchayat
Union Council during the year.

Appendix - B(See rule 3)Income and Expenditure of Panchayat Union.

Serial No. | Source of Income | Amount  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  | Rs.  
  
Serial No. | Head of Account for expenditure | Year | Amount  
---|---|---|---  
(4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  | Rs.

