## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Transit by Railway Allowance) Rules, 1987

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Transit by Railway Allowance) Rules, 1987

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATIVE-ASSEMBLY-TRANSIT-BY-RAILWAY-ALLOWANCE-
RULES-1987 of 1987

  * Published on 3 April 1987 
  * Commenced on 3 April 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 April 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Transit by Railway Allowance) Rules,
1987Published vide Notification No. G.O. MS. No. 546, Public (Legislature
Wing), dated 3.4.1987In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 read
with section 12-A of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu
Act XX of 1951), and in supersession of the Tamil Nadu Legislature (Free
Transit by Railway) Rules, 1975, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G O
Ms.No. 483, Public (Establishment-I and legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.] (Transit by Railway Allowance) Rules, 1987.(2)The rules hereby made
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st April 1987.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of
1951);(b)"Authorised Officer" means an officer not below the rank of an Under
Secretary, Legislative Assembly Secretariat authorised by the Secretary to
claim the bill of the Member and to make payment of transit by railway
allowance;(c)"Form" means the forms appended to these rules;(d)"Member" means
a Member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly including any such member who
holds any of the offices referred to in sections 3, 4 and 6;(e)"Secretary"
means the Secretary to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;(f)"State" means
the State of Tamil Nadu; and(g)"Transit by Railway Allowance" means an
allowance payable to every Member of the Legislative Assembly including any
such Member who holds any of the offices referred to in sections 3, 4 and 6 of
the Act for the purpose of travelling either singly or with his or her spouse
or any other relative in one or more journeys by any class by any railway in
India.

### 3. Authority for payment of transit by railway allowance.

\- The Secretary or the Authorised Officer shall be the authority competent to
make the payment of transit by railway allowance to the Member.

### 4. Payment of transit by railway allowance.

\- Every Member shall, for every financial year, be paid by the Secretary or
the [Authorised [Officer] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 659, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st June 1993.]] a sum in accordance with sub-section
(1) of section 12-A of the Act towards transit by railway allowance in two
equal instalments, payable in the months of April and October.

### 4A. [ Death of Member. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 264, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 30th March 1994 (with effect from 17th July 1993).]

\- In the event of the death of a Member, unclaimed and un-disbursed amount of
Transit by railway allowance due till the date of his death, if any, shall be
paid to his legal heir, after recovering the dues, if any, to the Legislative
Assembly Secretariat or to' the Government.]

### 5. Claims of payments for transit by railway allowance.

(a)On receipt of the requisition from a member or in the event of the death of
a member his legal heir, for claiming transit by railway allowance for
first/second instalment, a bill for payment of such allowance shall be
prepared in "Form A" annexed to these rules, scrutinised and passed for
payment by the Secretary or the Authorised Officer.(b)All claims for payment
of transit by railway allowance preferred by a Member 4or, in the event of the
death of a member his legal heir, after the expiry of one year from the date
of its becoming due shall be regarded as time-barred and all such claims shall
be rejected summarily.

### 6. Mode of payment of transit by railway allowance.

\- The transit by railway allowance shall be paid by the Secretary or the
Authorised Officer by cheque to the Member or, in the event of the death of a
Member, his legal heir concerned.

### 7. Receipt of payment of transit by railway allowance.

\- The Member or in the event of the death of a member, his legal heir shall
furnish stamped receipt in duplicate for the receipt of the payment of transit
by railway allowance in Form B soon after the receipt of the cheque.

### 8. Over payments or wrong payments.

\- If any over payment or wrong payment is made, the amounts so paid shall be
adjusted in the subsequent payment payable under these rules or recovered from
the salary payable to the member or in the event of the death of a Member, his
legal heir under sections 3, 4, 6 and 12 or from the pension payable to a
Member or, in the event of the death of a member, his legal heir under section
12-B of the Act, as the case may be, or recovered from the Member under the
Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864) as if it
were an arrear of land revenue.

### 9. Decision of the Secretary is final.

\- The decision of the Secretary shall be final on all matters relating to the
payment of transit by railway allowance not specifically provided for in these
rules.AppendixForm - A(See rule 5)Head of AccountBill for Payment of Transit
by Railway Allowance to the Members of the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly]
[Vide G.O. Ms. No. 264, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the
30th March 1994 (with effect from 17th July 1993).] or in the Event of the
Death of the Member, his Legal heir.Month of...........Year.......Voucher
No....................

SI. No. |  Name of the Member or, in the event of deathof the Member, his legal heir | Payment of Transit by Railway Allowance | *Deductions if any | **Net Amount | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  | Rs.P. | Rs.E | Rs.E | Rs.P.  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
| (Total................) |  |  |   
  
* Details** Should be expressed both in figures and words.Certified that the amount has not been drawn previously. Passed for payment of Rs........... (Rupees.............. only).The Secretary or Authorised Officer, Legislative Assembly Secretariat.Form-B(See rule 7)Stamped Receipt for Payment of Transit by Railway Allowance by ChequeReceipt No........Dated:..............Received a cheque bearing No...............dated ................ for Rs .............. (Rupees .............. only) from the Secretary or the Authorised Officer, Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Chennai-9, being the Payment of Transit by Railway Allowance for the First/Second instalment.(Sd)...................Member, Legislative Assembly [or, in the event of death of the Member, his legal heir.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 264, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 30th March 1994 (with effect from the 17th July 1993).]

