## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act, 1997

## Act 4 of 1997

  * Published on 14 February 1997 
  * Commenced on 14 February 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 February 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu
Act No. 4 of 1997)Last Updated 9th March, 2020Received the assent of the
Governor on the 14th February, 1997 and published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, Extraordinary.[14th February, 1997]An Act to provided for the
regulation of the Private Clinical Establishments in the State of Tamil Nadu
for matters connected therewith or incidental theretoBe it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-Eighth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments
(Regulation) Act, 1997.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"competent
authority" means any authority, officer or person appointed by the Government,
by notification, to perform the functions of the competent authority under
this Act and different competent authority may be appointed for different
areas;(b)"Government" means the State Government;(c)"private clinical
establishment" means and includes-(i)a general hospital, maternity hospital or
dispensary.(ii)an institution or a centre, by whatever name called where
physically or mentally sick, injured or infirm person is admitted either as
in-patient or out-patient or treatment with or without the aid of operative
procedures;(iii)a clinic catering to radiological, biological or other
diagnostic or investigative services with the aid of laboratory or other
medical equipments.established and administered or maintained by any person
for body of persons, whether incorporated or not, but does not include a
clinical establishment established and administered or maintained by the State
Government or Central Government or a local authority or a company or
corporation owned or controlled by the State Government or Central Government.

### 3. Registration of private Clinical establishments.

(1)On or after the date of the commencement of this Act, no person shall carry
on any private clinical establishment unless such private clinical
establishment is duly registered, under this Act:Provided that every private
clinical establishment in existence on the date of the commencement of this
Act shall apply for registration within three months from that date:Provided
further that every private clinical establishment in existence on the date of
the commencement of this Act shall cease to carry on its business on the
expiry of four months from that date unless such private clinical
establishment has applied for registration and is so registered or till such
application is disposed of whichever is earlier.(2)Every application for
registration under sub-section (1) shall be made to the competent authority in
such form and in such manner and shall be accompanied by such fee not
exceeding five thousand rupees as may be prescribed.(3)No private Clinical
establishment shall be registered under this Act unless the competent
authority is satisfied that such private clinical establishment is in a
position to provide such specilised services and facilities possess such
skilled manpower and equipments and conditions as may be prescribed.

### 4. Certificate of registration.

(1)The competent authority shall, after holding an enquiry after satisfying
itself that the applicant has complied with all the requirements of this Act
and the rules made thereunder, grant to the private clinical establishment a
certificate of registration in such form and subject to such conditions as may
be prescribed.(2)If, after the enquiry and after giving an opportunity to the
applicant of being heard, the competent authority is satisfies that the
applicant has not complied with the requirements of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, it shall, or reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the
application or registration.(3)Every certificate of registration is valid for
a period of live years and may be renewed or a period of five years at a
time.(4)Every application, or renewal of registration shall be made within
such time as may be prescribed and the provisions of this Act shall as far as
may be apply in relation to the renewal of a registration as they apply in
relation to registration.(5)if a certificate of registration is lost,
destroyed, mutilated or damaged, the competent authority may, on application
and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed, issue a duplicate
certificate.

### 5. Suspension or cancellation of registration.

(1)The competent authority may, suo-moto or on complaint, issue a notice to
any private clinical establishment to show cause why its registration under
this Act should not be suspended or cancelled for the masons mentioned in the
notice.(2)If after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the
private clinical establishment, the competent authority is satisfied that
there has been a breach of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder or the conditions of registration, it may, without prejudice to any
other action, that it may take against such Private clinical establishment
suspend its registration for such period as it may think fit or cancel its
registration:Provided that where the competent authority is of the opinion
that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, for
reasons to be recorded in writings suspend the registration of any private
clinical establishment without issuing any notice.

### 6. Inspection or enquiry.

(1)The competent authority shall have the right to cause an inspection of, or
enquiry in respect of any private clinical establishment, its buildings,
laboratories and equipments and also of the work conducted or done by the
private clinical establishment, to be made by such person or persons as it may
direct and to cause an enquiry to be made in respect of any other matter
connected with the private clinical establishment and that establishment shall
be entitled to be represented there at.(2)The comment authority shall
communicate to the private clinical establishment the views of that authority
with reference to the results of such inspection or enquiry and may, after
ascertaining the opinion of the private clinical establish meet thereon advise
that establish met upon the action to be taken.(3)The private clinical
establishment shall report to the competent authority the action, if any,
which is proposed to be taken or has been taken upon the results of such
inspection or enquiry, Such report shall be furnished within such time as the
competent authority may direct,(4)Where the private clinical establishment
does not, within a reasonable time take action to the satisfaction of the
competent authority that authority may, after considering any explanation
furnished or representation made by the private clinical establishment, issue
such directions as that authority deems fit and the private clinical
establishment shall comply with such directions.

### 7. Appeals.

\- Any private clinical establishment aggrieved by an order of the competent
authority rejecting an application for registration under sub-section (2) of
section 4 or an order of suspension or cancellation of registration under sub-
section (2) of section 5 or by any direction of the competent authority under
section 6 may, within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order,
prefer an appeal to such authority and in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 8. Punishment for contravention of any provisions of this act.

\- Whoever contravenes any provisions of this act or any rule made under this
Act or any condition of the registration granted thereunder shall be
punishable with fine which shall not be less than five thousand rupees but
which may extend to fifteen thousand rupees:Provided that the Court may, for
reasons to be recorded in the judgement, impose a fine than five thousand
rupees.

### 9. Offences by companies.

(1)Where any offence punishable under this Act has been committed by a
company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business
of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render
any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where any offence punishable under this Act has been
committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed
with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the
part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company,
such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly,Explanation. - For the purposes of these
section,-(a)"Company" means any body corporate and includes a firm society or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to-(i)a firm,
means a partner in the firm.(ii)a society or other association of individuals,
means the person who is entrusted under the riles of the society or other
association, with the management of the affairs of the society or other
association, as the case may be.

### 10. Cognizance of offences.

\- No court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act except on a
complaint made by the competent authority or any officer authorised in this
behalf by the competent authority.

### 11. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of the provisions of this Act.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
the provisions of this Act.

### 12. Furnishing of returns, etc.

\- Every private clinical establishment shall, within such time or within such
extended time as may be fixed by the competent authority in this behalf,
furnish to the competent authority such returns, statistics and other
information as the competent authority may from time to time require.

### 13. Competent authority, etc. deemed to be public servants.

\- Every authority and every officer duly authorised to exercise the powers or
to discharge any duty imposed on it or him by or under this Act shall be
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules, to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)Every rule made under this Act and every order made under
section 15 shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such rule or order, or the Assembly decide that the rule or order should
not be made, the rule or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case maybe, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or order.

### 15. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government, may as occasion requires by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, do anything which appear to them to be necessary or
expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that, no order
under this section shall be made after the expiry of two years from the date
of commencement of this Act.

