## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Rules, 1980

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Rules, 1980

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-CULTIVATING-TENANTS-ARREARS-OF-RENT-RELIEF-RULES-1980 of
1980

  * Published on 28 June 1980 
  * Commenced on 28 June 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 June 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Rules, 1980Published
vide Notification SRO. A-191 (b)/80.-G.O Ms. No. 1596, Revenue, dated 28th
June 1980In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1980), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Rules, 1980.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 15 of 1980);(b)"authorized agent" means-(i)a person holding a power-of-
attorney authorizing him to act on behalf of his principal; or(ii)an agent
empowered by written authority under the hand of his principal to act on his
behalf;(c)"Form" means a form appended to these rules;(d)"section" means a
section of the Act.

### 3. Procedure for the deposit of previous arrears and reduced rent.

(1)Every cultivating tenant, desirous of depositing the previous arrears
and/or the reduced rent or if the rent be payable in kind its market value on
the date of deposit under subsection (2) of section 4, shall make an
application in Form I and deposit the same in the Court or before the
competent authority.(2)Where the deposit is made in the Court, the application
in Form I, and the deposit shall be made to an officer of the Court,
authorized in this behalf by the Court.(3)Where the competent authority is
absent, the application in Form I and the deposit shall be made before the
chief ministerial officer in the office of the competent authority, authorized
in this behalf by the competent authority.

### 4. Notice to landlord under section 4(3).

\- As soon as the deposit is made towards the previous arrears and/or the
reduced rent, a notice in Form II shall be issued by the Court or the
competent authority, as the case may be, to the landlord intimating the
deposit of the previous arrears and/or the reduced rent and fixing a date,
time and place for an enquiry to decide whether the amount deposited
represents the correct amount payable by the cultivating tenant towards the
previous arrears and/or the reduced rent due to the landlord. On the date
fixed or on any subsequent date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the
court or the competent authority may, after taking such evidence or making
such enquiry as it think fit, pass orders in accordance with the provisions of
the Act.

### 5. Dismissal of suit or proceeding pending on the date of the publication
of the Act.

\- Every application under sub-section (4) of section 4 for dismissing a
pending suit or proceeding for the recovery of any arrears of rent or for the
eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any arrears of rent shall
be in Form III. On receipt of the application, a notice in Form II shall be
issued by the Court or competent authority, as the case may be, to the
landlord intimating the deposit of the previous arrears and/or the reduced
rent and fixing a date, time and place for an enquiry. On the date fixed or on
any subsequent date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the Court or the
competent authority may, after taking such evidence or making such enquiry as
it thinks fit, pass orders in accordance with the provisions of the Act.

### 6. Vacation of decree or order passed.

\- Every application for vacating the decree or order passed by the Court or
the competent authority, as the case may be, under clause (ii) of sub-section
(5) of section 4 shall be in Form IV. On receipt of the application, a notice
in Form II shall be issued by the Court or the competent authority, as the
case may be, to the landlord intimating the deposit of the previous arrears
and/or the reduced rent and fixing a date, time and place for an enquiry. On
the date fixed or on any subsequent date to which the hearing may be
adjourned, the Court or the competent authority may, after taking such
evidence or making such evidence or making such enquiry as it think lit, pass
orders in accordance with the provisions of the Act.

### 7. Payment or deposit of rent on or after the 1st July 1973.

\- Every application for reopening the proceeding under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) of section 5 shall be in Form V. On receipt of the
application, a notice in Form 11 shall be issued by the Court or the competent
authority, as the case may be, to the landlord intimating the deposit of the
previous arrears and/or the reduced rent and fixing a date, time and place for
an enquiry. On the date fixed or on any subsequent date to which the hearing
may be adjourned, the Court or the competent authority may, after taking such
evidence or making such enquiry as it thinks fit pass orders in accordance
with the provisions of the Act.

### 8. Court-fees.

\- Every application under these rules shall bear a Court-fee stamp of two
rupees and shall be accompanied by sufficient number of copies of the
application for service on the landlords, cultivating tenants, or other
persons likely to be affected, as the case may be.

### 9. Powers of competent authority and conduct of proceedings.

(1)The competent authority shall have the powers exercisable by a Civil Court
in the trial of suits.(2)The proceedings of the competent authority shall be
summary and shall, as far as possible, be governed by the provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) with regard to-(a)the
issue and service of summons;(b)the examination of parties and
witnesses;(c)the production of documents;(d)the amendment of pleadings;(e)the
addition of parties;(f)the passing of ex parte orders and setting them aside
for good cause;(g)the ordering of dismissal for default of appearance and
setting aside such orders for good cause;(h)local inspection;(i)the
enforcement of any order or decision.

### 10. Grounds for the decision of the Court or the competent authority to be
recorded.

\- In passing an order under section 5, the Court or the competent authority,
as the case may be, shall record in brief the grounds for its decision.

### 11. Authorized agent to plead on behalf of the parties in proceedings
before the competent authority.

\- In any proceedings before the competent authority, any authorized agent may
be permitted to plead on behalf of the party:Provided that the competent
authority may, at any stage of the proceedings, cancel such permission.

### 12. Process fees etc.

\- The competent authority may collect process fees at the following rates,
namely:-

(1) For each summons or notice-  
---  
|  (a) when sent by registered post for eachdefendant respondent or witness; | 2.25  
| (b) when served by an officer of the Court- |   
| (i) on a defendant, respondent or witness | 2.25  
|  (ii) on every additional defendant, respondentor witness residing in the same village if the process appliedfor at the same time. | 1.15  
  
(2)Mileage for the travelling expenses of the process-server at six paise per
kilometer may be calculated from the headquarters of the Court or competent
authority to the place where the process-server is to go for serving summons
and may be recovered from the parties by way of Court-fee stamps in addition
to the process fees.(3)Authorization letters produced before the competent
authority shall be engrossed on non-judicial stamp paper of the value of Rs.
2.50 (Rupees two and paise Fifty only).Form I(See rule 3)Application for
Deposit of Previous Arrears and Reduced Rent Under Section 4(2) of the ActIn
the Court of......................Before
the.......................I,..........., hereby deposit to the account of the
landlord named below, the previous arrears and/or the reduced rent or if the
rent be payable in kind, its market value in accordance with the provisions of
the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 15 of 1980).

### 2\. The following particulars are furnished for information of the
Court/Competent authority:-

(1)Name and address of the cultivating tenant.(2)Particulars of the lands
cultivated.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification (wet or dry garden or manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
(3)Amount deposited towards previous arrears and reduced rent.(4)The market
value of the rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of deposit.-(5)Date of
deposit.(6)Name and address of the landlord or landlords to whom the rent is
payable.(7)Remarks.I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the
application are to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and
correct.Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.Form II(See rules 4, 5, 6 and
7)NoticeBefore the.......................(name of
authority)To.............................(Name, designation and place of
residence).Take notice that an application has been filed before the
undersigned by..............................(name and address) who is a
cultivating tenant of the lands specified in the Table below and who has paid
or deposited or is deemed to have paid or deposited a sum of Rs.
(Rupees.........................only), towards the previous arrears and/or the
reduced rent. It is proposed to conduct an enquiry before the undersigned
at...................... (hour), on...........at.......(place).*to decide
whether the cultivating tenant is deemed to have paid the previous arrears
and/or the reduced rent for the purposes of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980).*to dismiss the
suit or proceeding for recovery of any arrears of rent or for the eviction of
a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any arrears of rent.*to vacate any
decree or order passed for the recovery of an arrears of rent or for the
eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any arrears of rent.*to
restore the cultivating tenant of the possession of land. In case you desire
to make any representation in this behalf, you may appear in person or by an
authorized agent. You must be prepared to produce on that day all the
witnesses upon whose evidence, and all the documents upon which, you intend to
rely in support of your defence. Take notice that in default of your
appearance on the aforesaid day, the application will be heard and disposed of
in your absence.*Strike out what is not applicable.(1)Name and address of the
cultivating tenant who deposited the rent.(2)Particulars of the lands
cultivated.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification (wet or dry garden or manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
(3)Amount deposited towards previous arrears and/or the reduced rent.(4)The
market value of the rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of
deposit.(5)Date of deposit.(6)Name and address of the landlord or landlords to
whom the rent is payable.(7)Name and address of other persons likely to be
affected.(8)Remarks.Station:Date:Office Signature and designation of the
authority.Form III(See rule 5)Application for Dismissing the Suit or
Proceeding for Recovery of any Arrears of Rent or for the Eviction of a
Cultivating Tenant for Non-Payment of any Arrears of RentIn the Court
of....................Before
the.........................(..............No.............of)

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above named plaintiff/petitioner states as follows:-

### 1\.

............(name) the plaintiff/petitioner is a cultivating tenant and
resides at..............(address);The address of the plaintiff/petitioner for
service of all notices and process is...................(address);

### 2\.

............. the defendant/respondent is a landlord residing
at............(address);

### 3\. Whereas a suit or proceeding is pending against the
plaintiff/petitioner for the recovery of any arrears of rent or for the
eviction of the plaintiff/petitioner for non-payment of any arrears of rent.

And Whereas the plaintiff/petitioner herein has paid or deposited, or is
deemed to have paid or deposited the previous arrears and/or the reduced rent
under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980);Now, Therefore, I,.............
the plaintiff/petitioner in the said suit or proceeding pray that the suit or
proceeding (No...........of...........) pending before.................may be
dismissed without costs.

### 4\. The following particulars are furnished for information of the
Court/competent authority:-

(1)Name and address of the cultivating tenant.(2)Particulars of the lands
cultivated.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification (wet or dry garden or manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
(3)Amount deposited towards previous arrears and reduced rent.(4)The market
value of the rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of deposit.(5)Dale of
deposit.(6)Name and address of the landlord or landlords to whom the rent is
payable.(7)Remarks.I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the
application are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, and true and
correct.Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.Form IV(See rule 6)Application
for Vacating the Decree or Order Passed for Recovery of any Arrears of Rent or
for the Eviction of a Cultivating Tenant for Non-Payment of any Arrears of
RentIn the Court of.....................Before
the..........................(................No.........of)

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above plain tiff/petitioner states as follows:

### 1\. I,............(name) the plaintiff/petitioner is a cultivating tenant
residing at...............(address);

The address of the plaintiff/petitioner for service of all notices and process
is................(address);

### 2\.

................ the defendant/respondent is a landlord residing
at.............(address).

### 3\. Whereas a decree or order has been passed in the suit or proceeding
(No..........of.........) by the.............against the plaintiff/petitioner
for the recovery of any arrears of rent or for eviction for non-payment of any
arrears of rent before the date of the publication of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu 15 of
1980):

And Whereas, I the plaintiff/petitioner have paid or deposited, or deemed to
have paid or deposited, under the said Act the whole of the previous arrears
and/or the reduced rent:And Whereas, I am a person affected by the said decree
or order:Now Therefore, I the plaintiff/petitioner in the said suit pray that
the said decree or order may be vacated insofar as such decree or order
relates to such recovery or eviction.

### 4\. The following particulars we furnished for information of the
Court/competent authority:

(1)Name and address of the cultivating tenant.(2)Particulars of the lands
cultivated.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification (wet or dry garden or manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
(3)Amount deposited towards current.(4)The market value of rent (if payable in
kind) as on the date of deposit.(5)Date of deposit.(6)Name and address of the
landlord or landlords to whom the rent is payable.(7)Remarks.I hereby declare
that the particulars furnished in the application are to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true and correct.Place:Date:Signature of the
applicant.Form V(See rule 7)Application for Re-Opening the ProceedingIn the
Court of.........................Before
the..............................(.............No............of)

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above named plaintiff / petitioner states as follows:-

### 1\. I,.................(name) the plaintiff/petitioner is cultivating
tenant residing at..........(address);

The address of the plaintiff/petitioner for service of all notices and process
is.....................(address);Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Rules, 1980 1267

### 2\.

.............. the defendant/respondent is a landlord residing
at................(address);

### 3\. Whereas a decree or order has been passed in the suit or proceeding
(No...........of...........) by/against the plaintiff petitioner for the
recovery of any arrears of rent;

And Whereas, I, the plaintiff petitioner in the said suit or proceeding have
paid or deposited on or after the 1st July 1973, a sum of
Rs.............(Rupees...............only) in the account of the landlord
towards the previous arrears and or the reduced rent or towards full or part
satisfaction of a decree or order for the recovery of any arrears of rent:And
Whereas, I am a person affected by the said decree or order, in the said suit
or proceeding.Now Therefore, I, the plaintiff/petitioner pray that the
proceeding may be re-opened and that an order may be passed that the amount so
paid or deposited shall be deemed to have been paid or deposited towards the
previous arrears and /or the reduced rent.

### 4\. The following particulars are furnished for information of the
court/competent authority.

(1)Name and address of the cultivating tenant.(2)Particulars of the lands
cultivated.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification (wet or dry garden or manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
(3)Amount deposited towards previous arrears and/or the reduced rent.(4)The
market value of rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of deposit.(5)Date of
deposit.(6)Name and address of the landlord or landlords to whom the rent is
payable.(7)Remarks.Thereby declare that the particulars furnished in the
application are to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and
correct.Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.

