## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman (Conditions of Service) Rules, 2015

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman (Conditions of Service) Rules, 2015

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LOCAL-BODIES-OMBUDSMAN-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-RULES-2015 of
2015

  * Published on 26 October 2015 
  * Commenced on 26 October 2015 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 October 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman (Conditions of Service) Rules, 2015Published
vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 153, Municipal Administration and Water
Supply (Election), 26th October 2015 - No. SRO A-17(a)/2015G.O. Ms. No. 153,
Municipal Administration and Water Supply (Election), 26th October 2015 - No.
SRO A-17(a)/2015. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of
Section 16 of the Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman Act, 2014 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 2014), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules,
namely :-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman (Conditions
of Service) Rules, 2015.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman Act, 2014, (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 2014), as
amended from time to time;(2)Words and expressions used but not defined in
these rules shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Cessation of Government Service.

(1)Any person who, on the date of his appointment as Ombudsman, was holding a
post under the Central or State Government shall be deemed to have retired
from such post with effect on and from the date on which he joins duty as
Ombudsman:Provided that the Ombudsman who, on the date of his appointment as
such, was in the service of or held a post under, Central or State Government
may opt within a period of six months from the date of appointment as the
Ombudsman, to count the service as Ombudsman for the purposes of pension and
other retirement benefits under the rules applicable to the service or post to
which he belonged immediately before his appointment as the Ombudsman. The
option once exercised shall be final:Provided further that in the event of
such an option being exercised, the Ombudsman, shall be entitled to get his
pension and retirement benefits as aforesaid only when he finally lays down
the office of the Ombudsman.(2)Any person, who, on the date of his appointment
as Ombudsman, was in the service of the Government of India or the Government
of the State shall, at his option to be exercised within a period of six
months from the date of his appointment, be entitled to draw his pension and
other retirement benefits under the rules applicable to the service to which
he belonged with effect from the date of his appointment as Ombudsman:Provided
that, in such an event, his pay as Ombudsman shall be reduced by an amount
equivalent to the gross pension (including any pension which may have been
commuted) and the pension equivalent or other retirement benefits and he shall
be entitled to draw his pension and other retirement benefits
separately:Provided further that the pension equivalent to Death-cum-
Retirement Gratuity shall not be deducted from the pay.(3)If the Ombudsman,
who, at the time of his appointment as such, was in the service of the Central
or the State Government does not exercise the option mentioned in sub-rule
(2), then his service as Ombudsman shall be counted for pension and retirement
benefits under the rules applicable to the service to which he belonged
immediately before such appointment.(4)A person who has retired from service
under the Government of Tamil Nadu or any other body wholly or substantially
owned or controlled by the Government and who is in receipt of, or has become
entitled to receive, any retirement benefits by way of pension, gratuity,
payment from any contributory provident fund or otherwise, shall, when
appointed as Ombudsman, be eligible to count his service and pay as such
Ombudsman, for the purposes of pension and other retirement benefits taking
his previous service into account and to have the pension and other retirement
benefits refixed on demitting the office of Ombudsman and to draw the pension
and retirement benefits as may become admissible less the amount of gratuity
already drawn.(5)The General Provident Fund (Madras) Rules, as amended from
time to time shall apply to the Ombudsman, if he is admitted to the said fund
at his option. The authorities competent to grant advances to the Ombudsman
from the accounts standing to his credit shall be the Governor:Provided that
the Ombudsman who on the date of his appointment was in the service of the
Central or the State Government and who had been admitted to the benefits of
any other Provident Fund may, instead, be allowed to continue to subscribe to
that fund in accordance with the rules or regulations applicable to that fund,
until he reaches the date on which he must compulsorily retire from service in
accordance with the Rules of his service. If the Ombudsman exercises his
option for subscribing to the General Provident Fund, his accumulated balance
in his original Provident Fund, including the Government's contribution, if
any, shall be transferred to the said Funds.

### 4. Removal of Ombudsman.

(1)If notice is given of a motion for presenting an address to the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly praying for the removal of the Ombudsman signed by
not less than fifty members of the Assembly, the Speaker may, after consulting
such persons, if any, as he thinks fit and after considering such materials,
if any, as may be available to him, either admit the motion or reject the same
assigning reasons therefor.(2)If the motion referred to in sub-rule (1) is
admitted, the Speaker shall keep the motion pending and constitute, as soon as
may be, for the purpose of making an enquiry into the grounds on which the
removal of Ombudsman is prayed for, a committee consisting of such members and
for such duration as he thinks fit.(3)The Committee constituted under sub-rule
(2) shall frame definite charges against the Ombudsman on the basis of which
the enquiry is proposed to be held.(4)Such charges together with a statement
of the grounds on which each such charge is based shall be communicated to the
Ombudsman and he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of presenting a
written statement of defence within such time as may be specified in this
behalf by the said Committee.(5)The committee shall have power to regulate its
own procedure in making the enquiry and shall give a reasonable opportunity to
the Ombudsman of cross-examining witnesses, adducing evidence and of being of
his defence.(6)At the conclusion of the enquiry, the Committee shall submit
its report to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly stating therein its
findings on each of the charges separately with such observation on the whole
case, as it thinks fit.(7)The Speaker shall cause the report submitted under
sub-rule (6) to be laid, as soon as may be, before the Assembly.(8)If the
report of the Committee contains a finding that the Ombudsman is not guilty of
any misbehaviour or does not suffer from any incapacity, then, no further
steps shall be taken in the Assembly in relation to the report and the motion
pending in the Assembly shall not be proceeded with.(9)If the report of the
Committee contains a finding that the Ombudsman is guilty of any misbehaviour
or suffers from any incapacity, then, the motion referred to in sub rule (1)
of this rule shall, together with the report of the Committee, be taken up for
consideration by the Assembly in the same session or in the subsequent
session.(10)If the motion is adopted by the Assembly in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act, then, the misbehaviour
or incapacity of the Ombudsman shall be deemed to have been proved and an
address praying for the removal of the Ombudsman shall be presented to the
Governor by the Assembly in the same session in which the motion has been
adopted or in the subsequent session.

### 5. Status.

\- The conditions of service and other perquisites available to the
Ombudsman,shall be the same as admissible to a serving Judge of a High Court
as contained in the High Court Judges (Conditions of Service) Act, 1954
(Central Act 28 of 1954) and the High Court Judges (Travelling Allowances)
Rules, 1956.

