## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965

## Act 165 of 1965

  * Published on 11 October 1966 
  * Commenced on 11 October 1966 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 October 1966.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965Published vide Notification No. SRO No. A-165 of 1965SRO No. A-165 of
1965. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 50 of the Tamil Nadu
Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1963), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and
Conversion Into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963);"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;"section" means a section of the Act;"Tahsildar" means the Tahsildar of
the taluk having jurisdiction over the area and includes an Independent Deputy
Tahsildar or any other officer of the rank of Tahsildar specially appointed in
this behalf by the District Collector.

### 3. Procedure for taking possession of a leasehold.

(1)The officer authorised by the Government to take possession of a leasehold
on their behalf under clause (g) of section 4 shall take charge of only such
of the accounts, registers, pattas, muchilikas, maps, plans and other
documents relating to the leasehold as are, in his opinion, necessary for the
administration of the leasehold. He shall prepare a detailed inventory of
those documents in the presence of the lessee or any person deputed in writing
by the lessee in that behalf and give a copy of such inventory to the lessee
or his deputy. Certified copies of the documents shall be made and given to
the lessee, if so required by him.(2)Where the officer referred to in sub-rule
(1) has reason to believe that there are other documents, in the possession or
custody of the lessee and is of the opinion that such documents are essential
for the administration of the leasehold, he may summon the lessee to produce
all such documents and the lessee shall be bound to produce them.

### 4. Procedure for taking possession of land in a leasehold.

(1)Before taking possession of any land in a leasehold under the proviso to
clause (g) of section 4, the Tahsildar shall examine whether any ryot or
lessee holding the land is prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta or not.(2)If
the Tahsildar considers that the occupation of a land is prima facie entitled
to a ryotwari patta, he shall tentatively allow such occupation to continue,
subject to the payment of assessment on the extent occupied as fixed under
section 15 and subject to the condition that the payment of such assessment
shall not confer any right of occupancy.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this rule, occupation for a part of a fasli year shall be deemed to be
occupation for the whole of a fasli year.(3)If the Tahsildar considers that
the occupant of a land on the appointed day is prima facie not entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of that land and that the occupation is
objectionable, he shall cause a notice in Form No. 1 to be served on him
calling upon to show cause why he should not be dispossessed of the
land.(4)The Tahsildar shall examine the representation, if any, made on the
date fixed for the enquiry and after such further enquiry as he may consider
necessary, shall pass orders either holding that the occupant prima facie is
or is not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land. If the Tahsildar
considers that the occupant is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta and
that the occupation is objectionable, he shall cause a notice in Form No. 2 to
be served on the occupant.(5)On the expiry of the time allowed for filling
appeal or revision petition or, if an appeal or revision petition has been
filed, after the disposal of such appeal or revision petition and if the
decision in the appeal or revision is that the occupant is prima facie not
entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land, an officer not lower in
rank than a Revenue Inspector, duly authorised in this behalf, may formally
enter upon the land and take possession of it and record a certificate of the
village officers and of at least one ryot of the village in which the
leasehold is situated that the land has been taken possession of by the
Government.(6)If the decision is that the occupant of a land on the appointed
day is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land but
that the occupation is not objectionable, the occupation may be allowed
subject to the payment by the occupant, of the assessment on the land under
section 15 until the ryotwari settlement of the land is effected under section
14 or until the land is required by the Government for any purpose, whichever
is earlier. The payment of such assessment shall not confer on the occupant
any occupancy right. Every decision in that regard shall be communicated to
the occupant concerned in Form No. 3.

### 5. Period within which appeal against an order under the proviso to
section 4(g) can be filed.

\- Every appeal against an order under the proviso to clause (g) of section 4,
deciding the question whether a person is prima facie entitled to ryotwari
patta in respect of a land or not, shall be preferred within thirty days from
the date of such order or within such further time, as the appellate authority
may, in its discretion, allow.

### 6. Revision petition to the Settlement Officer.

\- Every petition for revision of any of the orders, acts or proceedings of an
Assistant Settlement Officer shall be referred to the Settlement Officer
within thirty days from the date of communication of the order or of the date
of the act complained of:Provided that the Settlement Officer may admit a
petition preferred after the period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the
petitioner had sufficient cause for not preferring the petition within the
said period.

### 7. Revision petition to the [Board of Revenue.] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980).]

\- Every petition for revision of any of the orders, acts or proceedings of
the Settlement Officer shall be preferred to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board
of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980).] within sixty days from the date of
communication or the order of the date of the act complained of:Provided that
the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu
Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980).] may admit a
petition preferred after the expiry of the period aforesaid, if it is
satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient reason for not preferring the
petition within the said period.

### 8. Enquiry into claims for ryotwari patta under section 9.

(1)Every application for grant of ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
section 9 shall be in Form No. 4 and shall be either presented in person or
sent by registered post to the Assistant Settlement Officer within six months
from the appointed day.(2)Every such application shall be signed and verified
by the applicant and restricted to lands in a single leasehold.(3)If, in
respect of any land, no person has applied under sub-rule (1) or where an
urgent enquiry within the period specified in sub-rule (1) is necessary in the
public interest, the Assistant Settlement Officer shall proceed to enquire
into the nature and history of the land suo motu and determine if any person
is prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land.(4)The
Assistant Settlement Officer shall fix a date for the enquiry and shall cause
a notice in Form No. 5 to be served on the person, who has applied for
ryotwari patta or, who, in the opinion of the Assistant Settlement Officer, is
prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta, to produce any record or make any
representation, which he may wish to make at the enquiry. A copy of the notice
shall also be sent to the Tahsildar.(5)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall
also publish a notice in Form No. 6 requiring any person, who has any
objection to any of the proposals for the grant of ryotwari patta, to file
before him a statement of his objections, within a week from the date of the
notice and also requesting all interested persons to be present at the enquiry
either in person or through an authorised representative and make their
representations. A copy of the notice shall be affixed on the notice board of
the office of Assistant Settlement Officer.(6)The date of enquiry shall not be
earlier than fifteen days from the date of publication of the notice.(7)The
enquiry shall be summary. The Assistant Settlement Officer shall hear the
parties and afford them a reasonable opportunity for adducing any oral or
documentary evidence.(8)The decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer shall
be published in Form No. 7. A copy of the decision shall be given to the party
concerned in person or sent to him by registered post. A copy of the decision
shall also be sent to the Tahsildar.

### 9. Appeal to the Tribunal.

(1)On receipt of an appeal preferred under sub-section (4) of section 9, the
Tribunal shall cause a notice in Form No. 8 to be published and all persons
who have applied to the Assistant Settlement Officer under sub-section (1) of
section 9 or filed statement before the Assistant Settlement Officer in the
course of the enquiry under the section, to appear before it.(2)A copy of the
notice shall be served on the applicant, the Tahsildar and every other person
affected by the appeal, by sending the notice to the individual concerned by
registered post.(3)A copy of the final order of the Tribunal shall be
communicated to the appellant, the respondent and the Tahsildar.

### 10. Eviction of occupant of land not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect
of consequent on decision under section 9.

\- In cases in which the Assistant Settlement Officer, the Tribunal or the
Special Appellate Tribunal [decides that no one is actually entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of a land in a leasehold, the Tahsildar shall serve
on the occupant, if any, of such land] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2821,
Revenue, dated the 26th November 1969.] a notice in Form No. 9. The Tahsildar
shall also take such further steps as are necessary to evict the occupant. Any
such eviction shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of such-
rule (5) of rule 4:Provided that if the occupation is unobjectionable and if
the occupant states in writing that he accepts the decision of the Assistant
Settlement Officer, the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the
case maybe, that he is not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land
and that he will surrender actual possession of it to the Government
forthwith, if the land is not assigned to him under the darkest rules, his
petition being treated as his darkest application, he need not be evicted. The
Tahsildar may allow the occupation in such cases to continue, subject to the
payment of assessment on the land under section 15, until orders are passed on
the darkest application or entitle the land is required by the Government for
any purpose, whichever is earlier.

### 11. Unauthorised occupant of land to be proceeded against under law.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall be construed as exempting any person
unauthorisedly occupying land from liability to be proceeded against under any
law for the time being in force.

### 12. Eviction of occupants of buildings vesting in other persons.

\- The provisions of rule 10 shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases-of eviction
of the occupant of any building which vests, under section 11, in other
persons.

### 13. Determination of rent in cases falling under sections 15(b) and 19(2).

(1)In cases falling under clause (b) of section 15 and sub-section (2) of
section 19, where the rent which would have been payable to the lessee in
respect of the fasli year immediately preceding the fasli year in which the
appointed day falls, is in kind or is a share of the produce, the quantity of
such rent shall be determined by the District Collector or any officer
authorised by him, on local enquires and with reference to the village
accounts.(2)The rent so determined shall be commuted into cash in accordance
with the prices notified by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] and prevailing on the date on
which the land revenue became payable:Provided that where no such price has
been notified, the rent shall be commuted in accordance with the price which
the District Collector may, after making such local enquiry as he deems fit,
fix as the price prevailing on the date on which the land revenue became
payable.(3)Every payment of rent made by a ryot to the lessee before the
appointed day in respect of the fasli year in which the appointed day falls
shall, for the purpose of the first proviso to section 15, be authenticated as
here under: -(a)in cases, where the ryot produces a receipt in token of
payment of rent to the lessee, such receipt shall have been signed by the
lessee or his duly authorised agent on his behalf;(b)in cases, where he does
not produce such a receipt, he shall produce a certificate signed by the
lessee or his duly authorised agent on his behalf in token of the payment of
rent to the lessee.

### 14. Computation of net miscellaneous revenue.

(1)As soon as may be, after the taking over of a leasehold, the Assistant
Settlement Officer shall call upon the lessee to file correct and detailed
statements showing the gross and net miscellaneous revenue derived by him from
such source for the purpose of section 21 with all the relevant records in
support of the statements.(2)The Settlement Officer shall examine the
correctness of income statements furnished by the lessee.(3)If the Settlement
Officer is satisfied about the reliability and correctness of the income
figures furnished by the lessee, he shall take into account the income
statements furnished by the lessee for the purpose of determining the net
income.(4)If the lessee fails to furnish the statements or if the statements
furnished by him are, in the opinion of the Settlement Officer, not reliable,
the Settlement Officer shall take steps to arrive at the net income as
provided under the proviso to section 21 and embody the reasons for so doing
in the decision to be given by him under sub-section (1) of section 24.(5)For
the purpose of determining the net miscellaneous revenue referred to in the
proviso to section 21, the following deductions shall be made from the gross
annual miscellaneous revenue: -(i)In the case of miscellaneous revenue derived
from source other than forests, fisheries and ferries, ten per cent, or such
miscellaneous revenue.(ii)In the case of miscellaneous revenue derived from
forests-(a)When the forests are under the control of the Tahsildar alone and
not administered by the Forest Department-(1)Ten per cent of such revenue, if
no special staff is employed in connection with the management of the
forests;(2)The actual expenditure incurred on account of the special staff, if
any, such staff is employed for the management of the forest or fifteen per
cent of the revenue derived form the forest, whichever is less;(b)When the
forests are administered by the Forest Department, the actual expenditure on
the administration and maintenance of the forests plus five per cent of the
same as centage charges towards the cost of supervision of the administration
by superior staff or fifteen per cent of the revenue derived from the forest,
whichever is less.(iii)In respect of the forests in the leaseholds, which have
vested with the Government and transferred to the control of the Forest
Department, the Chief Conservator of Forests, [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras ' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], shall arrange to keep the accounts of income and
expenditure in respect of each leasehold separately for such period as is
referred to in the proviso to section 21 excepting that in cases where for any
part of the relevant fasli, the administration of the forests vested in the
Tahsildar, the Conservator of Forests may adopt the accounts maintained by the
Tahsildar up to the date of such transfer. If the forest area in any such
leasehold is not administrated as a separate unit of the Forest Department,
the income and expenditure shall be apportioned as correctly as possible on
the basis of the available data. As soon as possible after the close of each
year, the Chief Conservator of Forests shall furnish to the Settlement Officer
the figures of actual or apportioned gross revenue expenditure, and net income
in respect of such leasehold.(iv)The provisions of clauses (ii) and (iii)
shall apply mutatis mutandis to miscellaneous revenue derived from fisheries
and ferries.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, the function of
the Chief Conservator of Forests shall be discharged by the Director of
Fisheries in respect of fisheries and by the Chief Engineer (Highways) or the
executive authority of the Local Body, in ferries, according as the ferry is
administered by the Highways Department or by a Local Body.

### 15. Application for a copy of the data when to be made.

\- An application for a copy of the data on the basis of which the Settlement
Officer proposes to determine the Basic Annual Sum shall be made by the lessee
or other person interested within two months from such date as may be notified
by the Settlement Officer in this behalf.

### 15A. [ Manner of payment of compensation. [Inserted by S.R.O. No. A-924 of
1966 dated the 5th September 1966]

(1)The compensation payable in respect of every lease-hold shall be paid in
one lump sum in cash, not later than nine months from the date on which the
settlement operations in respect of the lease-hold are completed, or where the
date is earlier than the date of expiry of the period of fasli years referred
to in section 21 of the Act, not later than nine months from the latter
date:Provided that where the amount of the compensation stands altered as a
result of any order under section 24 of the Act or otherwise, after the
payment referred to has been made, the amount of any deficiency in the payment
already made may be paid at any time, and as soon as may be after the said
alteration, and the amount of any excess in the payment already made by way of
deposit under sub-rule (2) may be withdrawn at any time and as soon as may be
after the said alteration.(2)Every payment referred to in sub-rule (1) shall
be made byway of deposit in the office of the Tribunal under section 26(1) of
the Act.]

### 16. Communication of orders.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall communicate every order passed under sub-
section (1) of section 24 to every lessee concerned and also to every
applicant under sub-section (2) of that section, in the manner specified
below: -(a)by sending the order by registered post; or(b)by getting the order
served through the Tahsildar.(2)In cases, where the order is to be served on
any lessee or any applicant, the Settlement Officer shall send the order in
duplicate to the Tahsildar, who shall arrange to serve one copy on the person
concerned, obtain his acknowledgment on the duplicate and return the duplicate
copy to the Settlement Officer within fifteen days from the date of receipt of
the order.

### 17. Apportionment of compensation and interim payment.

(1)As soon as may be, after any amount deposited under sections 26 and 31 in
the Office of the Tribunal, the Settlement Officer shall publish the fact of
such deposit in the [Fort St. George Gazette,] [Now Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.] with particulars of the amount deposited, the date of deposit and
the leasehold to which it relates.(2)As soon as may be after such publication
is made, the Tribunal shall publish on its notice board, both in English and
Tamil, a copy of the modification as published in the [Fort St. George
Gazette.] [Now Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.](3)The fact of deposit shall
also be published on the notice board of the taluk officer of the taluk in
which the leasehold is situated and also in the headquarters village of the
leasehold by affixing a copy of the notice in the village chavadi or in some
other conspicuous place in the village and also by beat of tom-tom.(4)If there
are persons, where claims to any amount deposited previously in respect of the
same leasehold have been recognised by the Tribunal, it shall give notice to
all such persons, and the expenses for issue of such notice shall be
distributed among all the claimants, who are before the Tribunal with in the
time specified in section 27.(5)The Tribunal shall pass no orders regarding
the apportionment of any amount deposited with it until after the expiry of
one month from the date of publication of the notification in respect of the
deposit on its notice board.(6)No claim shall be allowed by the Tribunal
except on a claim petition made to it.(7)The claimants and other persons
interested may appear before the Tribunal in person or through pleaders
authorised by them in this behalf.(8)When the compensation payable has to be
apportioned by the Tribunal among the lessee and any other persons interested,
the Tribunal shall first determine which creditors, if any, are lawfully
entitled to have their debts paid from and out of the assets of the leasehold
and the amount to which each of them is entitled; and only the remainder of
the aggregate compensations shall be divisible among the lessee and any other
persons.(9)For the purpose of securing that the amount of compensation payable
to the lessee and any other person is apportioned among them on the equitable
basis, the Tribunal shall have all power, wherever necessary, to re-open any
arrangement already made, whether by a decree or order of a Court, award or
other instruments in writing or contract or family arrangement.(10)The balance
of the aggregate compensation shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section
(3) of section 29, be divided among the lessees and any other persons
interested in proportion to their respective interests in the leasehold,
immediately before the appointed day.

### 18. Appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Every appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be in Form No. 10 and
shall be signed by the appellant or his advocate and presented by such
appellant or his advocate or the registered clerk of the advocate at the
office of the Registrar, High Court, during working hours.(2)It shall set
forth briefly the grounds of objection to the decision appealed against.(3)It
shall be accompanied by a vakalatnama duly executed, if the appellant appears
by advocate, by a certified copy of the order appealed against and by as many
authenticated copies thereof as there are respondents, together with the
prescribed process fee:Provided that in the case of an appeal preferred under
sub-rule (4), the process fee shall be paid within three days, after the delay
is excused under sub-rule (5).(4)Where an appeal is preferred after the period
of limitation prescribed therefor in sub-section (1) of section 32, it shall
be accompanied by a petition for condoning the delay. The petition shall be
supported by an affidavit setting forth the facts on which the appellant
relies to satisfy the Court that he had sufficient reason for not preferring
the appeal within such period.(5)The petition shall then be posted for orders
before the Judges nominated for the purpose under sub-section (1) of section
32.(6)As soon as the appeal is numbered, it shall be placed before the
Registrar for orders as to issue of notice and preparation of the record for
the hearing of the appeal.(7)The record of the case for the use of the Special
Appellate Tribunal shall consist of all material papers on which either party
proposes to rely at the hearing of the appeals(8)Unless otherwise ordered by
the Judge or the Registrar at the instance of the party, the record shall be
translated, if need be, and typed at the office of the Registrar and the
charges therefor shall be calculated at the rates prescribed in the rules of
the High Court, Appellate Side.(9)In case the record is to be prepared at the
office of the Registrar, the appellant shall, within two weeks after the
receipt of an office memorandum to that effect, pay into the Registrar's
office such charges, as may be specified in the said office memorandum.(10)The
respondent shall, within three weeks from the date of service of the notice of
appeal on him, obtain the direction of the Registrar as to the preparation of
the record and shall pay the charges therefor within such time, as may be
fixed by the Registrar.

### 19. Award of costs.

(1)No costs, by way of process fee, pleader's fee and witness batta shall be
allowed in proceedings before a Tribunal and Special Appellate Tribunal in
cases where the claim is uncontested or is decreed on a admission or
compromised.(2)Where a claim is contested before a Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal, but is allowed in whole or in part, costs shall be allowed
to the claimant or the appellant in proportion to his success against contest
and the contesting party, or the respondent shall pay such costs to the
claimant or the appellant.(3)In the event of any claim before a Tribunal or
the Special Appellate Tribunal being dismissed wholly or in part, costs shall
be allowed to the contesting party or the respondent in proportion to his
success.(4)In cases of frivolous or vexatious claims or defences, costs shall
be allowed also by way of compensation as laid down in section 45-A of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).(5)Where costs are
awarded by a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, the order for costs
shall be executable by a Civil Court having jurisdiction over the area with
reference to which the Tribunal gave its decision, as if it were a decree
passed by such Court.

### 20. Procedure to be adopted in the case of proceedings before a Judge of
High Court.

\- The provisions of rules 18 and 19 shall apply to the proceedings before a
Judge of the High Court hearing a case under sub-section (2) of section 32 as
they apply in relation to the proceedings before the Special Appellate
Tribunal.

### 21. Mode of entertaining appeal or revision petition, enquires thereon and
grant of interim stay.

(1)Every appeal or revision petition under the Act or these rules shall be
accompanied by a duly authenticated copy of the order appealed against or
sought to be revised.(2)In respect of any order passed under the Act, which is
subject to appeal or revision, the appellate or revisional authority, as the
case maybe, may suspend the execution of the order, pending its decision on
the appeal or in revision.(3)Notice of hearing of any appeal or revision, as
the case maybe, shall be given to the appellant or the revision petitioner and
the respondent or respondents and to the other persons interested, if
any.(4)Before passing orders on every appeal or revision petition, the parties
concerned shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)A copy of
the final orders in appeal or revision shall be communicated to the appellant
or revision petitioner, and the respondent or respondents or other persons
interested, if any, or the counsel concerned, if any of them is represented by
counsel, the Tahsildar and the Assistant Settlement Officer by registered
post.Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, "persons interested" means
the lessee and includes any other person claiming an interest in the
compensation payable for the leasehold or part thereof.

### 22. Time barred application, appeal or revision petition to be dismissed.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act and these rules, every application
made and every appeal and revision petition presented to the authorities or
officers having jurisdiction under the Act and these rules, after the period
of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these rules, shall be
dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defence.(2)No such
application made or appeal and revision petition filed shall be admitted after
the period of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these rules on the
ground that the applicant or appellant or petitioner had sufficient cause for
not preferring the application or appeal or petition within such period.

### 23. Deposit in District Court of unclaimed and undisbursed amounts
deposited with the Tribunal.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 26 and sub-sections (4) and (7) of section 31 and remaining
unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been made within the time
specified in sub-section (1) of section 28 or no application for payment has
been made within the time specified in section 35, and(b)all amounts deposited
as aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of disposal of the application under section 35 shall be
withdrawn by the Tribunal and deposited in the District Court having
jurisdiction over the leasehold.(2)AS soon as any amount is withdrawn by the
Tribunal from its personal deposit or other account and deposited in the
District Court having jurisdiction under sub-section (1) of section 36, the
Tribunal shall publish the fact of such deposit in the District Gazette
concerned, in Form No. 11. The Tribunal shall also cause a copy of the
notification in Form No. 11 to be affixed to the notice board of its office.
It shall also send a copy of the notification to the District Judge, the
Settlement Officer, the District Collector and the Tahsildar, who shall cause
it to be affixed to the notice boards of their respective offices and send a
certificate of such publication to the Tribunal.(3)On the transfer of the
amount from the personal deposit or other account of the Tribunal to the
account of the District Court, it shall be charged off as an expenditure in
the account of the Tribunal.

### 24. Form in which claim should be made.

\- Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against any amount held in
deposit by the District Court shall apply in Form No. 12.

### 25. Levy of process fee, award of costs, etc.

\- In respect of levy of process fees, award of costs including costs by way
of compensation for frivolous or vexatious claims of defence, pleader's fee
and witness batta, the District Court shall follow the rules as applicable to
the the Tribunal.

### 26. Procedure for dealing with amounts transferred to deposit of the
District Court.

\- The amount transferred to the deposit of the District Court shall be
finally dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in rules 51 to
60 in Chapter III of Part I of the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders
; (Volume II).

### 27. Decision of questions regarding forests.

(1)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall determine questions regarding
forests under section 42 either suo motu or on application.(2)Any person
requiring a decision under section 42 shall apply to the Assistant Settlement
Officer in Form No. 13.(3)Except where the said application is on behalf of
the Government, it shall be signed and verified by the applicant.(4)Every such
application shall be restricted to lands in a single leasehold.(5)Every such
application shall be either presented in person or sent by registered
post.(6)As many copies of the application as there are respondents with one
additional copy for the Tahsildar shall be filed with the application.(7)On
receipt of the application, the Assistant Settlement Officer shall fix a date
of hearing and issue notice in Form No. 14 to the parties, the Tahsildar and
the respondents. A copy of the application shall also be sent along with the
notice.(8)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall make a summary enquiry in to
the application and give his decision after giving the parties a reasonable
opportunity for adducing evidence.(9)A copy of the order shall be served on
the applicant and on each of the respondents. A copy shall also be sent to the
Settlement Officer and the Tahsildar.(10)Every appeal against an order of the
Assistant Settlement Officer under section 42 shall be preferred to the
Settlement Officer within thirty days from the date of communication of the
order.(11)On receipt of the order, the Settlement Officer shall fix a date for
hearing and give notice in Form No. 15 to the parties concerned and pass
orders after giving them a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 28. Procedure for determination of fair rent.

(1)In determining the fair rent under sub-section (3) of section 19, the
Tahsildar may call upon the lessee or the occupant of the land to furnish the
following particulars and such other particulars as he may consider necessary:
-(a)The extent of land of each class, such as wet, dry, garden, tope, orchard
and land used for non-agricultural purposes.(b)The rates of rent or lease
amount, as the case may be, levied one such class of land immediately before
the fasli year in which the appointed day falls.(c)The particulars of
cultivation with details of extent, crop, yield and nature of occupation, as
the case may be.(2)The Tahsildar may also call upon the lessee to produce his
accounts containing the particulars specified in sub-rule (1).(3)In the case
of lands referred to in paragraph 1 of the Second Schedule to the Act, the
Tahsildar shall, for the purpose of determining the fair rent, ascertain the
lease amount on a similar land, similarly situated and possessing similar
advantage in the neighbourhood.(4)Subject to the provisions contained in
paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule to the Act, the Tahsildar shall, for
determining the normal gross produce in respect of any land for any specified
crop, ascertain the quantity of the produce which will be obtained, if such
crop were grown in a year in which the rain fall and the seasons are of a
normal character, on a land of the same class, as the land in question
similarly situated and possessing similar advantages. For the purposes of such
determination, the Tahsildar may take into consideration-(a)the soil
classification of the land and the normal or standard out turn of paddy in the
case of wet land and of the dry or irrigated crop in the case of dry
unirrigated or irrigated land for the different classes and sorts of
soil;(b)the Government records containing the season and crop reports and
rainfall accounts;(c)the accounts of the lessee and other persons, wherever
available, for similar lands enjoying similar advantages;(d)the oral or
documentary evidence adduced by any of the interested parties and decrees of
Civil Courts.(5)Before determining the fair rent in the case of lands referred
to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the said Schedule to the Act, the Tahsildar shall
issue a notice in Form No. 16 to the lessee or other person interested to make
representation, if any, which they desire to be considered in fixing the fail
rent.(6)After considering the representations and with reference to other
materials available before him, the Tahsildar shall determine the fair rent in
respect of the land concerned.

### 29. Commutation of fair rent in terms of cash.

\- In commuting the fair rent in terms of cash, the Tahsildar shall fix the
cash value of the crop in such manner, as he may deem fair and reasonable,
taking into consideration the Government records containing the season and
crop and price reports and also consulting the Director of Statistics, if
considered necessary:Provided that where the average market price of any crop
has been published by the Collector of the district in the District Gazette
under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
(Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of 1956) and such price
is in force on the appointed day, the Tahsildar shall adopt such price in
commuting the fair rent in terms of cash.

### 30. Investing in securities money due to a person under disability.

\- In cases where the Tahsildar does not order the payment of compensation or
any other money to any person on behalf of another under disability, the
Tribunal shall invest the money in any one of the securities specified in the
Appendix in Chapter IV of Part II of the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular
Orders (Volume 1).

### 31. Extent or boundaries of land covered by orders of any authority under
Act.

\- The extent or boundaries of the land covered by any order passed by any
authority or officer in any proceedings under the provisions of this Act shall
be subject to any changes consequent on the determination of the fair area and
map plotting by the survey authorities.

### 32. Transfer of proceedings.

\- The proceedings pending before any Tribunal, authority or officer may be
transferred to any other Tribunal, authority or officer, as the case maybe, by
the authority to whom appeals or revision petitions lie against the decision
of such Tribunal, authority or officer, or where there is no such appellate or
revisional authority, by the Government.

### 33. Powers to issue summons.

\- Every Assistant Settlement Officer or Settlement Tahsildar and every
officer working under the Assistant Settlement Officer and above the rank of
Deputy Tahsildar shall have power to issue summons to any person either for
appearance or for production of documents in connection with the enquiries
into questions pending before such officer under the Act and such person shall
be bound to obey such summons. The form of summons shall be that .used by
Revenue Courts.

### 34. Manner of service and publication of notices and orders under the Act
or the rules.

(1)Any notice or order issued or made under the Act or under these rules shall
be served on the person concerned in the following manner, namely: -(a)by
delivering or tender in the notice or order to the person concerned or his
counsel or authorised agent or some adult member of his family; or(b)by
sending the notice or order to the person concerned by registered post;
or(c)if none of the aforesaid modes of service is practicable, by affixing the
notice or order in some conspicuous part of the last known place of residence
or business of the person concerned.(2)Any notice or order which is intended
for publication for the general information shall, in addition to the special
model of publication prescribed in these rules, also be published by affixture
in the village chavadi of the leasehold, and if there is no village chavadi,
in any conspicuous public place in the leasehold, and by announcing the fact
of such publication by beat of tom-tom in the leasehold. The village officer
shall certify to the place and date of publication and the said date shall be
deemed to be the date of communication of the notice or order, as the case may
be, to the parties concerned.

### 35. Court-fees and process fees payable.

(1)The Court-fee payable in respect of the document specified in column (3) of
the table below under the section specified in column (1) of the said Table
shall be the amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (3)
thereof: -Table

Section | Description of documents | Court-fee  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  | Rs. P.  
7(c) | Revision to the Board of Revenue | 2.00  
9 | Application to the Assistant Settlement Officer | 0.75  
| Appeal to the Tribunal | 2.00  
| Application to the Tribunal | 0.75  
| Vakalatnama to the Tribunal | 1.50  
24(6) | [Appeal to the Board of Revenue] [Now Commissioner of Land Administration.] | 2.00  
32(1) | [Appeal to the Board of Revenue -] [Now Commissioner of Land Administration.] |   
| (a) if the claim does not exceed Rs. 3,000 | 15.00  
|  (b) if the claim exceeds Rs.3,000, but is lessthan Rs. 10,000 | 100.00  
| (c) if the claim is Rs. 10,000 or more | 500.00  
|  Interlocutory application to the SpecialAppellate Tribunal | 2.00  
| Vakalatnama to the Special Appellate Tribunal | 3.00  
36(3) | Application to the District Court - |   
| (a) if the claim does not exceed Rs.100 | 5.00  
| (b) if the claim is Rs. 100 | 10.00  
42 | Application to the Assistant Settlement Officer | 0.75  
| Appeal to the Settlement Officer | 1.00  
| Revision petition to the Board of Revenue1 | 1.50  
  
Explanation. - No Court-fee need be paid in the case of appeal filed on behalf
of the Government(2)In proceedings before the Tribunal, process fee shall be
paid at the rates prescribed for the District Court on processes issued at the
instance of parties. In proceedings before the Special Appellate Tribunal,
process fee shall be paid in accordance with the process fees shall be paid in
accordance with the process fees prescribed under section 80 of the Tamil Nadu
Court-Fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955). The
rates of process fee payable for service of notices and summons on respondents
and witnesses and for production of records in other cases shall be calculated
as follows: -Rs. P.

(1) [ [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1376, Revenue, dated the 23rd March 1973.] |  For service of notices or summons on a singleperson | 2.25]  
---|---|---  
(2) |  For service of notices or summons on everyadditional person residing in the same village if applied for atthe same time. | 1.15  
  
### 36. Fees to pleaders.

\- The following principles shall be adopted in fixing the fees to pleaders
for work connected with the proceedings under the Act before the Special
Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal: -(1)Fees payable to pleader for
appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal. - The Special Appellate
Tribunal shall, for taxation, fix the fees payable to pleaders for work
connected with the proceedings before it in the same manner in which the High
Court fixes advocate's fee for taxation in appeals against the orders of the
lower Courts, in respective of the fact whether it allows cost to any of the
contesting parties or not:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected
cases, in which the result is determined by a single case, only one regulation
fee shall be fixed.(2)Fee payable to pleaders for appearance before the
Tribunal. - (a) The Tribunal shall fix the fee payable to the pleaders for
work connected with the following original proceedings before them so as not
to exceed Rs. 500 in ordinary cases and Rs. 1,000 in important cases:
-(i)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of compensation under section
29;(ii)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of interim payments under
section 31:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected cases in which the
result is determined by a single case, only one regulation fee shall be
fixed.(b)(i)The Tribunal shall fix the fee payable to pleaders for work
connected with proceedings under the other provisions of the Act on the
following basis, namely: -(1)For appearance before the Tribunals and for
preparation of the case-a fixed fee of Rs. 15 for each case in respect of
appeals under sub-section (4) of section 9.(2)For appearance before the
Tribunal for arguments in respect of appeals under sub-section (4) of section
9-if the time taken does not exceed 3 hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 15 for each
case;if the time taken exceeds 3 hours, but does not exceed 6 hours, a fixed
fee of Rs.30 for each case;if the time taken exceeds 6 hours, a fixed fee of
Rs. 50 for each case:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected cases
under subsection (4) of section 9, in which the result is determined by a
single case, the Tribunal shall fix only one regulation fee.(ii)The Tribunal
shall fix the fees payable to each of the pleaders who appear before them in
each case, irrespective of the fact whether they allow costs to any of the
contesting parties or not.(3)(i)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance before
the Special Appellate Tribunal and for preparation of the case. A fixed fee of
Rs. 100 for each case.(ii)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance before the
Special Appellate Tribunal for arguments-if the time taken does not exceed 3
hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 25 for each case;if the time taken exceeds 3 hours,
a fixed fee of Rs. 75 for each case: Provided that in respect of a batch of
connected cases, in which the result is determined by a single case, the
Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix only one regulation fee.(iii)The Special
Appellate Tribunal shall fix the fee to the pleaders in each case irrespective
of the fact whether it allows costs or not.AppendixForm No. 1[See rule 4(3) of
the Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965].ToSri..........residing at........village....taluk.Whereas you are
reported to be in occupation of the land specified in the Schedule hereunder
which has vested in the Government under section 4(b) of the Tamil Nadu
Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1963);And Whereas there are grounds to believe that you are not prima
facie entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the said land and that your
occupation is objectionable, you are hereby given notice that, if you so
desire, you may appear before me on (date) at..................(time)
at........ (place) or show cause In writing before that date, why you should
not be disposed of the said land under the proviso to section 4(g) of the said
Act.

## Schedule

District and Taluk | Name of the leasehold | Description of the land  
---|---|---  
Survey number and sub-division, number ifsurveyed or local name, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey number or subdivision | Occupied extent  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Boundaries of land occupied: North, South. Eastand west | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |   
  
The date shall be at least seven days after the date of service of the
notice.Place:

Date: | Tahsildar.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 2(See rule 4(4) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965.Proceedings of the Tahsildar of taluk No
dated....................Whereas the land specified in the Schedule below has
been under the occupation of Sri...........residing at......And Whereas in
pursuance of rule 4(4) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965, I, ........Tahsildar of taluk do hereby consider
that the said occupant is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of the said land;And Whereas I, ,Tahsildar of taluk consider that the
occupation is objectionable;The said occupant Sri will be dispossessed of the
land after the lapse of the time limit specified in rule 4(5) of the said
rules.

## Schedule 2

District and Taluk | Name of the lease-hold | Description of the land  
---|---|---  
Survey number and subdivision number if surveyedor local name, if unsurveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Boundaries of land occupied: North, South, Eastand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |   
  
The date shall be at least seven days after the date of service of the
notice.Place:

Date: | Tahsildar.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 3(See rule 4(6) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965Proceedings of the Tahsildar of taluk No
dated...........Whereas the land specified in the Schedule hereunder has been
under the occupation of Sri residing at........And Whereas it has been decided
that the said occupant is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of the said land;And Whereas I, Tahsildar of taluk consider that the
occupation is not objectionable, the said occupant will be allowed to be in
occupation of the said land, subject to the payment of assessment on the land
under section 10 until the ryotwari settlement of the said land is effected
under section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963, (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963), or until the said land is
required by the Government for any purpose, whichever is earlier.Explanation.
- The payment of the assessment shall not confer on the occupant any right of
occupancy in respect of the land.

## Schedule 3

District and Taluk | Name of the lease-hold | Description of the land  
---|---|---  
Survey number and subdivision number if surveyedor local name, if unsurveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Boundaries of land occupied: North, South, Eastand West | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---  
(6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |   
  
The date shall be at least seven days after the date of service of the
notice.Place:

Date: | Tahsildar.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 4(See rule 8(1) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Form of Application Under Section 9 of
the Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963,
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963)Name of the applicant.Address of the
applicant.(List of lands in respect of which the applicant claims ryotwari
patta)

### 1\. Serial number.

### 2\. Name of the District.

### 3\. Name of the taluk.

### 4\. Name of the leas-hold.

### 5\. Particulars of the land.

(a)Survey number and sub-division, if surveyed.(b)Extent.(c)Classification-
whether wet or dry:(d)Local name, if any.

### 6\. Survey numbers of the adjacent land -

North.East.South.West.

### 7\. Provision of law under which the claim is preferred.

### 8\. Summary of evidence proposed to be adduced.

### 9\. Remarks.

Place:

Date: | Signature of the applicant  
---|---  
  
Note. - A separate Form should be used for each lease-hold.Form No. 5(See rule
8(4) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Rules, 1965)Notice is hereby given to Sri ................ that the Settlement
Tahsildar/ Assistant Settlement Officer will hold an enquiry in to the nature
and history of the lands mentioned in the Schedule below, in respect of which
it is proposed to grant ryotwari patta to him, on (date)....at....(time)
in...............(place) and on subsequent dates at time and place that will
be intimated. He may produce any record or make any representation which he
may wish to make before the Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer
at the enquiry.

## Schedule 4

Name of the district.Name of the taluk.Name of the village.

Name of the lease-hold | Survey No. and sub-division | Wet or dry | Area | Boundaries | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:

Date: | Settlement Tehsildar/Assistant  
---|---  
  
Settlement OfficerToSri..............(name of the party) in duplicate through
Tahsildar of .........for causing service at least fifteen days prior to the
date of hearing, obtaining acknowledgment and returning the original before
the date of hearing.

Tahsildar | Taluk  
---|---  
The Deputy Tahsildar | Sub-Taluk  
  
Form No. 6(See rule 8(5) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Notice is hereby given to all those whom
it may concern that, in respect of the land mentioned in the Schedule, it is
proposed to grant ryotwari patta to the person specified against each land in
column (5) of that Schedule. The Assistant Settlement Officer will hold an
enquiry into the nature and history of the lands on.........(date) at........
(time) in........ (place) and on subsequent dates at time and place that will
be intimated.Any person who has any objection to any of the proposals to grant
ryotwari patta may file before the Assistant Settlement Officer, a statement
of his objections supported by a summary of evidence and all available
documents.All interested persons are hereby advised to be present at the
enquiry, either in person or through an authorised representative, and make
their representations.All such objections and representations and other
available records and evidence will be taken into consideration and suitable
orders passed by the Assistant Settlement Officer.In the absence of any such
objection or representation, the Assistant Settlement Officer will conduct
such enquiry as he may deem necessary on the basis of the available records
and evidence. In the event of the absence of any interested person, the
enquiry will be conducted ex parte. [village headman] [The Now Village
Administrative Officer.] and the [karnam] [Now Village Administrative
Officer.] will be present at the enquiry.

Place: | Assistant Settlement Officer  
---|---  
  
Date:

## Schedule 5

Name of the DistrictName of the TalukName of the Village

Name of the lease-hold | Survey No. and sub-division | Classification | Extent |  Name of the person to whom patta is proposed tobe given  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
To

Tahsildar | Taluk  
---|---  
The Deputy Tahsildar | Sub-Taluk  
  
The Village Officers of ............... (in duplicate) for causing publication
by affixture in the village chavadi or in some conspicuous public place in the
village, which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom
and for returning the original with the following certificate:
-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing a copy
thereof in the village chavadi (or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and
by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on...........and in token thereof
the signatures of the villagers have been obtained.Place:

Date: | Signature of the[Village Headman] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
Signature of the [Karnam.] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]Form No. 7(See
rule 8(9) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)(Decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Tahsildar under section 9 of the Tamil Nadu lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil nadu Act 27 of 1963).It is hereby
notified for the information of all concerned that under section 9 of the
Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963), the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Tahsildar has decided that, in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule,
the person specified against each land in column (5) of that Schedule is
entitled to ryotwari patta and any person aggrieved by this decision may
prefer an appeal to the Tribunal within three months from the date of this
decision.Place:

Date: | Assistant Settlement Officer  
---|---  
  
Settlement Tahsildar.

## Schedule 6

Name of the DistrictName of the TalukName of the Village

Name of the lease-hold | Survey No. and sub-division | Classification | Extent | Name of the person to whom patta is issued  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
To

Tahsildar | Taluk  
---|---  
The Deputy Tahsildar | Sub-Taluk  
  
The village officers of .................... (in duplicate) for causing
publication by affixture in the village chavadi or in some conspicuous public
place in the village, which should be specified and announcing the fact by
beat of tom-tom and for returning the original with the following certificate:
-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing a copy
thereof in the village chavadi...........(or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom
on................and, in token thereof signatures of the villagers have been
obtained.Place:

Date: | Signature of the[Village Headmen] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
Signature of the [Kamam.] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]Form No. 8(See
rule 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Notice is hereby given that an appeal from the decision
of the Assistant Settlement Officer under section 9(3) of the Tamil Nadu
Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1963) has been presented by Sri..........and admitted by this Tribunal
and has been posted for hearing on (date) at (time)
in............................... (place).All persons who have preferred
claims before the Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Tahsildar under
section 9 or filed statements during the enquiry before him are hereby called
upon to appear before this Tribunal on the date and at the place specified
above and file their further statements, if any, in the matter.A copy of the
appeal petition is appended hereto.Place:

Date: | Tribunal  
---|---  
  
ToSri................(name of applicant) (in duplicate) through the Tahsildar
of...............for causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date
of hearing obtaining acknowledgment and returning the original before the date
of hearing.The Tahsildar of............(in duplicate) for causing publication
in the village at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by affixture
in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the village which
should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom and for
returning the original with the following certificate-CertificateCertified
that this notice was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village
chavadi.............(or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by
announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on and in token thereof the signatures
of the villagers have been obtained.

Place: | Signature of the[Village Headman] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
Date: | Signature of the[Karnam.] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
  
Form No. 9(See rule 10 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Office of the Tahsildar of ..............
talukPlace:.............Date...............ToSri............residing
at..........village.........taluk.Whereas it has been decided by the Assistant
Settlement Officer/Tribunal/Special Appellate Tribunal that you are not
entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land in your occupation mentioned
in the Schedule below, you are hereby required to vacate the land within seven
days from the date of service of this notice, failing which, you will be
evicted from the land. Take notice also that the Revenue
Inspector.............Firka is authorised to carry out the orders of eviction
and to take possession of the land.

## Schedule 7

Description of the Land  
---  
District and taluk | Name of the leasehold |  Survey number and subdivision number, if surveyedor local name, if Unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey number division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied; North, south, eastand west | Classification | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:

Date: | Tehsildar.  
---|---  
  
Copy to the Revenue Inspector ............. Firka,for carrying out the
eviction and report.Form No. 10(See rule 18(1) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Form of Memorandum of
Appeal Under the Tamil Nadu Lease-Holds (Abolition and Conversion Into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963)Before the Special Appellate
TribunalAppeal No of 20...........

(A. B) |  | Appellant.  
---|---|---  
| v. |   
(C. C. etc.) |  | Respondents.  
  
The above named appeals to the Special Appellate Tribunal from the decision of
the Tribunal No................dated.........................and in
Application/Petition No............ of 20 ........ and sets forth the
following grounds of objections to the said decision appealed from, viz...
(here set out the grounds.)Form No. 11(See rule 23(2) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-
holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Particulars of
Amounts Deposited In the District Court of by the Tribunal Under Section 36(1)
of the Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act,
1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963).

### 1\. Name of the leas. - hold and the name of the taluk and the district in
which it is situate.

### 2\. Nature of the amount deposited whether compensation or interim
payment.

3\. Amount deposited .... | Rs.P.  
---|---  
  
### 4\. Date of original deposit with the Tribunal.

### 5\.

(1)Whether unclaimed or undisbursed(2)If undisbursed: (1) Number and date of
the order, in which the payment was ordered by the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal.(b)Name of the person, in whose favour the order for
payment was made;and

(c) Amount ordered for payment | Rs.P.  
---|---  
  
Place:

Date: | Tribunal  
---|---  
  
Form No. 12(See rule 24 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Form of Application to the District
Court Under Section 36(3) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-Holds (Abolition and
Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963).

### 1\. Name of the applicant and full address.

### 2\. Name of the leasehold to which the claim relates.

### 3\. Name of the taluk and the district, in which the leasehold is
situated.

### 4\. Date and page of the district gazette, in which the notification
regarding the deposit of the amount with the District Court was published.

### 5\. (a) Nature of the amount in deposit, whether compensation or interim
payment.

(b)Whether the application is in respect of unclaimed amount or undisbursed
amount.

### 6\. Nature of interest held, i.e., as a lessee or sharer, etc.

### 7\. Details of claim and the provision of law under which the applicant is
entitled to the amount held in deposit.

### 8\. The amount claimed out of the total amount deposited in the District
Court by the Tribunal.

### 9\. Reasons for the delay in preferring the application, if any.

### 10\. In the case of undisbursed amounts, particulars of orders by the
Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in respect of which an application
for payment under section 35 should have been preferred: -

(i)Number and date of the order of Tribunal or Special Appellate
Tribunal.(ii)Nature of the amount (Compensation or interim payment)

(iii) Amount ordered for payment | Rs.P.  
---|---  
  
(iv)Name of the person in whose favour an order or payment was
passed.(v)Remarks.

### 11\. Is the original or a certified copy of the order of the Tribunal or
Special Appellate Tribunal enclosed.

### 12\. Summary of the evidence proposed to be adduced in support of the
claim.

### 13\. Any other information relevant to this application.

Place:

Date: | Signature of the applicant.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 13(See rule 27(2) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Form of Application to the Assistant
Settlement Officer Under Section 42 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-Holds (Abolition
and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963)

### 1\. Name of the applicant and his address.

### 2\. Name of the leas-hold in which the land or forest in dispute lies.

### 3\. Name of the village and taluk.

### 4\. Name of the district.

### 5\. Survey number or Paimash number or local name, if any, of the land or
forest in dispute.

### 6\. Extent.

### 7\. Nature of the dispute and relief sought.

Place:

Date: | Signature of applicant.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 14(See rule 27(7) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Name of the applicant:Address:Name of
the respondent:Address:

Application ................ | dated:.................  
---|---  
  
Take notice that the applicant mentioned above has applied to me for a
decision under section 52 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963), in respect of
the land mentioned in the copy of the application, which is sent herewith. The
application is posted for hearing
on...............(date)at.......................(time) at (place). You are
hereby required to appear before me in person or by pleader at the time and
place aforesaid, failing which orders will be passed ex parte.Place:

Date: | Assistant Settlement Officers  
---|---  
  
(Seal)Form No. 15(See rule 27(11) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Name of the appellant:Name of the
respondent:Notice is hereby given that an appeal from the decision of the
Assistant settlement Officer under section 42 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963)
has been presented by Sri................and admitted by the Settlement
Officer and has been posted for hearing on (date) at (time) at................
(place).All persons who have applied to the Assistant Settlement Officer under
section 42 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963) or filed statements during the
enquiry before him, are hereby called upon to appear before the Settlement
Officer at the time and place specified above and file their further
statement, if any, in the matter.Place:

Date: | Settlement Officer.  
---|---  
  
(Seal)ToSri............(Name of applicant) (in duplicate) through the
Tahsildar of for causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date of
hearing, obtaining acknowledgment and returning the original before the date
of hearing.The Tahsildar of........(in duplicate) for causing publication in
the village at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by affixture in
the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the village which
should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom and for
returning the original with the following certificate:certificateCertified
that this notice was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village
chavadi (or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact
by beat of tom-tom on..........and in token thereof the signatures of the
villagers have been obtained.

Place: | Signature of the[Village Headman.] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
Date: | Signature of the[Karnam] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
  
Form No. 16(See rule 28(5) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)

Current No. | Office of the Tehsil of ............  
---|---  
Tulak ............. | Dated ...............  
  
ToSri...........(The lessee or the person interested)Notice is hereby given
that the determination of fair rent in respect of the lands mentioned in the
Schedule below will be taken up by the undersigned on ............. (date) at
............ (time) at ..................... (Place)

### 2\. You may file before the undersigned on the said date, your
representations in regard to the, determination of fair rent.

### 3\. If you do not avail yourself of this opportunity, the matter will be
disposed of on merits.

## Schedule 8

Name of the district | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Name of the leasehold | Survey No. | Wet or dry | Extent | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:

Date: | Tehsildar  
---|---  
  
Rule Under Tamil Nadu Lease-Holds (Abolition And Conversion Into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963(G. O. Ms. No. 3013, Revenue, dated the 11th October 1966)SRO No.
A-1005 of 1966.-In exercise of the powers conferred by section 50 read with
section 22(b) of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVII of 1963), the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rule: -For the purpose of section 22(b) of the Act,
the proportionate amount, payable for each year, by the lessee to the
Government in respect of any additional payment stipulated under the lease
shall be the amount arrived at by dividing the additional sum payable by the
lessee to the Government by the number of years fixed in the lease deed.

