## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Sales Tax (Settlement of Arrears) Act, 2010

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Sales Tax (Settlement of Arrears) Act, 2010

## Act 20 of 2010

  * Published on 26 May 2010 
  * Commenced on 26 May 2010 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 May 2010.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Sales Tax (Settlement of Arrears) Act, 2010(Act No. 20 of 2010)Last
Updated 23rd January, 2020[Dated 26.05.2010]An Act to provide for settlement
of arrears of tax, penalty or interest pertaining to sales tax and the matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.Whereas, it is expedient to provide
for settlement of arrears of tax, penalty or interest, as the case may be,
under the repealed Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1959), the repealed Tamil Nadu Sales Tax (Surcharge) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act
24 of 1971), the repealed Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 (Tamil
Nadu Act 14 of 1970) and the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of
1956);Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in
the Sixty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Sales Tax (Settlement of Arrears)
Act, 2010.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall
come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"applicant" means a
dealer as defined in the relevant Act;(b)"arrears of tax, penalty or interest"
means-(i)tax including additional sales tax, surcharge, additional surcharge
and central sales tax, payable by an applicant upon assessment under the
relevant Act; or(ii)penalty payable by an applicant under the relevant Act;
or(iii)interest payable by an applicant under the relevant Act as the case may
be, for which assessment has been made prior to the 1st day of April 2007
under the relevant Act, and pending collection on the date of filing of
application under this Act;(c)"designated authority" means an authority
appointed under section 3;(d)"Government" means the State
Government;(e)"relevant Act" means,-(i)the repealed Tamil Nadu General Sales
Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959);(ii)the repealed Tamil Nadu Sales Tax
(Surcharge) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1971);(iii)the repealed Tamil Nadu
Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1970);(iv)the Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956)and includes the rules made or
notifications issued thereunder.(2)Unless there is anything repugnant to the
subject or context, all expressions used in this Act, which are not defined,
shall have the same meaning as defined or used in the relevant Act.

### 3. Designated authority.

\- For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the Government may, by
notification, appoint one or more authorities referred to in section 48 of the
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 2006), to be the
designated authority and such authority shall exercise jurisdiction over such
area or areas as the Government may specify in the notification.

### 4. Eligibility for settlement.

\- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, an applicant may make an
application for settlement of arrears of tax, penalty or interest in respect
of which assessment has been made under the relevant Act, prior to the 1st day
of April 2007, against which an appeal or revision is not pending before any
court on the date of filing application.

### 5. Application for settlement.

(1)An application for the purpose of section 4 shall be made to the designated
authority by an applicant within three months from the date of commencement of
this Act or by such later date as the Government may, by notification,
specify, from time to time, in such form, and in such manner, as may be
prescribed, with proof of payment of the amount payable at the rates specified
in section 7.(2)A separate application shall be made for each assessment
year.(3)The applicant shall send a copy of the application made under sub-
section (1) to the assessing authority, appellate authority or revisional
authority under the relevant Act, before whom any proceeding or appeal or
revision, as the case may be, is pending, within seven days from the date of
making such application before the designated authority.

### 6. Determination of amount payable by the applicant.

(1)The designated authority shall verify the correctness of the particulars
furnished in the application made under section 5 with reference to all
relevant records and determine the amount payable at the rates specified in
section 7.(2)The designated authority shall demand further amount payable by
the applicant in the form prescribed, if the amount paid by the applicant
along with application falls short of not more than ten per cent of the amount
determined under sub-section (1).(3)If the applicant has not paid ninety per
cent of the amount payable under section 7 along with the application, the
designated authority shall summarily reject the application.(4)The amount
determined under sub-section (1) shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee
and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a part of a rupee, and, if
such part is fifty paise or more, it shall be rounded off to the nearest
rupee, and if such part is less than fifty paise, it shall be ignored.

### 7. Rate applicable in determining amount payable.

\- The amount payable by the applicant and to be waived shall be determined as
follows:-(a)Where it relates to arrears of tax which was assessed on the best
of judgment due to non production of accounts with corresponding arrears of
penalty and interest, the applicant shall pay one third of arrears of tax
pending collection on the date of application along with interest calculated
at six percent per annum on the arrears of tax and on such payment of tax, the
balance of tax and interest and the entire penalty shall be waived.(b)Where it
relates to arrears of tax, including any arrears of tax accrued due to non
filing of declaration forms which was in excess of the tax admitted as per the
returns filed for the year with the corresponding arrears of penalty and
interest, the applicant shall pay one third of such arrears of tax pending
collection on the date of application along with interest at six percent per
annum on the arrears of tax and on such payment of tax, the balance of tax and
interest and the entire penalty shall be waived.(c)Where it relates to arrears
of tax, which was admitted as tax due as per returns filed for the year with
corresponding arrears of penalty and interest, the applicant shall pay the
entire arrears of tax pending collection along with interest at six percent
per annum and on such payment, the balance of interest and the entire penalty
shall be waived.(d)Where it relates to arrears of penalty or interest or both
and where there is no corresponding arrears of tax pending collection on the
date of application, the applicant shall pay ten per cent of the penalty and
twenty-five per cent of interest, the balance of penalty and interest shall be
waived.

### 8. Settlement of arrears and issue of certificate.

(1)The designated authority shall, on being satisfied about the payment of the
amount determined under sub-section (1) of section 6, by an order, settle the
arrears of tax, penalty or interest and issue a certificate in such form as
may be prescribed, and thereupon, the applicant shall be discharged from his
liability to make payment of the balance amount of such arrears of tax,
penalty or interest. Separate certificate shall be issued in respect of each
application.(2)The designated authority, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, may refuse to settle the arrears of tax, penalty or interest:Provided
that no order under this sub-section shall be passed without giving the
applicant a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such
refusal.(3)The authority notified by the Government in this behalf may, at any
time within ninety days from the date of issue of certificate under sub-
section (1) by the designated authority, modify the certificate by rectifying
any error apparent on the face of the record:Provided that no such
rectification adversely affecting the applicant shall be passed without
allowing the applicant a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such
rectification.

### 9. Bar on re-opening of settled cases.

\- A certificate issued under section 8 shall be conclusive as to the
settlement to which it relates, and no matter covered by such certificate
shall be re-opened in any proceeding of review or revision, or in any other
proceeding, under the relevant Act.

### 10. Withdrawal of appeal and revision.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any provision in the
relevant Act, any proceeding or appeal or revision for any period pending
before the assessing authority or appellate authority or revisional authority,
as the case may be, under the relevant Act in respect of which a certificate
is issued under section 8, shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the
date of making of the application by the applicant under sub-section (1) of
section 5. Any order passed by the assessing authority or appellate authority
or revisional authority subsequent to the date of filing of application for
settlement of arrears of tax, penalty or interest, resulting in claim for
refund of amount paid upto the time of settlement of such arrears of tax,
penalty or interest under this Act, will not be taken into consideration.

### 11. Authority not to proceed in certain cases.

\- No authority shall proceed to decide in any proceeding or appeal or
revision under the relevant Act relating to any assessment year in respect of
which a copy of the application has been received under sub-section (3) of
section 5:Provided that such authority shall proceed to decide such proceeding
or appeal or revision in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Act,
if a certificate referred to in sub-section (1) of section 8 is refused to the
applicant by an order passed by the designated authority under sub-section (2)
of section 8.

### 12. Revocation of certificate.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 9 or section 10, where it
appears to the designated authority that an applicant has obtained the
certificate under section 8 by suppressing any material information or
particulars or by furnishing any incorrect or false information or
particulars, such designated authority, may, within a period of two years from
the date of issue of the said certificate, for reasons to be recorded in
writing and after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause, revoke the certificate issued under sub-section (1) of section 8.(2)If
a certificate is revoked under sub-section (1), any proceeding or appeal or
revision, as the case may be, under the relevant Act, covered by such
certificate shall, notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 or section 10,
stand revived or reinstated immediately upon such revocation, and such
proceeding or appeal or revision shall be decided in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant Act, as if no settlement of the arrears of tax,
penalty or interest in such proceeding or appeal or revision has ever been
made under this Act.(3)In the case of revocation of a certificate in
accordance with sub-section (1), the amount paid by the applicant under
section 6 shall be treated as payment towards the amount payable under the
relevant Act for the period for which the certificate has been revoked.

### 13. Information to be sent to authorities under relevant Act.

\- The designated authority shall inform the assessing authority or appellate
authority or revisional authority, as the case may be, under the relevant Act,
who for the time being, has jurisdiction over the applicant under the relevant
Act,-(a)the fact of making of an application by the applicant under section
5;(b)the fact of passing of any order by the designated authority under
section 8;(c)the fact of revocation of any certificate under section 12;
and(d)such other matters as it may deem necessaryin such form, in such manner,
and within such time, as may be prescribed.

### 14. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of this
Act, the Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, remove such difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made
after the expiry of one year from the date of coming into force of this Act.

### 15. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, make rules, whether prospectively or retrospectively,
for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act
shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day, on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act
shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come
into force on the day on which they are so published.(3)Every rule made and
every notification issued under this Act and every order made under section 14
shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly and if before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such rule or notification or order or the Assembly decides that the rule
or notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be, without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

