## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Private Universities Act, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Private Universities Act, 2019

## Act 14 of 2019

  * Published on 1 January 2019 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Private Universities Act, 2019(Act No. 14 of 2019)Last Updated 16th
January, 2020An Act to establish and incorporate in the State of Tamil Nadu,
the Green field Universities of unitary nature in private sector by the
sponsoring body viz. Trusts or Societies or not for profit companies to
promote, conceptualise and bring about a paradigm shift through development of
outstanding leadership, research, knowledge and ideas for education and allied
development sectors and also to provide world class Higher Educational
Institutions in the State.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Private Universities Act, 2019.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Academic Council"
means the Academic Council of a Private University constituted under section
27;(b)"AICTE" means the All India Council for Technical Education established
under section 3 of the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987
(Central Act 52 of 1987);(c)"BCI" means the Bar Council of India established
under section 4 of the Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of
1961);(d)"Chancellor", "Vice-Chancellor" and "Pro-Vice-Chancellor" means,
respectively, the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the Pro-Vice-Chancellor
of a Private University;(e)"Deans and Directors" means the Head of Department
or an Institution, a Centre or a School, or the person appointed for the
purpose to act as such in his absence;(f)"Department" means a Department of
Studies of a Private University and includes a Centre of Studies and
Research;(g)"employee" means any person appointed by a Private University, and
includes a teacher or any other member of the staff of the Private
University;(h)"Executive Council" means the Executive Council of a Private
University constituted under section 26;(i)"Expert Committee" means the
Committee constituted under section 7;(j)"Faculty" means a Faculty of a
Private University;(k)"Governing Council" means the Governing Council
constituted under section 25;(l)"Government" means the State
Government;(m)"Green field University" means starting of a University afresh
without any consideration to any existing educational institutions or anything
related to such institutions;(n)"hostel" means a unit of residence for
students of a Private University maintained or recognised by the Private
University;(o)"ICAR" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research,
registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Central Act 21 of
1860);(p)"Institution" means a college or an institution established or
maintained by or associated with or constituent to a Private University in
accordance with this Act and the Statutes;(q)"Management Committee" means the
committee constituted by the sponsoring body for the purposes of this
Act;(r)"MCI" means the Medical Council of India constituted under the Medical
Council Act, 1956 (Central Act 102 of 1956);(s)"multidisciplinary" means study
in the Departments of Humanities and Social Sciences, Science, Engineering and
Technology, Architecture, Medical, Dental, Nursing, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy,
Allied Health Sciences, Education, Law, Agriculture, Veterinary and other
branches of knowledge;(t)"NCTE" means the National Council for Teacher
Education established under the National Council for Teacher Education Act,
1993 (Central Act 73 of 1993);(u)"PCI" means Pharmacy Council of India
constituted under section 4 of the Pharmacy Act, 1948 (Central Act 8 of
1948);(v)"prescribed" means prescribed by Statutes and Ordinances;(w)"Private
University" means a University established under section 3;(x)"Registrar",
"Controller of Examinations", "Finance Officer" means, respectively, the
Registrar, the Controller of Examinations and the Finance Officer of a Private
University;(y)"Regulatory Body" means and includes a body such as UGC, AICTE,
NCTE, MCI, PCI, ICAR, BCI established for maintenance of standards of higher
education;(z)"Rules" means rules made under section 57 of this
Act;(aa)"Schedule" means the Schedule appended to this Act;(ab)"sponsoring
body" means,-(i)a trust registered under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (Central
Act 2 of 1882); or(ii)a society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies
Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975); or(iii)a company
registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Central Act 13 of
2013);(ac)"statutes" and "ordinances" means respectively, the statutes and the
ordinances of a Private University;(ad)"student" means a student enrolled in
the register of a Private University;(ae)"teachers " means persons appointed
by a Private University to give instructions on its behalf;(af)"UGC" means the
University Grants Commission established under section 4 of the University
Grants Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 3 of 1956).

### 3. Establishment of Private University.

(1)The Government may permit the establishment of a Private University, by any
sponsoring body, by inclusion of the name of the Private University, its
location and the details of the sponsoring body in the Schedule.(2)The Private
University shall be a Greenfield University and shall also be a
multidisciplinary University. Its location shall be within the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)The Private University shall be a body corporate, shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said name.(4)The
Private University shall be of the unitary type and shall not have power to
affiliate or recognise any college or institution.(5)The Private University
may establish constituent colleges, regional centres, additional campuses and
study centres at such places in the State as it deems fit subject to the norms
of UGC and other regulatory bodies.

### 4. Conditions for establishment of Private University.

\- For the purpose of establishing a Private University under this Act, the
sponsoring body shall fulfill the following conditions, namely:-(a)possess
contiguous land of not less than one hundred acres earmarked for the Private
University;(b)construct on the land referred to in clause (a), buildings and
establish infrastructure and install necessary equipments in offices and
laboratories as per the standards laid down by the UGC and other regulatory
bodies;(c)appoint teachers for the purposes of teaching as per the standards
laid down by the UGC; and(d)such other conditions as may be required by the
Government to be fulfilled before the establishment of the Private University.

### 5. Application for establishment of Private University.

\- Any sponsoring body desirous to have a Private University established by a
law of the State Legislature, shall make an application to the Government,
containing an outline of the purpose and vision of the proposed Private
University, the project report in such manner containing such particulars
along with such fee not exceeding rupees twenty five lakh as may be prescribed
in the rules

### 6. Project Report.

\- The project report shall, in addition to the particulars as may be
prescribed under section 5, contain the following, namely:-(a)justification
regarding the necessity of establishment of the proposed Private
University;(b)the details of the sponsoring body along with copies of its
registration certificate under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (Central Act 2 of
1882) or the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1975) or the Companies Act, 2013, (Central Act 13 of 2013) as the case may
be;(c)the track record, experience and domain expertise in the proposed
disciplines;(d)the name, location and headquarters of the proposed Private
University;(e)the objectives of the Private University;(f)availability of
academic facilities including teaching and non¬teaching staff, if any, at the
disposal of the sponsoring body;(g)the details of plans for campus development
such as, construction of buildings, development of structural amenities and
infrastructure facilities and procurement of equipment for starting the
Private University;(h)the outlays of capital expenditure and its sources of
finance;(i)the nature and type of programmes and courses of study, research
and innovation proposed to be undertaken by the Private University;(j)the
nature of facilities proposed to be started;(k)the scheme of mobilizing
resources and the cost of capital thereto and the manner of repayment to such
sources;(l)projected detailed financial statements and key operating ratios
with a detailed break-up of sources of revenues generated internally;(m)the
system proposed to be followed for selecting students for admission to the
courses of study at the Private University;(n)the system proposed for
appointment of teachers and other employees in the Private University;(o)the
nature of specialized teaching, training or research activities to be
undertaken by the Private University including those related to the local
needs, so as to fulfil its objects;(p)the details of play grounds and other
facilities available or proposed to be created for games and sports and extra
curricular activities like National Cadet Corps and National Service
Scheme;(q)proposed approach and initial plans for academic and research
excellence, including accreditations to be sought and academic auditing;(r)the
concessions or rebates in fee and scholarships, if any, to be granted by the
Private University to the students from economically or socially backward
families, including Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, other Backward Classes
and differently abled students; and(s)commitment to follow the norms of the
regulatory bodies.

### 7. Expert Committee.

(1)The Government shall constitute an Expert Committee to examine the
application received from the sponsoring body.(2)The composition of the Expert
Committee shall be as follows:-

(i) |  The Secretary to Government, in-charge of HigherEducation Department. | - | Chairman  
---|---|---|---  
(ii) |  Former or serving Vice-Chancellor of the StateUniversity. | - | Member  
(iii) | The Commissioner of Technical Education. | - | Member Secretary  
(iv) | The Director of Collegiate Education. | - | Member  
(v) |  The Collector of the District where the PrivateUniversity is proposed to be established. | - | Member  
  
(3)The Chairman and Members shall be eligible for such sitting fees and
allowances, as may be prescribed in the rules.(4)The Expert Committee shall
examine the proposal with reference to the following:-(a)financial soundness
and assets of the sponsoring body and its ability to setup the infrastructure
of the proposed Private University;(b)background of the sponsoring body such
as experience in the field of education, its credibility and general
reputation;(c)potential of the courses to be offered which are not only of
conventional nature but also in tune with the contemporary requirements of
emerging branches of learning;(d)appropriateness of the objectives of the
proposed Private University against the overall goals and objectives of the
State; and(e)any other factor that the Expert Committee may deem
appropriate.(5)The Expert Committee, while considering the proposal and the
project report, may call for such other information from the sponsoring body
as it thinks proper for the purpose.(6)The Expert Committee shall make
recommendation on the establishment of Private University to the Government.

### 8. Letter of Intent.

(1)On consideration of the recommendation of the Expert Committee, the
Government shall take a decision on accepting or rejecting the proposal or
seek modification in the proposal or additional information.(2)The Government
reserves the right to accept or not to accept the evaluation report of the
Expert Committee. The decision of the Government in this regard shall be
final.(3)The Government shall inform the sponsoring body about its decision
through a Letter of Intent, a Letter of Regret, or a letter seeking modified
proposal or additional information, as the case may be.

### 9. Amendment to Schedule.

\- The Government shall include the name of the University in the Schedule
with details of location by way of amendment to the Schedule after satisfying
that the sponsoring body has fulfilled the conditions of Letter of Intent.

### 10. Commencement of Private University.

(1)Every Private University shall commence to exercise its function on such
date as the Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.(2)The
Government shall issue a notification under sub-section (1) only after receipt
of an affidavit along with documents from the sponsoring body to the effect
that all the conditions referred to in this Act have been fulfilled and after
the Government is satisfied in this behalf.

### 11. Grants and Financial Assistance.

\- Every Private University shall be a self-financing University and shall
neither make a demand nor shall be entitled to any maintenance, grant-in-aid
or any other financial assistance from the Government:Provided that this shall
not prohibit a Private University from applying for research projects or any
other academic projects which may or may not entail financial grant or
financial support from any other source.

### 12. Objects of Private University.

\- The objects of a Private University shall be to disseminate and advance
education, knowledge and skill by providing instructional, research and
extension of facilities in such branches of learning as it may deem fit and
the Private University shall endeavour to provide to students and teachers the
necessary atmosphere and facilities for the promotion of,-(a)innovations in
education leading to restructuring of courses, new methods of teaching,
training and learning including on-line learning, blended learning, continuing
education and such other modes and integrated and wholesome development of
personality;(b)studies in various disciplines;(c)inter-disciplinary
studies;(d)national integration, secularism, social equity and engineering of
international understanding and ethics;(e)educational programmes for diplomas,
degrees and post-graduate courses, doctorate degrees and post-doctoral
programmes and to maintain high standards of education;(f)collaboration with
national and global institutions, and creation of capabilities for upgrading
programmes to the global standards, subject to the guidelines of the UGC and
other regulatory bodies.

### 13. Powers of Private University.

\- Every Private University shall have the following powers, namely:-(a)to
provide for instructions in such branches of learning as the Private
University may, from time to time, determine and to make provisions for
research and for the advancement and dissemination and application of
knowledge and skills;(b)to impart and promote the study of humanities and
social sciences, science, engineering and technology, management, law, medical
and allied sciences and any other professional courses through in-campus, off-
campus, and satellite centres or by distance educational programmes;(c)to
honour educational stalwarts and persons of academic eminence with the
decoration of professor Emeritus;(d)to grant, subject to such conditions as
the Private University may determine, diplomas or certificates to, and confer
degrees or other academic distinctions on the basis of examinations,
evaluation or any other method of testing on persons, and to withdraw any such
diplomas, certificates, degrees or other academic distinctions for good and
sufficient cause;(e)to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions in the
manner prescribed;(f)to provide education and training including
correspondence and such other courses, to such persons who are not members of
the Private University, as it may determine;(g)to institute Directorships,
Professorships, Associate Professorships, Readerships, Assistant
Professorships, Lecturerships and other teaching or academic posts required by
the Private University and to make appointments for the same;(h)to create
administrative, ministerial and other posts and to make appointments
thereto;(i)to appoint or engage persons of eminence working in any other
University or Organisation permanently or for a specified period;(j)to co-
operate, collaborate or associate with any other University or Authority or
Institution in India and abroad in such manner and for such purpose as the
Private University may determine;(k)to establish and maintain schools,
centres, specialised laboratories or other units for research and instructions
as are in the opinion of the Private University, necessary for the furtherance
of its objects;(l)to institute and award fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, medals and prizes;(m)to establish and maintain and supervise
residences, hostels within the Private University and promote the health and
general welfare activities for students and staff;(n)to make provisions for
research and consultancy, and for that purpose to enter into such arrangements
with other institutions or bodies as the Private University may deem
necessary;(o)to declare a centre, an institution, a department, or school, as
the case may be, in accordance with the statutes;(p)to determine standards for
admission into the Private University, which may include examination,
evaluation or any other method of testing;(q)to prescribe, demand and receive
payment of fees and other charges;(r)to make such arrangements in respect of
the residence, discipline and teaching of women and other disadvantaged
students as the Private University may deem fit;(s)to regulate and enforce
discipline amongst the employees and students of the Private University and
take such disciplinary measures in this regard as may deem necessary by the
Private University;(t)to make arrangements for promoting the health and
general welfare of the employees of the Private University;(u)to receive
donations and to acquire, hold, manage and dispose through sale or lease or
rent of any property, movable or immovable for the welfare of the Private
University;(v)to borrow without security or by way of hypothecation or
mortgage against the property of the Private University with the approval of
the sponsoring body;(w)to appoint either on contract or otherwise, visiting
professors, emeritus professors, consultants, fellows, scholars, artists,
course writers and such other persons who may contribute to the advancement of
the objects of the Private University;(x)to organise and to undertake extra-
mural studies and extension service;(y)to do all such other acts and things as
may be necessary, incidental or conducive to the attainment of all or any of
the objects of the Private University.

### 14. Admission.

(1)Every Private University shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and
the relevant statutes and regulations of the UGC and other regulatory bodies,
as the case may be, be open to all persons.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section
(1) shall require a Private University,-(a)to admit to any course of study any
person who does not possess the prescribed academic qualification or
standard;(b)to retain on the rolls of the Private University any student whose
academic record is below the minimum standard required for the award of a
degree or other academic distinction;(c)to admit any person or retain any
student whose conduct is prejudicial to the interest of the Private University
or the rights and privileges of other students and teachers;(d)to retain on
rolls of the Private University any student who fails to remit necessary fees
as prescribed for the course.(3)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1)
and (2) and the standard admission process of the Private University as may be
prescribed, the Private University shall reserve thirty-five percentage of
seats in each course of study for resident students of Tamil Nadu.(4)Admission
of students to thirty-five percentage of seats reserved for resident students
of Tamil Nadu under sub-section (3) shall be made following the reservation as
per law in force.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section "Resident
student of Tamil Nadu" means:-(i)a student who or either of whose parents has
resided in the State of Tamil Nadu for a period of not less than five years
preceding the qualifying examination; or(ii)a student who has studied in any
one of the educational institutions in the State of Tamil Nadu for a period of
not less than five years leading to the qualifying examination.

### 15. Officers of Private University.

\- The following shall be the officers of a Private University, namely:-(a)the
Chancellor;(b)the Vice-Chancellor;(c)the Pro-Vice-Chancellor;(d)the
Registrar;(e)the Deans and Directors;(f)the Finance Officer;(g)the Controller
of Examinations; and(h)such other persons as may be declared by the statutes
to be officers of the Private University.

### 16. Chancellor.

(1)The Chancellor shall be appointed by the Management Committee for a period
of three years, as may be prescribed.(2)The Chancellor shall, by virtue of his
office, be the Head of the Private University and shall constitute an interim
Executive Council. The interim Executive Council so constituted shall cease to
exist on the constitution of the Executive Council under section 26.(3)The
Chancellor may in writing under his hand addressed to the Management
Committee, resign his office.

### 17. Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor in such manner as
may be prescribed and shall hold office for a period of three years.(2)The
Vice-Chancellor shall exercise such powers and perform such other functions as
may be prescribed.

### 18. Pro-Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Executive Council in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)The Pro-Vice-Chancellor shall exercise such
powers and perform such other functions as may be prescribed.

### 19. Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the Private
University. The terms of appointment and conditions of services shall be such
as may be prescribed.(2)The holder of the post of Registrar shall possess the
qualifications prescribed by the UGC.(3)The Registrar shall have the power to
enter into agreements, sign documents and authenticate records on behalf of
the Private University and shall exercise such other powers and perform such
other functions as may be prescribed.(4)The Registrar shall be the ex-officio
Secretary of the Executive Council and the Academic Council.

### 20. Deans and Directors.

\- Every Dean and every Director shall be appointed in such manner and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed.

### 21. Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall be appointed in such manner and shall exercise
such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed.(2)The Finance
Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary of the Finance Committee.

### 22. Controller of Examinations.

(1)The Controller of Examinations shall be a whole-time officer of the Private
University appointed for such period and on such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed.(2)The Controller of Examinations shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as may be prescribed.

### 23. Other Officers.

\- The manner of appointment and powers and duties of the other officers of a
Private University shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 24. Authorities of Private University.

\- The following shall be the authorities of a Private University,
namely:-(a)the Governing Council;(b)the Executive Council;(c)the Academic
Council;(d)the Finance Committee;(e)the Planning Board; and(f)such other
authorities as may be declared by the statutes to be authorities of the
Private University.

### 25. Governing Council.

(1)The constitution of the Governing Council and the term of office of its
members shall be such, as may be prescribed.(2)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the Governing Council shall have the following powers and functions,
namely:-(a)to review from time to time, the broad policies and programmes of
the Private University and suggest measures for the working, improvement and
development of the Private University;(b)to consider and pass resolutions on
the annual report and annual accounts of the Private University and audit
report of such accounts;(c)to advise the Chancellor in respect of any matter
which may be referred to it for advice; and(d)to perform such other functions
as may be prescribed.

### 26. Executive Council.

(1)The Executive Council shall be the chief executive body of a Private
University.(2)The Executive Council shall consist of not more than ten members
of whom two members shall be,-(a)The Secretary to Government in-charge of
Higher Education Department, ex-officio;(b)The Director of Collegiate
Education, ex-officio.(3)The remaining eight members of the Executive Council
shall be nominated by the sponsoring body from among the eminent people in the
relevant disciplines of study provided by the Private University.(4)The powers
and functions of the Executive Council, shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 27. Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of a Private
University and shall subject to the provisions of the statutes, the ordinances
and the applicable regulations, co-ordinate and exercise general supervision
over the academic policies of the Private University.(2)The constitution of
the Academic Council, the term of office of its members and its powers and
functions shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 28. Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall be the principal financial body of a Private
University to take care of the financial matters.(2)The constitution of the
Finance Committee, the term of office of its members and its powers and
functions shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 29. Planning Board.

(1)The Planning Board shall be the principal planning body of a Private
University. The Planning Board shall ensure that the infrastructure and
academic support system meets the norms prescribed by the regulatory
bodies.(2)The constitution of the Planning Board, the term of office of its
members and its powers and functions shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 30. Board of Faculties, Admission Committee, Examination Committee and
other Authorities of Private University.

\- The constitution, powers and functions of the Boards of Faculties, the
Admission Committee, the Examination Committee and of such other authorities
of a Private University which may be declared by the statutes to be
authorities of the Private University shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 31. Power to make Statutes.

(1)The Executive Council shall make the statutes for carrying out the purposes
of this Act, subject to the approval of the Management Committee.(2)Subject to
the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:-(a)the constitution, powers and functions of the
authorities of the Private University, as may be constituted from time to
time;(b)the appointment and continuance in office of the members of the said
authorities, filling up of vacancies of members and all other matters relating
to those authorities for which it may be necessary to provide;(c)the
appointment, powers and duties of the officers of the Private University and
their emoluments;(d)the appointment of teachers of the Private University and
other academic and administrative staff and their emoluments;(e)the
appointment of teachers and other academic and administrative staff working in
the Private University or Institution for specific period for undertaking a
joint project;(f)the conditions of service of employees including provisions
for retirement benefits, insurance and provident fund, the manner of
termination of service and disciplinary actions;(g)the principles governing
seniority of service of employees;(h)the procedure for settlement of disputes
between employees or students and the Private University;(i)the procedure for
appeal to the Executive Council by any employee or students against the action
of any officer or other authority of the Private University;(j)the conferment
of honorary degrees;(k)the withdrawal of degree, diploma, certificate and
other academic distinction;(l)the institution of fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, medals and prizes;(m)the maintenance of discipline among the
students;(n)the establishment and abolition of Department, Centres and other
institutions;(o)the delegation of powers vested in the authorities or officers
of the Private University; and(p)all other matters, which may by this Act are
to be or may be prescribed.(3)The Executive Council shall not make, amend or
repeal any statute affecting the powers or constitution of any authority of
the Private University until such authority has been given an opportunity of
expressing an opinion in writing on the proposed changes, and any opinion so
expressed shall be considered by the Executive Council.

### 32. Statutes, how made.

(1)The Executive Council may, from time to time, make statutes and amend or
repeal the statutes in the manner hereinafter provided in this section.(2)A
statute or an amendment to, or repeal of, a statute passed by the Executive
Council shall be submitted to the Management Committee who may assent thereto
or withhold its assent. A statute or an amendment to, or repeal of, a statute
passed by the Executive Council shall have no validity unless it has been
assented to by the Management Committee. A copy of the statutes shall be sent
to the Government for information.

### 33. Power to make Ordinances.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, the ordinances
shall be made by the Executive Council, subject to the approval of the
Management Committee, which may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)the admission of students to the Private University and
their enrolment as such;(b)the courses of study to be laid down for all
degrees, diplomas and certificates of the Private University;(c)the medium of
instruction and examination;(d)the award of degree, diploma, certificate and
other academic distinctions, the qualification for the same and the matters to
be taken relating to the granting and obtaining of the same;(e)the fees to be
charged for courses of study in the Private University and for admission to
the examinations, degrees, diplomas and certificates of the Private
University;(f)the conditions for the award of fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, medals and prizes;(g)the conduct of examinations, including the
term of office and manner of appointment and the duties of examining bodies,
examiners and moderators;(h)the conditions of residence of the students of the
Private University;(i)the special arrangements, if any, which may be made for
the residence, discipline and teaching of women students and prescribing of
special courses of studies for them within the Private University;(j)the
appointment and emoluments of employees other than those for whom provision
has been made in the statutes;(k)the establishment of Centre of Studies,
Boards of Studies, Inter¬disciplinary Studies, Special Centres, Specialised
Laboratories and other Committee;(l)the manner of co-operation and
collaboration with other Universities and authorities including learned bodies
or association;(m)the creation, composition and functions of any other body
which is considered necessary for improving the academic mileage of the
Private University;(n)the remuneration to be paid to the examiners,
moderators, invigilators and tabulators;(o)such other terms and conditions of
service of teachers and other academic staff as are not prescribed by the
statutes.

### 34. Ordinances, how made.

(1)In making ordinances, the Executive Council shall consult the Management
Committee.(2)All ordinances made by the Executive Council shall have effect
from such date as it may direct.

### 35. Annual Report.

(1)The annual report of a Private University shall be prepared under the
direction of the Executive Council and shall be submitted to the Governing
Council on or after such date as may be prescribed and the Governing Council
shall consider the report in its annual meeting.(2)The Governing Council shall
submit the annual report to the Chancellor along with its comments, if any.

### 36. Annual Accounts.

(1)The annual accounts and balance sheet of a Private University shall be
prepared under the directions of the Executive Council and shall, once at
least every year and at intervals of not more than fifteen months, be audited
by an experienced and qualified firm of Chartered Accountant eligible for
conducting audit as per the provisions of the Chartered Accountant Act, 1949
(Central Act XXXVIII of 1949).(2)A copy of the annual accounts, together with
the audit report thereon, shall be submitted to the Governing Council and the
Chancellor along with the observations of the Executive Council for their
approval.

### 37. Conditions of service of employees.

(1)Every employee of a Private University shall be appointed or engaged as per
the provisions of the statutes.(2)Any dispute arising between a Private
University and any of the employee appointed substantively, shall be referred
to the Vice-Chancellor who shall decide the dispute after affording an
opportunity to the employee within three months from the date of its
reference.(3)The aggrieved employee may file an appeal against the decision of
the Vice-Chancellor to the Chancellor. The decision of the Chancellor in such
an appeal shall be final.(4)Any dispute in respect of any employee engaged
temporarily or on ad-hoc or part-time or casual basis shall be heard and
decided finally by the Head of the Department concerned.

### 38. Admission to Private University Courses and Examinations.

(1)(a)No person shall be admitted to a course of study in a Private University
for admission to the examinations for degrees, titles or diplomas of the
Private University unless he,-(i)has passed the examination prescribed
therefor; and(ii)fulfills such other academic conditions as may be
prescribed.(b)Every candidate for a Private University examination shall,
unless exempted from the provisions of this sub-section by a special order of
the Executive Council made on the recommendation of the Academic Council, be
enrolled as a member of the Private University. Any such exemption may be made
subject to such conditions as the Executive Council may think fit.(2)No
candidate shall be admitted to any Private University examination unless he is
enrolled as a member of the Private University, and has satisfied the
requirements as to the attendance required for the same or unless he is
exempted from such requirements of enrolment or attendance or both by an order
of the Executive Council passed on the recommendation of the Academic Council.
Exemptions granted under this section shall be subject to such conditions as
the Executive Council may think fit.(3)Any student or candidate for an
examination, whose name has been removed from the rolls of the Private
University by the orders or recommendation of the Academic Council or
Controller of Examinations, as the case may be, and who has been debarred from
appearing at the examinations for more than one year, may within ten days of
the date of receipt of such order, appeal to the Vice-Chancellor.(4)Any
decision taken by the Vice-Chancellor in this regard shall be final.

### 39. Employees provident fund and pensions.

\- A Private University may constitute for the benefit of its employees such
pension or welfare schemes or provident fund or provide such insurance schemes
as it may deem fit in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be
decided by the Executive Council.

### 40. Disputes as to the constitution of Authorities and bodies.

\- If any question arises as to whether any person has been duly nominated or
appointed as or is entitled to be a member of any authority or other body of a
Private University, the matter shall be referred to the Chancellor whose
decision thereon shall be final.

### 41. Constitution of Committees.

\- Where any authority of a Private University is given power under this Act
or the statutes to constitute Committees, such Committees shall as otherwise
provided, consist of the members of the authority concerned and of such other
persons as the authority in each case may think fit.

### 42. Filling up of the vacancies.

\- All vacancies among the members of any authority or other body of a Private
University shall be filled as soon as may be convenient by the person or body
who appointed or nominated the members whose place has become vacant for the
remaining term for which he has been appointed or nominated.

### 43. Proceedings of Private University authorities and bodies not to be
invalidated by vacancies.

\- No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of a Private University
shall be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of a vacancy or of any
defect or irregularity in the nomination of a member of any authority or other
body of the Private University or of any defect or irregularity in such act or
proceeding not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground that the
authority or other body of the Private University, did not meet at such
intervals as required under this Act.

### 44. Removal from membership of Private University.

(1)The Executive Council may, remove by an order in writing made in this
behalf, any person from membership of any authority of the Private University
by a resolution passed by a majority of the total members of the Executive
Council and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the
Executive Council present and voting at the meeting, if such person has been
convicted by the Court for an offence which in the opinion of the Executive
Council involves moral turpitude.(2)The Executive Council may also by an order
in writing made in this behalf remove any person from the membership of any
authority of the Private University if he becomes of unsound mind or has been
adjudicated as an insolvent.(3)No action under this section shall be taken
against any person unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity to show
cause against the action proposed to be taken.(4)A copy of every order made
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall, as soon
as may be after it is so made, be communicated to the person concerned in the
manner prescribed.

### 45. Mode of proof of Private University records.

\- A copy of any receipt, application, notice, proceeding, resolution of any
authority or Committee of a Private University or other documents in
possession of the Private University, if certified by the Registrar, shall be
received as prima facie evidence of such receipt, applications, notice, order,
proceeding or resolution, documents or the existence of entry in the register
and shall be admitted as evidence of the matters and transaction therein where
the original would, if produced have been admissible in evidence.

### 46. Permanent Endowment Fund.

(1)The sponsoring body shall establish a permanent endowment fund of at least
rupees fifty crores.(2)A Private University shall have the power to invest the
permanent endowment fund in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)A Private
University may transfer any amount from the general fund or the development
fund to the permanent endowment fund.(4)Any amount exceeding the minimum
amount specified in sub¬section (1) may be withdrawn from the permanent
endowment fund by the Private University for the purposes of development of
the Private University.

### 47. General Fund.

(1)Every Private University shall establish a general fund to which the
following amount shall be credited, namely:-(a)all fees which may be charged
by the Private University;(b)all sums received from any other source;(c)all
contributions made by the sponsoring body; and(d)all contributions made in
this behalf by any other person or body which are not prohibited by any law
for the time being in force.(2)The moneys credited to the general fund shall
be applied to meet all the recurring expenditures of the Private University.

### 48. Development Fund.

(1)Every Private University shall also establish a development fund to which
the following moneys shall be credited, namely:-(a)development fees, which may
be charged from students;(b)all sums received from other sources for the
purpose of the development of the Private University;(c)all contributions made
by the sponsoring body;(d)all contributions made in this behalf by any other
person or body which are not prohibited by any law for the time being in
force; and(e)all incomes received from the permanent endowment fund.(2)The
moneys credited to the development fund from time to time shall be utilised
for the development of the Private University.

### 49. Maintenance of Fund.

\- The funds established under sections 46, 47 and 48 shall subject to general
supervision and control of the Governing Council, be regulated and maintained
in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 50. Power of Government to call for information and records.

(1)It shall be the duty of a Private University or any authority or officer of
the Private University to furnish such information or records relating to the
administration or finance and other affairs of the Private University as the
Government may call for.(2)The Government, if it is of the view that there is
a violation of this Act or the statutes or ordinances made thereunder, may
issue such directions to a Private University under section 54 as it may deem
necessary.

### 51. Dissolution of Private University.

(1)If any Private University proposes its dissolution for any reason, it shall
give at least six months written notice to the Government.(2)On receipt of
notice referred to in sub-section (1), the Government shall make such
arrangement for administration of the Private University from the date of
dissolution of the Private University and until the last batch of students in
regular courses of studies of the Private University complete their courses of
studies in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 52. Expenditure of Private University during dissolution.

(1)The expenditure for administration of a Private University during the
process of its dissolution under section 51, shall be met out from the
permanent endowment fund, the general fund and the development fund.(2)If the
funds referred to in sub-section (1) are not sufficient to meet the
expenditure of the Private University, such expenditure may be met by
disposing of the properties or assets of the Private University by the
Government.

### 53. De-recognition of Private University by the Government.

(1)Where the Government receives a complaint with material and substantial
allegation that any Private University is not functioning in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, it shall require the Private University to show
cause within such time, which shall not be less than two months referring a
copy of the complaint as to why the Private University should not be de-
recognised.(2)If, upon receipt of the reply of the Private University to the
notice given under sub-section (1), the Government is satisfied that a prima
facie case of mismanagement or violation of the provisions of this Act in the
functioning of the Private University is made out, it shall order such inquiry
as it deems necessary.(3)For the purposes of an inquiry under sub-section (2),
the Government shall by notification, appoint an officer or authority as the
enquiring authority to enquire into the allegations of violation of the
provisions of this Act.(4)Every inquiring authority appointed under sub-
section (3) shall while performing its functions under this Act have all the
powers of Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V
of 1908) trying a suit and in particular in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any witness and examining
him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any
office;(d)receiving evidence on affidavits;(e)any other matter which may be
prescribed.(5)If, upon receipt of the inquiry report, the Government is
satisfied that the Private University has violated any provisions of this Act,
it shall direct the Private University to make necessary improvement and
suggest for proper implementation of the provisions of this Act.(6)If it is
observed that the Private University is violating the Act continuously leading
to a situation of financial mismanagement and maladministration has arisen in
the Private University which threatens the academic standards of the Private
University, it may appoint an administrator.(7)The administrator appointed
under sub-section (6) shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties
of the Governing Council and the Management Committee under this Act and shall
administer the affairs of the Private University until the last batch of the
students of the regular courses have completed their courses or syllabus and
they have been awarded with degrees, diplomas or other academic distinctions,
as the case may be.(8)After having been awarded the degrees, diplomas or
academic distinctions, as the case may be, to the last batches of the students
of the regular courses, the administrator shall make a report to that effect
to the Government.(9)On receipt of the report under sub-section(8), the
Government after due consideration, continue the functioning of the Private
University by vesting the powers of the Governing Council in any other
sponsoring body having similar objectives or may with the prior approval of
the Universities Grants Commission and other regulatory bodies concerned de-
recognise the Private University.(10)During the process of de-recognition
under sub-section (9), the Government may utilise the permanent endowment
fund, the general fund or the development fund for the purpose of the
management of the affairs of the Private University. If the funds of the
Private University are not sufficient to meet the requisite expenditure of the
Private University, the Government may dispose of the assets or the properties
of the Private University to meet the said expenses.

### 54. Power of the Government to issue directions on policy matters to
Private University.

\- The Government may issue such directions, from time to time, to a Private
University on policy matters not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
as it may deem necessary. Such directions shall be complied with by the
Private University.

### 55. Status of assets and liabilities on dissolution or de-recognition.

\- All assets and properties including permanent endowment fund, general fund,
development fund or any other fund and also the liabilities of a Private
University shall belong to the sponsoring body in case of dissolution or de-
recognition of the Private University.

### 56. Powers of Government to form regulatory body.

(1)The Government shall constitute a regulatory body to promote teaching,
research, development and training so as to provide global standard of higher
education to the students.(2)The regulatory body shall consist of such members
as may be prescribed in the rules and it shall exercise such powers and
performs such functions as may be prescribed in the rules.(3)A copy of the
rules proposed to be issued under sub-section (2) shall be laid in draft
before the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu and if the
Legislative Assembly agrees in disapproving the issue of the rules or the
Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modifications in the rules, the
rules shall not be issued or, as the case may be, shall be issued only in such
modified form as may be agreed upon by the Legislative Assembly.

### 57. Powers of the Government to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out all or any of
the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the manner of making the project report, the
particulars to be contained therein and the fee payable under section
5;(b)sitting fees and allowances payable to the Chairman and Members of the
Expert Committee under sub-section (3) of section 7.(3)Every rule made or
notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made
or issued, be placed, on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before
the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Legislative Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or notification
or the Legislative Assembly decides that the rule or notification should not
be made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 58. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises as to the constitution or reconstitution of any
authority of any Private University or in giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, the Government may, by notification, make such provision, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to them to be
necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such
notification shall be issued after the expiry of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.The Schedule(See sections 3 and 9)

Sl.No. |  Name and location (address) of the PrivateUniversity. | Name and Address of the sponsoring body. |  Details of registration of the sponsoringbody.  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  | 

