## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act, 1981

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act, 1981

## Act 61 of 1981

  * Published on 30 September 1981 
  * Commenced on 30 September 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 September 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act, 1981(Tamil Nadu Act 61 of 1981)Statement of Objects and
Reasons. - Handloom industry is a decentralised one and there is no protection
to the Handloom weavers in regard to payment of wages, security of employment,
working conditions, etc. As a result, the working conditions and the problems
of handloom weavers who are under the control of master weavers and other
intermediaries are unsatisfactory. Since the nature of the industry is similar
to that of beedi manufacturing, it has been found almost impossible to enforce
any of the existing labour enactments, except fixation of minimum wages under
the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (Central Act XI of 1948). In order to protect the
interests of the handloom weavers, the Government constituted a Committee to
study the working conditions of the workers engaged in the handloom industry,
wages paid to him, security of employment and to evolve special proposals for
the protection of handloom weavers. In its report, the Committee on Welfare of
Handloom Weavers inter alia recommended that there should be a special
legislation to regulate the conditions of work of the handloom weavers,
licensing of premises for purposes of employment, fixing of hours of work,
holidays, leave with wages and application of other enactments, so far as it
could be beneficial to the handloom weavers, etc. The Government have accepted
the recommendations of the Committee and have decided to introduce a special
legislation so as to provide inter alia for the welfare of workers in the
handloom industry and to regulate the conditions of their work and security of
their employment, and for matters like health, hours of work, housing, medical
and terminal facilities, etc.The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 5th May 1981.Received the assent of the President on
the 30th September 1981 and first published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated 6th October 1981.An Act to provide for the
welfare of the workers in the handloom industry and to regulate the conditions
of their work and security of their employment and for certain other matters
connected therewith.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of
Employment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981.(2)It extends to the whole
of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such [date]
[Enforced on 12.3.1982.] as the Government may, by notification, appoint and
different dates may be appointed for different areas and for different
provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"adult" means a
person who has completed eighteen years of age;(b)"child" means a person who
has not completed sixteen years of age;(c)"competent authority" means any
authority authorised by the Government by notification to perform all or any
of the functions of the competent authority under this Act and for such areas
as may be specified therein;(d)"day" means a period of twenty-four hours
beginning at mid-night;(e)"domestic weaver" means any person who gets the raw
materials from a master weaver or employer and attends to any operation
connected with handloom weaving, whether such operation is carried on in the
home, in which such worker works or in any other place, but does not include
an independent weaver;(f)"employee" means any person employed in any work
connected with handloom industry under an employer and includes a domestic
weaver, but excludes an independent weaver, to do any work skilled, unskilled,
manual or clerical;(g)"employer" means a person who has the ultimate control
over the affairs of any industrial premises or who has, by reason of his
advancing money, supplying goods or otherwise, a substantial interest in the
control of the affairs of any industrial premises and includes -(i)any other
person to whom the affairs of any industrial premises are entrusted, whether
such other person is called the managing agent, manager, superintendent or by
any other name; and(ii)a president or a chief executive of any weavers co-
operative society or a master weaver engaged in handloom
industry;(h)"Government" means the State Government;(i)"handloom industry"
means an industry which is engaged in the manufacture or production by a loom,
other than a powerloom, of any cloth or fabric or product and includes any
process or work pertaining to handloom weaving;(j)"independent weaver" means
any person who carries on any weaving operation in his dwelling place, but
does not include a domestic weaver;(k)"industrial premises" means any place or
premises (not being a private dwelling house) including the precincts thereof,
in which or in any part of which any type of work relating to handloom
industry is carried on;(l)"Inspector" means the Inspector appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 6;(m)"lay-off" means the failure, refusal or inability
of an employer on account of shortage of raw materials or the accumulation of
stock of finished products or the breakdown of any machinery to give
employment to a person employed, who is a registered worker, but does not
include retrenchment;(n)"master weaver" means and includes any person not
being a co-operative society, who supplies raw materials to any other person,
whether or not the other person is a domestic weaver or an employee for the
purpose of converting the same into finished product;(o)"powerloom" means a
loom which is worked by power as defined in clause (g) of section 2 of the
Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXII1 of 1948) and includes any automatic
loom;(p)"private dwelling house" means a house in which persons engaged in any
work connected with handloom industry, reside;(q)"retrenchment" means the
termination by the employer of the service of an employee for any reason
whatsoever, otherwise than as a punishment inflicted byway of disciplinary
action, but does not include -(i)voluntary retirement of the employee;
or(ii)retirement of the employee on reaching the age of superannuation if the
contract of employment between the employer and the workman concerned contains
a stipulation in that behalf; or(iii)termination of the service of an employee
on the ground of continued ill-health;(r)"week" means a period of seven days
beginning at Mid-night on Saturday;(s)"young person" means a person who has
completed sixteen years of age but has not completed eighteen years of age.

## Chapter II  
Licensing of Industrial Premises

### 3. Industrial premises to be licensed.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no employer shall use or allow to
be used any place or premises as an industrial premises unless he holds a
valid licence issued under this Act and no such premises shall be used except
in accordance with the terms and conditions of such licence.

### 4. Licences.

(1)Any person who intends to use or allows to be used any place or premises as
industrial premises shall make an application in writing to the competent
authority, in such form and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed for a
licence to use, or allow to be used, such premises as an industrial
premises:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to an
independent weaver carrying on the weaving operation in his dwelling place
assisted only by the other members of his family.(2)The application for a
licence shall specify the number of employees proposed to be employed at any
time of the day in the place or premises and shall be accompanied by a plan of
the place or premises prepared in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The
competent authority shall, in deciding whether to grant or refuse a licence,
have regard to the following matters -(a)the suitability of the place or
premises which is proposed to be used for the weaving operation;(b)the
financial resources of the applicant including his financial capacity to meet
the demands arising out of the provisions of this Act or of any other law for
the time being in force relating to welfare of labour;(c)whether the
application is made bona fide on behalf of the applicant himself or in benami
of any other person;(d)the welfare of the labour in the locality, the interest
of the general public and such other matters as may be prescribed.(4)(a)A
licence granted under this section shall not be valid beyond the financial
year in which it is granted, but may be renewed every year on payment of such
fees as may be prescribed.(b)An application for renewal of a licence granted
under this Act shall be made at least thirty days before the expiry of the
period thereof, on payment of such fees as may be prescribed and where such
application has been made, the licence shall be deemed to continue,
notwithstanding the expiry of the period thereof, until the renewal of the
licence or the rejection of the application, as the case may be:Provided that
if any application for a licence or for renewal of the licence is not made
within thirty days of commencement of any process connected with weaving
operation or before thirty days of expiry of any licence already issued, but
is made after this period of thirty' days, a surcharge of 25 per cent of the
fee to be prescribed for issue or renewal of the licence, as the case may be,
shall be levied, subject, however, to the condition that such an option to get
a licence or renewal with surcharge shall be allowed only upto a period of
ninety days either after the commencement of any operation connected with the
weaving process or after the expiry of the licence already issued, but not
renewed under the foregoing provisions of this section. In that event, it
shall be construed that the weaving operation is carried on without a valid
licence, which shall in turn be a contravention of the provisions of this Act
warranting penal action as prescribed.(c)The competent authority shall, in
deciding whether to renew a licence or not, have regard to the matters
specified in sub-section (3).(5)The competent authority may, after giving the
holder of a licence an opportunity of being heard, cancel or suspend any
licence granted or renewed under this Act, if it appears to such authority
that such licence has been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud or that the
licensee has contravened or failed to comply with any of the provisions of
this Act or the rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of
the licence.(6)The Government may issue in writing to the competent authority
such directions as the Government may consider necessary in respect of any
matter relating to the grant or renewal of licences under this
section.(7)Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, the competent
authority may grant or renew licences under this Act on such terms and
conditions as it may determine and where the competent authority refuses to
grant or renew any licence, it shall do so by an order in writing communicated
to the applicant giving the reasons for such refusal within a reasonable time.

### 5. Appeals.

\- Any person aggrieved by the decision or order of the competent authority
refusing to grant or renew a licence or cancelling or suspending a licence
under section 4 may, within thirty days of receipt of the said order and on
payment of such fees, not exceeding twenty rupees, as may be prescribed,
appeal to such authority as the Government may, by notification, specify in
this behalf, and such authority may, by an order in writing either confirm,
modify or reverse any order refusing to grant or renew a licence or renew a
licence or suspending or cancelling a licence. The order of such appellate
authority shall be final and binding ami shall not be questioned in any Court
of Law.

## Chapter III  
Appointment of Inspectors, Etc.

### 6. Inspectors.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint such persons possessing the
prescribed qualifications to be Inspectors for the purposes of this Act. The
Government or such authority as may be prescribed may assign to the Inspectors
the local limits within which they shall exercise their functions under this
Act.(2)The Government may, by notification, appoint any person possessing the
prescribed qualifications to be a Chief Inspector who shall exercise the
powers of an Inspector throughout the State.

### 7. Inspectors, Chief Inspector, etc., to the public servants.

\- Every Inspector, Chief Inspector, Authority and Appellate Authority
appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 8. Powers of Inspectors.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Government, an Inspector
may, within the local limits assigned two him-(a)make such examination and
hold such inquiry as may be necessary for ascertaining whether the provisions
of this Act have been or are being complied with:Provided that no person shall
be compelled under this section to answer any question or to give any evidence
which may tend to incriminate himself;(b)require the production of any
prescribed register or form and any other document required to be maintained
by him, and take on the spot or otherwise statements of any person which he
may consider necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act;(c)enter at
all times any industrial premises, with such assistants as he thinks fit, if
he has reason to believe that such industrial premises is being used for
carrying on handloom industry or any other operation connected with hand-loom
industry:(d)exercise such other powers as may be prescribed for carrying out
the purposes of this Act.(2)If an Inspector has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that any handloom industry is being carried on in any industrial
premises in contravention of the provisions of this Act, he may, after giving
due notice to the employer or in the absence of the employer to the occupier,
enter such industrial premises with such assistants, if any, as he may think
fit.(3)Every employer or occupier shall afford to every Inspector all
reasonable facilities in the discharge of his discharge of his duties under
this Act.

## Chapter IV  
Health and Welfare

### 9. Cleanliness.

\- Every industrial premises or any place, excepting the dwelling place of a
weaver, wherein any handloom industry or any other operation connected with
handloom industry is ordinarily carried on, shall be kept clean and free from
effluvia arising from any drain, privy or other nuisance and shall also
maintain such standard of cleanliness including white washing, colour washing,
varnishing or painting as may be prescribed.

### 10. Ventilation.

(1)For the purpose of preventing injury to the health of the persons working
therein, every industrial premises shall maintain such standards of
ventilation as may be prescribed.(2)Wherever dust or fume or other impurity of
such a nature and to such an extent as is likely to be injurious or offensive
to the employees in any industrial premises or weaving centre is given off by
reason of the manufacturing process carried on in such premises or weaving
centre, the competent authority may require the employer to take such
effective measures as may prevent the inhalation of such fume or dust or other
impurity and accumulation thereof in any work room.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this section "manufacturing process" means any process for, or
incidental to, making, finishing or packing or otherwise, treating any article
or substance with a view to its use, sale, transport, delivery or disposal as
handloom fabric.

### 11. Lighting.

(1)In every industrial premises where employees are working or passing, there
shall be provided and maintained sufficient and suitable lighting, natural or
artificial or both.(2)In every industrial premises, all glazed windows and
sky-lights used for the lighting of any work room shall be kept clean on both
the inner and outer surface.

### 12. Over-crowding.

(1)No room in any industrial premises shall be overcrowded to an extent
injurious to the health of the employees therein.(2)Without prejudice to the
generality of sub-section (1), there shall be in any work room of any such
industrial premises at least 4 1/4 cubic metres of space for every employee
therein, and for the purposes of this sub-sect ion, no account shall be taken
of any space which is more than 3 metres above the level of the floor of the
work room.

### 13. Drinking water.

(1)The employer shall make, in every industrial premises, effective
arrangements to provide and maintain, at suitable points conveniently situated
for all employees therein, a sufficient supply of wholesome drinking
water.(2)All such points shall be legibly marked "Drinking Water" in Tamil and
no such point shall be situated within 6 metres of any washing place, urinal
or latrine except with the prior approval in writing of the competent
authority.

### 14. Latrines and urinals.

(1)In every industrial premises, sufficient latrine and urinal accommodation
of such types as may be prescribed, shall be provided and shall be so
conveniently situated as may be easily accessible to all the employees at all
time while they are in the industrial premises.(2)Separate enclosed
accommodation shall be provided for male and female employees.(3)All such
accommodation shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.

### 15. Washing facilities.

\- In every industrial premises wherein any item of work relating to bleaching
or dyeing or finishing is carried on, the employer shall provide such washing
facilities for the use of the employees as may be prescribed.

### 16. Creches.

\- In every industrial premises, wherein fifty or more female employees are
ordinarily employed on any day in a year, there shall be provided and
maintained a suitable room or rooms for the use of the children under the age
of six years of such female employees and the Government may make rules
relating to maintenance of such creches.

### 17. First-aid.

\- Every industrial premises shall provide such first-aid facilities as may be
prescribed.

## Chapter V  
Working Hours

### 18. Working hours.

\- No adult employee shall be required or allowed to work in any industrial
premises for more than eight hours in any day or for more than forty-eight
hours in any week:Provided that any adult employee may be allowed to work in
such industrial premises for any period in excess of the limit fixed under
this section subject to the payment of overtime wages if the period of work
including overtime work, does not exceed ten hours in any day and in the
aggregate fifty four hours in any week.

### 19. Wages for overtime work.

(1)Where any employee employed in any industrial premises is required to work
overtime, he shall be entitled in respect of such overtime work, to wages at
the rate of twice his ordinary rate of wages.(2)Where the employees in an
industrial' premises are paid on a piece-rate basis, the overtime rate shall
be calculated, for the purposes of this section, at the time rates which shall
be as nearly as possible equivalent to the daily average of their full-time
earnings for the days on which they had actually worked during the week
immediately preceding the week in which the overtime work has been done.(3)For
the purpose of this section, "ordinary rate of wages" means the basic wages
plus such allowance including the cash equivalent of the advantage accruing
through the concessional sale to the employees of food grains and other
articles as the employee is, for the time being entitled to, but does not
include bonus or wages for over-time work.(4)The cash equivalent of the
advantage accruing through the concessional sale to an employee of food grains
and other articles shall be computed as often as may be prescribed on the
basis of the maximum quantity of food grains and other articles admissible to
a standard family.Explanation I. -"Standard family" means a family consisting
of the employee, his or her spouse and two children requiring in all three
adult consumption units.Explanation II. -"Adult consumption unit" means the
consumption unit of a male above the age of fourteen years; and the
consumption unit of a female above the age of fourteen years and that of a
child shall be calculated at the rate of eight-tenths and six-tenths,
respectively, of one adult consumption unit.

### 20. Interval for rest.

\- The periods of work for employees in an industrial premises each day shall
be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no employee shall
work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at
least half an hour.

### 21. Spread-over.

\- The periods of work of an employee in an industrial premises shall be so
arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 20, they shall
not spread over more than eleven hours in any day.

### 22. Weekly holidays.

(1)Every industrial premises shall remain entirely closed on any one day in
the week to be specified by the employer in a notice exhibited in a
conspicuous place in the industrial premises and the day so specified shall
not be altered by the employer more than once in three months and except with
the previous written permission of the Inspector having jurisdiction over the
industrial premises concerned.(2)For a holiday under this section, an employee
shall be paid, notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, at the rate equal
to the daily average of his total full time earnings during the week
immediately preceding the holiday exclusive of any overtime wages or bonus,
but inclusive of other allowances, if any:Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall apply to any employee whose total period of employment
in the week including any day spent on authorised leave or holiday or lay-off
is less than six days.

### 23. Notice of periods of work.

(1)In every industrial premises, a notice of periods of work shall be
displayed and correctly maintained in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed, showing clearly for every day the periods during which the
employees may be required to work.(2)(a)A copy of the notice referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be sent in duplicate to the Inspector having
jurisdiction over the industrial premises within two weeks from the date of
the grant of a licence for the first time under this Act, in the case of any
industrial premises carrying on work at the commencement of this Act, and in
the case of any industrial premises work after such commencement, before the
day on which any work connected with the handloom industry or any other
operation connected with the handloom industry is begun in the industrial
premises.(b)Any proposed change in the system of work which will necessitate
change in the notice referred to in sub-section (1) shall be notified to the
Inspector in duplicate before the change is made and except with the previous
sanction of the Inspector, no such change shall be made until one week has
elapsed since the last change.

### 24. Hours of work to correspond with notice under section 23.

\- No employee shall be employed in any industrial premises otherwise than in
accordance with the notice of work displayed in the premises under section 23.

### 25. Prohibition of employment of children.

\- No child shall be required or allowed to work in any industrial premises.

### 26. Prohibition of employment of women or young persons during certain
hours.

\- No woman or young person shall be required or allowed to work in any
industrial premises except between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m.

### 27. Restriction on double employment.

\- Save as otherwise provided for in the rules, no employee shall be required
or allowed to work in any industrial premises on any day on which he has
already worked in any other industrial premises.

### 28. Application of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and
Festival Holidays) Act, 1958.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Industrial
Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXXIII of 1958) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said Act), the
Government may, by notification, direct that subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2), the said Act or any of the provisions thereof or the rules made
thereunder shall apply to all or any class of employees to which this Act
applies.(2)On the application of the provisions of the said Act to any
industrial premises under sub-section (1), the Inspector appointed under this
Act shall be deemed to be the Inspector for the purpose of the enforcement of
the provisions of the said Act within the local limits of his
jurisdiction.(3)The Government may by a like notification, cancel or vary any
notification issued under sub-section (1).

### 29. Annual leave with wages.

(1)Every employee shall be allowed in a calendar year leave with wages,-(i)in
the case of an adult, at the rate of one day for every twenty days of work
performed by him during the previous calendar year;(ii)in the case of a young
person at the rate of one day for every fifteen days of work performed by him
during the previous calendar year.Explanation. - The leave admissible under
this sub-section shall be exclusive of all holidays whether occurring during,
or at the beginning or at the end of, the period of leave.(2)If an employee is
discharged or dismissed from service or quits employment during the course of
the year, he shall be entitled to leave with wages at the rate laid down in
sub-section (1).(3)In calculating leave under this section, any fraction of
leave of half a day or more shall be treated as one full day's leave and any
fraction of less than half a day shall be omitted.(4)If any employee does not,
in any calendar year, take the whole of the leave allowed to him under sub-
section (1), the leave not taken by him shall be added to the leave to be
allowed to him in the succeeding calendar year.(5)An application of an
employee for the whole or any portion of the leave allowed under sub-section
(1) shall be in writing and ordinarily shall have to be made sufficiently in
advance of the day on which he wishes the leave to begin.(6)If the employment
of an employee who is entitled to leave under sub-section (1) is terminated by
the employer, before he has taken the entire leave to which he is entitled, or
if having applied for leave, he has not been granted such leave, or if the
employee quits his employment before he has taken the leave, the employer
shall pay him the amount payable under section 30, in respect of leave not
taken and such payment shall be made where the employment of the employee is
terminated by the employer, before the expiry of the second working day after
such termination and where the employee quits his employment, on or before the
next pay day.(7)The leave not availed of by an employee shall not be taken
into consideration in computing the period of any notice required to be given
before discharge or dismissal.

### 30. Wages during leave period.

(1)For the leave allowed to him under section 29, an employee shall be paid at
the rate equal to the daily average of his total full time earnings for the
days on which he had worked during the month immediately preceding his leave
exclusive of any overtime earnings and bonus, but inclusive of dearness and
other allowances.Explanation I. - In this sub-section, the expression "total
full time earnings" includes the cash equivalent of the advantages accruing
through the concessional sale to employees of food grains and other articles,
as the employee is for the time being entitled to, but does not include
bonus.Explanation II. - For the purpose of determining the wages payable to a
domestic weaver during leave period or for the purpose of payment of maternity
benefit to a woman domestic worker, "day" shall mean any period during which
such domestic worker was employed during a period of twenty-four hours
commencing midnight for making the handloom fabric.(2)An employee who has been
allowed leave for not less than four days in the case of an adult and five
days in the case of a young person, shall, before his leave begins, be paid
wages for the period of the leave allowed.

### 31. Special casual leave for family planning operation.

(1)Every employee who undergoes family planning operation shall be entitled to
special casual leave with wages for a period not exceeding-(a)six days in the
case of a male employee;(b)fourteen days in the case of a female employee;
with effect from the day on which he or she had undergone such operation.(2)If
an employee who has undergone family planning operation is discharged by his
or her employer during the period specified in sub-section (1), the employer
shall pay such employee the amount payable under section 30 in respect of the
period of the special casual leave to which the employee was entitled at the
time of discharge.

## Chapter VI  
Industrial Relations

### 32. Refusal of supply of raw materials.

\- No employer shall refuse to supply raw materials to any of his employees.
Any such refusal shall be a valid disability giving rise to a dispute.

### 33. Rejection of finished goods.

\- No employer shall ordinarily reject the finished goods produced by his
employee without sufficient reason to be shown by the employer to the
employee. Any such rejection shall be a valid disability giving rise to a
dispute.

### 34. Deduction in wages.

\- No employer shall effect any deduction from the earned wages of any
employee excepting the deductions authorised under section 7 of the Payment of
Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of 1936). Any such unauthorised deduction
shall be a valid disability giving rise to a dispute.

### 35. Reduction in wages.

\- No employer shall reduce or make short payment of the wages earned by any
employee for the reason of the finished product alleged to be defective unless
the reason for deduction in wages is explained in writing to the employee
concerned and a copy of such written explanation communicated to the Inspector
having jurisdiction. Any such reduction in wages or refusal to pay the earned
wages shall be a valid disability giving rise to a dispute.

### 36. Termination of service.

\- No employer shall dispense with the services of any employee who has been
employed for a period of six months or more except for a reasonable cause and
without giving such employee at least one month's notice in writing for wages
in lieu of such notice:Provided that no such notice shall be necessary if the
services of such employee is dispensed with on a charge of misconduct
supported by satisfactory evidence recorded in an enquiry held by the employer
for that purpose.

### 37. Appeal.

(1)Any employee' whose services have either been terminated or dispensed with
may prefer an appeal to such authority and with i n such time as may be
prescribed questioning the validity of such order either on the ground that
there was no reasonable cause for dispensing with his services or on the
ground that he had not been guilty of misconduct alleged to have been
committed by him and as held by the employer or on the ground that the
punishment awarded was so severe that it was not in proportion to the
misconduct alleged to have been committed.(2)The appellate authority
prescribed under sub-section (1), may, after giving notice in the prescribed
manner to the appellant and his respondent, direct the reinstatement of the
appellant with or without back wages for the period of non-employment or
direct payment of compensation to the appellant by the respondent instead of
reinstatement or order re-employment with or without wages for the period of
non-employment or grant such other relief as it deems fit in the circumstances
of the case in order to meet the ends of justice or dismiss the appeal.(3)The
decision of the appellate authority shall be final and binding on both the
parties and cannot be questioned in a Court of Law and shall be given effect
to within such time as may be specified in its order.

### 38. Appeal against lay-off.

(1)Any employee laid-off by his employer, if aggrieved or affected by such
lay-off, may prefer an appeal to such authority within such time and in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)The prescribed authority shall, after giving an
opportunity to the parties concerned, hear the appeal and pass an order in the
manner prescribed determining the quantum of relief to which the employee may
be entitled.(3)The order passed by the prescribed authority under sub-section
(2) shall be final and binding on both the parties and shall not be questioned
in a Court of Law.

### 39. Redressal of disabilities.

(1)Any employee aggrieved or having suffered from any of the disabilities
mentioned in this Chapter, shall have a right to raise a valid dispute before
such authority as may be specified by the Government by rules made in this
behalf for redressal.(2)The procedure relating to the redressal by the
authority mentioned under sub-section (1) and other details relating to
redressal including appeals from the order of the authority shall be such as
may be prescribed.

## Chapter VII  
Penalties and Procedure

### 40. General penalty for offences.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this act, any person who
contravenes any of the provisions of this act or of any rules made thereunder,
or fails to pay wages or compensation.in accordance with any order of the
appellate authority passed under sub-section (2) of section 37 of this act,
shall be punishable, for the first offence with fine which may extend to fifty
rupees and for a second or any subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three months or with fine which shall not be less than two
hundred rupees or more than five hundred rupees or with both.(2)(a)Any
employer who fails to reinstate or re-employ any employee in accordance with
the order of the appellate authority passed under sub-section (2) of section
37 of this Act, shall be punishable with fine which shall not be less than two
hundred rupees.(b)Any employer, who, after having been convicted under clause
(a) continues, after the date of such conviction, to fail to reinstate or re-
employ an employee in accordance with the order mentioned in that clause shall
be punishable for each day of such default, with fine which may extend to
twenty-five rupees.(c)Any Court trying an offence punishable under this sub-
section may direct that the whole or any part of the fine, if realised, shall
be paid by way of compensation, to the person, who in its opinion, has been
affected by such failure.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Payment
of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of 1936), with regard to the definition of
wages, any compensation required to be paid by an employer under the
provisions of this Act, but not paid by him shall be recoverable as delayed
wages under the provisions of the said Act.(4)It shall be no defence in a
prosecution of any person for the contravention of the provisions of section 3
that any item of work relating to handloom weaving operation was carried on by
such person himself or any member of his family or by any other person living
with or dependant on such person.

### 41. Penalty for obstructing Inspector.

\- Whoever obstructs the Chief Inspector or an Inspector in the exercise of
any powers conferred on him by or under this Act or fails to produce on demand
by the Chief Inspector or an Inspector any register or other document kept in
his custody in pursuance of this Act or of any rules made thereunder, or
conceals or prevents any employee in any industrial premises from appearing
before or being examined by the Chief Inspector or an Inspector, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both:Provided that
such fine shall not be less than two hundred rupees.

### 42. Indemnity.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith, done or intended to be done under
this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal
proceedings shall lie against the Government for any damage caused or likely
to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any rule or order, made thereunder.

### 43. Restriction on disclosure of information.

(1)No Inspector shall, while in service or after leaving the service, disclose
otherwise than in connection with the execution or for the purposes of this
Act any information relating to any commercial business or any working process
which may come to his knowledge in the course of his official
duties.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to any disclosure of
information made with the previous consent in writing of the owner, of such
business or process or for the purposes of any legal proceeding (including
arbitration) pursuant to this Act or of any criminal proceeding which may be
taken whether pursuant to this Act or otherwise or for the purpose of any
report of such proceeding as aforesaid.(3)If any Inspector contravenes the
provisions of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term, which may extend to three months or with fine, which may extend to five
hundred rupees or with both.

### 44. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except upon a complaint made by or with the previous sanction in writing of
the Chief Inspector or an Inspector within three months of the date on which
the alleged commission of the offence came to the knowledge of the
Inspector:Provided that where the offence consists of disobeying a written
order made by the competent authority, appellate authority, the Chief
Inspector or an Inspector, complaint thereof may be made within six months
from the date on which the offence is alleged to have been committed.(2)No
Court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate of
the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.

### 45. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section -(a)"company"
means any body corporate and includes firm or other association of
individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a firm, means a partner in the
firm.

### 46. Onus as to age.

(1)When any act or omission would, if a person were under a certain age, be an
offence punishable under this Act and such person is in the opinion of the
Court, prima facie under such age, the burden shall be oh the accused to prove
that such person is not under such age.(2)A declaration in writing by a
medical officer not below the rank of a civil assistant surgeon relating to an
employee that he has personally examined him and believes him to be under the
age stated in such declaration shall, for the purposes of this Act and the
rules made thereunder, be admissible as evidence of the age of that employee.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 47. Regulation of housing, medical, educational and terminal facilities,
etc., by the Government.

\- The Government may, by rules made in this behalf, regulate-(a)the provision
of house-sites or houses to the employees;(b)the provision of medical
facilities to the employees by creating a welfare fund;(c)the provision of he
grant-in-aid including scholarships for higher education to the children of
the employees from the welfare fund specified in clause (b);(d)the formation
of Family Benefit Fund Scheme to the employees.

### 48. Exemption from the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act
LXIII of 1948).

\- Subject to the provisions of section 49, nothing contained in the Factories
Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948) shall apply to an industrial premises
under this Act.

### 49. Application of the Factories Act, 1948 to industrial premises.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 48, the Government may, by
notification, declare that all or any of the provisions of the Factories Act,
1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948) shall apply to all or any classes of
industrial premises under this Act.(2)The Government may make rules providing
for the measures for securing the safety of persons employed in the industrial
premises to which the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII
of 1948) have been made applicable under sub-section (1).

### 50. Application of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(Central Act IV of 1936) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said
Act), the Government may, by notification, direct that, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), the said Act or any of the provisions thereof
or the rules made thereunder shall apply to all or any class of employees to
which this Act applies.(2)On the application of the provisions of the said Act
under sub-section (1), the Inspector appointed under this Act shall be deemed
to be the Inspector for the purpose of the enforcement of the provisions of
the said Act within the local limits of his jurisdiction.(3)The Government
may, by a like notification, cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-
section (1).

### 51. Application of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
and the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.

(1)The provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
(Central Act XX of 1946), shall apply to every industrial premises wherein
fifty or more persons are employed or were employed on any one day of the
preceding twelve months as if such industrial premises were an industria1
establishment to which that Act has been applied, by a notification under sub-
section (3) of section 1 thereof, and as if the employee in the said premises
was a workman within the meaning of that Act.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the Government may, after giving not less than
two months notice of their intention so to do, by notification, apply all or
any of the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
(Central Act XX of 1946), to any industrial premises wherein less than fifty
persons are employed or were employed on any one day of the preceding twelve
months as if such industrial premises were an industrial establishment to
which that Act has been applied by a notification under sub-section (3) of
section 1 thereof, and as if the employee in the said premises was a workman
within the meaning of that Act.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (Central Act 53 of 1961), the provisions of that
Act shall apply to every industrial premises as if such industrial premises
were an establishment to which that Act has been applied by a notification
under sub-section (1) of section 2 thereof:Provided that the said Act shall,
in its application to a domestic weaver, apply, subject to the following
modifications, namely:-(a)in section 5, in the Explanation to sub-section (1),
the words "or one rupee a day, whichever is higher" shall be omitted;
and(b)sections 8 and 10 shall be omitted.

### 52. Application of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.

\- The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of
1947), shall apply to matters arising between employer and employees under
this Act as they apply to matters arising between employer and workmen under
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947).

### 53. Effect of laws and agreements inconsistent with this Act.

(1)The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or in the terms of any award, agreement, or contract of service whether made
before or after the commencement of this Act:Provided that where under any
such award, agreement, contract of service or otherwise an employee is
entitled to benefits in respect of any matters which are more favourable to
him than those to which he will be entitled to under this Act the employee
shall continue to be entitled to the more favourable benefits in respect of
that matter notwithstanding that he receives benefits in respect of other
matters under this Act.(2)Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as
precluding any employee from entering into an agreement with an employer for
granting him rights or privileges in respect of any matter, which are more
favourable to him than those to which he would be entitled under this Act.

### 54. Power to exempt.

\- The Government may, by notification exempt, subject to such conditions and
restrictions as they may impose, any class of industrial premises or class of
employers or employees from all or any of the provisions of this Act or of any
rule made thereunder:Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed
as empowering the Government to grant any exemption in respect of any female
employee from any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made thereunder
relating to the provisions of Chapters IV and V of this Act.

### 55. Act not to apply to self employed persons in private dwelling houses.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the owner or occupier of a
private dwelling house who carries on any weaving operation or any item of
work incidental to such weaving operation in such private dwelling house with
the assistance of the member of his family living with him in such dwelling
house and dependent on him:Provided that the owner or occupier thereof is not
an employee of an employer to whom this Act applies.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section, "family" means the spouse and children of the owner
or occupier.

### 56. Registration of employees and employer.

(1)The Government may frame rules providing for the scheme of
registration.(2)The scheme referred to in sub-section (1) may provide for the
registration of employees and employer and the terms and conditions subject to
which such registration may be made.

### 57. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)the terms and conditions subject to which a licence may be
granted or renewed under this Act and the fees to be paid in respect of such
licence;(b)the form of application for a licence under this Act and the
documents and plans to be submitted together with such application;(c)other
matters which are to be taken into consideration by the competent authority
for granting or refusing a licence;(d)the time within which, the fees on
payment of which and the authority to which, appeals may be preferred against
any orders granting or refusing to grant a licence;(e)the powers which may be
conferred on the Inspectors under this Act;(f)the standards of cleanliness
required to be maintained under this Act;(g)the standards of lighting,
ventilation and temperature required to be maintained under this Act;(h)the
types of urinals and latrines required to be provided under this Act;(i)the
washing facilities which are to be provided under this Act;(j)the form and
manner of notice regarding the periods of work;(k)the authority to which and
the time within which an appeal may be filed by a dismissed, discharged or
retrenched employee;(l)the manner in which the cash equivalent of the
advantage accruing through the concessional sale to an employee of foodgrains
and other articles shall be computed;(m)the records and registers that shall
be maintained in an establishment for the purpose of securing compliance with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder;(n)the maintenance of
first-aid boxes or cup-boards and the contents thereof and the persons in
whose charge such boxes shall be placed;(o)the scheme of registration of
employees and the employer and the terms and conditions subject to which such
registration may be made;(p)any other matter which is to be, or may be,
provided for by rules under this Act.(3)(a)All rules made under this Act shall
be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act
shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come
into force on the day on which they are published.(4)Every rule made or
notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is
made or issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making
any modification in any such rule or notification or [Legislative Assembly
agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule or
notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of on effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.NotificationsAuthorisation of Certain Officers as Competent
Authority[G. O. Ms. No. 268, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi (E2),
dated 9th October 1998][No. II (2)/HHTK/1962/98.] [Published in Part
11-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 18th November
1998.] \- Under clause (c) of section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers
(Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu
Act 61 of 1981) and in supersession of the Labour Department Notification No.
II (2)/LAB/3357/88, published at page 434 of Part 11-Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 8th June 1988, the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby authorises the officers not below the rank of an Assistant Director of
Handlooms and Textiles having territorial jurisdiction over the circle to
perform all or any of the functions of the competent authority under the said
Act.Specification of Certain Official as Appellate Authority[G. O. Ms. No.
258, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi (E2), dated the 9th October
1998][No. II (2)/HHTK/1963/98.] [Published in Part II-Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 18th November 1998.] \- Under section 5 of
the Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 61 of 1981) and in supersession of the
Labour Department Notification No. II(2)/LAB/3358/88, published at page 434 of
Part 11-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 8th June
1988, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby specifies the Director of Handlooms
and Textiles to be the appellate authority to whom appeals under the said
section lie.Appointment of Certain Officials as Inspector and his
Jurisdiction[G.O. Ms. No. 258, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi
(E2), dated the 9th October 1998][No. II (2)/HHTK/1964/98.] [Published in Part
II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 18th November
1998.] \- In exercise of the powers of conferred by sub-section (1) of section
6 of the Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 61 of 1981) and in
supersession of the Labour Department Notification No. II (2)/ LAB/3359/88,
published at page 434 of Part II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, dated the 8th June 1988, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby appoints
the Textile Control Officer to be the Inspector for the purposes of the said
Act, within their respective areas of their jurisdiction.Appointment of
Certain Official as Chief Inspector to Exercise Powers of an Inspector
Throughout the State[G. O. Ms. No. 258, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and
Khadi (E2), dated the 9th October 1998][No. II (2)/HHTK/1965/98.] [Published
in Part II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 18th
November 1998.] \- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of
section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Handloom Workers (Conditions of Employment and
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 61 of 1981) and in
supersession of the Labour Department Notification No. 11(2)/ LAB/3360/88,
published at page 434 of Part 11-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th June 1988, the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby appoints the Joint Director of Handlooms and Textiles (Handlooms), to
be the Chief Inspector who shall exercise the powers of and Inspector
throughout the State under the said Act.

