## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislative Council (Abolition) Act, 1986

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislative Council (Abolition) Act, 1986

## Act 40 of 1986

  * Published on 30 August 1986 
  * Commenced on 30 August 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 August 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Council (Abolition) Act, 1986(Central Act 40 of
1986)Received the assent of the President on the 30th August 1986 and
published in Part II-Section 1 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary,dated the
1st September 1986.An Act to provide for the abolition of the Legislative
Council of the State of Tamil Nadu and for matters supplemental, incidental
and consequential thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-seventh
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be Called the Tamil Nadu Legislative Council (Abolition) Act,
1986.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appropriate
Government" means, as respects a law relating to a matter enumerated in List I
in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the Central Government, and as
respects any other law, the State Government;(b)"article" means an article of
the Constitution;(c)"Council" means the Legislative Council of the State of
Tamil Nadu;(d)"law" includes any enactment, ordinance, regulation, order, bye-
law, rule, scheme, notification or other instrument having the force of law in
the whole or any part of the State of Tamil Nadu;(e)"Legislative Assembly"
means the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 3. Abolition of the Council.

(1)The Legislative Council of the State of Tamil Nadu is hereby
abolished.(2)On the abolition of the Council, every member thereof shall cease
to be such member.

### 4. Amendment of Article 168.

\- In sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of Article 168, the words "Tamil Nadu,"
shall be omitted.

### 5. Amendment of Act 43 of 1950.

\- In the Representation of the People Act, 1950,-(a)in the Third Schedule,
entry No. 4 relating to Tamil Nadu shall be omitted;(b)in the Fourth Schedule,
the heading "Tamil Nadu" and the entries thereunder shall be omitted.

### 6. Repeal of the Delimitation of Council Constituencies (Madras) Order,
1951.

\- The Delimitation of Council Constituencies (Madras) Order, 1951, is hereby
repealed.

### 7. Provision as to pending Bills.

(1)A Bill pending in the Council immediately before the commencement of this
Act which has not been passed by the Legislative Assembly shall lapse on the
abolition of the Council.(2)A Bill pending in the Council immediately before
the commencement of this Act which has been passed by the Legislative Assembly
shall not lapse on the abolition of the Council, but on such abolition shall
be deemed to have been passed before such commencement by both Houses of the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the form in which it was passed by
the Legislative Assembly.(3)If a Bill which having been passed by the
Legislative Assembly is, before the commencement of this Act, either rejected
by the Council or passed by the Council with amendments, the Legislative
Assembly may, after such commencement, pass the Bill again with or without
such amendments, if any as have been made by the Council and the Bill so
passed shall be deemed to be a Bill introduced in, and passed by, the
Legislative Assembly after the commencement of this Act.

### 8. Power to adapt laws.

\- The appropriate Government may, before the expiration of one year from the
commencement of this Act, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make
such adaptations and modifications of any law made before such commencement
whether by way of repeal or amendment as may be necessary or expedient in
consequence of the abolition of the Council under section 3, and, thereupon,
every such law shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications
so made.

### 9. Power to construe laws.

\- Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made
under section 8 for the adaptation or modification of a law made before the
commencement of this Act, any Court, Tribunal or authority required or
empowered to enforce such law may construe the law in such manner, without
affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper on account of the
abolition of the Council, in regard to the matter before the Court, Tribunal
or authority.

