## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act, 2018

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act, 2018

## Act 7 of 2018

  * Published on 1 January 2018 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2018 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 December 2022.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation (Amendment) Act, 2022 (Act 45 of 2022) on 22 December 2022] 

Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act, 2018(Act No. 7 of 2018)Last Updated 25th
November, 2019An Act to support the State of Tamil Nadu, in its aspiration of
being one of the most preferred investment destination in the country, by
ensuring adequate information availability to the investors thereby enabling
them to take informed decisions and to ensure single point receipt of
applications for securing clearances that are required to establish or expand
an enterprise and for clearances required during normal course of business
including renewals in a time-bound manner and to provide for effective
grievance redressal mechanism and fine in case of failure of Competent
Authorities to act within a time limit and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.Whereas it is expedient to provide for time-bound
processing of applications and issue of clearances by various Competent
Authorities of the State for establishing or expanding an enterprise for the
promotion of economic development of the State and for an investor-friendly
environment in the State and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu
in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-Chapter - I
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act, 2018.(2)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 28th day of October 2017.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)“acknowledgment
certificate” means a certificate issued by the Nodal Agency under clause (a)
of sub-section (2) of section 11A;(aa)"applicant" means a person duly
authorized by an enterprise to file an application through Single Window
Portal on behalf of the enterprise;(b)"checklist" means the list of documents
to be furnished by the applicant along with the Combined Application Form as
may be prescribed;(c)"clearances" means grant or issue of no-objection
certificate, allotments, consents, approvals, permissions, registrations,
enrolments, licences and the like, by any Competent Authority or authorities
in connection with the setting up of an enterprise or expansion of an existing
enterprise in the State and shall include all such approvals required till the
enterprise starts commercial production and includes periodic renewals that
may be required for such clearances;(d)"Competent Authority" means any
Department or Agency of the Government, Corporation, Board, Local Body or
other authority established by the Government, which are entrusted with the
powers or responsibilities to grant or issue clearances or
incentives;(e)"deemed approval" means a clearance deemed to have been given by
the Competent Authority on the expiry of time limit for providing such
clearance in the absence of sufficient and reasonable cause for not clearing
the application within the time limit:Provided that the deemed approval shall
be subject to the approval of the Respective Committee under this
Act;(f)"department" means a department of the Government;(g)"designated
official" means an officer identified by a Competent Authority for processing
of individual clearances in accordance with the rules made under this
Act;(h)"enterprise" means an undertaking that intends to engage in or is
engaged in any or all of the activities, namely, manufacturing, processing or
providing services;(i)"Government" means the State Government;(j)"Grievance
Redressal Authority" means the Authority referred to in section
27;(k)"Grievance Revisionary Authority" means the Authority referred to in
section 27;(l)“Guidance” means the society formed by the Government and
registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1975) to facilitate setting up of enterprises in the
State;(m)"Incentive" means a financial package or a specific financial grant
as may be specified by the Government;(n)"MSME District Single Window
Committee" means the Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises District Single
Window Committee constituted under section 21;(o)"MSME State Single Window
Committee" means the Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises State Single Window
Committee constituted under section 22;(p)"MSME Investment Promotion and
Monitoring Board" means the Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises Investment
Promotion and Monitoring Board constituted under section 23;(q)"Nodal Agency"
means the agency referred to in section 3;(r)"notification" means a
notification published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and the word
'notified' should be construed accordingly;(rr)“notified enterprise” means any
enterprise or a class or category of enterprise, as may be notified by the
Government, from time to time.(s)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;(t)"pre-scrutiny" means the examination of applications
received prior to its acceptance to assess its completeness as per the
checklist, in such manner as may be prescribed;(u)"Respective Committee" means
one or more of the following, namely:-(i)MSME District Single Window
Committee;(ii)MSME State Single Window Committee;(iii)State Single Window
Committee;(iv)State Single Window Monitoring Committee;(v)MSME Investment
Promotion and Monitoring Board;(vi)Investment Promotion and Monitoring
Board;(v)"State" means the State of Tamil Nadu;(w)"single window portal" means
the web portal developed and maintained by the Nodal Agency;(x)"time limit"
means the number of working days within which a final decision regarding issue
of clearance to an enterprise shall be taken by a Competent Authority from the
date of receipt of the application, complete in all aspects.Chapter - II Nodal
Agency at State and District Level

### 3. Nodal Agency at State and District level.

(1)For clearances that are required for setting up new enterprises or
expansion of existing enterprises with proposed investment exceeding the
amount notified under sub-section (1) of Section 5, the Guidance shall be the
Nodal Agency at the State level.(2)For clearances that are required for
setting up new enterprises or expansion of existing enterprises with proposed
investment upto the amount notified under sub-section (1) of section 5, the
Office of the Regional Joint Director of Industries and Commerce in respect of
Chennai district, and the District Industries Centre in respect of other
districts shall be the Nodal Agency at the district level.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), the Government may notify any
other authority or Board as a Nodal Agency, for any specified area with such
powers and functions as may be specified in the notification.

### 4. Powers and functions of Nodal Agency.

(1)Under the superintendence, direction and control of the Government and
Respective Committees, the Nodal Agency shall discharge the following
functions, namely:-(i)act as a single point of contact for all enterprises
that require clearances and incentives as notified by the Government under
section 6 and issue acknowledgment certificate under clause (a) of sub-section
(2) of section 11A;(ii)assist the applicants in completing the application
forms;(iii)arrange for pre-scrutiny of applications by convening meetings with
representatives of Competent Authorities and address queries of
investors;(iv)on completion of pre-scrutiny,-(a)accept those applications
which are complete; or(b)ask for additional information in case of incomplete
applications, in accordance with the rules made under this Act;(v)receive
applications for clearances through single window portal;(vi)act as a
secretariat to the Respective Committees and support them in discharging their
functions;(vii)receive orders, either rejecting or accepting the application,
from the Competent Authority and take appropriate action as may be
prescribed;(viii)redress the grievances of enterprises, if any, associated
with the process of securing clearances and incentives under this Act and the
rules made thereunder.(2)The powers and functions of the Nodal Agency under
this Act shall be in addition to the powers and functions discharged by it.

### 5.

(1)The Government may, by notification from time to time, specify the
investment limit upto which or issue of acknowledgment certificate shall be
made to the District Level Nodal Agency. All applications exceeding the said
investment limit shall be made to the State Level Nodal
Agency.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the
Government may prescribe that all applications from enterprises in a specified
area notified under this Act shall be made to the Nodal Agency notified for
that specified area.

### 6. Clearances and incentives.

The Government may prescribe the clearances and incentives in the rules made
under this Act and may add or vary the clearances and incentives, from time to
time.

### 7. Application for clearances and incentives.

Applications for clearances and incentives prescribed under section 6, shall
be submitted through single window portal with such fee, including the fee
payable to the Nodal Agency as may be prescribed and in such manner as may be
prescribed.

### 8. Power to call for additional information.

(1)On receipt of an application, the Competent Authority shall have the powers
to seek additional information or clarification, if required, from the
applicant:Provided that the additional information or clarification shall be
sought for only once before the expiry of the time limit prescribed under
section 11 and all correspondences relating to the additional information or
clarification shall be routed through the single window portal, in such manner
as may be prescribed.(2)The Competent Authority shall pass an order either
accepting or rejecting the application, through the single window portal.

### 9. Combined Application Form.

(1)The Government shall prescribe a Combined Application Form, in electronic
format, which may consist of,-(i)Forms under Central enactments without any
change; and(ii)existing Forms or new Forms in lieu of the existing Forms under
State enactments.(2)All Departments and the Competent Authorities concerned
shall accept the Combined Application Form for processing and issue of
required clearances.

### 10. Self certification. Deemed approval.

(1)Every enterprise shall furnish a self-certification, together with an
undertaking that it shall comply with the provisions of the relevant Acts and
the rules, in such Form as may be prescribed along with the application
through single window portal.(2)The self-certification furnished by the
enterprise shall be accepted by the Competent Authority concerned for the
purpose of grant of clearance.(3)The enterprise shall be made liable for fine
under section 28, if the particulars furnished by it are found to be false or
incorrect or if the enterprise fails to adhere to the declarations made in the
self-certification, at any point of time.

### 11. Procedure and time limit for processing of applications.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the Government may prescribe,-(a)the procedure for processing and
disposal of applications;(b)the time limit for raising queries, processing and
disposal of applications by the Competent Authority.(2)The Competent Authority
shall pass orders on the application before the expiry of such time limit from
the date of receipt of application, complete in all aspects.

### 11A. Acknowledgment Certificate.—

(1)Any notified enterprise, which intends to start a new activity or expand
its activities, may submit a Combined Application Form together with self-
certification and such fee as may be prescribed through the single window
portal.(2)(a)On receipt of a Combined Application Form from a notified
enterprise under sub-section (1), the Nodal Agency shall issue an
acknowledgment certificate to the applicant in such Form and within such time
limit as may be prescribed;(b)An acknowledgment certificate issued under
clause (a), shall, for all purposes, have effect as if it is a clearance as
defined in clause (c) of section 2, for such of the clearances as may be
notified by the Government, from time to time, for a period of three years
from the date of its issue. Before expiry of the three year period, such
enterprise shall obtain the clearances from the Competent Authority
concerned;(c)In the event of any violation of self-certification, the
acknowledgment certificate shall be cancelled by the Nodal Agency:Provided
that no such cancellation shall be made unless the applicant is given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 12. Deemed approval.

(1)The Government shall prescribe the clearances in respect of which failure
of the Competent Authority to pass final orders on the application within the
prescribed time limit shall result in deemed approval.(2)The enterprise may
proceed to execute the work or take other action following the deemed
approval, without contravening any of the provisions of the Acts, rules, bye-
laws, notifications, standing orders, executive instructions, guidelines and
the regulations made by the Competent Authority concerned for such clearances
and as per the self-certification furnished by the enterprise under section
10.

### 13. Information of deemed approval.

The Respective Committee shall inform the applicant the date on which the
application was received by the Competent Authority and the date on which it
was deemed to have been approved.

### 14. Inspection, exemption and delegation of powers.

(1)The Government may, by notification, specify the clearances for which
inspections under the provisions of the applicable Acts, rules, orders or
instructions shall be conducted by the Competent Authorities in accordance
with such guidelines as may be prescribed.(2)The Government may, from time to
time, by notification, specify the clearances for which exemption is granted
from inspection and may also delegate the powers of inspection to any person
or authority in respect of any specific clearance covered under this
Act.Chapter - III State Level Committees And Board

### 15. Constitution, powers and functions of State Single Window Committee.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a State Single Window
Committee with the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Guidance as
the Chairman, Executive Director, Guidance as the Member Convener, the
Competent Authorities concerned and not exceeding two persons from Trade
Associations, Chambers of Commerce and Technical Experts, as members as may be
prescribed.(2)The Competent Authorities who are Members of the State Single
Window Committee shall attend all meetings personally and in case they are
unable to attend the meeting, they may depute a senior level officer with a
written authorization to take appropriate decision in the meeting.(3)The State
Single Window Committee shall exercise the following powers and perform the
following functions, namely:-(i)meet at such time and place, as the Chairman
of the Committee may decide and transact business as per the prescribed
procedure;(ii)review and monitor the processing of applications by the
Competent Authorities;(iii)inform the applicant of the date on which the
application was received by the Competent Authority and the date on which such
application shall be deemed to have been approved under section 12;(iv)forward
cases with remarks and relevant documents to the State Single Window
Monitoring Committee for decision under section 18;(v)invite Competent
Authorities or experts, who are not members of the committee, as special
invitees for any meeting of the State Single Window Committee, as desired by
the Chairman of the Committee; and(vi)exercise such other powers and perform
such other functions as may be prescribed.

### 16. Constitution, powers and functions of State Single Window Monitoring
Committee.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a State Single Window
Monitoring Committee with the Chief Secretary to Government as the Chairman,
Secretary, Industries Department as the Member Convener and Secretaries of
concerned departments as members.(2)The members of the State Single Window
Monitoring Committee shall attend all meetings personally and in case they are
unable to attend the meeting, they may depute a senior level officer with a
written authorization to take appropriate decision in the meeting.(3)The State
Single Window Monitoring Committee shall exercise the following powers and
perform the following functions, namely:-(i)meet at such time and place, as
the Chairman of the Committee may decide and transact business as per the
prescribed procedure;(ii)review and monitor the status of processing of
applications received through single window portal by the Competent
Authorities and the State Single Window Committee;(iii)review and monitor the
status of resolution of enterprises' grievances that were registered using the
single window portal with respect to clearances and incentives from the
Competent Authorities concerned;(iv)issue suitable directives to the Competent
Authorities, wherever applicable which shall aid in resolution of the
enterprises' grievances;(v)consider and decide cases under sections 18 and
19;(vi)forward cases with remarks and relevant documents to the Investment
Promotion and Monitoring Board for decision under section 20;(vii)review and
monitor the approval status for incentives to all such categories of projects
as specified by the Government, by notification;(viii)invite Competent
Authorities or experts, who are not members of the Committee, as special
invitees for any meeting, as desired by the Chairman of the Committee;
and(ix)exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may be
prescribed.

### 17. Constitution, powers and functions of Investment Promotion and
Monitoring Board.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute an Investment Promotion
and Monitoring Board with the Chief Minister as the Chairman, Secretary,
Industries Department as the Member Convener and such other members as may be
prescribed.(2)The Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board shall perform the
following functions, namely:-(i)meet at such time and place as the Chairman of
the Board may decide and transact business as per the prescribed
procedure;(ii)review and monitor the disposal of applications by the State
Single Window Committee, State Single Window Monitoring Committee and the
Competent Authorities;(iii)provide strategic direction and oversee the
functioning of both the State Single Window Committee and the State Single
Window Monitoring Committee;(iv)periodically review the implementation and
operational efficiency of the Single Window Mechanism in the State;(v)consider
and decide cases under section 20;(vi)review any other issue related to
investor facilitation as put forth by the State Single Window Committee or the
State Single Window Monitoring Committee;(vii)review policy issues related to
investment promotion, facilitation and grounding;(viii)review and monitor the
approval status for incentives to all such categories of projects as specified
by the Government, by notification; and(ix)exercise such other powers and
perform such other functions as may be prescribed.(3)The orders passed by the
Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board for issuing clearances to
enterprises exceeding investment limits as may be notified under sub-section
(1) of section 5 shall be final and binding on the State Single Window
Committee, the State Single Window Monitoring Committee and the Competent
Authorities.

### 18. Review of cases by State Single Window Committee.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the State Single Window Committee may, either suo motu or on an
application, examine any order passed by any Competent Authority, rejecting
any clearance or approving it with modification, and if the State Single
Window Committee considers that there are valid grounds for a change in such
decision, it shall forward such case to the State Single Window Monitoring
Committee with remarks and relevant documents for a decision.(2)The State
Single Window Monitoring Committee shall examine all cases referred to it by
the State Single Window Committee and pass appropriate orders.(3)The decision
taken by the State Single Window Monitoring Committee shall be binding on the
State Single Window Committee and the Competent Authorities.

### 19. Revision of cases by Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the State Single Window Monitoring Committee may, either suo motu or on
a reference, examine any order passed by the State Single Window Committee and
pass appropriate orders as it deems fit and such orders shall be final.

### 20. Revision of cases by State Single Window Monitoring Committee.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board may, either suo motu or
on a reference, examine any order passed by the State Single Window Committee
or the State Single Window Monitoring Committee and pass appropriate orders as
it deems fit and such orders shall be final.Chapter - IV Constitution of MSME
District Single Window Committee and MSME State Single Window Committee.

### 21. Constitution, powers and functions of MSME District Single Window
Committee.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute an MSME District Single
Window Committee with the District Collector as the Chairman, Regional Joint
Director of Industries and Commerce as the Member Convener in respect of
Chennai district, General Manager, District Industries Centre as the Member
Convener for other districts with the Competent Authorities concerned and not
exceeding two persons from Trade Associations, Chambers of Commerce and
Technical Experts as members, as may be prescribed.(2)The Competent
Authorities who are members of the MSME District Single Window Committee shall
attend all meetings personally and in case they are unable to attend the
meeting, they may depute a senior level officer with a written authorization
to take appropriate decision in the meeting.(3)The MSME District Single Window
Committee shall exercise the following powers and perform the following
functions, namely:-(i)meet at such time and place as the Chairman of the
Committee may decide and transact business as per the prescribed
procedure;(ii)review and monitor the processing of applications by the
Competent Authorities;(iii)forward cases with remarks and relevant documents
to the MSME State Single Window Committee for decision under section
24;(iv)inform the applicant of the date on which the application was received
by the Competent Authority and the date on which such application shall be
deemed to have been approved under section 12;(v)invite Competent Authorities
or experts, who are not members of the Committee, as special invitees for any
meeting of the MSME District Single Window Committee, as desired by the
Chairman of the Committee; and(vi)exercise such other powers and perform such
other functions as may be prescribed.

### 22. Constitution, powers and functions of MSME State Single Window
Committee.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute an MSME State Single
Window Committee with the Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries
and Commerce as the Chairman, the Additional Director of Industries and
Commerce as the Member Convener, and such other members from Competent
Authorities concerned, as may be prescribed.(2)The Competent Authorities, who
are members of the MSME State Single Window Committee shall attend all
meetings personally and in case they are unable to attend the meeting, they
may depute a senior level officer with a written authorization to take
appropriate decision in the meeting.(3)The MSME State Single Window Committee
shall exercise the following powers and perform the following functions,
namely:-(i)meet at such time and place as the Chairman of the Committee may
decide and transact business as per the prescribed procedure;(ii)review and
monitor the processing of applications by the Competent
Authorities;(iii)review and monitor the disposal of applications by the MSME
District Single Window Committee;(iv)consider and decide cases under sections
24 and 25;(v)forward cases with remarks and relevant documents to the MSME
Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board for decision under section
26;(vi)invite Competent Authorities or experts, who are not members of the
Committee, as special invitees for any meeting of the MSME State Single Window
Committee, as desired by the Chairman of the Committee; and(vii)exercise such
other powers and perform such other functions as may be prescribed.

### 23. Constitution, powers and functions of MSME Investment Promotion and
Monitoring Board.

(1)The Government may, by notification, constitute an MSME Investment
Promotion and Monitoring Board with the Minister for Rural Industries,
Government of Tamil Nadu as the Chairman, Industries Commissioner and Director
of Industries and Commerce as the Member Convener, and such other members as
may be prescribed.(2)The MSME Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board shall
exercise the following powers and perform the following functions,
namely:-(i)meet at such time and place as the Chairman of the Board may decide
and transact business as per the prescribed procedure;(ii)review and monitor
the disposal of applications by the MSME District Single Window Committee,
MSME State Single Window Committee, and the Competent Authorities;(iii)provide
strategic direction and oversee the functioning of MSME District Single Window
Committee and MSME State Single Window Committee;(iv)consider and decide cases
under section 26;(v)review any other issue related to investor facilitation as
put forth by the MSME District Single Window Committee or MSME State Single
Window Committee;(vi)exercise such other powers and perform such other
functions as may be prescribed.(3)The orders passed by the MSME Investment
Promotion and Monitoring Board for issuing clearances to enterprises upto
investment limits as may be notified under sub-section (1) of section 5, shall
be final and binding on the MSME District Single Window Committee, MSME State
Single Window Committee and the Competent Authorities.

### 24. Review of cases by MSME District Single Window Committee.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the MSME District Single Window Committee, may, either suo motu or on
an application, examine any order passed by any Competent Authority, rejecting
any clearance or approving it with modification, and if the MSME District
Single Window Committee considers that there are valid grounds for a change in
such decision, it shall forward such case to the MSME State Single Window
Committee with remarks and relevant documents for a decision.(2)The MSME State
Single Window Committee shall examine all cases referred to it by the MSME
District Single Window Committee and pass appropriate orders.(3)The decision
taken by the MSME State Single Window Committee shall be binding on the MSME
District Single Window Committee and the Competent Authorities.

### 25. Revision of cases by MSME State Single Window Committee.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the MSME State Single Window Committee may, either suo motu or on a
reference, examine any orders passed by the MSME District Single Window
Committee and pass appropriate orders as it deems fit and such orders shall be
final.

### 26. Revision of cases by MSME Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board.

Notwithstanding anything contained in any State law for the time being in
force, the MSME Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board may, either suo motu
or on a reference, examine any orders passed by the MSME District Single
Window Committee or MSME State Single Window Committee and pass appropriate
orders as it deems fit and such orders shall be final.Chapter - V
Miscellaneous

### 27. Appeal and revision.

(1)All grievances related to processing of applications under this Act shall,
in the first instance, be referred to such Grievance Redressal Authority as
may be prescribed, within such period as may be prescribed.(2)The Grievance
Redressal Authority shall, after following such procedure as may be
prescribed, dispose of the appeal within such time as may be prescribed,
either rejecting the appeal or taking such remedial action as may be
prescribed, including imposition of fine under section 29.(3)The enterprise or
the Designated Official of the Competent Authority aggrieved by any order of
the Grievance Redressal Authority may make an application for revision to the
notified Grievance Revisionary Authority, within such time and in such manner
as may be prescribed.(4)The Grievance Revisionary Authority shall, after
following such procedure as may be prescribed, dispose of the revision within
such time as may be prescribed, either rejecting the revision or taking
remedial action as may be prescribed including imposition of fine under
section 29.

### 28. Offences and penalties.

(1)Any enterprise that fails to comply with the conditions or undertaking in
the self-certification given to the Nodal Agency or other Department or
authorities shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifteen thousand
rupees for the first offence and upto twenty-five thousand rupees for the
second or subsequent offences. The fine so imposed shall be in addition to any
other recourse which may be available under the applicable law.(2)Where an
offence under this Act is committed by an enterprise, the enterprise as well
as every person in charge of, and responsible to, the enterprise for the
conduct of its business at the time of commission of the offence, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and liable to be punished under this
section.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), where an
offence under this Act has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or that commission of the offence is attributable to any neglect on the part
of proprietor, managing partner, any director, manager, secretary or any other
officer or authorized signatory, such proprietor, managing partner, director,
manager, secretary or any other officer or authorized signatory shall also be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be punished under
this section.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section-(a)"enterprise"
means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm , means a partner in the
firm .

### 29. Imposition of fine for non-provision or delayed services.

(1)Every Competent Authority shall identify the Designated Official for
processing of individual applications received in accordance with the rules
made under this Act.(2)All grievances shall be initially examined by the
notified Grievance Redressal Authority and where the Grievance Redressal
Authority is of the opinion that the Designated Official of the Competent
Authority has failed to meet committed service levels without sufficient and
reasonable cause, a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees may be
imposed on the Designated Official:Provided that the Designated Official of
the Competent Authority shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard
before any fine is imposed.(3)Any fine imposed under sub-section (2) shall be
collected in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be in addition to any
other recourse available to the Government or the Competent Authority under
applicable Service Rules:Provided that no fine shall be imposed on the
Designated Official of the Competent Authority more than once for the same
case of non-provision or delay in provision of services.

### 30. Act to override other laws.

No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be instituted against,
or damage claimed from, the Respective Committees or any employee of the
Government acting under the direction of such Committee, for any action, which
is in good faith, carried out or intended to be carried out, or for any order
passed in good faith, in pursuance of this Act and the rules made thereunder.

### 31. Protection of action taken in good faith.

Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
State law for the time being in force or any custom or usage or any instrument
having effect by virtue of any such law.

### 32. Power to give directions.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Government may, by order, make provisions or give such directions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to it to be
necessary or expedient for the removal of the difficulties:Provided that no
such order shall be issued after the expiry of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.

### 33. Power to remove difficulties.

The Government may, from time to time, issue to the Respective Committees such
general or special directions as they may deem necessary or expedient for the
purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act and the said Committee shall
be bound to follow and act upon such directions.

### 34. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any
of the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, the Government may make rules relating to
the matters which may be or is required to be prescribed by rules.(3)(a)All
rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day
shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(b)All
notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come
into force on a particular day, come into force on the date on which they are
so published.(4)Every rule made or notification or order issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such rule or notification or order or the Assembly decides that the rule
or notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however that any such modification
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification or order.

### 35. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Ordinance, 2017 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
7 of 2017) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done,
any action taken or any direction given under the said Ordinance, shall be
deemed to have been done, taken or given under this Act.

