## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022 .

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2022 .

## Act 2 of 2023

  * Published on 10 January 2023 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 2023.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws.BE it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventy-third Year of
the Republic of India as follows :PART-I PRELIMINARY.

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws Short title and
(Third Amendment) Act, 2022.(2)It shall come into force at once.**PART-II
AMENDMENTS TO THE MADURAI-KAMARAJ UNIVERSITY ACT, 1965.**

### 2. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Madurai-Kamaraj University Act, 1965 (hereafter in this
Part referred to as the 1965 Act), in sub-section (1), in clause (a), the
expression " a deaf-mute or suffering from leprosy " shall be omitted.

### 3. Amendment of section 43.

In section 43 of the 1965 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression " or deaf-
mute or suffers from leprosy" shall be omitted.**PART-III AMENDMENTS TO THE
BHARATHIAR UNIVERSITY ACT, 1981.**

### 4. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Bharathiar University Act, 1981 (hereafter in this Part
referred to as Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1982), in sub-section (1), in clause (a),
the expression "a deaf-mute or suffering from leprosy" shall be omitted.

### 5. Amendment of section 49.

In section 49 of Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1982, in sub-section (2), the expression
" or deaf-mute or suffers from leprosy" shall be omitted.**PART-IV AMENDMENTS
TO THE BHARATHIDASAN UNIVERSITY ACT, 1981.**

### 6. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Bharathidasan University Act, 1981 (hereafter in this part
referred to as Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1982) , in sub-section (1) ,in clause (a),
the expression " a deaf-mute or suffering from leprosy" shall be omitted.

### 7. Amendment of section 49.

In section 49 of Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1982, in sub-section (2), the expression
" or deaf-mute or suffers from leprosy" shall be omitted .**PART-V AMENDMENTS
TO THE MOTHER TERESA WOMEN'S UNIVERSITY ACT, 1984.**

### 8. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Mother Teresa Women's University Act, 1984 (hereafter in
this Part referred to as the 1984 Act), in sub-section (1) , in clause (a),
the expression "or deaf - mute or suffering from leprosy" shall be omitted.

### 9. Amendment of section 41.

In section 41 of the 1984 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression " or deaf-
mute or suffers from leprosy" shall be omitted.**PART-VI AMENDMENTS TO THE
ALAGAPPA UNIVERSITY ACT, 1985.**

### 10. Amendment of section 7.

In section 7 of the Alagappa University Act, 1985 (hereafter in this Part
referred to as the 1985 Act), in sub-section (1), in clause (a), the
expression " a deaf - mute or suffering from leprosy " shall be omitted.

### 11. Amendment of section 55.

In section 55 of the 1985 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression " or deaf-
mute or suffers from leprosy" shall be omitted.**PART-VII AMENDMENTS TO THE
MANONMANIAM SUNDARANAR UNIVERSITY ACT, 1990.**

### 12. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Act, 1990 ( hereafter in
this Part referred to as the 1990 Act), in sub-section (1), in clause (a), the
expression" or a deaf-mute " shall be omitted.

### 13. Amendment of section 49.

In section 49 of the 1990 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression "or deaf-
mute" shall be omitted.**PART-VIII AMENDMENTS TO THE PERIYAR UNIVERSITY ACT,
1997.**

### 14. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Periyar University Act, 1997 (hereafter in this Part
referred to as the 1997 Act), in sub-section (1), in clause (a), the
expression" or a deaf-mute " shall be omitted.

### 15. Amendment of section 50.

In section 50 of the 1997 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression " or deaf-
mute " shall be omitted .**PART-IX AMENDMENTS TO THE TAMIL NADU OPEN
UNIVERSITY ACT, 2002.**

### 16. Amendment of section 18.

In section 18 of the Tamil Nadu Open University Act, 2002 (hereafter in this
Part referred to as Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 2002), in sub-section (1), in clause
(a, the expression "or a deaf-mute" shall be omitted.

### 17. Amendment of section 50.

In section 50 of Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 2002, in sub-section (2),the expression
" or deaf-mute " shall be omitted.**PART-X AMENDMENTS TO THE THIRUVALLUVAR
UNIVERSITY ACT, 2002.**

### 18. Amendment of section 6.

In section 6 of the Thiruvalluvar University Act, 2002 (hereafter in this Part
referred to as Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 2002), in sub-section (1), in clause (a),
the expression " or a deaf-mute " shall be omitted.

### 19. Amendment of section 49.

In section 49 of Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 2002 , in sub-section (2) , the
expression " or deaf-mute " shall be omitted.**PART-XI AMENDMENTS TO THE TAMIL
NADU TEACHERS EDUCATION UNIVERSITY ACT, 2008.**

### 20. Amendment of section 17.

In section 17 of the Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University Act, 2008
(hereafter in this Part referred to as the 2008 Act), in sub-section (1), in
clause (a, the expression " or a deaf-mute " shall be omitted.

### 21. Amendment of section 47.

In section 47 of the 2008 Act, in sub-section (2), the expression Amendment of
" or deaf-mute " shall be omitted.

