## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Reservation of Seats and Rotation of Reserved Seats)
Rules, 1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Reservation of Seats and Rotation of Reserved Seats)
Rules, 1995

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-RESERVATION-OF-SEATS-AND-ROTATION-OF-RESERVED-
SEATS-RULES-1995 of 1995

  * Published on 7 August 1995 
  * Commenced on 7 August 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 August 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Reservation of Seats and Rotation of Reserved Seats)
Rules, 1995Published vide Notification No. G.O, Ms. No. 142, Rural Development
(C-II), Dated the 7th August 1995 - No. SRO A-48 (A)/95G.O, Ms. No. 142. - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 242 read with
sections 11, 20, 32 and 57 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:
-

### 1. Short title.

\- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Reservation of Seats
and Rotation of Reserved Seats) Rules, 1995.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise require, -(1)"Act" the means
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(2)All other words
and expressions used in these Rules, but not defined in these Rules, shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Reservation of seats for the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes.

(1)In every Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat,
the number of seats reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes out of the total number of seats fixed under Rule 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength of Members and Division of
Wards) Rules, 1995, in the Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council or
District Panchayat, as the case may be, shall bear as nearly as may be the
same proportion to the total number of seats to be filled by direct election
in that Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat, as
the case may be, as the population of the Scheduled Castes or of the Scheduled
Tribes in that Village Panchayat area, Panchayat Union Council area or
District Panchayat area, as the case may be, bears to the total population of
that area.(2)While determining the number of seats to be reserved in favour of
Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, any fraction shall be ignored.(3)Among
the seats reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes not less than one-
third shall be reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled
Tribes:[Provided that if the number of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes is not more than one, it would not be necessary to reserve
any seat for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 178, Rural Development (C-II), dated the
4th October 1995.]

### 4.

[***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th August
1996.]

### 5. Reservation of seats for women.

\- In every Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat
Council, not less than one-third shall be reserved for women including the
number of seats reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th
August 1996.], out of the total number of seats fixed under rule 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength of Members and Division of Wards)
Rules, 1995.

### 6. Reservation of seats in respect of offices of [***] [Omitted by G.O.
Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats.

\- [(1) Seats shall be reserved in the offices of Presidents of Village
Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of District
Panchayats for persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The
total number of seats in the offices so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may
be, the same proportion to the total number of offices in the Panchayats at
each level in the State as the population of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes in the State bear to the total population of the
State:Provided that not less than one-third of such offices shall be reserved
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 178, Rural Development (C-II), dated the 4th
October 1995.][(1-A) The offices of the Chairmen of District Panchayats
reserved under sub-rule (1) shall be allotted to districts taking into
consideration, the population of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
every district in such a manner that the total number of offices so allotted,
does not exceed the total number of the offices reserved under sub-rule (1).]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 178, Rural Development (C-II), dated the 4th
October 1995.][(1-B) The offices of [***][Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 178,
Rural Development (C-II), dated the 4th October 1995.] the Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils reserved under sub-rule (1), shall be allotted to
every district taking into consideration the population of the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in every such district, in such a manner that
the total number of offices so allotted to [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 189,
Rural Development (C-II), dated the 11th October 1995.] the Panchayat Union
Councils in all districts, does not exceed the total number of the offices
reserved under sub-rule (1).][(1-C) The offices of the Presidents of Village
Panchayats reserved under sub-rule (1), shall be allotted to every Panchayat
Union taking into consideration the population of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes in every such Panchayat Union, in such a manner that the
total number of offices so allotted to the Village Panchayats in all Panchayat
Unions, does not exceed the total number of the offices reserved under sub-
rule (1).] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 189, Rural Development, (C-II), dated the
11th October 1995.](2)[***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development,
dated the 7th August 1996.](3)Of the total number of offices of Presidents of
Village Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union, Councils and Chairmen of
District Panchayats, not less than one-third shall be reserved for women
including the offices reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated
the 7th August 1996.].

### 7. Rotation of reserved seats and office.

\- [(1) Reservation of seats or offices under Rules 3,5 and 6 shall be made
[***][Rule 7 was renumbered as sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) was added by G.
O. Ms. No. 105, RD & PR (C4), dated the 1st September, 2006.] in the ward or
territorial ward or Panchayat where the population of the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes, [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 179, Rural Development (PE),
dated the 29th August 1996.] or women, as the case may be, is comparatively
large to the total population of the ward or territorial ward or the
Panchayat1 [by adopting a list of wards or Panchayats arranged in the
descending order of the percentage of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and
Women] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 179, Rural Development (PE), dated the 29th
August 1996.]:Provided that such seats reserved for women in wards of Village
Panchayats or Panchayat Unions or territorial wards of District Panchayats and
such seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, [***][Omitted by
G. O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] and for
women in the offices of Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairpersons of
Panchayat Union Councils and Chairpersons of District Panchayats, shall be
allotted by rotation [at the expiry of every ten years] [Substituted by G. O.
Ms. No. 157, Rural Development (C-I), dated the 14th June 2001.] and re-
allotted to other wards or territorial wards or Panchayats where the
percentage of population of women or Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes [***]
[Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.]
as the case may be, is next larger to the total population of that ward,
territorial ward or Panchayat, by adopting a list of wards or Panchayats
arranged in the descending order of the percentage of [***] [Omitted by G. O.
Ms. No. 162, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.], Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and women.](2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule
(1) -(a)the seats reserved for persons belonging to the [Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes and Women in the Wards] [Substituted for 'Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes in the wards' by G.O. Ms. No. 87, dated 25.7.2016.] or
territorial wards, as the case may be, of the Village Panchayats, Panchayat
Unions and District Panchayats under sub-rule (1) shall, subject to the
change, if any, in the number of seats to be reserved in such wards for the
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes due to adoption
of the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which
relevant figures have been published [or for women] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No.
87, dated 25.7.2016.], continue to be reserved as such, until the Government
direct otherwise.Explanation 1. - If there is increase in the number of seats
to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by adopting the
population as ascertained at last preceding census of which relevant figures
have been published [or for women] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 87, dated
25.7.2016.], such increased seat or seats shall be reserved in wards where the
population of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes [or women] [Inserted
by G.O. Ms. No. 87, dated 25.7.2016.], as the case may be, is comparatively
large by adopting a list of wards excluding the wards already reserved,
arranged in the descending order of the percentage of Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes [or of women] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 87, dated
25.7.2016.].Explanation 2. - In case of reduction in the number of seats to be
reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by adopting the population
as ascertained at the last preceding census of which relevant figures have
been published, a list of reserved wards arranged in the descending order of
the percentage of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be prepared and
the wards having a least percentage of such population shall be de-reserved to
the extent necessary.(b)The offices of the Presidents of the Papapatti,
Keeripatti and Nattarmangalam Village Panchayats in Madurai district and
Kottakatchiyendal Village Panchayat in Virudhunagar district reserved for the
Scheduled Castes shall continue to be reserved as such until the Government
direct otherwise.

