## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1975

## Act 1 of 1976

  * Published on 10 January 1976 
  * Commenced on 10 January 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 January 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act,
1975(Tamil Nadu Act No. 1 of 1976)Last Updated 4th December, 2019[Dated
10.01.1976]An Act to provide for the eviction of unauthorised occupants from
public premises and for certain incidental mattersBe it enacted by the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-sixth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-Received the assent of the President on the 3rd
January, 1976, first published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary on the 10th January, 1976 (Margazhi 26, Iratchasa
(2006-Thiruvalluvar Aandu))

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of
Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1975.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of
Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint; and different dates may be appointed for different
areas.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"corporate
authority" means-(i)any company or corporation referred to in sub-clause (1),
or(ii)any local authority or any Board referred to in sub-clause (2), of
clause (e);(b)"estate officer" means an officer appointed as such by the
Government under section 3;(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"premises" means any land or any building or hut or part of a
building or hut and includes,-(i)gardens, grounds and outhouses, if any,
appertaining to such building or hut or part of a building or hut; and(ii)any
fittings affixed to such building or hut or part of a building or hut for the
more beneficial enjoyment thereof;(e)"public premises" means any premises
belonging to or taken on lease or requisitioned by, or on behalf of, the
Government, and includes-(1)any premises belonging to, or taken on lease by,
or on behalf of-(i)any company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act,
1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) in which not less than fifty-one per cent of the
paid up share capital is held by the Government; and(ii)any corporation not
being a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central
Act 1 of 1956) or a local authority established by or under any law and owned
or controlled by the Government; and(2)any premises belonging to, or vested
in, a local authority or any Board constituted under any law;(f)"rent" in
relation to any public premises means the consideration payable periodically
for the authorised occupation of the premises, and includes-(i)any charge for
electricity, water or any other services in connection with the occupation of
the premises;(ii)any tax (by whatever name called) payable in respect of the
premises, where such charge or tax is payable by the Government or the
corporate authority;(g)"unauthorised occupation", in relation to any public
premises, means the occupation by any person of the public premises without
authority for such occupation and includes the continuance in occupation by
any person of the public premises after the authority (whether by way of grant
or any other mode of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy the
premises has expired or has been determined for any reason whatsoever.

### 3. Appointment of estate officers.

\- The Government may, by notification,-(a)appoint such persons, being
gazetted officers of Government or officers of equivalent rank of the
corporate authority, as the Government think fit, to be estate officers for
the purposes of this Act; and(b)define the local limits within which, or the
categories of public premises in respect of which, the estate officers shall
exercise the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed, on estate
officers by or under this Act.

### 4. Issue of notice to show cause against order of eviction.

(1)If the estate officer is of opinion that any persons are in unauthorised
occupation of any public premises and that they should be evicted, the estate
officer shall issue, in the manner hereinafter provided, a notice in writing
calling upon all persons concerned to show cause why an order of eviction
should not be made.(2)The notice shall-(a)specify the grounds on which the
order of eviction is proposed to be made; and(b)require all persons concerned,
that is to say, all persons who are, or may be, in occupation of, or claim
interest in, the public premises, to show cause, if any, against the proposed
order on or before such date as is specified in the notice, being a date not
earlier than ten days from the date of issue thereof.(3)The estate officer
shall cause the notice to be served by having it affixed on the outer door or
some other conspicuous part of the public premises and in such other manner as
may be prescribed, whereupon the notice shall be deemed to have been duly
given to all persons concerned.(4)Where the estate officer knows or has reason
to believe that any persons are in occupation of the public premises, then,
without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3), he shall cause a copy
of the notice to be served on every such person by post or by delivering or
tendering it to that person or in such other manner as may be prescribed.

### 5. Eviction of unauthorised occupants.

(1)If, after considering the cause, if any, shown by any person in pursuance
of a notice under section 4 and any evidence he may produce in support of the
same and after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, the estate
officer is satisfied that the public premises are in unauthorised occupation,
the estate officer may make an order of eviction, for reasons to be recorded
therein, directing that the public premises shall be vacated, on such date as
may be specified in the order, by all persons who may be in occupation there
of or any part there of, and cause a copy of the order to be affixed on the
outer door or some other conspicuous part of the public premises.(2)If any
person refuses or fails to comply with the order of eviction under sub-section
(1), the estate officer or any other officer duly authorised by the estate
officer in this behalf may evict, that person from, and take possession of,
the public premises and may, for that purpose, use such force as may be
necessary.

### 6. Disposal of property left on public premises by unauthorised occupants.

(1)Where any persons have been evicted from any public premises under section
5, the estate officer may, after giving fourteen days' notice to the persons
from whom possession of the public premises has been taken and, after
publishing the notice in atleast one newspaper having circulation in the
locality, remove or cause to be removed or dispose of by public auction, any
property remaining on such premises.(2)Where any property is sold under sub-
section (1), the sale proceeds thereof shall, after deducting the expenses of
the sale and the amount, if any, due to the Government or the corporate
authority on account of arrears of rent or damages or costs, be paid to such
person or persons as may appear to the estate officer to be entitled to the
same:Provided that where the estate officer is unable to decide as to the
person or persons to whom the balance of the amount is payable or as to the
apportionment of the same, he may refer such dispute to the civil court of
competent jurisdiction and; the decision of the court thereon shall be final.

### 7. Power to require payment of rent or damages in respect of public
premises.

(1)Where any person is in arrears of rent payable in respect of any public
premises, the estate officer may, by order, require that person to pay the
same within such time and in such instalments as may be specified in the
order.(2)Where any person is, or has at any time been in unauthorised
occupation of any public premises, the estate officer may, having regard to
such principles of assessment of damages as may be prescribed, assess the
damages on account of the use and occupation of such premises and may, by
order, require that person to pay the damages within such time and in such
instalments as may be specified in the order.(3)No order under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) shall be made against any person until after the issue of a
notice in writing to the person calling upon him to show cause within such
time as may be specified in the notice, why such order should not be made, and
until his objections, if any, and any evidence he may produce in support of
the same, have been considered by the estate officer.

### 8. Powers of estate officers.

\- An estate officer shall, for the purpose of holding any inquiry under this
Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of
Civil Procedure 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), when trying a suit in respect of
the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and production
of documents;(c)any other matter which may be prescribed.

### 9. Appeals.

(1)An appeal shall lie from every order of the estate officer made in respect
of any public premises under section 5 or section 7 to an appellate officer
who shall be the district judge of the district in which the public premises
are situated or such other judicial officer in that district of not less than
such numbers of years standing as may be prescribed and as the district judge
may designate in this behalf.(2)An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be
preferred within such period as may be prescribed:Provided that the appellate
officer may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the prescribed period, if
he is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from
filing the appeal in time.(3)Where an appeal is preferred from an order of the
estate officer, the appellate officer may stay the enforcement of that order
for such period and on such conditions as he deems fit.(4)Every appeal under
this section shall be disposed of by the appellate officer as expeditiously as
possible.(5)The costs of any appeal under this section shall be in the
discretion of the appellate officer.(6)For the purposes of this section, a
presidency town shall be deemed to be a district and the chief judge or the
principal judge of the city civil court therein, shall be deemed to be the
district judge of the district.

### 10. Finality of orders.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by an
estate officer or appellate offices under this Act shall be final and shall
not be called in question in any original suit, application or execution
proceeding and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority
in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power
conferred by or under this Act.

### 11. Offences and penalty.

(1)If any person who has been evicted from any public premises under this Act
again occupies the premises without authority for such occupation, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.(2)Any Judicial
Magistrate convicting a person under sub-section (1) may make an order for
evicting that person summarily and he shall be liable to such eviction without
prejudice to any other action that may be taken against him under this Act.

### 12. Power to obtain information.

\- If the estate officer has reason to believe that any persons are in
unauthorised occupation of any public premises, the estate officer or any
other officer authorised by him in this behalf may require those persons or
any other person to furnish information relating to the names and other
particulars of the persons in occupation of the public premises and every
person so required shall be bound to furnish the information in his
possession.

### 13. Liability of heirs and legal representatives.

(1)Where any person against whom any proceeding for the determination of
arrears of rent or for the assessment of damages is to be or has been taken,
dies before the proceeding is taken or during the pendency thereof, the
proceeding may be taken or, as the case may be, continued against the heirs or
legal representatives of that person.(2)Any amount due to the Government or
the corporate authority from any person whether by way of arrears of rent or
damages or costs shall, after the death of the person, be payable by his heirs
or legal representatives but their liability shall be limited to the extent of
the assets of the deceased in their hands.

### 14. Recovery of rent, etc., as an arrear of land revenue.

\- If any person refuse or fails to pay the arrears of rent payable under sub-
section (1) of section 7 or the damages payable under sub- section (2) of that
section or the costs awarded to the Government or the corporate authority
under sub-section (5) of section 9 or any portion of such rent, damages, or
costs, within the time, if any, specified therefor in the order relating
thereto, the estate officer may issue a certificate for the amount due to the
Collector who shall proceed to recover the same as an arrear of land revenue.

### 15. Bar of jurisdiction.

\- No court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of the eviction of any person who is in unauthorised occupation of any
public premises or the recovery of the arrears of rent payable under sub-
section (1) of section 7 or the damages payable under sub-section (2) of that
section or the costs awarded to the Government or the corporate authority
under sub-section (5) of section 9 or any portion of such rent, damages or
costs.

### 16. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is, in good faith, done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rules or orders made thereunder.(2)No suitor other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government, the corporate authority, the
appellate officer or the estate officer in respect of anything which is, in
good faith, done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Actor of any
rules or orders made thereunder.

### 17. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence against any of the provisions of this Act or any rule made
thereunder has been committed by a company, every person, who, at the time the
offence was committed, was in-charge of, and was responsible to the company
for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the company, shall
be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-
section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence punishable under this
Act has been committed by a company, and it is proved that the offence has
been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any
neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of
the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm, society or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to-(i)a firm
means a partner in the firm,(ii)a society or other association of individuals,
means the person who is entrusted under the rules of the society or other
association with the management of the affairs of the society or other
association, as the case may be.

### 18. The Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act not to apply.

\- The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act
18 of 1960)-(a)shall not apply to any building belonging to or vesting in the
corporate authority;(b)shall not apply as against the corporate authority to
any tenancies or like relationship created by the corporate authority in
respect of any such building;(c)but shall apply to any building let to the
corporate authority.

### 19. Exemptions.

\- The Government may, by notification, exempt any public premises or class of
public premises or person or class of persons from all or any of the
provisions of this Act or of any rules made thereunder, subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Government may impose.

### 20. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
form of any notice required or authorised to be given under this Act and the
manner in which it may be served;(b)the holding of inquiries under this
Act;(c)the distribution and allocation of work to estate officers and transfer
of any proceeding pending before an estate officer to another estate
officer;(d)the procedure to be followed in taking possession of public
premises;.(e)the manner in which damages for unauthorised occupation may be
assessed and the principles which may be taken into account in assessing such
damages;(f)the manner in which appeals may be preferred and the procedure to
be followed in appeals; and(g)any other matter which has to be or may be
prescribed.(3)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(4)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of both Houses of the Legislature, and if, before the expiry of the
session, in which it is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in
making any modification in any such rule or notification or both Houses agree
that the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of
no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

### 21. [Repeal]. - [* * *] [The Tamil Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of
Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1960), is hereby
repealed.]

### 22. Validation.

\- Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, anything done
or any action taken (including rules or orders made, notices issued, evictions
ordered or effected, damages assessed, rents or damages or costs recovered and
proceedings initiated) or purported to have been done or taken under the Tamil
Nadu Public Premises (Eviction of Un-authorised Occupants) Act, 1960 (Tamil
Nadu Act 27 of 1960) (hereafter in this section referred to as the 1960 Act)
shall be deemed to be as valid and effective as if such thing or action was
done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act and
accordingly,-(a)no suit or other legal proceeding shall be maintained or
continued in any court for the refund of any rent or damages or costs
recovered under the 1960 Act where such refund has been claimed merely on the
ground that the said Act has been declared to be unconstitutional and void;
and(b)no court shall enforce a decree or order directing the refund of any
rent or damages or costs recovered under the 1960 Act merely on the ground
that the said Act has been declared to be unconstitutional and void.

