## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998

## Act 43 of 1998

  * Published on 11 December 1998 
  * Commenced on 11 December 1998 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 December 2022.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment) Act, 2022 (Act 46 of 2022) on 28 December 2022] 

Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998(Tamil Nadu Act No. 43 of
1998)Last Updated 10th December, 2019[Dated 11.12.1998]An Act to provide for
transparency in the public procurement and to regulate the procedure in
inviting and accepting tenders and matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.Whereas to maximise economy and efficiency in Government
procurement;And Whereas to foster and encourage effective participation by
tenderers in the process of tenders;And Whereas to promote healthy competition
among tenderers;And Whereas to provide for fair and equitable treatment of all
tenderers;And Whereas it is expedient to eliminate irregularities,
interference and corrupt practices in the matters relating to tender processes
by providing transparency in such matters;And Whereas to promote the integrity
of the process of tenders and to promote fairness and public confidence in the
processing of tenders by ensuring transparency in the procedure relating to
procurement;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil
Nadu in the Forty-ninth year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act,
1998.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on [such date] [Appoints 1st day of October 2000 as the date on
which the said Act shall come into force. [TNGGE No.701 / 1-10-2000
(No.II(2)/FIN/1051(d1)/2000) - G.O.Ms.No.445 / 26th September, 2000].] as the
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)'Construction' means
all works associated with the construction, reconstruction, demolition, repair
or renovation of a building, structure or any other related
works;(aa)“domestic enterprise” means any enterprise located in the State,
which manufactures or produces goods or provides or renders services within
the State and which fulfills the criteria to qualify as a micro or small
enterprise as may be notified by the Central Government under clause (1) of
section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
(Central Act 27 of 2006).(i)any domestic enterprise located in the State,
which is owned by any person belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled
Tribe; or(ii)any domestic enterprise, which is a firm or limited liability
partnership, having its registered office and place of business in the State,
where notless than three-fourths of the partners belong to the Scheduled
Castes or Scheduled Tribes; or(iii)any domestic enterprise, which is a company
having its registered office and place of business in the State
where,-(aaa)“domestic enterprise owned by Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes” means—(1)more than fifty per cent. of the ordinary shareholdings
pertain to persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes;
and(2)the control of the company, as defined in section 2 (27) of the
Companies Act,2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013) vests with persons belonging to
the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes.(b)'Goods' means raw materials,
products, equipment and other objects of every kind and description and
includes electricity;(c)'Government' means the State Government;(cc)['Lowest
Tender' means the tender which, on evaluation, is found to be the most
beneficial to the procuring entity in financially quantifiable terms.]
[Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second Amendment) Act,
2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec.2(2)[TNGGE No.320/15-11-2012] (w.e.f.
07-12-2012) Appoints 7th day of December 2012 as the date on which the said
Act shall come into force. [TNGGE No.342/7-12-2012 (No.II(2)/FIN/815(g)/2012)
- G.O.Ms.No.422 / 7th December, 2012].](d)'Procurement' means acquisition by
any means by purchase of goods or services and also of
construction;(e)'Procuring Entity' means the entity specified in the Schedule
to this Act;(ee)“Scheduled Castes” and “Scheduled Tribes” shall have the
meanings assigned to them respectively under clauses (24) and (25) of Article
366 of the Constitution.(eeee)“State” means the State of Tamil
Nadu.(f)'Tender' means the formal offer made in pursuance of an invitation by
the procuring entity(g)'Tender Bulletin' means the bulletin published for each
district or State, containing details of invitation and acceptance of
tender;(h)'Tender Bulletin Officer' means any officer appointed by the
Government to publish the district or State Tender Bulletin;(i)'Tender
Document' means a set of papers containing schedule of works, rates,
requirement of goods or services, technical specifications, procedure and
criteria as may be prescribed for evaluation and comparison of tenders and
such other particulars as may be prescribed;[* * *] [Omitted by the Tamil Nadu
Transparency in Tenders (Second Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
2012) sec. 2(ii) (w.e.f. 07-12-2012).]

### 3. Prohibition or Procurement except by tender.

(1)No procurement shall be made by the procuring entity except by
tender.(2)The provisions of sections 9 and 10 shall not apply to any
procurement made by a procuring entity, in the normal course, if it is for
carrying on business of selling and buying goods:Provided that in case of
procurement by the procuring entities on behalf of and for sale to Government
or Government organisations for any Government programme, such procurement
shall be only by tender.

### 4. Regulation of Tenders.

No tender shall be invited or accepted by any authority after the commencement
of this Act, except in accordance with the procedure specified in this Act and
the rules made there under.

### 5. Appoint of Bulletin Officer.

The Government may, by notification appoint,-(a)[an officer of the Government
not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to Government as State Tender
Bulletin Officer] [Appoints the Director, Information and Public Relations as
State Tender Bulletin Officer. [TNGGE No.701 / 1-10-2000
(No.II(2)/FIN/1051(d2)/2000) - G.O.Ms.No.447 / 26th September, 2000 and
Amendment issued TNGG No.27, / 18-7-2001 (No.II/(2)FIN/561/2001) -
G.O.Ms.No.233 / 15th June, 2001].];(b)[an officer not below the rank of a
Deputy Collector as District Tender Bulletin Officer for every district]
[Appoints the District Public Relation Officer attached to the Collector of
every district as District Tender Bulletin Officer for the respective
districts. [TNGGE No.701 / 1-10-2000 (No.II(2)/FIN/1051(d2)/2000) -
G.O.Ms.No.447 / 26th September, 2000].];

### 6. Functions of Bulletin Officers.

(1)On receipt of intimation relating to details of notice of invitation of
Tender, from the Tender Inviting Authority, information relating to acceptance
of tender together with a comparative analysis and reasons for acceptance of
tenders from the Tender Accepting Authority, the State or as the case may be,
the District Tender Bulletin Officer shall, publish the same in the State or
District Tender Bulletin, as the case may be within such time as may be
prescribed:Provided that, if the procurement covers more than one district,
the invitation and the acceptance of tenders shall be published in the State
Tender Bulletin and also in the District Tender Bulletin of such
districts.(2)The Tender Bulletin shall be made available for sale in the
office of the Tender Bulletin Officer and at such other places as may be
specified by him.

### 7. Appointment of Tender Inviting Authority and Tender Accepting
Authority.

(1)The Government or the procuring entity, may, by order, appoint an officer
under its control as Tender Inviting Authority for carrying out the functions
assigned to it under this Act.(2)The Government or the procuring entity, may,
by order, appoint an officer or a committee consisting such number of officers
as may be prescribed as Tender Accepting Authority for carrying out the
functions assigned to it under this Act.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-sections (1) and (2), -(a)where the Government is the Tender Accepting
Authority, Tamil Nadu Government Business Rules shall be followed for tender
acceptance ensuring adherence to the other provisions of this Act;(b)where a
Multi-member Tender Accepting Authority is discharging its functions under
other Acts, such Multi-member Authority shall be deemed to be Tender Accepting
Authority under this Act.

### 8. Opening of Tender.

The Tender Accepting Authority or any other officer authorised by it, shall
open the tenders in the presence of tenderers present and who have submitted
tenders in such time and in such place as may be specified in the tender
document.

### 9. Functions of Tender Inviting Authority.

(1)The Tender Inviting Authority shall invite tenders in the form of a notice
containing such particulars as may be prescribed.(2)The Tender Inviting
Authority shall communicate the Notice Inviting Tenders to the Bulletin
Officers according to the value of the procurement and within such time as may
be prescribed, so as to publish the same in the appropriate Tender
Bulletin.(3)The Tender Inviting Authority shall also publish the Notice
Inviting Tenders in Indian Trade Journal and in daily newspapers having wide
circulation depending upon the value of the procurement prescribed.(4)The
Tender Inviting Authority shall supply the schedule of rates and tender
documents in such manner and in such places as may be prescribed to every
intending tenderer who has applied for such document.

### 10. Evaluation and Acceptance of Tender.

(1)The Tender Accepting Authority shall cause an objective evaluation of the
tenders taking into consideration the schedule of rates as mentioned in the
tender document and the prevailing market rate for procurement and comparison
of the tenders in accordance with the procedure and criteria specified in the
tender document.(2)After evaluation and comparison of tenders as specified in
sub-section (1), the Tender Accepting Authority shall accept the lowest tender
ascertained on the basis of objective and quantifiable factors specified in
the tender document and giving relative weights among them.Provided also that
the Tender Accepting Authority shall accept the tender of the domestic
enterprises owned by Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, not being the
lowest tender, upon satisfaction of such conditions as may be prescribed, in
respect of goods manufactured or produced and services provided or rendered by
them, to the extent of five per cent. of the total requirement in that
procurement, if such enterprise is willing to match the price of the lowest
tender.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), if the Tender
Accepting Authority decides that the price of the lowest tender is higher with
reference to the prevailing market rate or the schedule of rates, [the said
authority] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second
Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 3(i) (w.e.f.
07-12-2012).] may negotiate for a reduction of price with that tenderer.(4)If
at any time before the acceptance of tender, the Tender Accepting Authority
receives information that a tenderer who has submitted tender has been banned
by any Procuring Entity, 9[the said authority] shall not accept the tender of
that tenderer even if it may be the lowest tender.(5)In case where two or more
tenderers quoted the same price, the Tender Accepting Authority shall split
the procurement among such tenderers taking into consideration the experience
and credentials of such tenderers. Where such splitting is not possible or
could not be done equally, 9[the said authority] shall record reasons for the
same.(6)If the Tender Accepting Authority proposes to accept the tender as per
the provisions of this section, 9[the said authority] shall pass orders
accepting the tender together with reasons for such acceptance.[Provided that
if the tenderer is unable to supply the entire quantity required, the Tender
Accepting Authority may follow the fixed rate contract procedure as may be
prescribed.] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second
Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 3(ii) (w.e.f.
07-12-2012).](7)The Tender Accepting Authority shall intimate the information
regarding the name and address of the tenderer whose tender has been accepted
along with the reasons for rejection of other tenders to the appropriate
Tender Bulletin Officers.

### 11. Appeal.

(1)Any tenderer aggrieved by the order passed by the Tender Accepting
Authority under section 10 may appeal to the Government within ten days from
the date of receipt of order and the Government shall dispose the appeal
within fifteen days from the date of receipt.(2)In disposing of an appeal
under sub-section (1), the Government may, after giving the party an
opportunity of making his representations, pass such order thereon as they may
deem fit.(3)The order of the Government on such appeal shall be final.(4)The
Government may, pending the exercise of their powers under this section pass
such interlocutory orders as they may deem fit.

### 12. Right to reject Tender.

(1)After negotiation with the tenderer and before passing the order accepting
a tender as under sub-section (6) of Section 10, if the Tender Accepting
Authority decides that the price quoted by such tenderer is higher by the
percentage as may be prescribed over the schedule of rates or prevailing
market price, [the said authority] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency
in Tenders (Second Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 4
(w.e.f. 07-12-2012).] shall reject the tender.(2)The Tender Accepting
Authority before passing the order accepting a tender, may also reject all the
tenders for reasons such as changes in the scope of procurement, new
technologies or substantial design changes, lack of anticipated financial
resources, court orders, accidents or calamities and other unforeseen
circumstances.

### 13. Power to obtain information.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may with a view to ensuring transparency
in tender process, by order in writing, call for any information relating to
transparency from the Tender Inviting Authority or from the Tender Accepting
Authority on any matter in tender processing and the said Authority shall
furnish the same to the Government.

### 14. Power of Government to call for records.

The Government may at any time, with a view to ensuring transparency in tender
process, require any authority,-(a)to produce records relating to invitation
and acceptance of tenders;(b)to furnish the tender document, estimate,
statement, accounts or statistics relating to such tenders; and to furnish any
report.

### 15. Procedure to be followed in certain cases.

The provisions of this Act to the extent they are not consistent with the
procedure prescribed in the Projects funded by International Agreements or by
International Financial Agencies shall not apply.

### 16. Provisions of this Act not to apply in certain cases.

The provisions of sections 9 and 10 shall not apply to procurement,-(a)during
natural calamities and emergencies declared by the Government;(b)available
from a single source only from a supplier or cases in which a particular
supplier or contractor has exclusive rights in respect of the goods or
services or construction and no reasonable alternative or substitute exists or
where the procuring entity having procured goods, equipment, technology from a
supplier or contractor determines that additional supplies must be procured
from that specific supplier or contractor for reasons of standardization and
compatibility with the existing goods, equipment or technology:Provided that a
committee of three experts consisting one technical representative of the
procuring entity, one technical representative of a State or Central
Government Organisation dealing with similar procurement and one
representative from a reputed Academic or Research Institution or Non-
commercial Institution having expertise in such line, declares it as single
source procurement;(c)[ from departments of Government, Public Sector
Undertakings, Statutory Boards and such other institutions as may be notified
by the Government only in respect of goods manufactured or services provided
by them; [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second
Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 5(i) (w.e.f.
07-12-2012).]Provided that such procurement shall not exceed forty percent of
the total requirement in that procurement and shall be at a price not
exceeding the price of the lowest tender in respect of the remaining sixty
percent.](d)of low value and local purchases as may be prescribed;(dd)[ from
domestic small-scale industrial unit only in respect of goods manufactured by
them: [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second
Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 5(ii) (w.e.f.
07-12-2012).]Provided that such procurement shall not exceed twenty five
percent of the total requirement in that procurement and shall be at a price
not exceeding the price of the lowest tender in respect of the remaining
seventy five percent:Provided further that in case of a single procurement
involving clauses (c) and (dd), such procurement shall not exceed forty
percent of the total requirement in that procurement.](e)from the rate
contracts of Director-General of Supplies and Disposals and Association of
State Road Transport Undertakings;(f)[ by spot purchase of agricultural
commodities, agricultural produce and livestock from primary producers; by
spot purchase of cotton by Spinning Mills; by spot purchase of animals for
Government programmes or schemes or for Government departments from shanties;
of Sugarcane purchase from farmers by the State Public Sector Undertakings and
Co-operative Sugar Mills; of paddy by Direct Purchase Centres; of Tamil Nadu
Civil Supplies Corporation; of clothing by the Government Departments or the
State Public Sector Undertakings from the Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers' Co-
operative Society; and by similar organizations and of similar goods and
services, as may be notified by the Government;] [Substituted by the Tamil
Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Second Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31
of 2012) sec. 5(iii) (w.e.f. 07-12-2012).](g)[ of cement from the Tamil Nadu
Cement Corporation Limited, or of paper from the Tamil Nadu Newsprints and
Papers Limited: [Added by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment)
Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 2001) s. 3(b) (w.e.f. 1-12-2001).]Provided
that,-(a)a committee consisting of the Secretary to Government, Industries
Department, the Secretary to Government, Finance Department and the Chairman-
cum- Managing Director or the Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Cement Corporation
Limited shall determine the price of cement to be procured;(b)the price of
paper shall be negotiated with the Tamil Nadu Newsprints and Papers Limited by
the procuring entity.] and(h)[ by the Co-operative Federations from their
Federating units or Primary Co-operative Societies, of goods manufactured or
services provided by them.][Added by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders
(Second Amendment) Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2012) sec. 5(iv) (w.e.f.
07-12-2012).]

### 17. Officers deemed to be Public Servant.

Every Officer acting under or in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or
rule or order or notification made there under, shall be deemed to be public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
XLV of 1860).

### 18. Indemnity.

No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or any
officer or authority of the Government in respect of anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done.

### 19. Bar of Jurisdiction.

Save as otherwise provided in this Act no order passed or proceeding taken by
any officer or authority under this Act shall be called in question in any
court, and no injunction shall be granted by any court in respect of any
action taken or to be taken by such officer or authority in pursuance of any
power conferred by or under this Act.

### 20. Act to override other laws.

The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or any custom or usage or agreement or decree or order of a Court or a
Tribunal or other Authority.

### 21. Power to remove difficulties.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:[* *
*] [Proviso omitted by the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Amendment) Act,
2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 2002) s. 3 (w.e.f. 30-9-2002).]

### 22. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the date on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order issued
under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly; and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the Assembly
decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or issued ,
the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or to be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 23. Savings.

All the existing rules, regulations, departmental codes, manuals, orders shall
so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and the
rules made thereunder, continue in force.The Schedule.[See section
2(e)].Procuring Entity

### 1\. Government Departments.

### 2\. Public Sector Undertakings of the Government.

### 3\. Statutory Boards formed by the Government.

### 4\. Local Bodies in the State.

### 5\. Co-operative Institutions in the State.

### 6\. Universities.

### 7\. Societies formed by the Government.

