## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Patta Passbook Act, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Patta Passbook Act, 1983

## Act 4 of 1986

  * Published on 24 January 1986 
  * Commenced on 24 January 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 January 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Patta Passbook Act, 1983(Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1986)Received the
assent of the President on the 24th January 1986 and published in Part IV -
Section 2 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 30th January
1986.An Act to provide for the issue of Patta Pass Book to holders of
agricultural lands.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu
in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Patta Pass Book Act, 1983.(2)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Government may by notification, appoint and different dates
may be appointed for different areas and for different provision of this
Act.Notes. - Except sections 5,9,15 and 73 came into force on the 1st day of
April 1993. Sections 5, 9 and 15 came into force on the 1st day of March 1996.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"agriculture"
includes, -(a)horticulture;(b)the raising of crops, grass or garden
produce;(c)the use by an agriculturist of land held by him, or part thereof,
for grazing;(d)the use of any land for the purpose of raising manure
crops;(e)dairy farming;(f)poultry farming;(g)livestock breeding;(h)growing of
trees;and "agricultural" shall be construed accordingly;(2)"credit agency"
means any individual, co-operative credit society by whatever name called,
including a land development bank, a commercial bank, a private bank or any
other agency the main object of which is to lend money;(3)"Government" means
the State Government;(4)"land" means agricultural land, that is to say, land
which is used or capable of being used for agricultural purposes or purposes
sub-servant thereto and is either assessed to land revenue in the State or is
subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Government
as such and includes horticultural land, forest land, garden land,
plantations, but does not include house site;(5)"limited owner" means any
person entitled to a life estate in any land and includes persons deriving
rights through him.Explanation. - A person who has a right to enjoy the land
during his lifetime shall be deemed to be a limited owner notwithstanding that
he has no power to alienate the land;(6)"owner" means any person holding land
in severally or jointly or in common under a ryotwari settlement or in any way
subject to the payment of revenue direct to the Government and includes a full
owner or limited owner but does not include a mortgagee, lessee or a
tenant;(7)"patta pass book" means the patta pass book issued under section
3;(8)"person" includes any company, firm, society or association of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or any private trust or public
trust;(9)"registering authority" means the registering officer appointed under
the Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908);(10)"Tahsildar" means the
Tahsildar having jurisdiction over the area in which the land is situated or
any other officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of Deputy
Tahsildar authorised by the Government, by notification to exercise the powers
conferred on, and discharge the duties imposed upon, the Tahsildar under this
Act, for such areas as may be specified in the notification.

### 3. Issue of patta pass book.

(1)The Tahsildar shall issue a patta pass book to every owner in respect of
land owned by him, on an application made by him in this behalf. Any
application received under this section shall be acknowledged by the Tahsildar
or any other officer authorised by him in this behalf.(2)A taluk shall be the
unit for the issue of patta pass book.(3)(a)As soon as may be after the
publication of the notification under subsection (3) of section 1 bringing
this section into force in an area and before undertaking the work relating to
the issue of the patta pass book, the Tahsildar shall publish a notice in each
village in such area informing the public that patta pass book is to be issued
under this Act to every owner and such owner shall apply for the issue of
patta pass book as provided under this section.(b)The notice shall contain
such further particulars and shall be published in such manner, as may be
prescribed.(4)The application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form,
shall contain such declaration and particulars, and shall be made in such
manner and within such time, as may be prescribed.(5)In cases where no
application has been made by any owner within the time-limit referred to in
sub-section (4) in respect of any land, the Tahsildar shall, based on the
entries made in the records available in his office, cause a notice to be
served on the owner of the land concerned requiring him to furnish any
information or produce any document for his inspection and also to make his
representation, if any, in writing for making necessary entries in respect of
the land concerned in the Register of Patta Pass Book maintained by him and
for the purpose of issuing the patta pass book.(6)(a)Any owner on whom a
notice has been served under sub-section (5) shall be bound to furnish or
produce for the inspection of the Tahsildar within such time as may be
specified in such notice or within such further time not exceeding thirty days
as the Tahsildar may, in his discretion, allow, all such information or
documents needed for making necessary entries in the Register of Patta Pass
Book in respect of the land concerned or for the purpose of issuing the patta
pass book, as may be within his knowledge or in his possession or
power.(b)Where, any information is furnished or any document is produced in
accordance with the notice under sub-section (5), the Tahsildar or any officer
authorised by him in this behalf shall give a written acknowledgment thereof
to the person furnishing or producing the same and shall endorse on such
document a note under his signature stating the fact of its production and the
date thereof.(7)On receipt of the application under sub-section (1) or on the
basis of information obtained by the Tahsildar under clause (b) of sub-section
(6), the Tahsildar shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed and shall
also give a reasonable opportunity to the persons having interest in the land
to make their representations either orally or in writing. After considering
the claims of the persons having interest in the land, the Tahsildar shall
determine as to whom the patta pass book is to be issued and shall issue a
patta pass book accordingly to the owner of the land concerned:Provided that
in the case of any owner who has not made an application under sub-section (1)
and in respect of whom a notice has been served under subsection (5), no patta
pass book shall be issued by the Tahsildar, unless a declaration in the
prescribed form is filed by the owner concerned before the Tahsildar:Provided
further that in any case where the Tahsildar is satisfied that any person is
not the owner of any land for which a patta pass book is applied for or
claimed, he shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the
application or claim, for the issue of a patta pass book in respect of such
land.(8)The patta pass book shall be in such form as may be prescribed and
contain the following particulars, namely: -(a)the survey number or sub-
division number, extent and local name, if any, of the land;(b)the name and
address of-the owner;(c)such other particulars as may be prescribed.(9)While
issuing a patta pass book under this section, the Tahsildar shall cause all
the entries and particulars as contained in such patta pass book, to be made
in the Register of Patta Pass Book maintained in the office of the Tahsildar
for the purpose of record. The Register of Patta Pass Book shall be in such
form and maintained in such manner, as may be prescribed.(10)The patta pass
book shall be issued under this section on payment of such fees as may be
prescribed.

### 4. Presumption of correctness of entries in the patta pass book.

\- The entries in the patta pass book and the certified copy of entries in the
patta pass book shall be presumed to be true and correct until the contrary is
proved or a new entry is lawfully substituted therefor.

### 5. Making of entries of registration of alienation or transfer in the
patta pass book.

(1)No document relating to transfer of any land by sale, gift, mortgage
exchange, settlement or otherwise shall be registered by the registering
authority, unless the patta pass book relating to such land is produced before
such registering authority.(2)No document referred to in sub-section (1) shall
be registered by the registering authority, unless the person liable to pay
the registration fees also pays to the registering authority such fees as may
be prescribed for making necessary entries relating to such transfer in the
patta pass book. On the registration of such document and after making
necessary entries in the patta pass book, the registering authority shall make
a report of such registration, and also send a certified extract of the said
entries to the Tahsildar.(3)On receipt of the certified extracts of the
entries relating to such transfer, the Tahsildar shall cause necessary changes
to be carried out in the Register of Patta Pass Book maintained by him and
shall also cause necessary changes to be carried out in the patta pass book
already issued under section 3, or as the case may be, issue a new patta pass
book, after sub-division, if necessary, within such time and on collection of
such fees, as may be prescribed.

### 6. Entries in the patta pass book to be prima facie evidence of title.

\- The entries in the patta book issued by the Tahsildar under section 3 shall
be prima facie evidence of title of the person in whose name the patta pass
book has been issued to the parcels of land entered in the patta pass book,
free of any prior encumbrance, unless otherwise specified therein.

### 7. Acquisition of rights to be reported.

(1)Any person acquiring by succession, survivorship, inheritance, partition,
purchase, or otherwise, or by decree or order of a Court or by order of the
Government or other authority any right in or over any land as owner shall
report in writing his acquisition of such right to the Tahsildar within three
months from the date of such acquisition or within such further period, as may
be prescribed, and the said officer shall give a written acknowledgment of the
receipt of the report to the person making it:Provided that where the person
acquiring the right is a minor or otherwise disqualified, his guardian or
other person having charge of his property shall make the report to the
Tahsildar:Provided further that any person acquiring a right by virtue of a
registered document shall be exempted from the obligation to report to the
Tahsildar.Explanation. - A person in whose favour a mortgage is discharged or
extinguished, acquires a right within the meaning of this section.(2)On
receipt of report under sub-section (1), the Tahsildar shall cause necessary
changes to be carried out in the Register of Patta Pass Book maintained by him
and shall also cause necessary changes to be carried out in the patta pass
book already issued under section 3, or as the case may be, issue a new patta
pass book after sub-division, if necessary, within such time and on collection
of such fees, as may be prescribed:Provided that, before causing any such
change to be carried out or issuing such new patta pass book, the Tahsildar
shall follow the procedure laid down in sub-section (7) of section 3.,

### 8. Certified copies.

\- Application for certified copies of entries in the Register of Patta Pass
Book may be made to, and such copies may be issued by, the Tahsildar, in such
manner and on collection of such fees as may be prescribed.

### 9. Presentation of patta pass book before credit agency.

\- Every owner of the land taking financial assistance or a loan from any
credit agency on security of land, shall produce the patta pass book relating
to his land to such credit agency. The credit agency shall cause the necessary
entries being made in the patta pass book, giving particulars of such
financial assistance or loan and the charge or mortgage created by the owner
in respect of the land in the respective columns provided in the patta pass
book, in such manner as may be prescribed. A copy of the extract of the said
entries shall also be sent by the credit agency to the Tahsildar within such
period as may be prescribed. On receipt of such copy of extract, the Tahsildar
shall make the necessary entries of the grant of such financial assistance or
loan and the creation of charge or mortgage in respect of the land held by
such owner in the Register of Patta pass Book maintained by him.

### 10. Modification of entries in the patta pass book.

(1)Where any person claims that any modification is required in respect of any
entry in the patta pass book already issued under section 3 either by reason
of the death of any person or by the reason of the transfer of the land or by
reason of any other subsequent change in circumstances, he shall make an
application to the Tahsildar for the modification of the relevant entries in
the patta pass book.(2)An application under sub-section (1) shall contain such
particulars, as may be prescribed, and shall be accompanied by the documents,
if any, relied on by the applicant as evidence in support of his
claim.(3)(a)Before passing an order on an application under sub-section (1),
the Tahsildar shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed and shall also
give a reasonable opportunity to the parties concerned to make their
representations either orally or in writing. If the Tahsildar decides that any
modification should be made in respect of entries in the patta passbook, he
shall pass an order accordingly and shall make such consequential changes in
the patta pass book, as appear to him to be necessary, for giving effect to
his order.(b)If the Tahsildar decides that there is no case for effecting any
modification of the entries in the patta pass book, he shall reject the
application.(c)An order under clause (a) or clause (b) shall contain the
reasons for such order and shall be communicated to the parties concerned in
such manner as may be prescribed.

### 11. Persons to furnish information.

(1)Any person whose rights or interests are required to be, or have been
entered in any patta pass book under this Act shall be bound, on the
requisition of the Tahsildar engaged in preparing or modifying the entries in
the patta pass book, to furnish or produce for his inspection within such time
as may be specified in such requisition or within such further time as the
Tahsildar may, in his discretion allow, all such information or documents
needed for the correct preparation or revision thereof as may be within his
knowledge or in his possession or power.(2)Where any information is furnished
or any document is produced in accordance with the requisition under sub-
section (1), the Tahsildar or any officer authorised by him in this behalf
shall give a written acknowledgment thereof to the person furnishing or
producing the same and shall endorse on such document a note under his
signature stating the fact of its production and the date thereof.

### 12. Appeal.

\- Any person aggrieved by an order made by the Tahsildar under this Act may,
within such period as may be prescribed, appeal to such authority as may be
prescribed and the decision of such authority on such appeal shall, subject to
the provisions of section 13, be final.

### 13. Revision.

\- Any officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of District
Revenue Officer authorised by the Government, by notification, in this behalf
for such area as may be specified in the notification, may of his own motion
or on the application of a party call for and examine the records of any
Tahsildar or appellate authority within his jurisdiction in respect of any
proceeding under this Act and pass such orders as he may think fit:Provided
that no such order prejudicial to any person shall be made unless he has been
given a reasonable opportunity of making his representation.

### 14. Bar of suits.

\- No suit shall lie against the Government or any officer of the Government
in respect of a claim to have an entry made in any patta pass book that is
maintained under this Act or to have any such entry omitted or
amended:Provided that if any person is aggrieved as to any right of which he
is in possession, by an entry made in the patta pass book under this Act, he
may institute a suit for a declaration of his rights under Chapter VI of the
Specific Relief Act, 1963 (Central Act 47 of 1963); and the entry in the patta
pass book shall be amended in accordance with any such declaration.

### 15. Certified copies of records to be annexed to plaint or application.

(1)The plaintiff or applicant in every suit or application, as hereinafter
defined relating to land situated in any area to which this Act applies shall
annex to the plaint or application a certified copy of an entry in the
Register of Patta Pass Book or the patta pass book relevant to such land.(2)If
the plaintiff or applicant fails to do so, for any cause which the Court deems
sufficient, he shall produce such certified copy within a reasonable time to
be fixed by the Court and if such certified copy is not so annexed or
produced, the plaint or application shall be rejected, but the rejection
thereof shall not of its own force preclude the presentation of a fresh plaint
in respect of the same cause of action or of a fresh application in respect of
the same subject-matter with a certified copy annexed.(3)In this section, -
(a) "suit" means a suit to which the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) apply;(b)"application" means an
application, -(i)for the execution of a decree or order in a suit;(ii)for the
filing of an agreement stating a case for the opinion of the Court under the
said Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908);(iii)for the filing
of an agreement to refer to arbitration under section 20 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940 See [(Central Act 10 of 1940)] [now the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996 (Central Act 26 of 1996).];(iv)for the filing of an award under
section 14 of the said Arbitration Act;(v)of any other kind to which the
Government may, by notification, direct that this section shall apply;(c)an
application shall be deemed to relate to land, if the decree or other matter
with respect to which an application is made, relates to land.

### 16. Penalty for failure to famish information.

\- If any person fails to furnish any information or to produce any document
requisitioned under subjection (5) of section 3 or under section 11 within the
time specified in the requisition under that section or within the further
time, if any, allowed by the Tahsildar under that section, he shall be
punishable with fine, which may extend to, two hundred rupees.

### 17. Penalty for furnishing false information.

\- If any person who is required to furnish any information under this Act,
furnishes any information which he knows, or has reason to believe to be
false, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months or with fine, which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 18. Cognizance of offences.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by an officer authorised in this behalf by
the Government.

### 19. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against any officer or
authority for anything which is, in good faith, done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 20. Exemption.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to any land owned by the Central
Government or any State Government or any local authority.

### 21. Act to override other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law, custom or usage or
contract.

### 22. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after
it is made, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before
the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in any such rule or the
Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule should not be made, the rule shall,
thereafter, have effect, only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 23. Issue of patta pass book for house site.

(1)The Tahsildar shall issue a patta pass book to every owner in respect of
the house site owned by him.(2)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be
apply in relation to the issue of patta pass book for house site under this
section, as they apply in relation to the issue of patta pass book for land
under this Act.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, -(a)"house
site" means a plot of land held for building purposes, whether any building is
actually erected thereupon or not, and includes the open ground or courtyard
enclosed by, or adjacent to, any building erected thereupon, but does not
include land as defined in clause (4) of section 2;(b)"owner" means any person
holding house site in severally or jointly or in common either, as full owner
or limited owner, but does not include a mortgagee, lessee or tenant;(c)"Patta
pass book" means the patta pass book issued under this section.

### 24. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order, published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as
appears to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of two years
from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(2)Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after
it is made, be laid before the Legislative Assembly.

