## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994

## Act 34 of 1994

  * Published on 28 June 1994 
  * Commenced on 28 June 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 June 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994(Tamil
Nadu Act 34 of 1994)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Oilpalm
(Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of
1994). - To bridge the gap in the production and consumption of edible oil in
Tamil Nadu, Oilpalm Project was formulated, as, oilpalm has the highest
potentiality in the production of edible oil among all the oilseed crops.2\.
Based on the report of Dr. Chadda, Government of India, Ministry of
Agriculture, Department of Agriculture and Co-operation (Technology Mission on
Oilseeds and Pulses), the three districts of Tiruchirapalli, Thanjavur and
Nagapattinam-Quid-e-Milleth were identified to be suitable for oilpalm
cultivation in this State.3\. It has been programmed to cover 10,000 hectares
of area under oilpalm during the VIII Five Year Plan period. During 1993-94,
an area of 2,000 hectares have been covered under oil-palm cultivation
initially and another 2,000 hectares are to be covered during the year
1994-95. The Central Government and State Government provide the financial
assistance to the Oil-palm growers by way of subsidy towards seedlings and
cultivation cost, and loans are also arranged through Nationalised Banks.
Besides this, many private firms and individuals have started evincing
interest in Oilpalm cultivation.4\. It is, therefore, considered necessary to
undertake a legislation to provide for the regulation of cultivation of
oilpalm and for orderly growth and processing thereof and also to ensure
reasonable prices to oilpalm growers.5\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 4th May 1994.Received the assent of the Governor on
the 28th June 1994 and first published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 30th June 1994.An Act to provide
for the regulation of cultivation of oilpalm and for orderly growth and
processing thereof and for matters connected therewith.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-fifth Year of the
Republic of India as follows : -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Oilpalm (Regulation of Production and
Processing) Act, 1994.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint and different dates may be appointed for different areas
and for different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"factory" means any
premises including the precincts thereof or any part of which any
manufacturing process connected with the processing of oilpalm FFB is carried
on with aid of mechanical power;(b)"factory zone" means an area assigned to a
factory under section 11;(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"occupier of the factory" means the person who, or the authority
which, has the ultimate control over the affairs of the factory and, where the
said affairs are entrusted to a Secretary, Manager, Managing Director,
Executive Director or Chief Executive Director, such Secretary, Manager,
Managing Director, Executive Director or Chief Executive Director shall be
deemed to be the occupier of the factory;(e)"oilpalm" means the palm of the
genus, Elaeis and includes the species, Elaeis guineensis and its
hybrids;(f)"Oilpalm Commissioner" means the Oilpalm Commissioner appointed or
designated under section 8;(g)"Oilpalm FFB" means the unprocessed oilpalm
fresh fruit bunch and includes its loose form also;(h)"Oilpalm grower" means a
person who cultivates oilpalm, whether by himself or by his own servants or by
hired labour or by members of his family or by his tenants and includes
Oilpalm Grower's Co-operative Society, but not a member thereof, and a company
as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of
1956);(i)"Oilpalm Grower's Co-operative Society" means a society registers
under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1983) which has among its objects and functions the cultivation and sale of
oilpalm FFB by its members, and includes the Union or Federation of any such
societies;(j)"Oilpalm Inspector" means the Oilpalm Inspector appointed or
designated under section 9;(k)"oilpalm product" means any product obtained
directly from the oil-palm and includes palm oil, palm kernal, palm kernal
cake, palm fatty acids, oil-palm seeds, oilpalm seedlings and palm kernal
oil;(l)"Project Management Committee" means the Tamil Nadu Oilpalm Project
Management Committee constituted under section 3;(m)"Zonal Committee" means a
Zonal Committee constituted under section 5.

### 3. Constitution of Project Management Committee.

(1)As soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, the Government shall,
by notification, constitute a committee for the State to be called the Tamil
Nadu Oilpalm Project Management Committee.(2)The Project Management Committee
shall consist of the following members, namely :-(a)the Secretary to
Government in-charge of Agriculture, who shall be the Chairman, ex-
officio;(b)the Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance, ex-officio;(c)the
Secretary to Government in-charge of Planning and Development, ex-
officio;(d)the Secretary to Government in-charge of Co-operation, Food and
Consumer Protection, ex-officio;(e)the Secretary to Government in-charge of
Industries, ex-officio;(f)a representative of the Indian Council for
Agricultural Research, New Delhi;(g)a representative of the Department of
Agriculture and Co-operation (Technology Mission on Oilseeds and Pulses),
Government of India;(h)a representative of the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development;(i)a representative of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
University to be nominated by its Vice-Chancellor;(j)a representative of the
Oilpalm processing factories nominated by the Government;(k)one person from
among the oilpalm growers nominated by the Government;(l)the Director of
Agriculture, who shall be the Member-Secretary, ex-officio.(3)The term of the
Project Management Committee shall be three years, but the Government may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, reconstitute the Committee at any time
before the expiry of the term.(4)In case a Secretary to Government, who is an
ex-officio member, is unable to attend the meetings of the Project Management
Committee for any reason, he may depute any officer of his department not
lower in rank than that of a Deputy Secretary to Government to attend the
meeting.

### 4. Functions of Project Management Committee.

\- It shall be the duty of the Project Management Committee to advise the
Government on the following matters, namely : -(a)extension of the areas under
cultivation of oilpalm;(b)problems relating to the cultivation of
oilpalm;(c)problems faced by the oilpalm processing industry;(d)co-ordination
between the oilpalm growers and industry and sorting out of all matters which
may arise;(e)to bring to the notice of the Government any measures that will
suit the orderly development of the oilpalm cultivation and industry;(f)such
other matters as may be prescribed.

### 5. Constitution of Zonal Committee.

(1)The Government may, by notification, declare each area specified therein
attached to a processing factory as a Zone (hereinafter referred to as "a
factory zone") and the Oilpalm Commissioner may constitute a Zonal Committee
for each such zone:Provided that the Oilpalm Commissioner may, with the
approval of the Government, constitute one Zonal Committee for more than one
factory zone or more than one Zonal Committee for each factory zone, if it is
deemed necessary in the interests of effectively carrying out the purposes of
this Act.(2)The Zonal Committee constituted under sub-section (1) shall
consist of the following members, namely : -(a)a Chairman nominated by the
Oilpalm Commissioner with the approval of the Government, from among the
oilpalm growers residing in the factory zone;(b)one person representing the
factory located in the factory zone to be nominated by the Managing Director
of the factory concerned;(c)four persons from among the oilpalm growers to be
nominated by the Oilpalm Commissioner;(d)the Joint Director of Agriculture,
the Assistant Director of Agriculture and the Executive Engineer (Agricultural
Engineering), representing the area;(e)a representative of the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University to be nominated by its Vice-Chancellor;(f)the Oilpalm
Inspector concerned, who shall be the Member-Secretary of the
Committee:Provided that the members specified in clause (d) shall have the
right to take part in the meetings of the Zonal Committee, but shall not be
entitled to vote at any such meeting.(3)The Zonal Committee shall be a body
corporate having perpetual succession and common seal with power to acquire,
hold and dispose of property and to enter into contracts and shall by the said
name sue and be sued.(4)The term of the Zonal Committee shall be three years
and, upon its expiry, the Committee shall be reconstituted in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (1):Provided that if the Oilpalm Commissioner is
satisfied that it is necessary so to do, he may with the approval of the
Government, by order, dissolve the committee, before the expiry of its
term:Provided further that the Oilpalm Commissioner shall not pass any such
order unless the committee has had an opportunity of making its
representation.(5)When a Zonal Committee is dissolved, the following
consequences shall follow : -(a)all the members shall vacate their offices on
the date specified in the order, but without prejudice to their eligibility
for renomination as members;(b)the committee may be reconstituted within three
months of its dissolution by the Oilpalm Commissioner in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (1);(c)the powers and functions of the committee
shall, pending its re-constitution, be exercised and performed by the Member-
Secretary subject to such restrictions as may be specified in the order.(6)The
Oilpalm Commissioner may, with the approval of the Government, remove any
member of the Zonal Committee, including the Chairman, from his office after
recording the reasons in writing for such removal:Provided that the order
removing a member shall not be passed by the Oilpalm Commissioner unless such
member has had an opportunity of making his representation.(7)Subject to the
provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder, the Zonal Committee may,
by order, regulate its procedure in respect of the conduct of meeting.

### 6. Powers and functions of Zonal Committee.

(1)The functions of the Zonal Committee shall be to -(a)consider the programme
of development of oilpalm cultivation in the Factory Zone;(b)deliberate on the
problems faced by the factory or the growers in cultivation, transport and
processing of oilpalm;(c)devise plans for removal of such problems with the
fund as may be available with the Committee and to recommend to the Government
such action as is necessary for solving the problems;(d)recommend to the local
bodies, Highways and Rural Works and Public Works Departments of the
Government for proper improvement and upkeep of roads leading to the factory
zone from the cultivating centres including feeder roads;(e)takes steps for
prevention and control,of oilpalm diseases and pests affecting oilpalm and
render all possible help for the development of oilpalm cultivation;(f)draw up
plans for training of the cultivators and for extension work in respect of
oilpalm with the fund as may be available with the committee;(g)consider
grievances and complaints of the growers regarding transportation, purchase of
oilpalm FFBs and payment of price by the factory to the oil-palm cultivators;
and(h)administer the fund as may be available.(2)The Government or the Oilpalm
Commissioner, may call a joint meeting of the Chairmen and the members of all
the Zonal Committees for deliberating on the issues common to all the factory
zones.

### 7. Zonal Committee Fund.

(1)There shall be a fund at the disposal of the Zonal Committee for the
performance of the various functions entrusted to it.(2)The fund of the
Committee shall consist of -(a)grants made by the Government either for a
general purpose or for any specific purpose for the performance of the
functions of the Committee;(b)such contributions as may be made by the
factories, oilpalm growers, Oilpalm Grower's Co-operative Societies or such
other organisations interested in the development of oilpalm cultivation and
processing.

### 8. Appointment of Oilpalm Commissioner.

\- Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the Government shall
appoint or designate any officer of the Agriculture Department, not below the
rank of Additional Director of Agriculture, as Oilpalm Commissioner to
exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Oilpalm Commissioner
under this Act.

### 9. Oilpalm Inspector.

(1)Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the Government may
appoint such number of officers of the Government in the cadre of Assistant
Director of Agriculture as Oilpalm Inspectors, for such areas as may be
specified, to exercise the powers and perform the functions vested in the
Oilpalm Inspectors under this Act.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), the Government may designate such number of officers of the
Government in the cadre of Assistant Director of Agriculture as Oilpalm
Inspectors to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Oilpalm
Inspectors under this Act.

### 10. Register of oilpalm growers and Oilpalm Grower's Co-operative
Societies.

\- The occupier of the factory in every factory zone shall maintain in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed a register of oilpalm growers in
the zone attached to the factory in accordance with the provisions of section
11. The register shall be updated periodically and at least every year and
shall always be available in the office of the factory for inspection by the
Oilpalm Inspector or any other authority authorised by the Government or
Oilpalm Commissioner in this behalf. A copy of the list of oilpalm growers and
the Oil-palm Grower's Co-operative Societies in the zone concerned as in the
register shall also be made available by the said occupier to the Zonal
Committee. It shall be competent for the Oilpalm Commissioner, on the report
submitted by the inspecting authority, to order such corrections as he deems
fit in the register maintained under this section.

### 11. Declaration of factory zone.

(1)The Government shall have the power to declare, by notification, any area
as factory zone for the purpose of supply of oil-palm fresh fruit bunches to
the factory specified for the purpose or purchase of oilpalm FFBs and any
other oilpalm product by the factory.(2)Where a particular area is declared as
factory zone under sub-section (1), the oilpalm growers in that area shall
supply the fresh fruit bunches from the oilpalm plantations grown in that area
only to the factory to whom the factory zone is attached and to none
else.(3)Where a particular factory zone is declared under this section, the
occupier of the factory in the factory zone concerned and for which the zone
is declared, shall buy all the oilpalm FFBs produced by all the oilpalm
growers or their co-operative societies in that factory zone as are offered
for sale by them at a price which shall not be less than the price fixed by
the authority empowered to fix the price under this Act.

### 12. Failure to buy oil-palm FFBs.

(1)In the event of failure on the part of the occupier of a factory to buy all
the oilpalm fresh fruit bunches from the growers in the factory zone declared
in relation to a factory, without any valid reason, the occupier of the
factory shall be liable to compensate the loss that may have been caused to
the grower on account of non-purchase of the oilpalm FFBs by the factory in
addition to the penalty specified in section 17.(2)Where an occupier of a
factory refuses to buy particular consignment or consignments of oilpalm FFBs
from a grower, he shall assign reasons therefor in writing:Provided that
damage, inefficient running, breakdown of plant machinery, failure to use
capacities, and any other operational problems shall not be valid reasons for
refusal of the consignment of oilpalm FFBs and shall be treated as the failure
on the part of the factory to buy the oilpalm FFBs for purposes of sub-section
(1):Provided further that the Oilpalm Commissioner shall be the authority to
decide whether there are valid reasons for the failure to buy oilpalm FFBs and
his decision thereon shall be final.

### 13. Power to fix prices.

(1)The Government may suo motu fix the minimum price of oilpalm FFBs or
authorise the Oilpalm Commissioner to do so subject to such guidelines as they
may give in that regard, from time to time.(2)Where the Oilpalm Commissioner
is authorised to fix the prices of oilpalm FFBs to be purchased by the
factory, he shall declare at such intervals as may be directed by the
Government the minimum price at which the oilpalm FFBs be purchased by the
factories.

### 14. Payment of oilpalm price.

(1)The occupier or owner of an oilpalm factory shall make suitable provision
to the satisfaction of the Oilpalm Commissioner for the payment of the price
of oilpalm FFB supplied to the factory.(2)Upon the delivery of oilpalm FFB,
the occupier or owner of a factory shall be liable to pay within fourteen days
from the date of such delivery the price of the oilpalm FFB so supplied.(3)The
price of the oilpalm FFB remaining unpaid on the expiration of the period
specified in sub-section (2) shall carry interest at fifteen per cent per
annum from the date of delivery of oilpalm FFB and it shall be recovered as if
it were an arrear of land revenue.(4)If any occupier or owner of a factory
fails to pay the price of the oilpalm FFB sold to him in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) or the interest payable under sub-section (3),
he shall, in addition to the said price or the interest being recovered from
him as an arrear of land revenue, be liable to the penalty provided for under
clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act,
1955 (Central Act X of 1955), as if he has contravened a direction issued
under that clause.(5)Without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing sub-
sections, where the owner or occupier of a factory or any other person
competent in that behalf, enters into an agreement with a bank under which the
bank agrees to give advance to him on the security of palm oil produced or to
be produced in the factory, the said occupier, owner or other person, as the
case may be, shall provide in such agreement that such percentage which shall
not be less than fifty per cent of the total amount of advance, as may be
prescribed, shall be set apart and be available only for payment to oilpalm
growers or other co-operative societies on account of the quantity of oilpalm
FFB purchased or to be purchased for the factory from those oilpalm growers or
from or through those societies and interest thereon and such societies
commission in respect thereof.(6)Every such occupier, owner or other person as
aforesaid shall send a copy of every such agreement to the Oilpalm
Commissioner within a week from the date on which it is entered into.

### 15. Levy of tax on purchase of oilpalm FFBs.

(1)The Government may, by notification, levy a tax at a rate not exceeding
rupees one hundred per MT, on the purchase of FFBs required for use,
consumption or sale in a factory.(2)The Government may, by notification, remit
in whole or in part such tax in respect of FFBs used or intended to be used in
a factory for any purpose specified in such notification.(3)The tax levied
under sub-section (1) shall be collected from the occupier of the factory or
from the person receiving oilpalm FFBs or the oilpalm processing factory in
such manner and by such authority, as may be prescribed.

### 16. Maintenance of record and inspection.

(1)Every occupier of the factory shall maintain such records as are prescribed
or as required by the Oilpalm Commissioner with the approval of the
Government.(2)An Oilpalm Inspector may at any time inspect a factory and
verify such records, reports, statements and registers as may be required to
be maintained in connection with due implementation of the provisions of this
Act and may also direct the occupier of a factory to produce them for his
verification.(3)The powers under sub-section (2) may be exercised by any
officer authorised in this behalf by the Oilpalm Commissioner by a general or
special order.(4)An occupier of the factory who fails to maintain the records
as required by this section or fails or refuses to produce the same when
called for by an authority under this Act shall be punishable under section
17.

### 17. Penalties.

(1)Every person or occupier of a factory who contravenes the provisions of
section 11 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to rupees ten
thousand and in the case of a continuing contravention of the provisions of
the said section with a further fine not exceeding rupees one thousand for
each day during which the contravention continues.(2)Any person or occupier of
a factory contravening any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or
order made thereunder, for which no penalty is provided in sub-section (1)
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to rupees five thousand.

### 18. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by the Oilpalm Commissioner or any
authority or officer authorised by him in this behalf.(2)No Court inferior to
that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class
shall try any such offence punishable under this Act.

### 19. Compounding of offences.

\- On the application of a person accused of an offence under this Act or any
rule or order made thereunder, the Oilpalm Commissioner or any authority or
officer authorised by him in this behalf may, at any stage, compound such
offence by levying a compounding fee not exceeding rupees ten thousand.

### 20. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal
proceeding shall lie against the Government for any damage caused or likely to
be caused by virtue of any provision of this Act or by anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder.

### 21. Determination of occupier of factory for purposes of this Act.

(1)Where the occupier of an oilpalm factory is a firm or other association of
individuals any one or more of the partners or members thereof may be
prosecuted and punished under this Act for any offence for which the occupier
of the factory or owner thereof is punishable:Provided that the firm or
association may give notice to the Oilpalm Commissioner that it has nominated
one of its partners or members to be occupier of the factory for the purposes
of this Act, and such individuals shall be deemed to be the occupier of
factory for the purposes of this Act, until further notice cancelling his
nomination is received by the Oilpalm Commissioner or until he ceases to be a
partner or member of the firm or association, as the case may be.(2)Where the
occupier of factory is a company or a co-operative society, any one or more of
the Directors thereof, or, in the case of a private company, any one or more
of the shareholders thereof may be prosecuted and punished under this Act, for
any offence for which the occupier of the factory is punishable:Provided that
the company or co-operative society may give notice to the Oilpalm
Commissioner that it has nominated a Director, and a private company may give
notice to the said officer that it has nominated a shareholder, to be the
occupier of the factory for the purposes of this Act, and such Director or
shareholder shall be deemed to be the occupier of the factory for the purposes
of this Act, until further notice cancelling his nomination is received by the
Oilpalm Commissioner or until he ceases to be a Director or shareholder, as
the case may be.

### 22. Power to give direction.

\- The Government may, subject to the provisions of this Act, by order, direct
the Oilpalm Commissioner or any other officer to make an enquiry or to take
appropriate proceeding under this Act, in respect of any matter specified in
the order, and the Oilpalm Commissioner or the other officer, as the case may
be, shall report to the Government in due course, the result of the enquiry
made or the proceeding taken by him.

### 23. Delegation of powers.

\- The Government may, by notification, delegate all or any of their powers
under this Act, except section 24, to any person or authority subordinate to
them subject to such conditions and to such control and revision as may be
specified in the notification and they may, in the like manner, withdraw any
powers so delegated.

### 24. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely : -(a)conditions governing the declaration of a factory zone
and the alterations or cancellation thereof;(b)plucking, collection and
delivery of the oilpalm FFBs by the growers or, as the case may be, by the
companies and the prescription of collection centres by the Oilpalm
Commissioner;(c)any other matter, which is to be, or may be provided for, by
rules under this Act.(3)Every rule, or order made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if before the expiry of the session
in which it is so placed or the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes
any modification in any such rule or order or notification, or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule or order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule or order or notification shall, thereafter, have effect, only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule or order or notification.

