## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000

## Act 7 of 2001

  * Published on 25 February 2001 
  * Commenced on 25 February 2001 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 February 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000(Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 2001)Last Updated 22nd May, 2019Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2001). - Availability of irrigation water in' a predictable and dependable
pattern and at assured intervals to all the farmers in the entire command area
is an essential requirement for optimising irrigation utilisation and
increased crop production under the system. Currently, in many irrigation
projects, the tailend reaches of the distribution systems or channels are not
getting their quota of allocated water and hence irrigation service to tailend
farmers is not satisfactory affecting the increase in crop production. This
has been compounded by a purely Governmental approach despite the limited
capacity for Government to intervene, especially at below the distributory
levels of the system. The need for remedying this situation has been a major
concern of the Tamil Nadu Government. Experience, all over the world has shown
that transfer of irrigation systems from Government agencies to the Farmer's
Organisations can be a viable alternative. This has also been reflected in the
National Water Policy adopted by the Government of India in the year 1987 and
that of State's Water Policy issued in the year 1994. The Ministry of Water
Resources, Government of India is also advocating the Policy of Participatory
Irrigation Management (PIM) with full involvement of the farmers in Operation
and Maintenance of the Irrigation Systems to ensure effective realisation of
the benefits of irrigation. There is a felt need for reforming the Irrigation
Sector for sustainable Management and Development through democratic
decentralisation. Farmers Management with financial autonomy leading to
sustainable. Water Resources Management.2\. Keeping the above requirements in
view, the Government have decided to undertake legislation for involving the
farmers in the Operation and Management of the irrigation systems in the
State, and the Honourable Chief Minister has made an announcement in the floor
of the Assembly.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 18th May 1999.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems (Amendment) Act, 2009
(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2009)1. - The President and members of the managing
committee of the water users associations were elected under section 5 of the
Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management or Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 2001) in the month of January 2004 and their term of office is expiring
on 29-1-2009, on completion of five years from the date of the first meeting
of the said committee. As the election to the managing committee could not be
conducted before 29-1-2009 in view of the limited time available, the
Government have decided to extent the term of office of the President and
members of the said managing committee for a further period of six months by
amending sub-section (5) of section 5 of the said Act.2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 29th January 2009.Received
the assent of the President on the 25th February 2001 and published in Part
IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th
March 2001.An Act to provide for Farmers' participation in the Management of
Irrigation Systems and formatters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.Whereas the State of Tamil Nadu is essentially an agricultural State
depending on efficient and equitable supply and distribution of water, which
is a national wealth ensuring optimum utilisation by farmers for improvement
of agricultural production;And Whereas it is essential to promote and secure
distribution of water among its users, adequate maintenance of the irrigation
system, efficient and economical utilisation of water to optimize agricultural
production, by involving the farmers and inculcating a sense of ownership of
the irrigation system in them in accordance with the water budget and the
operational plan;And Whereas scientific and systematic development and
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure is considered best possible through
farmers organisations;And Whereas such farmers organisations have to be given
an effective role in the management and maintenance of the irrigation system
for effective and reliable supply and distribution of water;Be It enacted by
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-first Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation
Systems Act, 2000.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint and different dates may be appointed for different areas and for
different provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Apex Committee"
means the Apex Committee constituted under section 12;(b)"area of operation",
in relation to a farmers organisation, means a contiguous block of land in the
command area as the Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf;(c)"ayacut road" means a road within the area of operation, but does
not include any road vested in a Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union, Town
Pancha-yat, Municipality, Municipal Corporation and Highways;(d)"canal system"
means -(i)main canals, branch canals, distributories and water courses
constructed for the supply and distribution of water for irrigation;(ii)all
works, structures and appliances connected with the distribution of water for
irrigation; and(iii)all field channels and other related channels and
structures under an irrigation sluice;(e)"Collector" means the Collector of a
district in which the irrigation system is situated and includes any officer
specially appointed by the Government to perform all or any of the functions
of the Collector under this Act;(f)"command area" means an area irrigated
under any irrigation system either by gravitational flow or by lift irrigation
or by any other method from a Government source and includes every such area
whether it is called "ayacut" or by any other name under any law for the time
being in force;(g)"competent authority" means the authority appointed under
section 26;(h)"drainage system", in relation to an irrigation system,
includes-(i)channels either natural or artificial, for the discharge of waste
or surplus water and all works connected therewith or ancillary
thereto;(ii)escape channels from an irrigation or canal system and other works
connected therewith, but does not include works for removal of sewage;
and(iii)all collecting drains and main drains to drain off surplus water from
field drains;(iv)all field drains and related structures under irrigation
sluices;(i)"farmers organisation" means the -(i)"Water Users Association" at
the primary level consisting of all the water users, as constituted under
section 4; or(ii)"Distributary Committee" at secondary level, as constituted
under section 7; or(iii)"Project Committee" at the project level, as
constituted under section 10;(j)"field channel" includes a channel existing or
to be constructed by the Government or by the water users or by any agency to
receive and distribute water from a sluice;(k)"field drain" includes a channel
excavated and maintained by the water users or by any other agency, to
discharge waste or surplus water from the land holding under a sluice and
includes drains, escape channels and other similar works existing or to be
constructed;(l)"financing agency" means any commercial bank or any co-
operative society or any other bank or organisation established or
incorporated under any law, for the time being in force, which lends money for
the development of the area of operation of the farmers
organisation;(m)"Government" means the State Government;(n)"Government source"
means any source of water under the control of the Water Resources
Organisation;(o)"hydraulic basis" means the basis for identifying a viable
irrigated area served by one or more hydraulic structures such as head works,
main canal, branches, distributories, sluices and the like; (p) ''irrigation
system" means such major, medium and minor irrigation system for harnessing
water for irrigation and other allied uses from Government source and includes
reservoirs, open head channels, diversion systems, lift irrigation schemes,
anicuts, tanks, wells and the like.Explanation. - For the purpose of this
clause, -(i)"Major Irrigation System" means irrigation system under Major
Irrigation Project having irrigable command area of more than 10,000
hectares;(ii)"Medium Irrigation System" means irrigation system under Medium
Irrigation Project having irrigable command area of more than 2,000 hectares
and upto 10,000 hectares;(iii)"Minor Irrigation System" means irrigation
system under Minor Irrigation Project having irrigable command area upto 2,000
hectares;(q)"land" means any land under any registered ayacut of any
irrigation system;(r)"maintenance" means execution of such works on the
irrigation system as are necessary to ensure that the physical system designed
to the standards operates for the proper distribution of water to the
lands;(s)"managing committee" means the managing committee of any farmers
organisation;(t)"operational plan" means a schedule of irrigation deliveries
with details of the mode and duration of supplies drawn up for regulation of
irrigation in any command area;(u)"Rotational Water Supply" means a system of
distribution of water to water users by turn, according to an approved
schedule, indicating the day, duration and time of supply;(v)"territorial
constituency" means a contiguous block of command area of one or more sluices
under a Water Users Association area;(w)"water allocation", in relation to an
irrigation system, means the distribution of water determined from time to
time, by a farmers organisation in its area of operation;(x)"Water Resources
Organisation" means the Water Resources Organisation of the Public Works
Department of the Government;(y)"water user" means any farmer holding any land
either as the owner or as the tenant recorded as such in the revenue records
of rights in respect of such land and includes any other individual or body or
a society using water for agriculture, from a Government source.

## Chapter II  
Farmers Organisations

### 3. Delineation of Water Users Association area.

(1)The Collector may, in such manner as may be prescribed, delineate command
area under each irrigation system on a hydraulic basis, which may be
administratively viable, and declare it to be a Water Users Association area
for the purposes of this Act:Provided that in respect of the command area
under the minor irrigation systems, the entire command area may, as far as
possible, form a single Water Users Association area.(2)Every Water Users
Associations area shall be divided into territorial constituencies, which
shall not be less than four, but shall not be more than ten, as may be
prescribed.

### 4. Constitution of Water Users Association.

(1)There shall be a Water Users Association called by its local distinct name
for every Water Users Association area delineated under section 3.(2)Every
Water Users Association shall consist of all the water users in such Water
Users Association area, as members:Provided that any person, who is in lawful
possession and enjoyment of any land, may, on proof of such possession and
such enjoyment in a crop year, claim membership, notwithstanding whether he is
a recorded land holder or not in which case the Water Users Association shall
not refuse the membership of such person for the purposes of this Act, and
such person shall be liable to pay the fees, as if he is the water
user:Provided further that any person who is eligible to become a member for
more than one territorial constituency of a Water Users Association shall be
entitled to be a member of only one territorial constituency, at his
option.(3)The members specified in sub-section (2) shall constitute the
general body for the respective Water Users Association and such members alone
shall have the right to vote.

### 5. Constitution of managing committee of Water Users Association and
election of its President and members.

(1)There shall be a managing committee for every Water Users
Association.(2)The Collector shall make arrangements for the election of the
President of the managing committee of the Water Users Association by direct
election from among its members, by the method of secret ballot, in such
manner as may be prescribed.(3)The Collector shall also make arrangements for
the election of the members of the managing committee, consisting of one
member from each of the territorial constituency of the Water Users
Association area, by the method of secret ballot, in such manner as may be
prescribed.(4)If at an election held under sub-section (2) or (3), the
President or the member in any territorial constituency is not elected, fresh
election shall be held in the same manner as specified in sub-section (2) or
(3), as the case may be:Provided that the Government may, for the reasons to
be recorded in writing, from time to time, postpone the election.(5)The
President and the members of the managing committee shall, if not recalled
under section 13, be in office for a period of [five years and six months]
[Substituted for the words 'five years' by Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of
Irrigation Systems (Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2009).], from
the date of the first meeting of the managing committee.(6)The managing
committee shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Water
Users Association.

### 6. Delineation of Distributory Committee area.

\- The Government may, in such manner as may be prescribed, delineate command
area of each major and medium irrigation system, comprising of two or more
Water Users Associations, and declare it to be a Distributory Committee area
for the purposes of this Act.

### 7. Constitution of Distributory Committee.

(1)There shall be a Distributory Committee called by its local distinct name
for every Distributory Committee area declared as such under section 6.(2)The
President of every Water Users Association in a Distributory Committee area
shall be the member of such Distributory Committee ex-officio, and all such
members shall constitute the general body of such Distributory Committee.

### 8. Constitution of managing committee of Distributory Committee and
election of its President and members.

(1)There shall be a managing committee for every Distributory Committee.(2)The
Collector shall make arrangements for the election of the President of the
managing committee of the Distributory Committee by direct election from among
its members, by the method of secret ballot, in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The Collector shall also make arrangements for the election of
the members of the managing committee of the Distributory Committee from among
the members of such Distributory Committee, who shall not be more than five,
in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided that the Government may, for the
reasons to be recorded in writing, from time to time, postpone the
election.(4)If, at an election held under sub-section (2) or (3), the
President or the members of the managing committee are not elected, fresh
election shall be held in the same manner as specified in sub-section (2) or
(3), as the case may be.(5)The term of office of the President and the members
of the managing committee shall, if not recalled under section 13, be
coterminous with the term of members of the general body specified in sub-
section (2) of section 7.(6)The managing committee shall exercise the powers
and perform the functions of the Distributory Committee.

### 9. Delineation of Project area.

\- The Government may, in such manner as may be prescribed, delineate every
command area or part thereof, of a Major Irrigation System, and declare it to
be a Project area for the purposes of this Act.

### 10. Constitution of Project Committee.

(1)There shall be a Project Committee called by its distinct name for every
Project area declared under section 9.(2)The President of every Distributory
Committee in the Project area shall be the member of such Project Committee,
ex-officio, and all such members shall constitute the general body for such
Project Committee.

### 11. Constitution of managing committee of Project Committee and election
of its Chairman and members.

(1)There shall be a managing committee for every Project Committee.(2)The
Collector shall make arrangements for the election of the Chairman of the
managing committee of the Project Committee by direct election from among its
members, by the method of secret ballot, in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)The Collector shall also make arrangements for the election of
the members of the managing committee of the Project Committee from among the
members of such Project Committee, who shall not be more than nine, in such
manner as may be prescribed:Provided that the Government may, for the reasons
to be recorded in writing, from time to time, postpone the election.(4)If, at
an election held under sub-section (2) or (3), the President or the members of
the managing committee are not elected, fresh election shall be held in the
same manner as specified in sub-section (2) or (3), as the case may be.(5)The
term of office of the Chairman and the members of the managing committee
shall, if not recalled under section 13, be coterminous with the term of
members of the general body specified in sub-section (2) of section 10.(6)The
managing committee shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the
Project Committee.

### 12. Constitution of Apex Committee.

(1)The Government may, by notification, constitute an Apex Committee with a
chairman and such number of members as may be prescribed.(2)The Apex Committee
constituted under sub-section (1) may exercise such powers and junctions as
may be prescribed so as to lay down the policies and guidelines for
implementation of the provisions of this Act.

### 13. Procedure for recall.

(1)A motion for recall of a Chairman or a President or Member, as the case may
be, of the managing committee of any farmers organisation may be made by
giving a notice in writing in such form as may be prescribed, signed by not
less than one-third of the total number of members of such farmers
organisation, who are entitled to vote:Provided that no notice of motion under
this section shall be made within one year of the date of assumption of office
by any person against whom the motion is sought to be moved.(2)If the motion
is carried with the support of majority of the members present and voting at a
meeting of the general body specially convened for the purpose, the Collector
or the Government, as the case may be, shall, by order, remove such person
from office and the resulting vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as a
casual vacancy.

### 14. Constitution of sub-committee in farmers organisation.

\- The managing committee may constitute such number of sub-committees, from
amongst the members of the farmers organisation concerned, as may be necessary
to carry out all or any of the functions vested in it under this Act.

### 15. Farmers organisation to be a body corporate.

\- Every farmers organisation referred to in clause (i) of section 2 shall be
a body corporate, with a distinct name having perpetual succession and a
common seal and, subject to the provisions of this Act, vested with the
capacity of entering into contracts and of doing all things necessary, proper
or expedient, for the purpose for which it is constituted and it shall sue or
be sued in its corporate name represented by the Chairman or President, as the
case may be:Provided that no farmers organisation shall have the power to
alienate in any manner, any property vested in it.

### 16. Changes in farmers organisation.

\- The Government may, in the interest of farmers organisation in any command
area, by notification and in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf,-(a)form a new farmers organisation, by separating the area from any
existing farmers organisation; or(b)increase the area of any farmers
organisation; or(c)diminish the area of any farmers organisation; or(d)alter
the boundaries of any farmers organisation; or(e)cancel a notification issued
under this section for rectifying any mistake:Provided that no such
separation, increase, diminution, alteration or cancellation, as the case may
be, shall be effected unless a reasonable opportunity is given to the farmers
organisation likely to be affected.

### 17. Disqualification of candidates or members.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, or for being, a
Chairman or President or a Member of any managing committee, if -(a)he is a
village servant or officer or servant of the Government of India or of any
State Government or of any local authority or an employee of any institution
receiving aid from the funds of the Government;(b)he has been convicted by a
Criminal Court for any offence involving moral turpitude committed under any
law for the time being in force;(c)he is of unsound mind and stands so
declared by a competent Court;(d)he is an applicant to be adjudicated as an
insolvent or an undischarged insolvent; or(e)he is a defaulter of land revenue
or water charges or fees payable either to the Government or to the farmers
organisation;(f)he is interested in a subsisting contract made with, of any
work being done in the area of the concerned farmers organisation, for the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union or Town Panchayat or Municipality or
Municipal Corporation or State or Central Government or farmers
organisation:Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have any interest
in such contract or work by reason only of his having share or interest
in-(i)a company as a mere share holder, but not as a director; or(ii)any
lease, sale or purchase of immovable property or any agreement for the same;
or(iii)any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment of
money only; or(iv)any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the
affairs of the farmers organisation is inserted.Explanation. - For the removal
of doubts, it is hereby declared that where a contract is fully performed, it
shall not be deemed to be subsisting merely on the ground that the Village
Panchayat, Panchayat Union, Town Panchayat, Municipality, Municipal
Corporation, Farmers Organisation, State or Central Government, as the case
may be, has not performed its part of the contractual obligations.(2)A
Chairman or President or Member of any managing committee of a farmers
organisation shall also become disqualified to continue in office and shall
cease to hold office forthwith, if he-(a)is convicted in a criminal case
involving moral turpitude; or(b)absents for three consecutive meetings without
reasonable cause: Provided that such disqualification under item (b) shall not
apply in the case of women who are in an advanced stage of pregnancy and for a
period of three months after delivery.(3)A member of the Water User
Association shall cease to be a member or a Chairman or a President, as the
case may be, of a managing committee and shall become disqualified to continue
in office, if he ceases to be a water user.

### 18. Resignation.

(1)A member of a managing committee of any farmers organisation may resign his
office by a letter, sent by registered post or tendered in person, to the
Chairman or President of the managing committee concerned.(2)The President of
the managing committee of a Water Users Association may resign his office by a
letter, sent by registered post or tendered in person, to the President of the
Distributory Committee concerned.(3)The President of the managing committee of
a Distributory Committee may resign his office by a letter, sent by registered
post or tendered in person, to the Chairman of the Project Committee
concerned.(4)The Chairman of the managing committee of a Project Committee may
resign his office by a letter, sent by registered post or tendered in person,
to the Chairman of the Apex Committee.(5)Any resignation under this section
shall take effect from the date of acceptance or on the expiry of thirty days
from the date of its receipt, whichever is earlier.

### 19. Filling up of vacancies.

(1)A vacancy arising in any managing committee, either due to disqualification
under sub-section (2) or (3) of section 17 or due to death or resignation or
any other reason, such vacancy shall be filled up, by nomination, till the
vacancy is" filled up by election under sub-section (2), in the following
manner:-(a)A vacancy in the Water Users Association shall be filled by the
managing committee of the Distributory Committee, in such manner as may be
prescribed;(b)A vacancy in the Distributory Committee shall be filled by the
managing committee of the Project Committee, in such manner as may be
prescribed; and(c)a vacancy in the Project Committee shall be filled by the
Apex Committee, in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)The Collector shall
take necessary steps to conduct elections to fill up any vacancy caused within
a period of one month from the date of occurrence of such vacancy.(3)The term
of office of a member or a President or a Chairman of the farmers
organisation, elected under sub-section (2), shall expire at the time at which
it would have expired, if he had been elected at the ordinary election.

### 20. Acts not to be invalidated by vacancy, etc.

\- No act or proceedings of any managing committee shall be invalid by reason
only of the existence of any vacancy in, or defect in the constitution of, the
said managing committee

### 21. Meetings.

\- The meetings of the farmers organisation and the managing committee thereof
shall be at such intervals, by such procedure, and with such quorum, as may be
prescribed.

## Chapter III  
Functions Of Farmers Organisation

### 22. Functions of Water Users Association.

\- The Water Users Association shall perform the following functions, namely:
-(a)to prepare and implement an operational plan and a rotational water supply
for each irrigation season, consistent with the operational plan, prepared by
the Distributory Committee and the Project Committee, and based upon the
entitlement, area, soil and cropping pattern as approved by the managing
committee or Distributory Committee, as the case may be, of the Project
Committee;(b)to prepare a plan for the maintenance of irrigation system in the
area of its operation at the end of each crop season and carry out the
maintenance works of both distributory system, water courses and field drains
in its area of operation with the funds of the Water Users Association, from
time to time;(c)to regulate the use of water among the various sluices under
its area of operation according to the rotational water supply;(d)to promote
economy in the use of water allocated;(e)to assist the authorities of the
Revenue department of the Government, in the preparation of demand and
collection of water charges;(f)to maintain a register of water users, as
published by the Revenue department of the Government;(g)to prepare and
maintain an inventory of the irrigation system within the area of
operation;(h)to monitor flow of water for irrigation;(i)to resolve the
disputes, if any, between the members of the Water Users Association in its
area of operation;(j)to raise resources;(k)to maintain accounts;(l)to cause
annual audit of its accounts;(m)to assist in the conduct of elections to the
managing committee; (n) to maintain such other records, as may be
prescribed;(o)to abide by the decisions of the Distributory Committee and
Project Committee;(p)to conduct general body meetings in such manner as may be
prescribed;(q)to encourage avenue for plantation on canal and tank poramboke,
and to protect and maintain such plantations;(r)to conduct regular water
budgeting and also to conduct periodical social audit, as may be prescribed;
and(s)to remove the encroachments on canal, drains and tank poramboke in the
area of jurisdiction of the Water Users Association.

### 23. Functions of Distributory Committee.

\- The Distributory Committee shall perform the following functions,
namely:-(a)to prepare an operational plan based on its entitlement, area,
soil, cropping pattern at the beginning of each irrigation season, consistent
with the operational plan prepared by the Project Committee;(b)to prepare a
plan for the maintenance of branch canals, distributories and medium drains
within its area of operation at the end of each crop season and execute the
maintenance works with its funds, from time to time;(c)to regulate the use of
water among the various Water Users Associations under its area of
operation;(d)to resolve disputes, if any, between the Water Users Associations
in its area of operation;(e)to maintain a register of Water Users Association
in its area of operation;(f)to maintain an inventory of the irrigation system
in the area of its operation, including drains;(g)to promote economy in the
use of water allocated;(h)to maintain accounts;(i)to cause annual audit of its
accounts;(j)to maintain such other records as may be prescribed;(k)to monitor
the flow of water for irrigation;(l)to conduct general body meetings as may be
prescribed;(m)to abide by the decisions of the Project Committee;(n)to cause
regular water budgeting and also the periodical social audit, as may be
prescribed;(o)to assist in the conduct of elections to the managing
committee;(p)to encourage avenue for plantations in its area of operation;
and(q)to remove the encroachments on canal, drains and tank poramboke in the
area of jurisdiction of the Distributory Committee.

### 24. Functions of Project Committee.

\- The Project Committee shall perform the following functions, namely:-(a)to
approve an operational plan, based on its entitlement, area, soil cropping
pattern, as prepared by the competent authority, in respect of the entire
project area at the beginning of each irrigation season;.(b)to approve a plan
for the maintenance of irrigation system including the major drains, within
its area of operation at the end of each crop seasons and execute the
maintenance works with the funds of the Project Committee, from time to
time;(c)to maintain a list of the Distributory Committees and Water Users
Associations in its area of operation;(d)to maintain an inventory of the
branch canals, distributories and drainage systems in its area of
operation;(e)to resolve disputes, if any, between the Distributory
Committees;(f)to promote economy in the use of water;(g)to maintain
accounts;(h)to cause annual audit of its accounts;(i)to maintain such other
records, as may be prescribed;(j)to conduct general body meetings, as may be
prescribed;(k)to cause regular water budgeting and also the periodical social
audit, as may be prescribed;(l)to encourage avenue for plantations in its area
of operation; and(m)to remove the encroachments on canal, drains and tank
poramboke in the area of jurisdiction of the Project Committee.

### 25. Power to levy and collect fees.

\- T-A farmers organisation may, for carrying out the purposes of this Act,
and for achieving the objects of such organisation and performing its
functions, levy and collect such fees not exceeding five hundred rupees per
hectare per year from every water user, as may be prescribed, from time to
time.

### 26. Appointment of competent authority and his functions.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint such officer of the Water
Resources Organisation, as they consider necessary, to be the competent
authority to every farmers organisation, for the purposes of this Act.(2)The
competent authority appointed under sub-section (1) shall assist the
respective farmers organisation in the implementation and execution of all
decisions taken by such farmers organisation.(3)Every farmers organisation
shall extend such co-operation or assistance, as may be required by the
competent authority, for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

## Chapter IV  
Funds of Farmers Organisation

### 27. Funds of Farmers Organisation.

\- There shall be a Fund for every farmers organisation, which shall comprise
of the following sources, namely:-(1)grants received from the Government as a
share of the water charges collected in the area of operation of the farmers
organisation, at such rates as may be prescribed;(2)such other funds as may be
granted by the State and Central Government for the development of the area of
operation;(3)resources raised from any financing agency for undertaking any
economic development activities in its area of operation;(4)such income from
the properties and assets attached to the irrigation system within its area of
operation, as may be granted by the Government;(5)fees collected under section
25;(6)amounts received from any other source.

### 28. Deposit and administration of the Fund.

(1)The farmers organisation shall keep its Fund in a Nationalised Bank or Co-
operative Bank or any Agricultural Co-operative Society.(2)The Fund shall be
applied towards meeting of the expenses incurred by the managing committee of
the concerned farmers organisation in the administration of this Act and for
no other purpose.

### 29. Sinking fund.

(1)The managing committee of the farmers organisation shall maintain a sinking
fund for the repayment of moneys borrowed and shall pay every year into the
sinking fund such sum as may be sufficient for repayment, within the period
fixed, of all moneys so borrowed.(2)The sinking fund or any part thereof shall
be applied in or towards, the discharge of the loan for which such fund was
created, and until such loan is wholly discharged, it shall not be applied for
any other purpose.

### 30. Audit.

\- Every farmers organisation shall get its accounts audited annually in such
manner and by such auditors, as may be prescribed.

### 31. Budget.

\- The managing committee of a farmers organisation shall prepare in such form
in every financial year a budget in respect of next financial year, showing
the estimated receipts and expenditure of such committee and shall place
before its general body for its approval in such manner, as may be prescribed.

## Chapter V  
Offences and Penalties

### 32. Offences and penalties.

\- Whoever, without any lawful authority, does any of the following acts,
namely: -(a)damages, alters, enlarges, or obstructs any irrigation system;
or(b)interferes with, increases, or diminishes the water supply in, or the
flow of water from, through, over or under any irrigation system; or(c)being
responsible for the maintenance of the irrigation system, neglects to take
proper precautions for the prevention of wastage of the water thereof or
interferes with the authorised distribution of water therefrom or uses water
in an unauthorised manner, or in such manner as to cause damage to the
adjacent land; or(d)corrupts or fouls, water of any irrigation system so as to
render it less fit for the purposes for which it is ordinarily used;
or(e)obstructs or removes any level marks or water gauge or any other mark or
sign fixed by the authority of a public servant; or(f)opens, shuts, or
obstructs or attempts to open, shut or obstruct any sluice or outlet or any
other similar contrivance in any irrigation system; or(g)violates the
rotational water supply or water distribution and regulation made by the Water
Users Association or Distributory Committee or the Project Committee shall, on
conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
years or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.

### 33. Cognizance of offences.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act, except on
complaint made by the competent authority or the President or Chairman, as the
case may be, of the managing committee of any farmers organisation.

### 34. Punishment under other laws not barred.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall prevent any person from being
prosecuted and punished under any other law for the time being in force for
any act or omission made punishable by or under this Act:Provided that no
person shall be prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once.

### 35. Compounding of offences.

(1)Any offence punishable under section 32 may, either before or after making
the complaint under section 33, be compounded by the competent authority or
the President or the Chairman, as the case may be, of the managing committee
of a farmers organisation, on payment, for credit to the Government, of such
sum as the competent authority or the Chairman or the President, as the case
may be, specify:Provided that such sum shall not, in any case, exceed the
maximum amount of the fine which may be imposed under this Act for the offence
so compounded.(2)Where an offence has been compounded under sub-section (1),
no proceeding or further proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken
against the offender, in respect of the offence so compounded, and the
offender, if in custody, shall be discharged forthwith.(3)No offence
punishable under this Act shall be compounded except as provided by this
section.

## Chapter VI  
Settlement of Disputes

### 36. Settlement of disputes.

(1)Any dispute or difference touching the constitution, management, powers or
functions of a farmers organisation arising between members, shall be
determined by the managing committee of such farmers organisation.(2)Any such
dispute or difference arising between a member and the managing committee of a
Water Users Association or between two or more Water Users Associations shall
be determined by the managing committee of the Distributory Committee.(3)Any
such dispute or difference arising between a member, and the managing
committee of a Distributory Committee or between two or more Distribu-tory
Committees shall be determined by the managing committee of the Project
Committee.(4)Any such dispute or difference arising between a member and the
managing committee of a Project Committee or between two or more Project
Committees, shall be determined by the Apex Committee, whose decision shall be
final.(5)Every dispute or difference under this section shall be disposed of
within fifteen days from the date of reference of the dispute or difference.

### 37. Appeals.

(1)Any party to a dispute or difference aggrieved by any decision made or
order passed by the managing committee of a Water Users Association may appeal
to the managing committee of the Distributory Committee, whose decision
thereon shall be final.(2)Any party to a dispute or difference aggrieved by
any decision made or order passed by the managing committee of a Distributory
Committee may appeal to the managing committee of the Project Committee, whose
decision thereon shall be final.(3)Any party to a dispute or difference
aggrieved by any decision made or order passed by the managing committee of a
Project Committee may appeal to the Apex Committee, whose decision thereon
shall be final.(4)Any appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3) shall be preferred within fifteen days of communication of the
decision or the order to the person aggrieved.(5)Every appeal under this
section shall be disposed of within fifteen days from the date of filing of
the appeal.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 38. Records.

(1)Every farmers organisation shall keep at its office, the following
accounts, records and documents, namely: -(a)a up-to-date copy of this
Act;(b)a map of the area Of operation of the farmers organisation along with
the map of the structures and distributor/ networks prepared in consultation
with the Water Resources Organisation;(c)a statement of the assets and
liabilities;(d)Minutes Book;(e)books of account showing receipts and
payments;(f)books of account of all purchases and sales of goods made by the
farmers organisation;(g)register of measurement books, level field books, work
orders and the like;(h)copies of audit reports and enquiry reports;(i)such
other accounts, records and documents as may be prescribed, from time to
time.(2)The books of accounts and other records shall be open for information
to the members of the respective farmers organisation.

### 39. Recovery of moneys due to farmers organisation as arrears of land
revenue.

\- Without prejudice to any other mode of recovery which is being taken or may
be taken under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, any
moneys due to a farmers organisation may be recovered as if it were an arrears
of land revenue and for the purposes of such recovery, the competent authority
shall have the powers of a Collector under the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery
Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864).

### 40. Meetings.

\- The meeting of the farmers organisation and the managing committee thereof,
its procedure, intervals, presidency and quorum thereof shall be such as may
be prescribed.

### 41. Appointment of Commissioner.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint a Commissioner to exercise
general control and superintendence over the competent authorities and the
Collectors in performance of their functions under this Act or the rules made
thereunder.(2)The powers to be exercised and the functions to be performed by
the Commissioner shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 42. Merger of already formed and registered farmers associations and
transitional arrangements.

(1)Any farmers association already formed and registered under the Tamil Nadu
Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975) for the purpose
of carrying out the functions of Participatory Irrigation Management prior to
the coming into force of this Act and functioning in any area declared to be a
Water Users Association Area under section 3 shall, as soon as the Managing
Committee of the Water Users Association is constituted in accordance with
section 5 in such area, cease to exist:Provided that where any such farmers
association which has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with any
authority of the Water Resources Organisation before coming into force of this
Act shall continue to exercise the powers and functions of a Water Users
Association in the respective area from the date of coming into force of this
Act and till the constitution of the managing committee of the Water Users
Association in accordance with this Act.(2)The Government may, by
notification, appoint officers from the Water Resources Organisation to
exercise the powers and perform the functions of a farmers organisation and
the managing committee thereof, till such time such farmers organisation is
duly constituted or reconstituted and such managing committee assumes office
under the provisions of this Act.

### 43. Authentication of orders and documents of the farmers organisation.

\- All permissions, orders, decisions, notices and other documents of the
farmers organisation shall be authenticated by the signature of the Chairman
or President of such farmers organisation or any other member of the managing
committee as may be specifically authorised by such managing committee in
writing in this behalf.

### 44. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 45. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

### 46. Power of Government to give directions.

(1)The Government may, in the public interest by order, direct the competent
authority to make an enquiry or to take appropriate proceedings under this Act
in any case specified in the order, and the competent authority shall report
to the Government the result of the enquiry made or the proceedings taken by
him within such period as may be prescribed.(2)The Government may issue such
orders and directions of a general character as they may consider necessary in
respect of any matter relating to the powers and duties of the competent
authority or the farmers organisation and thereupon the competent authority or
the farmers organisation shall give effect to such orders and directions.

### 47. Revision by Commissioner.

\- The Commissioner may, either on his own motion or, on application made,
call for and examine the records of any farmers organisation or as the case
may be, the records of the Apex Committee in respect of any decision, order,
or other proceedings made under this Act, to satisfy himself as to the
correctness, legality or propriety of any such decision or order, or as to the
regularity of such proceedings and if, in any case, it appears to the
Commissioner that such decision, order or proceedings should be modified,
annulled, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, he may pass orders
accordingly:Provided that the Commissioner shall not pass any order
prejudicial to any person unless he has been given an opportunity of making a
representation.

### 48. Operation of other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force.

### 49. Savings.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall affect the rights or properties vested
in a Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union, Town Panchayat, Municipality or
Municipal Corporation under any law for the time being in force.

### 50. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes of
this Act.(2)Every rule or order made under this Act shall, as soon as
possible, after it is made, be placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or order, or the
Assembly decides that the rule or order should not be made, the rule or order
shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or order.NotificationsTamil Nadu Farmers's Management Irrigation Systems
Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001):Appointment of Competent Authority to
Water Users' AssociationI[G.O. Ms. No. IS, Public Works (W2) Department, dated
the 22nd January 2009][No. II(2)/PW/32(b-l)/2009.] [Published in Part II,
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd
January 2009.] \- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of
section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management irrigation Systems Act, 2000
(Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001) the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby appoints the
Executive Engineer of Water Resources Department, under whose jurisdiction the
area of operation of the Distributory Committee lies, as the Competent
Authority for the Distributory Committee constituted under section 7 of the
said Act for carrying out the purposes of the said Act.II[G.O. Ms. No. 15,
Public Works (W2) Department, dated the 22nd January 2009][No.
II(2)/PW/32(b-2)/2009.] [Published in Part II, Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd January 2009.] \- In exercise
of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 26 of the Tamil Nadu
Farmers' Management irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001)
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby appoints the Superintending Engineer of
Water Resources Department, under whose jurisdiction the area of operation of
the Distributory Committee lies, as the Competent Authority for the
Distributory Committee constituted under section 7 of the said Act for
carrying out the purposes of the said Act.Date of Coming Into Force of The
Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000(Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 2001)[(G. O. Ms. No. 360, P.W.D. (W2), dated the 24th September 2002)]
[Published in Part-II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 1st October 2002.]In exercise of the powers conferred
by the sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of
Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001), the Government of
Tamil Nadu hereby appoints the 1st October 2002 as the date on which the
provisions of the said Act shall come into force in all the ayacut area
maintained by Water Resources Organisation of Public Works Department in the
following Nineteen Districts

### 1\. Kancheepuram

### 2\. Tiruvallur

### 3\. Vellore

### 4\. Dharmapuri

### 5\. Tiruvannamalai

### 6\. Villupuram

### 7\. Cuddalore

### 8\. Pudukottai

### 9\. Dindigul

### 10\. Madurai

### 11\. Theni

### 12\. Virudhunagar

### 13\. Ramanathapuram

### 14\. Sivagangai

### 15\. Thoothukudi

### 16\. Tirunelveli

### 17\. Kanyakumari

### 18\. Erode

### 19\. Coimbatore

Appointment of Commissioner Under Section 41 For the Purpose of the Act(G. O.
Ms. No. 427, P.W.D. (W2), dated the 1st October 2003)[No. II (2) PW/639/2003.]
[Published in Part-II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 1st October 2003, Issue No. 39.] \- In exercise of
the powers conferred by the subsection (1) of section 41 of the Tamil Nadu
Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2001), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby appoints the Special Commissioner and
Commissioner of Revenue Administration, Disaster Management and Mitigation as
the Commissioner to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the
said Act and the Rules made thereunder.Delineation of The Command Areas of 9
Major and 24 Medium Irrigation Systems and Declaration for Constituting
Distributory Committee for Implementation of The Tamil Nadu Farmer's
Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000[G. O. Ms. No. 107, Public Works
(W2), 23rd April 2007]No. II(i)/PWI/38/2007. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by Section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation
Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001), read with rule 6 of the Tamil
Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Rules, 2002, the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby delineates the Command area of the Major and Medium
irrigation systems specified in Form-Ill appended to this Notification and
declares it as the Distributory Committee area.AppendixForm-III(See section 6
of the Act and rule 6)Under section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of
Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 2001), the Governor of Tamil
Nadu hereby delineate the areas mentioned in column (3) of the Table below as
the Distributory Committee areas for Aiyar Reservoir Irrigation System, for
the purpose of constituting Distributory Committees as specified in the Table
below:

SI. No. | Name of the Distributory Committee | Location of the off take sluice | Name of the Water Users Association | Name of the Taluk | Name of the District  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1 | Pollachi Kalvoi Distributory Committee No. 1 |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 1 Muthal 3 Varaiand Kilai Vaikkal 1 Muthal 2 Varai | (1) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kottur Grama No. 1 Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kilai Vaikkal - 3, Madai 1Muthal 8 Varai and Upa Kilai Vaikalgal, Mile2.1.165,2.6.000,4.4.440 and 5.5.330 | (2) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kottur Grama No. 2 Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kilai Vaikkal - 3, Madai 19Muthal Kadaithotti Varai and Upa Kilai Vaikalgal Mile6.0.00,6.2.220, 6.7.440, 7.4.440 and 8.7.440 | (3) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Pethanaickan-noor Grama WaterUsers Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kilai Vaikkal 4 Muthal 5 Varai,Neradi Madai 4 Muthal 5 Varai. | (4) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Angalakurichi Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 6 Muthal 9 VaraiKilai Vaikkal 6 | (5) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Thuraiyur Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 10 and KilaiVaikalgal 7,8 and 10 | (6) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Kambaalapatti Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
2 | Pollachi Kalvoi Distrib-utory Committee No. 2 |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 10A, 10B and kilaiKalvoi 11 | (1) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Samathur Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 11 Muthal 16 Varaiand Kilai Kalvoigal 12 Muthal 13 Varai | (2) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Nayakkanpaa- layam Grama WaterUsers Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 17 Muthal 23 Varaiand Kilai Kalvoigal 15 Muthal 19 Varai | (3) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Uoothukuli Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 24, 25 and KilaiKalvorgal 20 Muthal 24 Varai. | (4) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Mannur Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Pollachi Kalvoi Neradi Madai 26 Muthal 33 Varaiand Kilai Kalvoigal 25 Muthal '30 Varai. | (5) |  Pollachi Kalvoi Thimmanguthu Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
3 | Vettaikaaranpudur Distributory Committee |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi Neradi Madai 1 Muthal21 Varai and Kilai Kalvoigal 1 Muthal 6 Varai | (1) |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi Kaaliyaapuram GramaWater Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi,Maarchinay-akkanpalayam Kilai Kalvoi Neradi Madai 1 Muthal 26Varai and Upa Kilaigal Kalvoigal 1 Muthal 6 Varai | (2) |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi MaarchinayakkanpalayamGrama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi, Periapodhu KilaiKalvoi Neradi Madai 1 Muthal 23 Varai and Upa Kilaigal Kalvoigal1 Muthal 9 Varai. | (3) |  Vettaikaaranpudur Kalvoi Odaiyakulam Grama WaterUsers Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
4 |  Aliyar Uoottu Kalvoi and Sethumadai KalvoiDistributory Committee |  Aliyar Uoottukaalvoi, Neradi Madai No. 1 Muthal6 Varai and Kilai Kaalvoigal 1 Muthal 6 Varai. | (1) |  Aliyar Uoottu Kalvoi Vettaikaaranpudur GramaWater Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Sethumadai Kalvoi Neradi Madai 1 Muthal 4 VaraiKilai Kalvoigal 1 Muthal 3 Varai and Idathukan Pirivu Kalvoi andValathukan Pirivu Kalvoi | (2) |  Sethumadai Kalvoi Vettaikaaranpudur Grama WaterUsers Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
  
Form III(See section 6 of the Act and rule 6)Under section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2001), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby delineate the areas mentioned in
column (3) of the Table below as the Distribu-tory Committee areas for
Tirumoorthy Reservoir Irrigation System, for the purpose of constituting
Distributory Committees as specified in the Table below:

SI. No. | Name of the Distributory Committee | Location of the off take sluice | Name of the Water Users Association | Name of the Taluk | Name of the District  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1 | Udumalai Kalvoi Distributory Committee | Tirumoorthy Anai | (1) |  Uyarmatta Kalvoi Dhali Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (2) |  Uyarmatta Extension Kalvoi Maanuppatti GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Kurichikkottai Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Kannamanayakanur Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Aandiyakavundanur Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Elaiyamuthur Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (7) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Kiluvangaadu Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (8) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Paapaahkularn Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (9) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Marulpatti Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (10) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Narasingaapuram Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (11) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Maivaadi Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (12) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Chinnaveerampatti Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (13) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Ponneri Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (14) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Kottamangalam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (15) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Thungaavi Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (16) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Metraathi Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (17) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Gudimangalam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (18) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Aathukinathuppatti Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (19) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Poolavaadi Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (20) |  UdumalaiKalvoi Munduvelampatti Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (21) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Dhasarpatti Grama Water WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (22) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Naranaapuram Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (23) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Petthampatti Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (24) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Ponnapuram Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (25) |  Udumalaik Kalvoi Puthur Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
2 |  Parambikulam Pira-thana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 1 |  2.1.000 Mile (Valathu) Pirivu Voikal &3.4.500 Mile Pirivu Voikal | (1) |  Parambikulam Piradhaana Kalvoi Vaalavaadi-GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  | Mile 5.3.440 (Valathu) Poolangkinar Kilai Voikal | (2) |  Poolangkinar KilaiKalvoi R. Velur Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) |  Poolangkinar Kilai Kalvoi Poblaanginar GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) |  Poolangkinar Kilai Kalvoi Mukkootu Jalli-pattiGrama Water Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) |  Poolangkinar KilaiKalvoi Pukkulam Grama WaterUsers Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) |  Poolangkinar Kilai Kalvoi Vadugapaalaiyam GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  Mile 13.0.000 (Valathu) Gomahgalam PakirmanaVoikal | (7) | Gomahgalam Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Mile 19.2.330 (Valathu) Pudupaalaiyam KilaiKalvoi | (8) |  Pudupaalaiyam KilaiKalvoi A. Nagoor Grama WaterUsers Pollachi Association | Udumalpet and Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  Mile 19.2.330 (Valathu) PudupaalaiyamKilaiKalvoi | (9) |  Pudupaalaiyam Kilai Kalvoi Virugalpatti GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (10) |  Pudupaalaiyam Kilai Kalvoi Kongalnagaram GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (11) |  Pudupaalaiyam Kilai Kalvoi Somavaarapatti GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (12) |  Pudupaalaiyam Kilai Kalvoi Kondampatti GramaWater Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
3 |  Parambikulam Prirathana Kalvoi DistributoryCommittee No. 2 |  Parambikulam Piradhana Kalvoi Thooram - 0.000Km. Muthal 29.600 Kilometer illulla Poliyampatti Kilai VoikalWater Users Association Mudiya Ulla Anaithu Idathupuram PiriyumVoikalkal | (1) | Koduhgiyam Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (2) |  Arthanaari Paalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Udumalpet and Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) | Udukkampalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) | Nallur Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) | Thondamuththoor Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) | Kanjampatti Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (7) | Nallaam Palli Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (8) | Solapaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (9) | Puliyampatti Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (10) | Kallipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (11) | Devampaadi Valasu Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (12) | R. Ponnaapuram Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
4 |  Parambikulam Pirathana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 3 |  Parambikulam Pirad-hana 32.00 Km. Muthal 42.860Km. (Idathutil Piriyum Vadasithur Kilai Kalvoi AnaithuIdathupuram Piriyum Voikkalkal | (1) | Aavafappampatti Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (2) | Varadhanur Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) | Shozhanur Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) |  Kulli Chettipaalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) | Kappalaangkarai Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) | Devanaampaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (7) |  Kaaniyaalampaalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (8) | Aandipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (9) |  Chettiyakkapaalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (10) | Vadachittoor Grama Water Users Association | Pollachi | Coimbatore  
5 |  Parambikulam Pira-thana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 4 |  Parambikulam Pirad-hana Kalvoi Thooram 32.00 Km.Muthar 75.400 KM (Valathu) Piriyum Periya Kuma-rapalayam KalvoiAnaithu Voikkajkal | (1) | Anikkadavu Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (2) | Vaagathozhuvu Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) | J. Krishnaapuram Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet 'and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) | Kumarapalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) | Moongiltholuvu Grama Water Users Association | Palladam and Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) | Aamanthakadavu Grama Water Users Association | Udumalpet and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (7) | Periyapatti Grama Water Users Association | Palladam and Udumalpet | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (8) | Sencherippuththur Grama Water Users Association | Palladam and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (9) |  Kaasilingam Paalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Palladam, Thirupoor and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (10) |  Periyakumarapalayam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (11) |  Bellampatti(Maanur-palaiyam) Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (12) |  Eragaampatti (Betlampatti) Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
6 |  Parambikulam Pira-thana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 5 |  Parambikulam Pirad-hana Thooram 79.900 k.m.Muthal 86.045 Km. (Valathil) Pirijyum Kundadam Kilai KalvoiMudiya Anaithu Valathupuram Piriyum Voikkalkal. | (1) | Vaavipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Thiruppoor and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (2) |  Nandhavanampalayam (Veruvedampalayam) and GramaWater Users Association | Thiruppoor and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (3) |  Sadaiyapaalayam - 2 (Govindhapuram) Grama WaterUsers Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (4) |  Nanthavanampataiyam (Nanthavanam-patayam) andGrama Water Users Association | Thiruppoor and Dharapuram | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (5) | Vadamalaipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Thiruppoor | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) |  Nanthavanampalayam - 3 (Mufbugoundamp-aalaiyam)Grama Water Users Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (7) | Kokkampalayam Grama Water Users Association | Dharapuram and Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (8) |  Kundadam - 1 (Kundadam) Grama Water and UsersAssociation | Dharapuram and Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (9) | Nizhali Grama Water Users Association | Dharapuram and Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (10) |  Suriyanallur - 1 (Idayankinaru) Grama WaterUsers Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (11) |  Suriyanallur - 2 (Kancheepuram) Grama WaterUsers Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (12) |  Kundadam - 4 (Suriyanallur) Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (13) |  Kundadam - (Pudhukundadam) Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (14) |  Kundadam - (Devarajapattinam) Grama Water UsersAssociation | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (15) |  Sadaiyapalayam - 4 (Sadaiyapalaiyam) Grama WaterUsers Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
|  |  | (16) |  Sadaiyapalayam - 3 (Eragaampatti) Grama WaterUsers Association | Dharapuram | Erode  
7 |  Parambikulam Pira-thana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 6 |  Parambikulam Pirad-hana Kalvoi Neradi Madai Km.(Valathu) 124.00 and Km.Varaiulla Kangeyam Irupakkamulla AnaithuVoikkalkal. | (1) | Kokkampaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur, Dharapuram and Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (2) |  Kaattur Grama Water Users Association GramaWater Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) |  Therkku Avinaasipaalaiyam - 1 Grama Water UsersAssociation | Tiruppur and Kangeyam_ | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (4) | Alagumalai Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) | Thonguttipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) |  Therkku Avinaasipaalaiyam - 2 Grama Water UsersAssociation | Tiruppur Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (7) | Peruntholuvu - 1 Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (8) | Kandiyankovil A Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (9) |  Vadasinaaripalaiyam Grama Water UsersAssociation | Tiruppur Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (10) | Kandiankovil Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur Kangeyam | Coimbatore and Erode  
|  |  | (11) | Kaadaiyur Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (12) | Kangeyam Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (13) | Sivanmalai Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
8 |  Parambikulam Pirathana Kalvoi DistributoryCommittee No. 7 | Parambikulam Pirad-hana Kalvoi K.M | (1) | Ganapathipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  | 108.920il Piriyum Tiruppur Kilai Voikk-alkal | (2) | Karaippudur Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (3) | Peruntholuvu - 2 Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (4) | Naach'ipaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (5) | Karaippudur - 'A' Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (6) |  Muthanampaalaiyam - A Grama Water UsersAssociation | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (7) | Muthanampaalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (8) | Naaranaapuram - 1 Grama Water Users Association | Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (9) | Naaranaapuram - 2 Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (10) | Veerapandi Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (11) | Mangalam Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (12) | Poomalur Grama Water Users Association | Tiruppur and Palladam | Coimbatore  
|  |  | (13) | Saamalaapuram Grama Water Users Association | Palladam | Coimbatore  
9 |  Parambikulam Pira-thana Kalvoi Distribu-toryCommittee No. 8 |  Vellakkoil Kilai Vaikalil Varum 1.775 KM.(Idathu) Muthal 27.650 KM. Kadaimadai Neettippu Voikkal Varai. | (1) | Sivanmalai Grama - 1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (2) | Sivanmalai Grama - 2 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (3) | Kangeyam Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (4) | Paranchervazhi Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (5) | Veeranampalaiyam Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (6) | Paapini Grama - 1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (7) | Pazayakottai Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (8) | Paapini Grama Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (9) |  Veerachozhapuram Grama - 1 Water UsersAssociation | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (10) | Pachaapalayam Grama -1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (11) | Pachaapalayam Grama - 2 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (12) | Pachaapalayam Grama - 3 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (13) |  Veerachozhapuram Grama - 2 Water UsersAssociation | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (14) | Patchaapalayam Grama - 4 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (15) | Vellakovil Grama - 1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (16) | Vellakovil Grama - 2 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (17) | Vellakovil Grama - 3 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (18) | Mettupalayam Grama -1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (19) | Mettupalayam Grama - 2 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (20) | Senapathipalaiyam -1 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
|  |  | (21) | Senapathipalaiyam - 2 Water Users Association | Kangeyam | Erode  
  
Form IV(See section 6 of the Act and rule 6)Under section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2001), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby delineate the areas mentioned in
column (3) of the Table below as the Distribu-tory Committee areas for Palar
Anicut Irrigation System, for he purpose of constituting Distributory
Committees as specified in the fable below:

Sl.No. | Name of the Distributory Committee | Location of the offtake sluice | Name of the Water Users Association | Name of the Taluk | Name of the District  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
1 | Palar Anicut Distributory Committee - 1 | Palar Anicut Idathupuram Mahendravadi Kalvoi | (1) | Poondi Eri Water Users association | Wallajah | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Sumaithangi, Marutheri, Jaderi and Paa-gaveliEri Water Users Association | Wallajah | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Valluvambakkam and Ponnappanthangal Eri WaterUsers Association | Wallajah | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Vaangoor Naagaleri and Govindacheri Eri WaterUsers Association | Wallajah | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Mangalam Periya Eri, Mangalam Sitheri,Keelveeranam, Keelveeranamthangal and Sooraikulam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
2 | Palar Anicut Distributory Committee - 2 | Mahendiravaadi Eri | (1) |  Maaliyamedu and Mahendiravaadi Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Irrulan Odai, Meenakshithangal,Balakrishnaapuram, Kaattupakkam Paaleri, Munipillaithangal,Meleri and Velithangipuram Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Arasankuppam and ariyanthangal Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Keelveethi Periya Eri and Sitheri, Peraperi EriWater Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
3 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 3 |  Kaveripakkam Eri and Varathu Kalvai Coon Madai,Sumaithangi Madhagu, 1, 2 Gosha Madhagu,Nari Madhagu, SingaMadhagu Moolai Madhagu Cherri Palla and Mettu Madhagu (Kaveripakkam Eri ). | (1) |  Kadaperi Eri, Kaveripakkam Eri, Sumaithangi EriMadhagu No. 1 and Madhagu No. 2 Water Users Association | Wallajah | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Nari Madhagu Kaalvoi WaterUsers Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Singa Madhagu Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Moolai Madhagu Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Cheri Palla Madhagu and CheriMettu Madhagu Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
4 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 4 |  Kaveripakkam Eri, Maagaanipattu Madhagu,Duraiperumpakkam Madhagu, Paraicheri Madhagu and Panniyur Madhagu(Kaveripakkam Eri) | (1) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Maakaanipattu Madhagu WaterUsers Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Duraiperumpakkam Madhagu WaterUsers' Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Kaveripakkam Eri Paraicheri Madhagu, PanniyurMadhagu and Panniyur Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Aalapaakkam Eri and Sathuvanatham Eri WaterUsers Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Puthupattu Periya Eri and Puthupattu Thangal EriWater Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (6) |  Kamavoor and Vedanthangal Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (7) |  Upparanthangal, Gangatharanallur and Pudur EriWater Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
5. | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 5 |  Kaveripakkam Eri Ubari Neer Kaalvai - Paguthi I,(1) |  |  Tharumaneethi and Nangamangalam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  Uthirampattu Kondam, Vettangulam Kondam,Arasanellikuppam Kondam | (2) |  Peruvalayam, Kalpalaampattu Aalan - thangal,Sivaramanthangal and Kalpalaampattu Putheri Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) | Siruyalaiyam Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Thuraiyur and Uliyanallur Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Veperi Periya Eri, Sitheri and Konthang-karaiEri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (6) |  Punnai and Vettankulam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (7) |  Retivalam and Thermal Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (8) | Asanellikuppam Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (9) |  S. Kolathur and Nelvaai Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
6 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 6 |  Kaveripakkam Eri Ubari Neer Kaalvai - PaguthiII, Thakkolam Kondam, Uoriyur Konadam, Elupaithadalam Kondam | (1) | Sayanapuram Periya Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Aattupakkam and Sayanaapuram Sitheri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) | lluppaithandalam Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Pinnaavaram and Parameswara Man-galam Eri WaterUsers Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Manavanthangal and Chittoor Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (6) |  Thakkolam Kalleri and Kadambanallur Eri WaterUsers Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (7) | Thakkolam Periya Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (8) | Uriyur Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
7 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 7 |  Govindavadi Kaalvai - Valathupuram Coon MadaiValathupuram | (1) | Karivedu Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Kalathoor, Sadaithangal and Sankaram Padi EriWater Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Avaloor and Perumpulipaakkam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) | Thirumalpoor Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Dhamal Maanthangal and Dhamal Eri Water UsersAssociation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (6) | Thiruputkuzhi Eri Water Users Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (7) |  Thaipaakam Eri, Vathiyoor Eri, Mela - pangkaaramEri, Sirunai Eri and Muttavaakam Eri Water Users Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (8) |  Govindhavadi Periya Eri and Citheri Water UsersAssociation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
8 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 8 |  Govindavadi Kaalvai Idathupuram Coon MadaiValathupuram | (1) |  Poigainallur and Thenmaambaakkam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) |  Jaageerthandalam and Veleri Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (3) |  Melvenpakkam and Keelvenpakkam Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) | Palloor Eri Water Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Senthamangalam, Ganapathipuram and Murungai EriWater Users Association | Arakonam | Vellore  
9 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 9 | Kambakkal Kaalvai (Cooram) Cooram Eri | (1) |  Kooram Eri and Aaariyaperumpaakam Eri WaterUsers Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  |  Periya Karumboor Eri, Periya KarumboorMalatuthangal | (2) |  Periyakammbur Eri and Chembaram-bakkam Eri WaterUsers Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Pudhupakkam Periya Eri | (3) |  Puthupaakkam Periya Eri and Citheri Water UsersAssociation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Veliyoor Eri | (4) | Veliyoor Eri Water Users Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Vishakandikuppam Eri | (5) |  Vishakandikuppam Eri and Eenjampakkam Eri WaterUsers Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Siruvakkam Periya Eri | (6) |  Siruvaakkam Periya Eri and Sitheri Water UsersAssociation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Siruvakkam Periya Eri | (7) |  Seeyatti Eri and Kaarai Eri Water UsersAssociation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
10 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee - 10 |  Kambakkal Kaalvai (Parand-hoor), Podavoor,Melthaangat and Aandisiru - valloor Eri Kattuppattur Eri,Bootheri and Parandhoor Nagappattu Eri | (8) |  Podavoour Eri, Aandisiruvallur Eri andKoothirambakkam Eri Water Users Associtation | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (2) |  Nagapattu Kaaranthangal Eri, Kaattup-patturEri,Pootheri Paranthur Periya Eri Water Users Association | Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram  
|  | Nelvoi Eri | (3) |  Nelvoi Eri, Thodoor Eri and Neerivallur EriWater Users Association |  | Kancheepuram  
|  | Thandalam Eri | (4) |  Thandalam Eri and Aariyambakkam Eri Water UsersAssociation |  | Kancheepuram  
11 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee -11 |  Kambakkal Kaalvai (Sriperumbhoothur), EkanapuramKalayeri, Mahadevimangalam Singilipadi Eri and SinglilipadiChittheri | (1) | Ekanapuram Kali Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  | Kannanthangal Eri and Kannanthangal Peria Eri | (2) | Kannanthangal Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  |  Maduramangalam Peria Eri, MaduramangalamMaaveriand Keezhpodavoor Eri and Nandimedu | (3) | Maduramangalam Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (4) | Ramanujapuram Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  |  | (5) | Keezhpodavoor Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  | Pudupattu Eri | (6) | Pudupattu Eri Water Users Association | Tiruvallur | Tiruvallur  
|  | Thiruperumbuthoor Eri | (7) | Thiruperumbuthoor Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  | Thirumangalam Eri | (8) | Thirumangalam Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
|  | Pondoor Pootheri | (9) | Pillaipakkam Eri Water Users Association | Sriperumputhur | Kancheepuram  
12 | Palar Anicut Distribu-tory Committee-12 | Palar Anicut Valathupuram, Kalavai Kalvai | (1) |  Kukundi, Papperi, Keeraampadi Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arcot | Vellore  
|  |  | (2) | K. Vellore Eri Water Users Association |  | Arcot  
|  |  | (3) |  Kalavai Eri, Naagalei, Chennaleri,Parikkalpattu, Kanyanthangal Eri | Arcot | Vellore  
|  |  | (4) |  Kalavaiputhoor, Vellambi Periya Eri Water UsersAssociation | Arcot | Vellore  
|  |  | (5) |  Pinnanthangal, Aathiyanam Periya Eri ChittheriEri Water Users Association | Arcot | Vellore  
|  |  | (6) | Vembi, Paali Eri Water Users Association | Arcot | Vellore  
|  |  | (7) | Pennagar, Dhonimedu Eri Water Users Association | Arcot | Vellore

