## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood, Regulation of Street
Vending and Licensing) Scheme, 2015

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood, Regulation of Street
Vending and Licensing) Scheme, 2015

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-STREET-VENDORS-PROTECTION-OF-LIVELIHOOD-REGULATION-OF-
STREET-VENDING-AND-LICENSING-SCHEME-2015 of 2015

  * Published on 2 November 2015 
  * Commenced on 2 November 2015 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 November 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood, Regulation of Street
Vending and Licensing) Scheme, 2015Published vide Notification No. G.O. (Ms).
No. 159, Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MA.IV), dated
02.11.2015Last Updated 25th January, 2020No. SRO-A/19(c-1)/2015. - In exercise
of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 38 of the Street Vendors
(Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014 (Central
Act 7 of 2014), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby frames the following Scheme
namely:-

### 1. Short Title, extent and commencement.

(a)This Scheme shall be called as the Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of
Livelihood, Regulation of Street Vending and Licensing) Scheme, 2015.(b)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(c)It shall come into force at
once.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires -(a)"Act" means the
Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending)
Act, 2014 (Central Act 7 of 2014);(b)"Rules" means, the Tamil Nadu Street
Vending (Regulation and Licensing) Rules, 2015;(c)"Form" means the form
appended to this Scheme;(d)"Government" means the Government of the State of
Tamil Nadu;(e)"No vending zone" means an area within the jurisdiction of a
Town Vending Committee where no street vendors are permitted;(f)"Time
restricted vending zone" means an area in a town where vendors are permitted
only during certain hours of the day or certain days of the week as fixed by
the Town Vending Committee; and(g)"Town Vending Committee" means a committee
constituted under rule 11 of the Rules.(2)Words and expressions used, but not
defined in this Scheme shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to
them in the act.

### 3. Survey of Street vendors.

(1)The survey of street vendors shall be done in-situ for the existing vendors
only and no survey shall be carried out by calling for particulars from the
vendors by announcements.(2)The survey of street vendors shall be carried out
by the Town Vending Committee and completed within a period of six months from
the date on which the Scheme is notified.(3)The respective Town Vending
Committee shall, with the assistance of the staff placed at its disposal by
the concerned local authority, carry out the survey. For this purpose, the
Executive Authority of the local authority, shall depute its staff to assist
the said committee.(4)The survey team shall proceed to enumerate the street
vendors in a vending zone and shall record the details in Form-I.(5)Only those
of the vendors who are found to be actually carrying on business in the
streets shall be entitled to be enumerated.

### 4. Certificate of Vending.

(1)The Town Vending Committee shall within a period of sixty days from the
date of completion of survey of street vendors in a Ward or Zone of a local
authority, issue the Certificate of Vending to each street vendor identified
in the survey. The Certificate of Vending shall be issued by the Town Vending
Committee concerned in Form-II.(2)A person who wish to carry on street vending
during the intervening period of two surveys may make an application to the
Town Vending Committee in Form III which shall be disposed of by the Town
Vending Committee within a period of sixty days from the date of its receipt.

### 5. Terms and Conditions for issue of Certificate of Vending.

\- The certificate of vending shall be issued to a street vendor, subject to
the terms and conditions that, he shall -(i)not have any other means of
livelihood, except street vending;(ii)not vend in any other place
parallely;(iii)carry on street vending by himself or through any of his family
members;(iv)have completed the age of fourteen years;(v)not leased, rent or
sell the Certificate of Vending to others and shall give an undertaking to the
Town Vending Committee to this effect.:(vi)not have been prosecuted and
convicted or penalised earlier for any reason or offence connected with
vending such as adulteration, sale of narcotics etc., and(vii)not be a legal
heir of any person already holding a Certificate of Vending within the
jurisdiction of the local authority concerned.

### 6. Classification of vendors.

\- For the purpose of issue of Certificate of Vending, the vendors shall be
generally categorised as follows:-(i)Stationary vendors. - Persons carrying on
vending business in articles or goods in a particular place who carry the
articles or goods and the pallets or other implements used by them for vending
by human effort of not more than one person.(ii)Mobile vendors. - Persons
carrying on vending business using hand pulled or pedal powered vehicles not
coming within the purview of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of
1988) and for which no licence to operate is required under any other law for
the time being in force.(iii)Mobile vendors using motor vehicles. - Persons
carrying on vending business using motor vehicles of any description, the
operation or movement of which requires a licence under the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) or any other law in force.(iv)Other
categories of Vendor. - The Town Vending Committee concerned shall also
identify other categories of street vendors such as vendors in weekly markets,
heritage markets, festival markets and night bazars as may be doing business
within the said Committee's jurisdiction and shall provide for the integration
of such vendors or for a separate facility for such vendors to enable them to
continue their business.

### 7. Identity card.

\- An identity card shall be issued by the Town Vending Committee to each
street vendor in Form-IV which is enabled to carry the biometric particulars
of the street vendor.

### 8. Criteria for issue of Certificate of Vending.

\- The Town Vending Committee, shall follow the following criteria for issuing
Certificate of Vending, namely :-(a)The name of the street vendor shall be
enumerated in the survey of street vendors carried out by the Town Vending
Committee.(b)The street vendor shall be directly involved in street vending
business;(c)When there is shortage of place for vending, preference shall be
given to the Schedule Caste, the Schedule Tribes, Other Backward Classes,
women, persons with disabilities and minorities.;(d)The Town Vending Committee
concerned shall identify such of those vendors who are in need of preferential
grant of Certificate of vending, after taking into account -(i)their
disability, special or unique nature of business like trading craft items
;(ii)the special nature of vending or services offered by a class or group of
vendors limited to a specific area or such other factors that may require a
preferential grant of Certificate of Vending in order to preserve such unique
businesses or services;(iii)Whether the street vendors are carrying on or
offering services to the visitors to any tourist or pilgrim centres on a
seasonal or time of the day basis;(e)The availability of space and the holding
capacity of the vending area.

### 9. Vending Fees.

(1)The vending fees for various categories of vendors shall be as mentioned in
the table below: -The Table

Sl.No. | Category of Street Vendors | Area | Vending Fee  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | Stationary vendor(Full time) | Upto 10 sq.ft. |  1% of the Guideline value subject to minimum ofRs 750/- per annum  
|  | From 10 to 25 sq.ft. |  2% of the Guideline value subject to a minimumof Rs 1500/- per annum  
|  | More than 25 sq.ft. |  3% of the Guideline value subject to a minimumof Rs 3000/- per annum  
2. | Stationary Vendor (Part Time or time sharing) | Upto 10 sq.ft. |  0.5% of the Guideline values subject to aminimum of Rs 375/- per annum  
|  | From 10 to 25 sq.ft. |  1.0% of the Guideline value subject to a minimumof Rs 750/- per annum  
|  | More than 25 sq.ft. |  1.5% of the Guideline value subject to a minimumof Rs 1500/- per annum.  
3. | Mobile vendor(with motor vehicle) | Upto 10 sq.ft. | Rs.750/- per annum  
|  | From 10 to 25 sq.ft. | Rs.1500/- per annum  
|  | More than 25 sq.ft. | Rs.3000/- per annum  
4. | Mobile vendor (vehicle without motor) | Upto 10 sq.ft. | Rs.375/- per annum  
|  | From 10 to 25 sq.ft. | Rs.750/- per annum  
|  | More than 25 sq.ft. | Rs.1500/- per annum  
5. | Mobile vendor (head loads) | - | Rs.250/- per annum  
  
(2)The vending fee shall be revised atleast once in three years and shall be
published in the notice board of the concerned local authority.

### 10. The validity of the Certificate of Vending.

\- The Certificate of Vending shall be valid for a period of 5 years from the
date of issue or until the next enumeration of vendors whichever is earlier.

### 11. Renewal of Certificate of Vending.

\- Application for renewal of the Certificate of Vending shall be made to the
Town Vending Committee concerned atleast sixty days prior to the date of
expiry of the Certificate. The fee for renewal shall be Rs.100/ - (Rupees one
hundred only). The Certificate of Vending shall be renewed for a period of 5
years.

### 12. Cancellation or suspension of Certificate of Vending.

(1)The Town Vending Committee concerned may cancel or suspend the Certificate
of Vending of a street vendor, if the Certificate has been obtained by fraud
or misrepresentation or if the vendor fails to pay any of the fees payable
with respect to the Certificate of Vending to the local authority or such
other dues to any authority under the Act or any other law applicable or
commits any breach of the conditions of such Certificate or any other law,
bye-law, rules or directions issued under these Scheme, the Rules and the
Act.(2)No Certificate of Vending shall be cancelled unless the holder thereof
has been given a notice giving a period of 15 days to submit his reply to the
allegation based on which the Certificate is proposed to be cancelled. The
period of 15 days shall be counted from the date on which the notice is served
on the vendor or delivered to his last known address.(3)A Certificate of a
Vending may be suspended for a fixed period of time for any violation of
conditions of the Certificate which is rectifiable during such period of
suspension:Provided that no prior notice may be required in a case of
suspension of Certificate of Vending for a period of less than 7 days in order
to prevent commission of an act detrimental to public health and order.(4)In
case action has been initiated against a vendor for violation of law or for
causing public hazards or for failure to pay tax etc., the Town Vending
Committee may suspend his Certificate of Vending after duly following the
procedure specified in sub-clause (2).

### 13. Relocation of street vendors.

(1)In case of relocation of street vendors under sub-section (1) of section 18
of the Act, it shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:-a. The
relocation shall be done with the concurrence of the Town Vending Committee
concerned.b. As far as possible, the vendors shall be allotted locations in an
adjoining area of equal or similar nature and importance as the original
place.c. Insofar as possible, the density of the vendors in the new area shall
be maintained.d. The relocation shall be, insofar as possible, in the same
locality or area as is commonly identifiable.(2)In case, the conditions
specified above are not possible to be complied with, the relocation shall be
done with the concurrence of the Town Vending Committee, recording the reasons
for such departure from the above conditions.(3)In case the relocation is not
possible in compliance of the conditions specified in sub-clause (1) and in
case the vendors concerned either individually or as a group refuse to move or
relocate, their Certificate of Vending shall be cancelled and they may be
offered vending locations in other areas within the ward, zone or city and
fresh Certificate of Vending shall be issued to them by the Town Vending
Committee concerned. Such vendors shall form a special category of
preferential vendors under this Scheme.(4)The public purpose or public
interest involved in the relocation of vendors under this Scheme shall have to
be separately arrived at on the basis of the fact that such relocation shall
be for the betterment of the general public inclusive or not inclusive of the
street vendors. While weighing the livelihoods of the street vendors against
the public purpose for which they are sought to be relocated, the importance
of the project for which they are displaced and the resultant benefit to the
general public shall be compared. Projects such as creation of road
infrastructure, under or over bridges, expansion of roads, pathways,
pedestrian plazas, provision for bus stops, parking places for motor vehicles,
and such other similar activities shall deemed to be public purposes for which
the vendors may be relocated. Such other purposes as are decided by the Town
Vending Committee concerned as being beneficial to the public shall also be
considered as public purposes for the relocation of street vendors.

### 14. Manner and method of eviction of vendors, seizure and disposal of
goods.

(1)A street vendor, whose Certificate of Vending is cancelled under section 10
of the Act or who vends without a certificate of vending or who vends in a no-
vending zone shall be liable to be evicted immediately from his place of
vending and his vending articles and goods shall be seized by the local
authority and kept in its custody.(2)The articles and goods of such street
vendors shall be seized under a proper inventory and the signature of the
street vendor concerned shall be obtained in the same. In case the vendor
refuses to sign the inventory, the sanitary officer or sanitary supervisor or
sanitary inspector of the local authority concerned shall attest the inventory
in addition to the attestation of the officials seizing the articles.(3)If a
vendor does not apply for the return of the articles and the goods seized by
the local authority after the expiry of 24 hours, in case of perishable goods
and after the expiry of fifteen days, in case of non-perishable goods, the
local authority shall dispose of the same by an open auction. The proceeds of
such auction shall be adjusted towards the charges and penalties, if any, that
are payable by the vendor under the rules or the Scheme and the cost incurred
for conducting the auction. The balance, if any, shall be kept in a separate
account and paid to the street vendor on application.(4)If a vendor or his
legal heirs fail to claim the balance amount under sub-clause (3), within a
period of three months, the same shall be forfeited by the local authority and
deposited in its general account.

### 15. Social Audit.

\- After each survey of street vendors, the concerned Town Vending Committee,
shall conduct a social audit of its functions, as early as possible, with
emphasis on the transaction of its business with regard to the street vendors
in its territory, the various categories of businesses being carried by them,
the change in the vending profile of any particular area, the financial health
of the street vendors, changes of demand for goods or services from such
street vendors, requirement for relocation of street vendors, need for issue
of additional Certificates of Vending or for reducing the number of such
Certificates due to physical constraints of space, economic viability of
continuing the street vendors in their location, need for re-structuring the
functioning of the Committee and its procedures, etc. This social audit shall
be published and be made available at cost to any person who requires the
same. A copy of the said audit shall be submitted to the local authority.

### 16. Restriction of private places for being used as vending zones and the
bar on using private lands for vending and restricted vending.

\- As the street vendors are to be relocated under this Scheme and the Act,
the private places within the jurisdiction of a Town Vending Committee shall
not be used as a vending zone unless a specific permission is granted by the
concerned Town Vending Committee for that purpose. The Town Vending Committee
shall permit private places as vending zones subject to the satisfaction that
such zones are absolutely necessary. While doing so, the primary factor shall
be the welfare of the street vendors of that area. No private vending zone
shall be allowed if it will affect the street vendors of that area. On the
other hand, private vending areas shall be allowed in order to accommodate the
street vendors who need to be removed or relocated from the public places.
Permission for such private vending zones shall be given only if the number of
vendors in such private vending zones together with the street vendors in that
area shall not exceed 2.5% of the population of that vending zone, area or
location. The density of vendors, sanitation, proportions of different
businesses and infrastructural facilities of such places shall be regulated as
per the Rules and the Scheme.

### 17. Maintenance of cleanliness and charges payable to the Local Authority.

(1)Every street vendor shall be responsible for the cleanliness of the
immediate surroundings of the area allocated to the vendors in a vending
zone.(2)Every street vendor shall collect and deposit the waste generated by
his business as instructed by the local authority.(3)Every street vendor shall
remit the vending fee specified in clause 9, every year as decided by the
local authority.(4)Every street vendor shall also remit the maintenance
charges to the local authority concerned as and when the same is levied from
the other shops.

### 18. Nodal Officer.

\- The Commissioner of Municipal Administration shall be the nodal officer at
the State level to coordinate all matters relating to street vending.

### 19. Maintenance of registers.

\- Every Town Vending Committee shall maintain the registers containing the
particulars of each Certificate of Vending issued by it for street vendors,
such as the name of the vendor, location for which the Certificate is issued,
nature of business permitted, time of business, category and any other
particulars to facilitate collection of data for future use.

### 20. Identification of vending zones.

(1)The Town Vending Committee shall within a period of six months from the
date of the publication of this Scheme identify the 'vending zones' and the
'No vending zones' for street vending and shall publish the details in the
notice board of the local authority concerned.(2)(a)The 'vending zones' and
'No vending zones' shall be identified based on the width of the street,
volume of traffic and the number of pedestrians passing through the street and
such other factors as may be material to identify the said zones in such a way
that no or minimum inconvenience is caused to the general public using the
street as well as the residents of the street and traders carrying on their
business from the private properties abutting such street.(b)The
identification of the vending zones shall be done in consultation with the
Traffic Police or Police having jurisdiction over the area concerned. The
police may recommend a place to be a vending zone, the local authority
concerned may accept, modify or reject the recommendations with due reasoning
and designate a place or location as vending zone, as it deems fit.(c)Any
person aggrieved by the designation of the vending zones in an area shall be
entitled to make a representation to the Town Vending Committee concerned the
Committee shall consider the same and dispose within a period of fifteen days
from the date on which the representation is received or in the next meeting
of the Town Vending Committee, whichever is earlier.(3)The identification of
vending zones and no-vending zones shall be periodically reviewed by the Town
Vending Committee once in five years in the same manner specified in sub-
clause (2), particularly with reference to the growth or otherwise of the
traffic and other developments in the area.

### 21. Preparation of Street Vending Plan.

(1)The Town Vending Committee shall prepare a street vending plan. The holding
capacity of the street vendors of any particular area or locality shall be
limited to 2.5% of the population of ward, zone or city, as the case may
be.(2)The Town Vending Committee, shall, identify the vending areas, based on
the holding capacity, space available, number of vendors etc., and designate
that area to be a vending zone duly keeping in mind all other relevant
norms.(3)The Town Vending Committee may resort to drawal of lots for issue of
Certificate of Vending in a particular area, which is identified for vending.
The unsuccessful applicants, shall be given preferential right for relocation
as prescribed in the Scheme.(4)In areas having high population and low density
of vendors and where there are adjacent vending areas having high density of
vendors and low resident population, the Town Vending Committee shall devise
methods to enable the relocation of street vendors to other population
centres, so as to avoid inequitable concentration of vendors, heavy flow of
traffic and the inconvenience of people in travelling to such high density
vending areas.

### 22. Vending on time sharing basis.

\- The Town Vending Committee concerned shall, when it is necessary and
expedient in order to accommodate more number of vendors or in case the nature
of businesses is such that the vendors carry on their vending only during
certain time of the day or certain days of the year or month or week, form
Time Restricted Vending Zones, where the vendors shall be issued the
Certificates of Vending specifically stating the hours or days or such other
periods of business. The said restrictions shall form part of the basic
conditions of the Certificate of Vending. Any violation of it which will
result in adverse consequences to the vendors.AppendixForm - I[see clause 3
(4)]Enumeration of street vendors

1. | Name of the vendor | : | {|  
---|---|---|---  
Photograph  
  
|-| 2.| Residential address| :|-| 3.| Date of Birth/Age||-| 4.|
Sex:Male/Female/Others||-| 5.| Caste:OC/BC/MBC/SC/ST| :|-| 6.|
Personalidentification of the vendor| :|-| 7.| Other identificationdetails of
vendor, if any| :|-| 8.| Voter ID/FamilyCard/Aadhar No.||-| 9.| Nature of
business| :|-| 10.| Location of business| :|-| 11.| Extent of theoccupation
(Area with dimensions in Feet)| :|-| 12.| Other particulars, ifany| :|-| 13.|
Bio-Metric ID| :|}Form - II[See clause 4(1)]Certificate of Street
Vending.....Zone of............... Corporation / ...............Municipality /
Town Panchayat Certificate of Street VendingRef No. / /Dated:..............

Vendor's Photograph(Passport size)  
---  
  
This is to certify that Thiru/Tmt/Selvi ,.........................../o Thiru
................................ residing at.............................and
aged about................................years, is permitted to do vending
of.......................... at the.............................(please write
here details of landmark and street name) of the.............Municipality/Town
Panchayats/................Zone of the Corporation and is allotted an area
of.................sq.ft., to do business
from.................to.................hours , subject to the following
conditions, namely:-Conditions

### 1\. This Certificate is valid for years from the date of issue and is non-
transferable.

### 2\. The vendor shall keep the premises clean and neat

### 3\. The vendor shall abide by the trade related statutory laws and rules
governing the vending of goods.

### 4\. The vendor shall not do any other vending business other than the one
specified above.

### 5\. The vendor shall pay the fees and charges fixed by the local authority
as prescribed.

### 6\. The vendor shall always display the original Certificate of Vending
and the Identity Card and shall produce them on demand by the authorities for
verification at any time.

### 7\. The vendor shall ensure free movement of pedestrian and traffic.

### 8\. This Certificate is liable for cancellation for violation of any of
the conditions stipulated in the rules in force.

The ChairpersonTown Vending CommitteeSignature of the VendorForm III[See
clause 4(2)]Application for Grant of Vending Certificate

FromThiru/Tmt/Selvi.....................S/o. Thiru.................................................................. | {|  
---|---  
Affix passport sizephotograph  
  
|}ToThe Chairperson,Town Vending CommitteeZone
-...................of...............Corporation......................Municipality
/Town PanchayatSir,Sub: Grant of Certificate of Vending - Requested -
Regarding.-I wish to do street vending business of.................within the
limit of the...............Corporation / Municipality / Town Panchayat.I
request you to grant me a Certificate of Vending for doing the above business
in the place or location designated by the Municipality/Corporation. I furnish
the relevant details as follows:-

### 1\. Name

### 2\. Residential address (address proof to be attached-Voter ID /Family
Card/ Aadhar Card No

### 3\. Date of Birth/Age

### 4\. Personal identification marks

### 5\. Other identification details of Vendor,

### 6\. Nature of business

### 7\. Location of business

### 8\. Details of Legal-heirs

### 9\. Other particulars, if any

### 10\. Payment of vending fees (for grant of certificate of street vending)

Signature of the applicant.Form - IV(See clause 7 )Street Vendor Identity Card

|  | {|  
---|---|---  
Vendor's Photograph (Passport Size)  
  
|-| Name of the StreetVendor:| ____________________________||-| Date of
Birth:| ____________________________||-| Age and Sex:|
____________________________||-| Name of the localbody:|
____________________________||-| Location of Vending:|
____________________________||-| Category of Vending:|
____________________________||-| Nature of Business:|
____________________________||-| Time of Business:|
____________________________||}

