## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Municipal Services Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1970

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Municipal Services Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1970

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-SERVICES-DISCIPLINE-AND-APPEAL-RULES-1970 of 1970

  * Published on 1 January 1970 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Municipal Services Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1970

## Part I – General

### 1. Short title and Application.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Services (Discipline and
Appeal) Rules, 1970.(2)They shall come into force from the date of issue of
order, provided that every person to whom these rules shall apply shall be
governed by the rules in force prior to the latter date.(3)They shall apply to
(i) Every member of a Municipal service other than the members of services
holding posts in any of the categories in Branch I of the Tamil Nadu Municipal
Public Health and Medical service, as they are governed by the Regulations
framed under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of
1939);(ii)Every person appointed to a class or category of a Municipal service
other than the categories in Branch I of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Public
Health and Medical Service under rule 8 of the General Rules in Part II of the
Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970. But they shall not apply to any
person appointed to a Municipal Service on contract under rule 9 of the
general rules.Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to the application of
these rules to any person, the matter shall be referred to the State
Government whose decision shall be final.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the context, the
words or expressions shall have the same meaning assigned to them in Part I of
the Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970.(2)"Appellate Authority" means
the authority competent to entertain and pass orders setting aside or
confirming or modifying an original order of a disciplinary authority imposing
any of the penalties specified in rule 3 of these rules on any member of a
service.(3)"Disciplinary authority" means the authority competent to impose
any of the penalties mentioned in rule 3 on any member of a
service.Explanation: - Where an appellate authority passes an original order
imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3, he shall, in respect of
that order, be deemed to be a disciplinary authority.

## Part II – Discipline-Penalties

### 3. Penalties.

\- The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reason, be imposed on
any member of a service, namely; -(1)censure;(2)withholding of increments, or
promotion, including stoppage at an efficiency bar;(3)reduction to a lower
rank in the seniority list or to a lower post or time-scale or to a lower
stage in a time-scale;(4)recovery from pay of the whole or part of any
pecuniary loss caused to a Municipal Council or to any other local body or the
State Government or the Central Government by negligence or breach of
orders;(5)recovery from pay to extent necessary of the monetary value
equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld, where such an
order cannot be given effect to;(6)recovery from pay to the extent necessary
of the monetary value equivalent to the amount of reduction to a lower stage
in a time scale ordered, where such an order cannot be given effect
to;Explanation. - In case of stoppage of increment with cumulative effect, the
monetary value of three times the amount of increments ordered to be withheld
may be recovered.(7)compulsory retirement from the Municipal
service;(8)removal from the Municipal Service;(9)dismissal from the Municipal
Service;(10)suspension, where a person has already been suspended under rule 8
to the extent considered necessary by the authority imposing the penalty.The
penalties mentioned in items 1, 2, 4 to 6 and 10 will be deemed to be minor
penalties, and those in 3,7 to 9 as major penalties.Explanation. - (1) The
discharge -(i)of a person appointed on probation before the expiry or at the
end of the prescribed of extended period of probation, or(ii)of a person
engaged under contract in accordance with the terms of his contract, or(iii)of
a person appointed otherwise than under contract to hold a temporary
appointment on the expiration of the period of the appointment does not amount
to removal or dismissal within the meaning of this rule.(iv)The following
shall not amount to be a penalty within the meaning of this rule, namely:
-(a)Withholding of increments of pay of a municipal servant for his failure to
pass any departmental examination in accordance with the rules or orders
governing the service to which he belongs or post which he holds or the terms
of his appointment;(b)Stoppage of increment of a municipal servant at the
efficiency bar in the time scale of pay on the ground of his unfitness to
cross the bar;(c)Non-promotion of a municipal servant, whether in a
substantive or officiating capacity after consideration of his case, to a
service, grade or post for promotion to which he is eligible;(d)Reversion of a
municipal servant officiating in a higher service, grade or post to a lower
service, grade or post on the ground that he is considered to be unsuitable
for such higher service, grade or post on any administrative ground
unconnected with his conduct;(e)Reversion of a Municipal servant appointed on
probation to any other service, grade or post to his permanent service, grade
or post during or at the end of the period of probation in accordance with the
terms of his appointment or to the rules and orders governing such
probation;(f)Replacement of services of a municipal servant whose service had
been borrowed from a State Government or Central Government or an authority
under the control of a State Government or Central Government at the disposal
of the State Government or Central Government or the authority from which the
services of such municipal servant had been borrowed; and(g)Compulsory
retirement of a municipal servant in accordance with the provisions relating
to his superannuation or retirement.(2)The removal of a person from the
Municipal service shall not disqualify him from future employment, but the
dismissal of a person from the Municipal service shall ordinarily disqualify
him from future employment.

### 4. Disciplinary Authority.

(1)The authority competent to impose the penalties specified in clauses (1),
(2), (4) and (5) of rule 3 on a member of a service other than those holding
posts in any of the categories in the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and
Water Works Service shall be the Commissioner of the Municipality
concerned.(2)The authority competent to impose any of the penalties mentioned
in sub-rule (1) on a member of a service holding a post in any of the
categories in the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and Water Works Service
shall be the Municipal Engineer.Explanation. - (i) In cases covered by sub-
rule (1) if the delinquent is working in a Municipality other than the
Municipality where the lapse was committed, the competent authority shall be
the Commissioner of the Municipality in which delinquent was working at the
time when the lapse was committed.(ii)In cases covered by sub-rule (2), if the
delinquent happens to be working in a Municipality other than the Municipality
where the lapse was committed, then the competent authority shall be the
Municipal Engineer of the Municipality in which the lapse was committed.(3)The
authority competent to impose the penalties specified in clauses (3), (6),
(7), (8), (9), and (10) of rule 3 on a member of a service shall be the
appointing authority. The appointing authority in respect of posts included in
the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and Waterworks Service and in Branch II
of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Public Health and Medical Service should consult
the head of the Government Department concerned before final orders are passed
subject to the following conditions: -(i)the consultation should be only in
respect of technical points which, in the opinion of the disciplinary
authority require clarification;(ii)it should not relate to the adequacy of
the explanation or the quantum of penalty to be imposed;(iii)there should be
kept in the file a written record of the consultation.Explanation. - If the
appointing authority are the Commissioners of the Municipalities, then the
competent authority to impose the penalty shall be the Commissioner of the
Municipality in which delinquent was working at the time of committing the
lapse.

### 5. Appellate Authority.

(1)Notwithstanding the provisions in rule 4, the appellate authority may, in
respect of any specified penalty, pass an order imposing penalty on a member
of service in any specified case.(2)Where, in any case, the appellate
authority has imposed or declined to impose a penalty under this rule, the
disciplinary authority shall have no jurisdiction to proceed under this rule
in respect of the same case.(3)The fact that a disciplinary authority has
imposed or declined or declined to impose a penalty in any case shall not
debar the appellate authority from exercising his jurisdiction under this rule
in respect of the same case.(4)The order of the appellate authority in
imposing or declining to impose in any case a penalty under this rule shall
supersede any order passed by the disciplinary authority in respect of the
same case.(5)The fact that a disciplinary authority has dropped a charge
against a member of a service as not proved shall not debar the appellate
authority from reviving it for reasons to be recorded in writing and taking
suitable action on the charge so revived.

### 6. Disciplinary authority in respect of persons promoted or transferred.

\- Where a person has been promoted or transferred from a class or category of
a service to a higher class or category of such service, no penalty shall be
imposed upon him in respect of his work or conduct while he was a member of
the class or category from which he was promoted or transferred, except by an
authority competent to appoint him to the class or category to which he has
been promoted or transferred.

### 7. Disciplinary authority in respect of persons reduced or reverted.

\- Where a person has been reduced or reverted from a class or category of a
service to a lower class or category of such service, no penalty shall be
imposed on him in respect of his work or conduct while he was a member of the
class or category from which he was reverted or reduced except by an authority
competent to impose the penalty upon a member of such class or category, as
the case may be.

### 8. Procedure for imposing penalties.

(1)In every case where it is proposed to impose on a member of a service any
of the penalties specified in clauses (1), (2), (4), (5) and (10) of rule 3,
he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of making any representation that
he may desire to make and such representation, if any shall be taken into
consideration before the order imposing penalty is passed:Provided that the
requirements of the sub-rule shall not apply where it is proposed to impose on
a member of a service any of the penalties aforesaid on the basis of facts
which have led to his conviction by a court martial or where the officer
concerned has absconded or where it is for other reasons impracticable to
communicate with him.(2)In every case where it is proposed to impose on a
member of a service any of the penalties specified in clauses (3), (6), (7),
(8) and (9) of rule 3,'the grounds on which it is proposed to take action
shall be reduced to the form of definite charge or charges which shall be
communicated to the person charged together with a statement of the
allegations on which each charge is based and of any other circumstances on
which it is proposed to take into consideration in passing orders in the case.
The person so charged shall be required within a reasonable time to put in a
written statement of his defence and to state whether he desires an oral
enquiry is desired by the person charged or is directed by the authority
concerned. At the enquiry, oral evidence shall be taken as to such of the
allegations as are not admitted, and the person charged shall be entitled to
cross-examine the witnesses, to give evidence in person and to have such
witnesses called as he may wish, provided that the officer conducting the
enquiry may, for special and sufficient reason to be recorded in writing
refuse to call a witness, after the enquiry has been completed, the person
charged shall be entitled to put in, if he so desires any further written
statement of his defence. If no enquiry is held, and if he had desired to be
heard in person a personal hearing shall be given to him the proceedings shall
contain a sufficient record of the evidence and a statement of the findings
and the grounds thereof.(3)[ After the inquiry or personal hearing referred to
in sub-rule (2) has been completed, the authority competent to impose the
penalty specified in that sub-rule is of the opinion on the basis of the
evidence adduced during the inquiry that any of the penalties specified in
rule 3 should be imposed on the person charged it shall before making an order
imposing such penalty, furnish to him a copy of [xxx] inquiry or personal
hearing or both as the case may be, and call upon him to submit his further
representation if any, within a reasonable time not exceeding fifteen days.
Any representation received in this behalf within the period shall be taken
into consideration before making any order imposing the penalty provided that
such representation shall be based on the evidence adduced during the inquiry
only. It shall not be necessary to give the person charged any opportunity of
making representation on the penalty proposed to be imposed.] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 208, MA & WS (ME-II), dated 11th November 1998.](4)[ ***.]
[Omitted by G.O. Ms. No 208, Municipal Administration and water supply (ME II)
dated the 11th November 1998.](5)The requirements of sub-rule (2) shall not
apply where it is proposed to impose on a member of a service any such penalty
as is referred to therein on the basis of the facts which have led to his
conviction in a criminal court, whether or not he has been sentenced by such
court to any punishment; but he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of
making any representation that he may desire to make, and such representation
if any shall be taken into consideration before the order imposing the penalty
is passed.(6)The requirements of sub-rule (2) shall not apply where it is
proposed to impose on a member of a service any of the penalties mentioned in
rule 3 on the basis of facts which had led to his conviction by a court
martial or where the person concerned has absconded or where it is for other
reasons impracticable to communicate with him.(7)The provisions of sub-rule
(2) shall not apply where the State Government are satisfied that in the
interest of the security of the State it is not expedient to follow the
procedure prescribed in that sub-rule.(8)All or any of the provisions of sub-
rules (1) and (2) may, in exceptional cases, for special and sufficient
reasons to be recorded in writing, be waived where there is difficulty in
observing exactly the requirements of the said sub-rules, and those
requirements can be waived without injustice to the person charged. If any
question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to follow the procedure
prescribed in sub-rule (2), the decision thereon of the authority competent to
dismiss or remove such person or reduce him in rank, as the case may be, shall
be final.(9)A member of a service may be placed under suspension from service
by the disciplinary authority or such other authority to whom the power may be
delegated or the Commissioner of the Municipality, where -(i)an enquiry into
grave charges against him is contemplated or is pending; or(ii)a complaint
against him of any criminal offence is under investigation or trial and if
such suspension is necessary in the public interest:Provided that as and when
a member of the service is placed under suspension by the authority other than
the disciplinary authority such authority shall at once intimate the fact to
the disciplinary authority.(10)A member of a service who is detained in
custody whether on a criminal charge or otherwise for a period longer than 48
hours, shall be deemed to have been suspended under this rule.(11)Where a
penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service imposed
upon a member of a service under suspension is set aside in appeal or on
review under these rules, and the case is remitted for further enquiry or
action or with any other directions, the orders of his suspension shall be
deemed to have continued in force on and from the date of original order of
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall remain in force until
further orders.(12)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory
retirement from service imposed upon a member of a service is set aside or
declared or rendered void inconsequence of or by a decision of a court of law,
and the disciplinary authority, on a consideration of the circumstances of the
case, decides to hold a further inquiry against him on the allegations on
which the penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement was
originally imposed, such member of a service be deemed to have been placed
under suspension by the appointing authority from the date of original order
of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall continue to remain
under suspension until further orders.(13)Where a Municipal servant is
suspended or is deemed to have been suspended (whether in connection with any
disciplinary proceedings or otherwise) and any other disciplinary proceedings
is commenced against him during the continuance of that suspension, the
authority competent to place him under suspension may, for reasons to be
recorded by him in writing, direct that the Municipal servant shall continue
to be under suspension until the termination of all or any of such
proceedings.(14)An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under
this rale may at any time be revoked by the authority which made the order or
by the appellate authority or the State Government.

### 9. Maintenance of records.

\- The competent authority imposing any penalty under these rules shall
maintain a record showing: -(1)The allegations upon which action was taken
against the person punished;(2)the charges framed, if any;(3)the person's
representation, if any, and the evidence taken, if any; and(4)the finding and
the grounds thereof; if any.

### 10. Order of punishment to state grounds and to be communicated.

(a)All orders of punishment shall state the grounds on which they are based
and shall be communicated in writing to the person against whom they are
passed;(b)Every order, notice and other process made or issued under these
rules shall be served in person on the municipal servant concerned, or sent to
him by registered post, acknowledgement due, or if such person is not found,
by leaving it at his last known place of residence, or by giving or tendering
it to an adult member of his family, or if none of the means aforesaid is
available, by affixing it in some conspicuous part of his last known place of
residence.

### 11. Appeals.

\- Every member of a service shall have the right of appeal against an order
passed by an authority: -(1)imposing on him any of the penalties specified in
rule 3;(2)discharging him in accordance with the terms of his contract, if he
has been engaged on a contract for a period exceeding 3 years at the time when
his services are terminated.

### 12. Appeals to Appointing Authority.

\- A member of a service on whom any of the penalties mentioned in clauses
(1), (2), (4) and (5) of rule 3 has been imposed may appeal against the order
imposing that penalty to the authority competent to appoint him to the post
held by him at the time when the cause for the disciplinary proceedings arose.

### 13. Appellate Authority.

\- [(a) Where any of the penalties mentioned in rule 12 has been imposed on a
member of the service holding a post in any of the categories in the Tamil
Nadu Municipal General Services, the Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service,
Branch II of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Public Health and Medical Service or
Tamil Nadu Municipal Last Grade Service, by the Commissioner of the First,
Second and Third Grade Municipality or the Executive Officer of the Township
Committee for which the Collector is not the Chairman, as the appointing
authority, the appeal shall lie to the Regional Director of Municipal
Administration concerned, and where it has been so imposed by the Commissioner
of the Selection and the Special and the Special Grade Municipality of the
Executive Officer of the Township Committee for which the Collector is the
Chairman, the appeal shall lie to the Director of Municipal Administration.]
[Substituted by SRO-A 159/80, RD & LAD, dated the 10th April 1980.](b)A member
of service on whom any of the penalties mentioned in clauses (3),(6), (7), (8)
and (9) of rule 3 has been imposed may appeal against the order imposing that
penalty where such an order has been passed by the Municipal Commissioner, to
the Director of Municipal administration in the case of members of services
holding posts in any of the categories in the Tamil Nadu Municipal General
service, the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and Water Works Service, the
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service, the Tamil Nadu Municipal
Educational Service, Branch II of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Education Service
and Branch III of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Public Health and Medical Services,
and where the order has been passed by the Director of Municipal
Administration to the State Government.

### 14. Appeal to Government.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 12 and 13, where an original
order imposing a specific penalty imposed on a member of a service has been
passed by the appellate authority in exercise of the powers conferred by rule
5, an appeal against such orders shall lie only to the State
Government:Provided that where the appellate authority who has passed the
original order imposing the penalty happens to be the State Government, the
person aggrieved by the order may again appeal to the State Government to
reconsider the order. The State Government shall, thereupon, review the
records of the case and pass such orders thereon as it may appear to them to
be just or expedient.

### 15. Procedure to be followed by the appellate authority.

(1)In the case of an appeal against an order imposing any penalty specified in
rule 3, the appellate authority shall consider -(i)whether the facts on which
the order was based have been established;(ii)whether facts established afford
sufficient ground for taking action; and(iii)whether the penalty is excessive,
adequate, or inadequate, and after such consideration shall pass such orders
as it thinks proper.(2)any error or defect in the procedure followed in
imposing a penalty may be disregarded by the appellate authority, if such
authority considers, for reasons to be recorded in writing, that the error or
defect was not material and has neither caused injustice to the person
concerned nor affected the decision of the case.

### 16. Appellate authority to decide appeals.

\- In the case of an appeal, the appellate authority shall pass such orders as
appears to it just and equitable, having regard to all the circumstances of
the case.

### 17. Mode of preferring an appeal.

(a)Every person preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own
name.(b)Every appeal preferred under these rules shall contain all material
statements and arguments relied on by the appellant, shall contain no
disrespectful or improper language, and shall be complete in itself. Every
such appeal shall be addressed to the authority to whom the appeal is
preferred and shall be submitted through the head of the office to which the
appellant belongs or belonged and through the authority from whose order the
appeal is preferred.

### 18. Withholding of appeal.

\- An appeal may be withheld by an authority net lower than the authority from
whose order it is preferred, if -(1)It is an appeal in a case in which under
these rules no appeal lies; or(2)it does not comply with the provisions of
rule 17(b); or(3)it is not preferred within 2 months after the date on which
the appellant was informed of the order appealed against and no reasonable
cause is shown for the delay; or(4)it is a repetition of a previous appeal and
is made to the same appellate authority by which such appeal has been decided
and no new facts or circumstances are adduced which afford grounds for
reconsideration of the case; or(5)it is addressed to an authority to which no
appeal lies under these rules:Provided that in every case in which an appeal
is withheld, the appellant shall be informed of the fact and the reason for
it:Provided further that an appeal withheld on account only of failure to
comply with the provisions of rule 17(b) may be re-submitted at any time
within one month of the date on which the appellant has been informed of the
withholding of the appeal; and an appeal re-submitted in a form which complies
with those provision - shall not be withheld.

### 19. No appeal to lie against withholding of any appeal.

\- No appeal shall lie against withholding of an appeal by a competent
authority.

### 20. Powers of appellate authority or Government when no appeal is
preferred.

\- The authority by whom an order imposing a penalty specified in rule 3 may
be reversed or altered in cases in which no appeal is preferred shall be the
appellate authority prescribed in the rules or the State Government.

### 21. Forwarding of appeal and list of appeals withheld to the appellate
authority.

(1)Every appeal which is not withheld under these rules shall be forwarded to
the appellate authority by the authority from whose order the appeal is
preferred with an expression of opinion.(2)A list of appeals withheld under
rule 18, with the reason for withholding them, shall be forwarded half-yearly
by the withholding authority to the appellate authority.

### 22. Powers of appellate authority to call for a withheld appeal.

\- An appellate authority may call for any appeal admissible under these rules
which has been withheld by a subordinate authority and may pass such orders
thereon as it considers fit.

### 23. Savings.

\- Nothing in these rules shall operate to deprive any person of any right of
appeal which he would have had if these rules had not been made in respect of
any order passed before they came into force. An appeal pending at the time,
when, or preferred after these rules came into force, shall be deemed to be an
appeal under these rules, and rule 15 shall apply as if the appeal were
against an order appealable under these rules.

### 24. Revision petition to Government.

\- Where the original order imposing any of the penalties specified in rule 3
has been imposed on a member of a service by the State Government, such member
may, within two months from the date on which the order is communicated to
him, submit a revision petition to the Government against the order. In
disposing the petition the State Government shall, as far as possible follow
the procedure prescribed for dealing with appeals.

### 25. Powers of Government to pass orders on completed disciplinary
proceedings.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the State Government
shall have the power to call for the records relating to a disciplinary
proceedings which has been completed either by the disciplinary authority or
by the appellate authority and pass such orders on it as they may consider
just or expedient:Provided that before a penalty is imposed in a case where it
has not been imposed or a penalty which has been imposed is enhanced, the
persons concerned should be given opportunity to show cause why the penalty
should not be imposed or enhanced, as the case may be.

