## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Lease Holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Lease Holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

## Act 27 of 1963

  * Published on 12 December 1963 
  * Commenced on 12 December 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 December 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Lease Holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1963(Tamil Nadu Act No. 27 of 1963)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963. - The
policy of abolition of intermediaries between the Government and the actual
cultivators, advocated by the Planning Commission, has been accepted by all
the States and also implemented in most of them. So far as Madras is
concerned, the first step was taken so early as 1948, when the Madras Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948),
was passed. Under this Act, the intermediaries in the Zamindari and under-
tenure estates and in the whole inam villages in which the grant consisted of
the melvaram alone, have been abolished and the lands have been converted into
ryotwari. Bills for the abolition of the intermediaries in the whole inam
villages in which the grant consisted of both the melvaram and the kudivaram
and in the minor mams have been introduced in the Legislative Assembly.2\.
There is yet another class of intermediaries in this State, namely, the
lessees of leasehold villages. From the reports received from the Collectors,
it is seen that there are eleven such villages in this State. The leases in
respect of two of the villages are for 99 years, expiring in 1994 and 1999.
The other nine villages have been leased permanently. The lease does not
interfere with pre-existing occupancy rights in the lands in these villages.
In fairness to the persons having such occupancy rights, the lease-hold tenure
in these villages has to be abolished. The present Bill seeks to abolish the
lease-hold tenure in these eleven villages and also in any other lease-holds
which may be brought to the notice of the Government.3\. The provisions in the
Bill generally follow those in Madras Act XXVI of 1948, except in regard to
compensation. While the basis for calculating the Basic Annual Sura adopted in
Madras Act XXVI of 1948 has generally been followed in the Bill, the amount of
compensation is different. In cases in which the lease has been granted in
perpetuity, the compensation is 10 times the Basic Annual Sum and in other
cases five times.4\. A Bill for the purpose was introduced in the Legislative
Assembly on the 29th September 1961 and was referred to a Select Committee.
The Select Committee was not able to make its recommendations before the
Assembly was dissolved and accordingly the Bill lapsed. The present Bill
embodies the provisions of the Bill referred to above with some formal
alterations.5\. The provisions of the Bill are explained in the Notes on
Clauses.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 115 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 25th April 1962.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1964). - Section 5 of the Madras
Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 27
of 1968) provides that the State Government shall appoint a Settlement Officer
to carry out survey and settlement operations in lease-holds and introduce
ryotwari settlement therein. The said section 5 does not empower the State
Government to appoint more than one Settlement Officer. The Government
consider on administrative grounds that more than one Settlement Officer
should be appointed for the purpose aforesaid. It is accordingly proposed to
amend the Act.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
proposal.Published in Part IV-Section 3 page 283 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 20th July 1964.Received the assent of the
President on the 12th December 1963 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette dated the 1st January 1964.An Act to provide for the termination of
leases of certain lease-holds granted by the Government, the acquisition of
the rights of lessees in such lease-holds and the introduction of ryotwari
settlement in such lease-holds.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the [State
of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Lease-holds (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963.(2)It extends to the lease-holds specified
in the First Schedule.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Power to amend the First Schedule.

(1)The Government may, by notification, amend the First Schedule.(2)Where the
First Schedule is amended by omitting therefrom any leasehold-(i)the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed never to have applied to that lease-
hold, and every proceeding taken under this Act and pending in respect of that
lease-hold shall abate;(ii)any amount paid under this Act to the lessee or
other person in respect of that lease-hold shall, with interest thereon at
three per cent per annum, be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.(3)All references made in this Act to the First Schedule shall be
considered as relating to the said Schedule as for the time being amended in
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1).

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"appointed day"
means the date appointed by the Government under sub-section (3) of section
1:Provided that-(i)where the operation of this Act in respect of a lease-hold
has been stayed or interrupted by order of a Court, Tribunal or other
competent authority constituted under any law for the time being in force,
"appointed day" means the date from which the Government have been in
uninterrupted possession of the lease-hold;(ii)in relation to a lease-hold
added to the First Schedule by a notification under sub-section (1) of section
2, "appointed day" means the date on which the said notification was published
in the [Fort St. George Gazette;] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.](b)"Assistant Settlement Officer", in relation to any lease-hold,
means the Assistant Settlement Officer appointed under section
6;(c)"Government" means the State Government;(d)"land" means any land in a
lease-hold;(e)"lease", in relation to any lease-hold, means the lease under
which the lessee held the lease-hold under the Government immediately before
the appointed day;(f)"lease-hold" means any village specified in the First
Schedule;(g)"lessee", in relation to any lease-hold, means the person to whom
the lease was granted by the Government and includes his heirs, legal
representatives and assigns;(h)"owned land" means any land in which a ryot or
the lessee had a permanent right of occupancy immediately before the appointed
day;(i)"rent" means whatever is lawfully payable, for the fasli year
immediately preceding the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, in
money or in kind or in both, to the lessee by a ryot in respect of any land in
a lease-hold;(j)"ryot", in relation to a lease-hold, means any person who
immediately before the appointed day had a permanent right of occupancy in
respect of any land and who had been paying rent to the lessee in respect of
that land;(k)[ "Settlement Officer" means a Settlement Officer appointed under
section 5 and having jurisdiction;] [Substituted for the following clause by
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1964):- '(k) 'Settlement
Officer' in relation to any base-hold means the Settlement Officer appointed
under section 5;](l)"Tribunal" means a Tribunal constituted under section 8
and having jurisdiction.

## Chapter II  
Vesting of Lease-Holds In Government

### 4. Vesting of leas.

\- holds in Government - With effect on and from the appointed day save as
otherwise expressly provided in this Act -(a)the lease of every lease-hold
shall cease and determine;(b)every lease-hold including all communal lands and
porambokes, waste lands, pasture lands, forests, mines and minerals, quarries,
rivers and streams, [tanks and ooranies (including private tanks and ooranies)
and irrigation works] [Substituted for the words 'tanks and irrigation works'
by section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-holds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2
of 1976).], fisheries and ferries, situated within the boundaries thereof,
shall stand transferred to the Government and vest in them free of all
encumbrances, and the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Recovery Act, 1864
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act II of 1864), the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras ' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VII of 1865) and all
other enactments applicable to ryotwari lands shall apply to the lease-
hold;(c)all rights and interests created in or over the lease-hold before the
appointed day by the lessee or any other person shall, as against the
Government, cease and determine;(d)the lessee and any other person whose
rights stand transferred under clause (b) or cease and determine under clause
(c) shall be entitled only to such rights and privileges as are recognized or
conferred on him by or under this Act;(e)the rights and obligations of the
lessee as such shall be extinguished;(f)any rights and privileges which may
have accrued in the lease-hold to any person before the appointed day against
the lessee shall cease and determine and shall not be enforceable against the
Government or against the lessee, and every such person shall be entitled only
to such rights and privileges as are recognized or conferred on him by or
under this Act;(g)the Government may, after removing any obstruction that may
be offered, forthwith take possession on the lease-hold, and all accounts,
registers, pattas, much likas, maps, plans and other documents relating to the
lease-hold which the Government may require for the administration
thereof:Provided that the Government shall not dispossess any person of any
land in respect of which they consider that he is prima facie entitled to a
ryotwari patta pending the decision of the appropriate authority under this
Act as to whether he is actually entitled to such patta.

### 5. [ Appointment and functions of Settlement Officers. [Substituted for
the following section by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of
1964):- '5 Appointment and functions of Settlement Officer.-As soon as may be
after the publication of this Act in the Fort St. George Gazette, the
Government shall appoint n Settlement Officer to carry out survey and
settlement operations in lease-holds and introduce ryotwari settlement
therein. The Settlement Officer shall be subordinate to the Board of Revenue.]

\- As soon as may be after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George
Gazette], the Government shall appoint one or more Settlement Officers to
carry out survey and settlement operations in respect of lease-holds and
introduce ryotwari settlement therein. Every Settlement Officer shall be
subordinate to the [Board of Revenue.]] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by
the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675,
Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.]

### 6. Appointment and functions of Assistant Settlement Officers.

(1)As soon as may be after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George
Gazette,] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] the Government shall
appoint one or more Assistant Settlement Officers to carry out the functions
and duties assigned to them by or under this Act.(2)Every Assistant Settlement
Officer shall be subordinate to the Settlement Officer and shall be guided by
such lawful instructions as he may issue, from time to time, and the
Settlement Officer shall also have power to revise within such period as may
be prescribed any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the Assistant
Settlement Officer, other than those in respect of which an appeal lies to the
Tribunal.

### 7. Power of control of the [Board of Revenue.] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.]

\- The [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil
Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] shall have power-(a)to give effect to the provisions
of this Act;(b)to issue instructions for the guidance of the Settlement
Officer and Assistant Settlement Officers;(c)to cancel or revise within such
period as may be prescribed any of the orders, acts or proceedings of any
Settlement Officer other than those in respect of which an appeal lies to the
Tribunal.

### 8. Constitution of Tribunals.

(1)The Government shall constitute as many Tribunals as may be necessary for
the purposes of this Act.(2)Each Tribunal shall consist of one person only who
shall be a Judicial Officer not below the rank of Subordinate Judge.(3)Each
Tribunal shall have such jurisdiction as the Government may, by notification,
from time to time, determine.(4)Each Tribunal shall have the same powers as
are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908), when trying a suit or when hearing an appeal.

## Chapter III  
Grant of Ryotwari Pattas

### 9. Grant of ryotwari pattas.

(1)With effect on and from the appointed day-(a)every ryot shall be entitled
to ryotwari patta in respect of all his owned lands;(b)the lessee shall be
entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of all his owned lands;(c)every person
whether a ryot or the lessee shall be entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of
all lands (other than owned lands) cultivated by him continuously for a period
of not less than twelve fasli years immediately before the appointed
day:Provided that no ryotwari patta shall be granted under this Act in respect
of any land falling under any of the categories specified below situated
within the limits of any lease-hold, namely:-(i)forests;(ii)beds and bunds of
tanks and of supply, drainage, surplus or irrigation channels;(iii)threshing
floor, cattle stands, village-sites, cart-tracks, roads, temple sites and such
other lands as are set apart for the common use of the villagers;(iv)rivers,
streams and other porambokes.(2)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall,
subject to the provisions of subsection (3), inquire into the claims of any
person for a ryotwari patta under this Act in respect of any land and decide
in respect of which land the claim should be allowed.(3)Before holding the
inquiry under sub-section (2), the Assistant Settlement Officer shall give
notice in the prescribed manner to the lessee and if the person in occupation
of the land is not the lessee, to the occupant, and to the Tahsildar of the
taluk or the Deputy Tahsildar of the sub-taluk in which the land is situated,
and also publish the notice in the prescribed manner in the village. He shall
give the parties who appear before him an opportunity to be heard and to
adduce their evidence, and then give his decision.(4)Against a decision of the
Assistant Settlement Officer under sub-section (3), the Government may, within
one year from the date of the decision, and any person aggrieved by such
decision may, within three months of the said date, appeal to the
Tribunal:Provided that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further time
not exceeding two months for the filing of any such appeal.Provided further
that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, entertain an appeal by the
Government at any time if it appears to the Tribunal that the decision of the
Assistant Settlement Officer was vitiated by fraud or by mistake of fact.

### 9A. [ Ryotwari patta not to be granted in respect of private tank or
oorani. [Inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section 3(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, lease-holds and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no ryotwari patta shall be
granted in respect of any private tank or oorani.(2)Any ryotwari patta granted
in respect of any private tank or oorani under this Act before the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, lease-holds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2
of 1976) in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, shall stand cancelled, and for
purposes of compensation under this Act, the private tank or oorani shall be
deemed to be land occupied neither by the lessee nor by any other person.]

### 10. Liability to pay land revenue to Government.

\- Every person, whether a lessee or a ryot, who becomes entitled to a
ryotwari patta under this Act in respect of any land shall, for each fasli
year commencing with the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, be
liable to pay to the Government such assessment as may be lawfully imposed on
the land.

### 11. Vesting of buildings.

(1)Every building situated within the limits of a lease-hold shall, with
effect on and from the appointed day, vest in the person who owned it
immediately before that day; but the Government shall be entitled for each
fasli year commencing with the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, to
levy the appropriate assessment thereon.(2)In this section, "building"
includes the site on which it stands and any adjacent premises occupied as an
appurtenance thereto.

### 12. Right of certain lessees and others.

(1)In cases not governed by any other provision of this Act, where, on or
after the 30th day of September 1961, but before the appointed day, a lessee
has created by way of lease or otherwise, right in any mines or minerals,
quarries, fisheries or ferries, the transaction shall be deemed to be valid,
and all rights and obligations arising thereunder, on or after the appointed
day, shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that the
transaction was not void or illegal under any law in force at the time and
that any such right was created for a period not exceeding one
year.(2)(a)Where any such right was created before the 30th day of September
1961 for a period exceeding one year, the Government may, if in their opinion
it is in the public interest to do so, by notice given to the person
concerned, terminate the right with effect from such date as may be specified
in the notice, not being earlier than three months from the date
thereof.(b)The person whose right has been so terminated shall be entitled to
compensation from the Government which shall be determined by the [Board of
Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of l980). Now the Commissioner
of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.] in such manner as may be prescribed, having regard to the
value of the right and the period for which the right was created. The
decision of the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of l980).
Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue,
dated the 1st December 1980.] shall be final and shall not be liable to be
questioned in any Court of law.(c)Where any such right created before the 30th
day of September 1961 is not determined under this sub-section, the
transaction where by such right was created shall be deemed to be valid and
all rights and obligations arising thereunder, on or after the appointed day,
shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that the
transaction was not void or illegal under any law in force at the time.(3)The
Government may, if in their opinion it is in the public interest to do so,
impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any right continued under
this section.Explanation. - Any rights granted in perpetuity shall cease and
determine and be dealt with under section 4(d) and not under this section.

## Chapter IV  
Survey and Settlement of Lease-Holds

### 13. Survey of leas.

\- holds - (1) Any lease-hold may be surveyed, or if it has been surveyed
before the appointed day, may be re-surveyed, as it were Government land, in
accordance with the provisions for the survey of such land contained in the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Orders 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Orders 1969.] Act VIII of 1923):Provided that any re-survey made under this
sub-section may be limited to what is necessary for the ryotwari settlement of
the lease-hold.(2)The cost of the survey or re-survey, except so much thereof
as is payable by any person under the provisions of section 8 of the [Tamil
Nadu ] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Orders 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Orders 1969.] Act VIII of 1923), shall be borne by the Government.

### 14. Manner of effecting ryotwari settlement.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall effect a ryotwari settlement of each lease-
hold or part thereof in accordance with a settlement notification framed and
published by the Government for the purpose.(2)The said notification shall
embody the principles adopted in making ryotwari settlements in ryotwari areas
and shall adopt-(a)the rates of assessment set out in the resettlement
notification in force on the date of the publication of this Act in the [Fort
St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] in the district
in which the lease-hold situated; or(b)if more than one such notification is
in force in the district, the rates set out in one of those notifications
which the Government consider to be the most appropriate to the case.(3)All
rates of assessment imposed at a ryotwari settlement under this section shall
be liable to revision, from time to time, as laid down in the settlement or
re-settlement notification aforesaid, as the case may be.(4)Nothing in this
section shall be construed-(i)as entitling any person to a ryotwari patta for
any land in respect of which he has not made any claim under section 9;
or(ii)as empowering the appropriate officer or authority to re-open any
decision made under section 9.

### 15. Interim assessment.

\- The land revenue payable to the Government in i respect of any land for
each fasli year commencing with the fasli year in which the appointed day
falls, shall, until a ryotwari settlement effected in pursuance of section .14
has been brought into force in the lease-hold, be determined as
follows:-(a)Where rent was payable to the lessee by the ryot for the fasli
year immediately preceding the fasli year in which the appointed day falls,
the rent so payable;(b)Where no rent was so payable, either because the land
was in the enjoyment of the lessee or for any other reason, the rent which
would have been payable to the lessee in the fasli year preceding the fasli
year in which the appointed day falls, by a ryot holding similar land with
similar advantages in the village:Provided that, in cases falling under clause
(a), the land revenue in respect of the fasli year in which the appointed day
falls, shall be the rent due to the lessee less any payment made to him before
the appointed day and authenticated in the prescribed manner:Provided further
that, where after the ryotwari settlement effected in pursuance of section 14
has been brought into force in the lease-hold, it is found that the land
revenue paid exceeds the assessment imposed at such settlement, such excess
shall be adjusted towards the land revenue payable in the subsequent fasli
year or years.

## Chapter V  
Determination and Payment of Compensation

### 16. Compensation how determined.

\- The compensation payable in respect of each lease-hold shall be determined
in accordance with the following provisions.

### 17. Compensation to be determined for the lease-hold as a whole.

\- The compensation shall be determined for each lease-hold as a whole and not
separately for each of the interests therein.

### 18. Basic annual sum.

\- A sum called the basic annual sum shall first be determined in respect of
the lease-hold.

### 19. Component parts of basic annual sum.

(1)The basic annual sum in respect of a lease-hold shall be the aggregate of
the sums specified below, less the deductions specified in section 22:-(i)the
whole of the gross annual rent demand in respect of all lands in the lease-
hold occupied by any person other than the lessee on the appointed day, less
the deduction specified in section 20;(ii)the whole of the average net annual
miscellaneous revenue, derived from all other sources in the lease-hold
specified in section 4(b), but not including lands occupied by the lessee on
the appointed day.(2)Where the rent payable by a ryot to the lessee is in kind
or partly in kind and partly in cash, its commuted value in terms of money
shall be ascertained in the prescribed manner.(3)Where the rent in respect of
any land exceeds the fair rent as determined in accordance with the provisions
contained in the Second Schedule, such fair rent shall be deemed to be the
rent in respect of that land for the purpose of clause (i) of sub-section (1).

### 20. Deduction from gross annual rent demand.

\- From the gross annual rent demand, there shall be deducted three and one-
third per cent of such demand on account of the maintenance of irrigation
works serving the lease-hold:Provided that no such deduction shall be made if
there is no irrigation work serving the lease-hold or if the lessee is under
no legal obligation to maintain any such work serving the lease-hold:Provided
further that, where the obligation of the lessee to maintain every one of the
irrigation works, serving the lease-hold is shared by him, either with the
Government or with some other person, the percentage of such deduction shall
be reduced by such extent as the Government may deem reasonable.

### 21. Computation of net miscellaneous revenue.

\- The average net annual miscellaneous revenue from the sources referred to
in clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of section 19 shall be the average of the
net annual income derived by the lessee from such sources during the three
fasli years immediately preceding the fasli year in which the appointed day
falls:Provided that, if the Settlement Officer or, the .[Board of Revenue]
[The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue
Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980]
is of the opinion that there are no reliable data for ascertaining the said
annual income derived by the lessee, the average net annual miscellaneous
revenue from the sources referred to in clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of
section 19 shall be the average of the net annual income derived by the
Government from such sources during the fasli year commencing on the appointed
day, if that day was the first day of July or on the first day of July
immediately succeeding the appointed day if that day was not the first day of
July, and the next fasli year in case ryotwari settlement is effected in that
year or next two fasli years in other cases.

### 22. Sums payable under the lease to be deducted.

\- From the aggregate of the sums referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-
section (1) of section 19, ascertained as aforesaid, there shall be
deducted-(a)the whole of the amount payable annually by the lessee to the
Government; and(b)the proportionate amount, ascertained in the prescribed
manner, payable for each year, by the lessee to the Government in respect of
any additional payment required under the lease.

### 23. Amount of compensation.

\- The compensation payable in respect of any lease-hold shall be-(i)in cases
in which the lease was granted in perpetuity, ten times the basic annual sum;
and(ii)in other cases, five times the basic annual sum.

### 24. Determination of basic annual sum and compensation.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall, by order in writing, determine in accordance
with the provisions of sections 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23, the basic annual sum in
respect of each lease-hold and the compensation payable in respect
thereof.(2)The lessee or other person interested may, within such time as may
be prescribed or such further time as the Settlement Officer may, in his
discretion, allow, apply in writing to that officer for a copy of the data on
the basis of which he proposes to determine the basic annual sum.(3)On receipt
of such application, the Settlement Officer shall furnish the data aforesaid
to the applicant, and he shall also, before passing any order under sub-
section (1), give the applicant a reasonable opportunity of making his
representations in regard thereto in writing or orally.(4)A copy of every
order passed under sub-section (1) shall be communicated to the lessee and
also to every applicant under sub-section (2).(5)(i)The Settlement Officer
may, at any time, either suo motu or on the application of any person, review
any order passed by him under sub-section (1) on any one or more of the
following grounds, namely:-(a)that the said order is vitiated by any clerical
or arithmetical mistake or error apparent on the face of the record; or(b)that
subsequent to the passing of the said order, data for the better calculation
of the basic annual sum have become available; or(c)that the said order
requires to be modified in pursuance of the final order of any competent
authority or Court:Provided that the Settlement Officer shall not exercise the
powers under this sub-section in respect of any lease-hold without giving the
lessee concerned and every applicant under this sub-section and sub-section
(2), a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(ii)A copy of every order passed
under this sub-section shall be communicated to the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] and also to the lessee concerned and every applicant under this sub-
section and sub-section (2).(6)Any person deeming himself aggrieved by an
order made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) may, within one month from
the date of the order or such further time as the Board may, in its discretion
allow, appeal to the [Board of Revenue,] [The Board of Revenue was abolished
by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675,
Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] and the Board shall after giving the
appellant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such orders on the
appeal as it thinks fit.(7)The [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] may also, in its discretion
at any time, either suo motu or on the application of any person, call for and
examine the record of any order passed, or proceeding taken, by the Settlement
Officer under this section, for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the
legality, regularity or propriety of such order or proceeding and pass such
order in reference thereto as it thinks fit:Provided that the basic annual sum
or compensation payable in respect of any lease-hold shall not be reduced by
the Board without giving the lessee and every person who has made an
application under sub-section (2) a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (6) or sub-section
(7), the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil
Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] may, on application made to it by the Settlement
Officer or by any other person in that behalf, review any order passed by it
under subsection (6) or sub-section (7) if it is of the opinion that the said
order is vitiated by an error in the decision on a point of law or by a
mistake, and may make such order on the application as it thinks fit:Provided
that no application for review shall be granted by the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] without previous notice to the lessee, and to the applicant, to enable
them to appear and be heard in support of the order a review of which is
applied for.(9)No order passed by the Settlement Officer under sub-section (1)
or subsection (5) shall be liable to be cancelled or modified except by the
[Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board
of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980] as aforesaid; and no order passed by the [Board of
Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner
of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.] under subsections (6), (7) or (8) shall be liable to be
cancelled or modified by the Government or any other authority.

### 25. Compensation to be paid in prescribed manner.

\- The compensation payable under this Act may be paid in such form and manner
and at such time or times and in one or more instalments as maybe prescribed
by rules made by the Government.

## Chapter VI  
Deposit and Apportionment of Compensation

### 26. Compensation to be deposited in office of Tribunal.

(1)The Government shall deposit in the office of the Tribunal the compensation
payable under this Act in such form and manner and at such time or times and
in one or more instalments as may be prescribed by rules made under section
25:Provided that the Government shall be entitled to deduct from the amount to
be deposited all moneys, if any, still remaining due to them-(i)in respect of
any amount payable under the lease; or(ii)in respect of any claim which was
secured immediately before the appointed day by a mortgage of, or a charge on,
the lease-hold or any portion thereof:Provided further that, where the amount
of the compensation payable in respect of any lease-hold stands altered after
the deposit referred to above has already been made, the Government may
deposit the difference or, withdraw the same from the deposit already made or
otherwise adjust the same, in such manlier and at such time or times as may be
prescribed, and the provisions of sections 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 and 33 shall
apply to the amount finally under deposit, and to this extent the Tribunal or
the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall be competent to
revise its orders, if any, already passed.(2)On the making of such deposit,
the Government shall be deemed to have been completely discharged in respect
of all claims to, or enforceable against, the compensation aforesaid.

### 27. Claims to be made within three months.

(1)Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against, the compensation
deposited under any of the provisions of this Act or any portion thereof,
shall apply to the Tribunal within three months from the date on which, the
amount was deposited or within such further time not exceeding three months,
a: the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow.(2)Every claim to, or
enforceable against, the compensation or any portion thereof which is not made
to the Tribunal within the time aforesaid shall,-(i)in so far as it relates to
the amount paid by the Tribunal under section 34; or(ii)subject to the
provisions of section 36, in so far as it relates to the amount in respect of
which an order for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal in favour of any person, cease to be enforceable.

### 28. Duty of Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal shall, after giving notice to all persons who have applied
under section 27 and to any others whom it considers to be interested, make
inquiry into the validity of the claims received by it, and determine the
persons who, in its opinion, are entitled to the compensation deposited and
the amount to which each of them is entitled.

### 29. Compensation to be apportioned by the Tribunal.

(1)As a preliminary to such determination, the Tribunal shall apportion the
compensation among the lessee and any other persons whose rights or interests
in the lease-hold stand transferred to the Government under clause (b) of
section 4 or cease and determine under clause (c) of section 4, as far as
possible, in accordance with the value of their respective interests in the
lease-hold.(2)The value of those interests shall be ascertained in accordance
with such rules as may be made by the Government in this behalf.(3)After the
compensation has been apportioned among the persons referred to in sub-section
(1) or, where it is more convenient so to do pending such apportionment, the
Tribunal shall take into consideration the application of creditors and decide
the amount to which each of such creditors is entitled and the person or
persons out of whose share or shares of the compensation such amount should be
paid.

### 30. Devolution of interest in compensation.

\- Where it is alleged that the interest of any person entitled to receive
payment of any portion of the compensation has devolved on any other person or
persons, whether by act of parties or by operation of law, the Tribunal shall
determine whether there has been any devolution of the interest, and if so, on
whom it has devolved.

### 31. Interim payments.

(1)If the compensation payable in respect of a leasehold is not determined and
deposited in pursuance of this Act before the close of the fasli year in which
the appointed day falls, interim payments in respect of the lease-hold shall
be deposited by the Government in the office of the Tribunal every fasli year
prior to the fasli year in which the said deposit is made.(2)In respect of the
fasli year in which the appointed day falls, the interim payment to be
deposited shall be the basic annual sum as roughly estimated by the Government
after deducting therefrom the income from the lease-hold actually derived by
the lessee before the appointed day in respect of that fasli year.(3)In
respect of each of the subsequent fasli years, the interim payment to be
deposited shall be the basic annual sum roughly estimated as aforesaid.(4)The
Government shall deposit all such amounts in the office of the Tribunal and
the Tribunal shall, after such inquiry, if any, as it thinks fit, apportion
the amounts among the persons entitled to any portion thereof, as far as
possible, in accordance with the value of their respective interests.(5)On the
making of such a deposit, the Government shall be deemed to have been
completely discharged in respect of all claims to, or enforceable against, the
amounts so deposited.(6)After the compensation has been finally determined,
the Government shall ascertain the aggregate interim payment which would have
been due in respect .of the lease-hold under sub-sections (2) and (3) for the
fasli years concerned, if the basic annual sum as finally determined had been
adopted instead of the basic annual sum as roughly estimated.(7)If the
aggregate interim payment determined under sub-section (6) exceeds the
aggregate interim payment already deposited, the balance with interest thereon
at three per cent per annum shall be deposited by the Government with the
Tribunal along with the compensation as finally determined.(8)If the aggregate
interim payment determined under sub-section (6) is less than the aggregate
amount already deposited, the excess amount deposited shall be deducted by the
Government from the amount of the compensation finally determined and the
balance shall be deposited in the office of the Tribunal.(9)No interim payment
made under this section shall be deemed to constitute any part of the
compensation which the Government are liable to deposit under sub-section (1)
of section 26, or to any extent to be in lieu of such compensation.(10)The
Tribunal shall revise its apportionment of the interim payments with reference
to the aggregate interim payment as finally determined by the Government and
make the necessary adjustments when apportioning the compensation as finally
determined.

### 32. Appeals.

(1)Against any decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (4) of section 9,
the Government may," within six months from the date of the decision, and any
person aggrieved by any decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (4) of
section 9, section 28, section 29, section 30 or section 31 may, within three
months from the date of the decision, appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal
consisting of two Judges of the High Court nominated, from time to time, by
the Chief Justice in this behalf:Provided that the Special Appellate Tribunal
may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding three months for the
filing of such appeal.(2)The members of the Special Appellate Tribunal shall
hear the appeal on all points, whether of law or of fact. Where on any such
point or points the members are divided in their opinion, they shall state the
point or points on which they are so divided, and such point or points
together with their opinions thereon shall then be laid before one or more
Judges nominated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such Judge or Judges
shall hear the appeal in so far as it relates to such point or points and on
each such point, the decision of the majority of the Judges who have heard the
appeal including those who first heard it shall be deemed to be the decision
of the Special Appellate Tribunal.(3)The Special Appellate Tribunal shall have
the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), when hearing an appeal.(4)Every
decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal and subject to such decision, every
decision of the Tribunal shall be binding on all persons claiming an interest
in any lease-hold notwithstanding that any such person has not preferred any
application or filed any statement or adduced any evidence or appeared or
participated in any proceeding before the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal, as the case may be.

### 33. Restriction on the jurisdiction of Tribunal and Special Appellate
Tribunal.

\- In respect of compensation finally determined under section 24, and the
interim payments made under section 31, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and
the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be limited to the apportionment thereof
among the persons referred to in section 28, or sub-section (4) of section 31,
as the case may be, and neither the Tribunal nor the Special Appellate
Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to go into the question of the correctness of
the determination or the adequacy of the compensation.

### 34. Disbursement of compensation.

\- All payments made out of the compensation deposited in the office of the
Tribunal under section 26 shall be made by it in accordance with its orders
and decisions subject to the modifications, if any, made on appeal under
section 32.

### 35. Limitation for claims by persons entitled to payment.

\- Every person in whose favour an order for payment has been made by the
Tribunal, shall make an application for payment within three months from the
date of the order:Provided that the Tribunal may, within such further time not
exceeding six months, as it may, in its discretion allow, admit a claim
preferred after the period of three months aforesaid, if it is satisfied that
the claimant had sufficient cause for not preferring the claim within that
period:Provided further that, where an appeal has been filed before the
Special Appellate Tribunal against the said order for payment, the aforesaid
period of three months shall be reckoned from the date of the decision of the
Special Appellate Tribunal or the appeal.

### 36. Unclaimed and undisbursed amounts how dealt with.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 26 and sub-sections (4) and (7) of section 31, and remaining
unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been made within the time
specified in sub-section (1) of section 27, or no application for payment has
been made within the time specified in section 35; and(b)all amounts deposited
as aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of the disposal of the application under section 35,shall be
withdrawn by the Tribunal and deposited in the District Court having
jurisdiction over the lease-hold concerned in the name of the lease-hold or,
as the case may be, in the name of the person or persons in whose favour an
order for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal.(2)All amounts deposited by the Tribunal in the District Court under
subsection (1) shall be dealt with by the District Court in accordance with
such rules as may be made by the Government in this behalf.(3)Every person
making a claim to, or enforceable against, any amount held in deposit under
sub-section (1) shall apply to the District Court in the prescribed form
setting forth his claim.(4)The District Court shall, after giving notice to
all persons who have applied under sub-section (3) and to any others whom it
considers to be interested, make enquiry into the validity of the claims
received by it and, subject to the provisions of sub-section (5), determine
the persons who are entitled to the amount held in deposit and the amount to
which each of them is entitled.(5)Every order for payment made by the Tribunal
or the Special Appellate Tribunal in favour of any person shall be binding on
the District Court.

### 37. Wrong and excess payments to be recoverable as land revenue.

\- Where, any payment made to any person is subsequently found to be not due
to him or to be in excess of the amounts due to.him, the amount which is found
to be not due or which is in excess, as the case may be, with interest thereon
at three per cent per annum, or any portion thereof which cannot be otherwise
adjusted by deduction from any amount due to such person, shall be recoverable
as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 38. Lease amount to cease to accrue.

\- Any amount which the lessee was liable under the lease, to pay every year
to the Government before the appointed day shall cease to accrue with effect
from the end of the fasli year immediately preceding the appointed day.

### 39. Stay of execution proceedings.

(1)No Court shall, before the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance
of this Act is made in the office of the Tribunal, order or continue execution
in respect of any decree or order passed against the lessee against his
interests in the lease-hold or against his other immovable property or against
him personally by arrest and detention; and with effect on and from such date,
execution in the cases aforesaid may be ordered or continued as specified in,
and in accordance with, the provisions of section 40.(2)All proceedings for
the execution of any decree or order by the arrest and detention in prison of
the lessee pending on the appointed day shall stand dismissed and if on such
day the lessee is detained in prison in execution of any such decree or order,
he shall be released forthwith.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force,- no lessee shall, on or after the
appointed day and before the date on which thenar lies t deposit as aforesaid
is made, sell, mortgage, lease or otherwise assign or alienate any of his
immovable property, and any transaction of the nature hereby prohibited shall
be void and inoperative and shall not confer or take away any right whatever
on or from any party to the transaction.

### 40. Transitional provision in regard to liabilities of lessee, etc.

(1)No claim or liability enforceable immediately before the appointed day
against the lessee or against any other person whose rights in the lease-hold
stand transferred to the Government in pursuance of clause (b) of section 4,
shall on or after that day, be enforceable against the interest he had in the
lease-hold; and all such claims and liabilities shall, after the date on which
the earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the office of the
Tribunal, be enforceable-(a)against the interim payments or the compensation
or other sum or sums paid or payable to him under this Act, to the same extent
to which such claims and liabilities were enforceable against his interest in
the lease-hold immediately before the appointed day; and(b)against his other
property, if any, to the same extent to which such claims and liabilities were
enforceable against such property immediately before the appointed day.(2)No
Court shall, on or after the appointed day, order or continue execution in
respect of any decree or order passed against the lessee, or any other person
aforesaid, against the interest he had in the lease-hold; and execution shall
be ordered or continued in such cases in conformity with the provisions of
sub-section (1) only as against the interim payments or against the
compensation or other sum or sums paid or payable to him as aforesaid, or
against his other property, if any.(3)No Court shall, in enforcing any claim
or liability against the lessee or any other person aforesaid, allow interest
at a rate exceeding six per cent per annum simple interest, for the period
commencing on the appointed day and ending with the date on which the earliest
deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the office of the Tribunal.

### 41. Liability of person unauthorisedly occupying land for forfeiture of
crops, etc.

\- When under this Act, any person is dispossessed of any land, any crop or
other product raised on the land, and any building or other construction
erected or anything deposited thereon, shall, if not removed by him after such
written notice as the officer who issued the order for dispossession may deem
reasonable, be liable to forfeiture. Forfeiture under this section shall be
adjudged by the said officer and any property so forfeited shall be disposed
of in such manner as that officer may direct.

### 42. Decision of questions regarding forests.

\- If any question arises whether any land is a forest or is situated in a
forest, or as to the limits of the forest, it shall be determined by the
Assistant Settlement Officer, subject to an appeal to the Settlement Officer
within such time as may be prescribed and also to revision by the [Board of
Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner
of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.].

### 43. Lessee's right to collect arrears of rent.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all arrears of rent payable
by a ryot to a lessee in respect of any land and outstanding on the appointed
day shall, to the extent to which such arrears are in excess of the rent due
for three fasli years in respect of that land, be deemed to be discharged
whether or not a decree has been obtained therefor, if the ryot pays to the
lessee the arrears of rent due for a period of any three fasli years.(2)In any
suit or proceeding for the recovery of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-
section (1), the Court or authority concerned shall, upon deposit in the Court
or before the authority, or upon proof by the ryot of the payment, of arrears
of such rent for any three fasli years, dismiss the suit or proceeding.(3)If
before the appointed day any decree or order has been passed in any suit or
proceedings for the recovery of any arrears of rent due from a ryot, which it
is consistent with the provisions of this section, the Court or authority
concerned shall, upon deposit in the Court or before the authority, or upon
proof of the payment, of the arrears of rent due from the ryot for any three
fasli years and on the application of any person affected by such decree or
order, whether or not he was a party thereto, vacate the decree or
order:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to any suit
or proceeding in which the decree or order has been satisfied in full, before
the appointed day.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that the payment or deposit, of arrears of rent for three fasli years
referred to in this section shall be payment or deposit made after the
appointed day.

### 44. Rights of owner or occupier not to be affected by temporary
discontinuance of possession or occupation.

\- Where a person-(a)is entitled to the ownership or to the possession or
occupation of any land or building immediately before the appointed day, but
has transferred his right to the possession or occupation thereof or has been
temporarily dispossessed or deprived of his right to the occupation thereof;
and(b)has not on that day lost his right to recover the possession or
occupation of such land or building;he shall, for the purposes of this Act and
subject to the provisions thereof, be deemed to be the owner, or to be in
possession or occupation, of such land or building:Provided that any lawful
transferee of the right to the possession or occupation of such land or
building shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, continue to
have the same rights against his transferor, as he had immediately before the
appointed day:Provided further that any lawful transferee of the title to such
land or building shall be entitled to all the rights under this Act of his
transferor.

### 45. Res judicata.

(1)The decision of a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in any
proceeding under this Act, on any matter falling within its jurisdiction,
shall be binding on the parties thereto and persons claiming under them in any
suit or proceeding in a Civil Court, in so far as such matter is in issue
between the parties or persons aforesaid in such suit or proceeding.(2)The
decision of a Civil Court (not being the Court of a District Munsif or a Court
of Small Causes) on any matter falling within its jurisdiction shall be
binding on the parties thereto and persons claiming under them in any
proceeding under this Act before a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal
in so far as such matter is in issue between the parties or persons aforesaid
in such proceeding.

### 46. Saving of limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation for any suit or application filed in
a Civil Court by a creditor in respect of any matter which was the subject of
a proceeding under any of the following sections, namely, 27,28,29,30, 31 and
32, the period commencing on the appointed day and ending with the date on
which the earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the office of
the Tribunal, and the time during which such proceedings were pending as well
as the time taken for obtaining certified copies of the order passed in such
proceeding shall be excluded.

### 47. Limitation.

(1)A copy of every decision or order in any proceeding against which an appeal
or revision is provided for under this Act shall be communicated in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)For the purposes of computing the period of
limitation in respect of any appeal or application for revision against any
decision or order, the date of communication of a copy of the decision or
order to the appellant or applicant shall be deemed to be the date of the
decision or order.(3)The provisions of section 4 and sub-sections (1) and (2)
of section 12 of the [Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Central Act IX of 1908),]
[Now the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963).] shall, so far as may
be, apply to any appeal or application for revision under this Act.(4)Where,
under this Act, an appeal or application for revision may be preferred to any
authority or officer within a prescribed period or within such further time
not exceeding a specified period as may be allowed by such authority or
officer, the further time aforesaid shall be computed on and from the expiry
of such prescribed period computed in accordance with the provisions of sub-
sections (2) and (3).

### 48. Finality of orders passed under this Act.

(1)Any order passed by any officer or the Government or other authority under
this Act or any decision of the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in
respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall,
subject only to any appeal, or revision provided under this Act, be
final.(2)No such order or decision shall be liable to be questioned in any
Court of law.

### 49. Jurisdiction of Courts barred in certain cases.

(1)No suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government for any act
done or purporting to be done under this Act or any rule made
thereunder.(2)(a)No suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall lie against
any officer or servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be
done under this Act or any rule made thereunder, without the previous sanction
of the Government.(b)No officer or servant of the Government shall be liable
in respect of any such act in any civil or criminal proceeding if the act was
done in good faith in the course of the execution of the duties, or the
discharge of the functions, imposed by or under this Act.(3)No suit,
prosecution, or other proceeding shall be instituted against any officer or
servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be done under this
Act or any rule made thereunder, after the expiry of six months from the date
of the act complained of.

### 50. Powers to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal,
Special Appellate Tribunal, authorities and officers appointed, or having
jurisdiction, under this Act;(c)the delegation of the powers conferred by this
Act on the Government or any other authority, officer or person;(d)the time
within which appeals and applications for revision may be presented under this
Act, in cases for which no specific provision in that behalf has been made
herein;(e)the application of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908), to applications, appeals and revisions under
this Act;(f)the fees to be paid in respect of applications and appeals under
this Act;(g)the transfer of proceedings from one Tribunal, authority or
officer, to another;(h)the manner in which, and the officer by whom, fair rent
shall be ascertained for the purposes of this Act,(3)A rule made under clause
(c) of sub-section (2) may provide for restrictions and conditions subject to
which the power delegated may be exercised and also for control and revision
by the delegating authority either suo motu or on application of the orders of
the authority or person to whom the power is delegated.(4)(a)All rules made
under this Act shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette.] and unless they are expressed to come into force on
a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(5)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both
Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any
such rule or notification or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] that the
rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification
shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or notification.

### 51. Act to override contract and other laws, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or any custom, usage or contract or decree or order of a Court or otter
authority.

### 52. Special provision relating to fixation of celling area in respect of
any land in a leas.

\- hold -Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act 58 of 1961), but subject to the provisions of sub-section
(2), the authorised officer shall, in the fixation of the ceiling area of any
person under that Act, exclude any land in a lease-hold.(2)As Soon as may be,
after the ryotwari settlement is brought into force in any land referred to in
sub-section (1) and after the grant of the ryotwari patta in respect of such
land to any person in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the
authorised officer shall calculate or recalculate the ceiling area of such
person and in so calculating or recalculating, the authorised officer shall
take into account the extent of the land in respect of which the ryotwari
patta has been granted under this Act.(3)For the purposes of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 58 of 1961), any ryotwari patta granted under
this Act shall be deemed to have taken effect on the 6th day of April 1960 and
for the purposes of calculating the standard acre under that Act, "land
revenue" shall, in respect of the land referred to in sub-section (1), mean
the ryotwari assessment payable in pursuance of the ryotwari settlement
referred to in sub-section (2).

### 53. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion may require, by order, do anything which
appears to them to be necessary for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.(2)Every order issued under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as
possible after it is issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if,
before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session,
[the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses
agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in
making any modification in any such order or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the order should not be
issued, the order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that order.The First Schedule[See section 1 (2)]

Serial number | District | Taluk | Revenue number and name of village | Extent of the lease-hold  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1. | Chingleput | [Saidapet] [Now in Kancheepuram District.] | 13\. Grant Lyon | Whole village  
2. | Do. | Do. | 55\. Mukthapudupattu | Do.  
3. | Do. | [Ponneri] [Now in Thiruvallur District.] | 146\. Karadiputhur | Do.  
4. | Do. | Do. | 147\. Kannankottai | Do.  
5. | Do. | Do. | 150\. Thervoy | Do.  
6. | Do. | Do. | 151\. Kandigai | Do.  
7. | Do. | Do. | 180\. Pappankuppam alias Alame-lumangapuram. | Do.  
8. | [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] |  | 121\. Ikkalluthangal | Do.  
9. | Salem | [Harur] [Now in Dharmapuri District.] | 317\. Hunisanahalli | Do.  
10. | Salem | Do. | 318\. Sillarahalli | Whole village  
11. | Do. | Do. | 321\. Regadahalli | Do.  
12. | Do. | Do. | 322\. Mottankurichi | Do.  
  
Second Schedule[See section 19(3)]Provisions Relating To The Determination
Affair Rent

### 1\. For topes, orchards and lands used for no.-agricultural purposes, the
fair rent shall be the lease amount as determined by rules made by the
Government in this behalf.

### 2\. In respect of lands other than those specified in paragraph 1, the
fair rent shall be the aggregate of -

(a)(i)in the case of wet land, 40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(ii)in the case of wet land the irrigation of which is
supplemented by lifting water, 35 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(iii)in the case of land on which crops which do not give any
yield within a period of one year from the time of cultivation are cultivated,
40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its value in money;(iv)in the case
of any other class of land, 33-1/3 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money:Provided that, in the case of lands referred to in sub
paragraphs (ii) and (iv) for the cultivation of which water is lifted by pump
sets installed at the cost of the person owning the land, the fair rent shall
be increased to 40 per cent; and(b)the value of one-fifth of the straw or
stalk of all the crops cultivated on the land in an agricultural
year.Explanation. - I-In this paragraph "normal gross produce"-(a)in respect
of a land cultivated with any crop which does not give any yield within a
period of one year from the time of cultivation, means the gross produce for
one year if the land were cultivated with paddy;(b)in respect of a land
cultivated with any other crop means the produce which would be obtained for
one year from a land of the same class as the land in question similarly
situated and possessing similar advantages if the rainfall and the seasons
were normal.Explanation II. - In the case of land on which different crops are
cultivated at different times on different portions of the land, the fair rent
shall be calculated with reference to the actual crops ordinarily cultivated
according to the ordinary rotation of crops in the area in which such land is
situated.Explanation III. - In this paragraph, "agricultural year" shall have
the same meaning as in section 2(l)(a) of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of 1956).

### 3\. In the case of land cultivated by the person owning the land, the fair
rent shall be the fair rent as calculated in the manner specified in paragraph
2 in respect of a land of the same class as the land in question, similarly
situated and possessing similar advantages.

### 4\. Notwithstanding anything in this Schedule, if the rent actually
payable to the person owning the land in respect of the land during the fasli
year immediately preceding the fasli year in which the appointed day falls is
less than the fair rent ascertained as aforesaid, the said rent shall be
deemed to be the fair rent in respect of the land.

