## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai (Affiliation of Dental
Colleges) Statutes

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai (Affiliation of Dental
Colleges) Statutes

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-DR-M-G-R-MEDICAL-UNIVERSITY-CHENNAI-AFFILIATION-OF-DENTAL-
COLLEGES-STATUTES of 1992

  * Published on 16 March 1992 
  * Commenced on 16 March 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 March 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai (Affiliation of Dental
Colleges) StatutesReceived the assent of the Chancellor, communicated in the
D.O. Lr. No. 9034/U2/92, dated the 16th March 1992 and dated the 5th June 1992
of the Secretary to the Governor of Tamil Nadu.In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 42 of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University
Chennai Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1987), the Governing Council of the
Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, hereby makes the following
statutes:

### 1.

(i)These statutes may be called the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai (Affiliation of Dental Colleges) Statutes.(ii)They shall come into
force from the date of assent of the Chancellor.

### 2.

The words and phrases used in these statutes shall, unless expressly explained
otherwise, have the same meaning as they have with reference to the Tamil Nadu
Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai, Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1987),
hereinafter called "the Act".

### 3.

It shall be necessary for the proposed Dental College seeking affiliation to
the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Chennai, for starting First Year
Bachelor of Dental Surgery Degree Course to apply to the University for
Certificate of Registration of their application with the Tamil Nadu Dr.
M.G.R. Medical University Chennai. The application shall be in Form I annexed
with these statutes and the following records shall accompany the said Form,
namely: -(i)record showing the permission of the Government of Tamil Nadu for
establishing the proposed Dental College;(ii)record showing the approval of
the Dental Council of India for establishing the proposed Dental College;
and(iii)record showing the approval of the Government of India for starting
the proposed Dental College.

### 4.

Only Educational Trusts/Societies with sufficient financial soundness and
which satisfy the conditions stipulated hereunder shall be eligible to apply
for Certificate of Registration for starting a private Dental College.
Application from individuals for Certificate of Registration will not be
entertained.

### 5.

The application for Certificate of Registration from the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R.
Medical. University, Chennai shall be in writing and in Form I annexed with
these statutes addressed to the Registrar of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical
University, Chennai, and shall be submitted to the Registrar between the 1st
July and 31st October of the academic year preceding to is sought for.

### 6.

The application for Certificate of Registration shall accompany the permission
of the Government to establish the college and shall contain the following
particulars, namely: -(a)name of the proposed Dental College;(b)address where
the Dental College is to be located;(c)the number of students proposed to be
admitted in the First Year of the course;(d)the availability of land, facility
of training available to the students to be admitted;(e)record showing the
permission of the Government of Tamil Nadu for establishing the proposed
Dental College;(f)record showing the approval of the Dental College of India
for establishing the proposed Dental College;(g)record showing the approval of
the Government of India for starting proposed Dental College;(h)ready built
area available for accommodation of the academic complex;(i)residential
quarters for the staff of the college;(j)playground;(k)hostel.

### 7.

On receipt of the application for Certificate of Registration, the University
shall scrutinize the same and verify by deputing an inspection commission
whether the conditions required to be fulfilled by the applicant Trust/Society
to become eligible to receive the said certificate are fulfilled.The
inspection commission shall specifically examine whether the following
conditions are fulfilled by the applicant Trust/Society and make a detailed
report to the University: -Conditions to be fulfilled by the Trust/Society to
become eligible to receive the Certificate of Registration:(a)'The proposed
Dental College shall own and possess not less than 10 (ten only) acres of
contiguous land if it is to be located in an urban agglomeration or not less
than 30 (thirty only) acres of contiguous land in the case of other
area.(b)The applicant shall satisfy the University that he has clear title to
the lands without any encumbrance and shall furnish the title deeds and such
other documents as required by the University, from time to time, in this
regard.(c)The applicant shall satisfy the University that the Pre-Clinical,
Clinical and Laboratory facilities of the proposed Dental College are
available in the same campus which forms the academic complex and is located
in the minimum area of 5 (five) acres of contiguous land in the case of urban
agglomeration and 10 (ten) acres of contiguous land in the case of other
areas. The residential quarters, playground and hostels shall be, as far as
possible, be located in the same campus where the college is proposed to be
located. However, where the lands are shown in more than one place, these
facilities may be located in the next nearest land of the proposed Dental
College.(d)The applicant shall locate the proposed college in proximity of a
Medical College and shall get an undertaking of the said medical college to
the effect that the said Medical College shall facilitate training to the
students of the proposed Dental College in the subjects of Medicine, Surgery
and Allied Medical Sciences.(e)Where no medical college is available in the
proximity of the proposed Dental College, the proposed Dental College shall
get itself tied up with a General Hospital which is having provision for at
least 100 beds of which 50 beds are catering to the needs of the poor and
which is located within 10 k.m. radius of the proposed Dental College. It
shall be the duty of the applicant to produce evidence that the infrastructure
facilities such as teaching, Preclinical, Para-Clinical and allied Medical
Sciences are owned by the proposed Dental College itself.(f)The applicant
shall own and possess a ready built area of 15,000 (Fifteen thousand only)
sq.ft. suitable for starting the I year B.D.S. Degree course in a Dental
College with proper sanitation facilities, provision for safe drinking water,
adequate water-supply for clinical and laboratory purposes, library, store
rooms for students, staff and patients (separately for men and women) and such
other facilities which shall be necessary, from time to time, as may be
specified by the University in this regard.

### 8.

The University, if fully satisfied on the basis of the report of the
inspection commission that all the conditions required to be fulfilled by the
applicant are fulfilled, shall issue a Certificate of Registration in Form II
annexed with these statutes to the applicant to enable the applicant to make
further arrangements to start the First Year B.D.S. Degree course of study.

### 9.

The issue of the Certificate of Registration alone shall not confer any right
on the applicant Trust/Society to start the B.D.S. Degree course of study.

### 10.

The applicant Trust/ Society, on receipt of the Certificate of Registration
from the University, shall fulfil the conditions stipulated hereunder in
statute 11 to enable the University to appoint and send an inspection
commission to the proposed Dental College.

### 11.

The applicant Trust/Society shall, before applying for affiliation for the
First Year B.D.S. Degree course of study, fulfil the following conditions,
namely: -(a)shall have obtained the clearance and concurrence of the Denial
College of India to start a Dental College as provided in statute 3;(b)shall
appoint or contract to appoint a qualified Principal for the proposed Dental
College.(c)shall obtain consent letters for appointment of qualified staff
members for the Departments as detailed below which are absolutely essential
to become eligible to start the First Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study:
-(1)Professor-cum-Principal in any Speciality of Dental Science-1
post.(2)Assistant Professor of Prosthetics - 2 Posts.(3)Assistant Professor of
Anatomy - 1 post.(4)Assistant Professor of Physiology- 1 post.(5)Assistant
Professor of Bio-Chemistry - 1 post.(6)Tutors in Dentistry-12 posts.(d)The
applicant shall produce evidence to the effect that the proposed Dental
College is fully equipped in the following aspects: -(i)Teaching Anatomy,
Physiology and Bio-Chemistry;(ii)Dental materials and Pre-Clinical
equipments;(iii)Prosthetics Laboratory in a minimum space of 80' x
30';(iv)Histology Laboratory in a minimum space of 30' x 40';(v)Physiology
Laboratory in a minimum space of 30' x 40';(vi)Bio-Chemistry Laboratory in a
minimum space of 30' x 40'.Explanation. - Each of the laboratories must be
fitted with work benches and furniture required for 40 students. The
Prosthetics laboratory must have all the equipments prescribed as essential by
the Dental Council of India. The applicant shall constitute a Central Library
with at least 500 relevant books for the students.(e)The applicant shall
constitute an Anatomy-cum-demonstration hall in a minimum space of 30' x
40';(f)The applicant shall arrange for a cadaver store room in the minimum
space of 10'x 20';(g)The applicant shall provide staff rooms for all
departments with Sectional Libraries;(h)The applicant shall provide a separate
administrative office with a minimum space of 30' x 80';(i)The applicant shall
maintain at least 10 Dental Chairs with associated equipments and instruments
fully installed in the out-patient department which shall be functional at the
time of inspection;(j)The applicant shall run hospital at least with 10 beds
within a campus with an outpatient department, casualty and emergency
management room. The above hospital shall be managed by qualified Doctors and
adequate Para-Medical staff and other staff who shall be in a position to
attend on emergencies throughout the day;(k)The applicant shall provide
adequate space and equipment for extra curricular activities of the students.

### 12.

The applicant Trust/Society, after fulfilling the conditions stipulated in the
above statute, shall intimate the fact to the University in writing along with
the Demand Draft for a sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or such
amount as may be prescribed by the Governing Council, from time to time
towards the inspection fee payable to the University and shall request the
University to depute its inspection commission,

### 13.

On receipt of the above intimation the University shall send its Inspection
commission to inspect the facilities available at the proposed Dental College
and to submit report to the University as to the satisfactory fulfilment of
the conditions required to be fulfilled. The inspection commission shall also
report the lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of any of the conditions
required to be fulfilled and also advise as to the capability of the
Trust/Society to rectify the lacunae within a period of two months. In case
there are lacunae in the fulfilment of the conditions, the University may
conduct re-inspection on payment of sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand
only) or such amount as may be prescribed by the Governing Council, from time
to time, towards the re-inspection fee and shall receive a final report from
the inspection commission.

### 14.

After a detailed examination of the final report of the inspection commission
and if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the
conditions for the affiliation for the First Year B.D.S. Degree course of
study, the University shall direct the applicant Trust/Society to remit a sum
of Rs. 20,00,000 (Rupees twenty lakhs only) towards the security deposit. The
security deposit shall be invested in a fixed deposit in a nationalized bank
jointly in the names of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Madras, and the Trust/Society. The fixed deposit receipt shall be
kept in the custody of the Registrar.

### 15.

On the remittance of Rs. 20,00,000 (Rupees twenty lakhs only) towards the
security deposit by the applicant Trust/Society, and on receipt of the
intimation from the applicant Trust/Society that all the staff members
appointed are in a position to start the teaching course, the University shall
grant provisional affiliation for the first Year B.D.S. Degree course of study
for 40 (Forty) students only after collecting a sum of Rs. 20,000 (Rupees
twenty thousand only) towards the fee for the provisional affiliation grated
herein by giving three months notice stating the reasons therefor to the
management of the proposed college. The interest accrued on the fixed deposit
shall be spent on the maintenance of the proposed Dental College.

### 16.

The management of the proposed Dental College shall show evidence of an annual
income of not less than Rs. 6,00,000 (Rupees six lakhs only) to facilitate the
proper running of the Dental College.

### 17.

(1)The provisional affiliation granted by the University shall be only for the
First Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study. Thereupon, the college shall be
permitted to admit students in such number in the First Year B.D.S. Degree
Course of study as the University decides and shall nominate an expert in
Medical Science as its member to represent the interest of the University in
the governing body of the Dental College.(2)The Dental College shall furnish a
budget for each year of study and a separate development budget which will
cover the expenses for the fulfilment of the requirements prescribed for the
Second Year B.D.S. Degree course of study.(3)The expert nominated by the
University under sub-statute (1) shall hold office for a period of three
years. Any change in the governing body of the college shall be reported to
the University immediately.(4)Tire governing body of the college shall meet at
least once in every three months to consider the budget estimate and such
other matters as may arise in its working. It shall meet in May-June each year
to consider the annual report, the audited statement of accounts, changes in
the staff, subjects or courses in which fresh affiliation or approval is to be
sought in the following year. A copy of the notice of meeting shall be sent to
the nominee of the University, with a copy to the Registrar at least 15 clear
days before the date of the meeting. A copy of the minutes of the meeting
shall also be sent to the nominee of the University and the Registrar within
15 days of the meeting.(5)Every college shall have a duly constituted
governing body with representatives of the teaching staff, to advise the
Principal in the internal affairs of the college. A record of proceedings of
the said governing body of the college shall be maintained by the Principal.

### 18.

By the time only six months period is left for the First Year B.D.S. Degree
students to the take up the First Year B.D.S. Degree Examination, the
management of the Dental College shall apply to the University for affiliation
of the Second Year B.D.S. Degree course. In the said application, the
following details shall be furnished before applying so, the following
facilities and departments with the staff members stipulated herein have to be
provided by the management of the Medical College: -(a)The number of Dental
Chairs with necessary equipments and instruments shall be increased to the
minimum of 30 members.(b)There shall be facilities created for the general
Pathology Department. It shall have a laboratory with a minimum space of 30' x
40'. There shall be a Sectional Library, store-room in the same
department.(c)Microbiology Department shall be constituted. It shall have a
laboratory with a minimum space of 30' x 40'. In addition, a sterilization
room, staff room with Sectional Library and store room must be available for
the department.(d)The management shall create a Pharmacology Department. It
shall have a laboratory with a minimum space of 30' x 40'. There shall be a
separate storeroom and staff-room with a Sectional Library.(e)A multi-purpose
hall shall be ready which can be used for the purpose of seminars, symposia
and for the conduct of the examinations. The hall must have a capacity to seat
at least 100 students comfortably.(f)All the conditions stipulated while
granting provisional affiliation for the I year B.D.S. Degree Course should
have been fulfilled.(g)The following additional staff shall be appointed:
-(i)Professor of Oral Pathology including Dental Anatomy -1 post.(ii)Professor
of Operative Dentistry - 1 post.(iii)Assistant Professor of Microbiology - 1
post.(iv)Assistant Professor of Pathology - 1 post.(v)Assistant Professor of
Pharmacology - 1 post.(vi)Tutors in Dentistry - 3 posts.(vii)Assistant
Librarian - 1 post.

### 19.

On receipt of the application for affiliation for the Second Year B.D.S.
Degree course from the management of the Dental College, the University shall
send its inspection commission at least three months before the date of
commencement of the First Year B.D.S. Degree Examinations. A Bank Draft for
Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or such amount as may be prescribed by
the Governing Council, from time to time drawn in favour of the Registrar, the
Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai shall be enclosed along with
application towards the inspection fee.

### 20.

The inspection commission sent by the University shall inspect the facilities
made available by the management of the college and report to the University
as to whether all the facilities required to be provided by the college are
provided. The inspection commission shall also point out in its report the
lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the conditions required to be fulfilled
and also advise as to the capability of the college to rectify the lacunae
within a period of two months. In case there are lacunae in the fulfilment of
the conditions the University may conduct re-inspection on payment of a sum of
Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) or such amount as may be prescribed by
the governing council, from time to time, towards the re-inspection fee and
shall receive a final report from the inspection commission.

### 21.

After a detailed examination of the final report of the Inspection Commission,
if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions
for the affiliation for the Second Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study, the
University shall direct the management of the college to remit a sum of Rs.
10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the security deposit payable by the
Trust/Society. The security deposit shall be invested in a fixed deposit in a
nationalized Bank jointly in the name of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr.
M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai and the Trust/Society The fixed deposit
receipt shall be kept in the custody of the Registrar.

### 22.

On the remittance of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the
security deposit made by the applicant college, and on receipt of the
intimation from the applicant college that all the staff members appointed in
pursuance of the above statutes are in a position to start the teaching
course, the University shall, after collecting a sum of Rs. 20,000 (Rupees
twenty thousand only) from the Trust/Society towards the affiliation fee for
the Second Year B.D.S. Degree course of study, grant provisional affiliation
for the Second Year Degree Course of study. It shall be competent for the
University to withdraw the provisional affiliation granted herein by giving
three months notice stating the reasons therefor to the management of the
college. The interest accrued on the fixed deposit, shall be spent on the
maintenance of the Dental College.

### 23.

The provisional affiliation granted above by the University shall be only for
the Second Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study. Thereupon, the University shall
permit the college to admit the students in the Second Year B.D.S. Degree
course of study.

### 24.

By the time only six months period is left for the Second Year B.D.S. students
to take up the Second Year B.D.S. Degree Examination, the management of the
Dental College shall apply to the University for affiliation of the Third Year
B.D.S. Degree course of study. In the said application the following details
shall be furnished. Before applying to, the following facilities and
departments with the staff members stipulated herein shall also have to be
provided for by the management of the Dental College: -Additional
Departments:(a)General Medicine Department.(b)General Surgery
Department.(c)Preventive and Community Dentistry Department.Explanation. -
There shall be staff rooms with Sectional Libraries and storeroom for each of
the above mentioned departments.Additional Staff:

(a) Reader in Medicine | -1 post.  
---|---  
(b) Reader in Surgery | -1 post.  
(c) Assistant Professor of Surgery | -1 post.  
(d) Assistant Professor of Medicine | -1 post.  
(e) Reader in Oral Surgery | -1 post.  
(f) Reader in Periodontia | -1 post,  
(g) Reader in Orthodontia | -1 post.  
(h) Assistant Professor in Dentistry for each branch ofDental specialities as
prescribed by the Dental Council ofIndia - 9 posts.  
(i) Assistant Professor of Anaesthesia | -1 post.  
  
Additional Laboratories:(a)Prosthetics Department Laboratory with a minimum
space of 30' x 40'.(b)Conservative Dentistry Department Laboratory with a
minimum space of 30' x 40'.(c)Orthodontia Department Laboratory with a minimum
space of 30' x 40'.(d)Redodentia Department Laboratory with a minimum space of
30' x 40'.Additional Provisions:(a)The equipments for laboratories and the
connected departments shall be in accordance with the regulations as
prescribed by the Dental Council of India.(b)The Dental Chairs along with
equipments and instruments shall be increased to 40 members.(c)The library
facilities for the students shall be expanded to provide for 2,000 books
covering all the subjects in the entire course, and 10 current journals in
different specialities.(d)The college shall have 3 lecture theatres each to
accommodate 100 students.(e)There shall be staff research laboratory with a
minimum space of 30' x 40'.(f)The permanent hostel building for men and women
students shall be completed before the end of the Second Year Course.(g)There
shall be separate registration and sections for the . out-patients and
inpatients.(h)The facilities for sports and extra-curricular activities for
the students shall be strengthened.(i)The college shall be equipped with
Audio-Visual Teaching Aids, Photo Copies and Photographic Section, etc.

### 25.

On receipt of the application for the Third Year B.D.S. Degree Course from the
management of the Dental College, the University shall send its inspection
commission at least three months before the date of commencement of the Second
Year B.D.S. Degree Examination. The application for affiliation shall be
accompanied by a bank draft for Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or such
amount as may be prescribed by the governing council, from time to time, drawn
in favour of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai towards inspection fee.

### 26.

The inspection commission sent by the University shall inspect the facilities
made available by the management of the college and report to the University
as to whether all the facilities required to be provided by the college are
provided. The inspection commission shall also point out in its report the
lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the conditions required to be fulfilled
and also advise as to the capability of the college to rectify the lacunae
within a period of two months. In case there are lacunae in the fulfilment of
the conditions, the University may conduct re-inspection on payment of a sum
of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) or such amount as may be prescribed
by the Governing council, from time to time, towards re-inspection fee and
shall receive a final report from the Inspection Commission.

### 27.

After a detailed examination of the final report of the Inspection Commission,
if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions
for the affiliation for the Third Year B.D.S. Degree course of study, the
University shall direct the management of the college to remit a sum of Rs.
10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the security deposit which shall be
invested in a fixed deposit in nationalized bank jointly in the name of the
Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai and the
Trust/Society. The fixed deposit receipt shall be kept in the custody of the
Registrar.

### 28.

On the remittance of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the
security deposit made by the applicant college and on receipt of the
intimation from the applicant college that all the staff members appointed in
pursuance of the above statutes are in a position to start the teaching
course, the University shall, after collecting a sum of Rs. 20,000 (Rupees
twenty thousand only) from the college towards the affiliation fee for the
Third Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study, grant provisional affiliation for
the Third Year B.D.S. course of study. It shall be competent for the
University to withdraw the provisional affiliation granted herein by giving
three months notice stating the reasons therefor to the management of the
college. The interest accrued on the fixed deposit shall be spent on the
maintenance of the Dental College.

### 29.

The provisional affiliation granted above by the University shall be only for
the Third Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study. Thereupon, the University shall
permit the college to admit the students in the Third Year B.D.S. Degree
course of study.

### 30.

By the time, only six months period is left for the Third Year B.D.S. students
to take up the Third Year B.D.S. Degree examination, the management of the
Dental College shall apply to the University for affiliation of the Fourth
Year B.D.S. Degree course of study. In the said application, the following
details shall be furnished. Before applying so, the following facilities and
departments with the staff members stipulated herein shall also have to be
provided for by the management to the Dental College.(i)There shall be a
Dental Clinical Department with separate sections for the following
specialities in the out-patient wing: -(a)Prosthodontics and Crown and
Bridge.(b)Conservative Dentistry including Endodontics.(c)Pedodontics.(d)Oral
Surgery.(e)Peridontics.(f)Orthodontics.(g)Oral Medicine (Oral Diagnosis) and
Radiology,(ii)The Dental Hospital shall have the fully equipped theatre
complex with requisite staff in addition to a dispensary with adequate stock
of drugs and pharmacists for disbursement of the drugs. The Dental Hospital
and the clinic shall have the equipments as prescribed by the Dental Council
of India The Dental Chairs and the units shall be available in the ratio of 1
:1 for the clinical students.(iii)The college shall have at least one bus for
the use of the students.(iv)The following provisions shall have to be made
available by the Dental College, while applying for affiliation for the Fourth
Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study, namely: -(a)Auditorium.(b)Separate
examination hall.(c)Faculty recreation hall.(d)Animal house.(v)The following
Dental Staff shall be appointed while applying for affiliation for the Fourth
Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study; viz:(a)Chief Librarian - 1
post.(b)Physical Education Director - 1 post.(c)Social worker - 1
post.(d)Radiographer - 2 posts.(e)Dark Room Assistant - 2 posts.(f)Adequate
number of Para - Dental staff.(g)Adequate number of Nurses.

### 31.

On receipt of the application for the Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree course from
the management of the Dental College, the University shall send its Inspection
Commission at least three months before the date of commencement of the Third
Year B.D.S. Degree Examination. The application for affiliation shall be
accompanied by a bank draft for Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or such
amount as may be prescribed by the governing council from time to time drawn
in favour of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai towards inspection fee.

### 32.

The inspection commission sent by the University shall inspect the facilities
made available by the management of the college and report to the University
as to whether all the facilities required to be provided by the college are
provided. The inspection commission shall also point out in its report the
lacunae, if any, in fulfilment of the conditions required to be fulfilled and
also advise as to the capability of the college to rectify the lacunae within
a period of two months. In case, there are lacunae in the fulfilment of the
condition, the University may conduct re-inspection on payment of a sum of Rs.
5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) or such amount as may be prescribed by the
Governing Council, from time to time, towards re-inspection fee and shall
receive a final report from the inspection commission.

### 33.

After a detailed' examination of the final report of the inspection
commission, if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the
conditions for the affiliation for the Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree Course of
study, the University shall direct the management of the college to remit a
sum of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees ten lakhs only) towards the security deposit
which shall be invested in a fixed deposit in a nationalized bank jointly in
the name of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai and the Trust/Society. The fixed deposit receipt shall be kept in the
custody of the Registrar.

### 34.

On the remittance of Rs. 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten lakhs only) towards the
security deposit made by the applicant college and on receipt of the
intimation from the applicant college that all the staff members appointed in
pursuance of the above statutes are in a position to start the teaching
course, the University shall, after collecting a sum of Rs. 20,000 (Rupees
twenty thousand only) from the college towards the affiliation fee for the
Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree course of study, grant provisional affiliation for
the Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree course of study. It shall be competent for the
University to withdraw the provisional affiliation granted herein by giving
three months notice stating the reasons therefore to the management of the
college. The interest accrued on the fixed deposit shall be spent on the
maintenance of the Dental College.

### 35.

The provisional affiliation granted above by the University shall be only for
the Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree Course of study. Thereupon the University, shall
permit the college to admit the students in the Fourth Year B.D.S. Degree
Course of Study.Compulsory Rotatory Resident Internship (CRRI) Trainings:

### 36.

It shall be necessary for the students who have successfully completed the
Four Years B.D.S. Degree course of study to undergo a Compulsory Rotatory
Resident Internship Training Course for a period of one year to qualify for
the award of B.D.S. Degree from the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai.

### 37.

By the time, only six months period is left for the Final B.D.S. Students to
take up the Final B.D.S. Examination, the management of the Dental College
shall apply to the University for affiliation of Compulsory Rotatory Resident
Internship (CRRI) Training Course so as to enable the University to send an
inspection commission at least three months before the commencement of the
Final Year B.D.S. Degree Examination to inspect the institution regarding the
facilities and other requirements available in the institution as required in
the statutes for the affiliation of Compulsory Rotatory Resident Internship
Training Course. A bank draft for Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or
such amount as may be prescribed by the Governing Council from time to time,
drawn in favour of the Registrar, the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai, shall be enclosed along with the application towards the
inspection fee.

### 38.

The management of the Dental College shall, before applying for affiliation
for the Compulsory Rotatory Resident Internship Training Course, provide the
following facilities and staff members. The details regarding these provisions
shall be furnished in the application for affiliation.(i)teaching
hospitals;(ii)rural centres with suitable staff and equipments;(iii)quarters
exclusively for internees with all facilities for boarding and lodging at the
teaching hospital;(iv)at least two vans with capacity .of ten seats with
mobile dental clinical facilities for Community Dentistry programmes.(v)the
following staff members shall be appointed: -

SI.No. | Name of the post | Number  
---|---|---  
(1) | Tutor/Assistant Professor for Community. |   
| Dentistry programme. | 1 (One)  
(2) | Lady Dental Officer. | 1 (One)  
(3) | Dental Mechanic. | 1 (One)  
(4) | Dental Hygienist. | 2 (Two)  
(5) | Peon. | 1 (One)  
(6) | Van Driver-cum-Cleaner. | 2 (Two)  
  
### 39.

On receipt of the application for affiliation for Compulsory Rotatory Resident
Internship Training Course from the management of the college, the University
shall send an inspection commission at least three months before the date of
commencement of the Final Year B.D.S. Degree Examination.

### 40.

The inspection commission sent by the University shall inspect the facilities
made available by the management of the college and report to the University
as to whether all the facilities required to be provided by the college under
statute 38 are made available. The Inspection Commission shall also point out
in its report the lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the conditions
required to be fulfilled and also advise as to the capability of the college
to rectify the lacunae within a period of two months. In case there are
lacunae in the fulfilment of the conditions, the University may conduct re-
inspection on a payment of a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) or
such amount as may be prescribed by the governing council, from time to time,
made by the management of the college towards re-inspection fee and shall
receive a final report from the Inspection commission.

### 41.

After a detailed examination of the final report of the inspection commission,
if the University is fully satisfied as to the fulfilment of the conditions
for the affiliation of the Compulsory Rotatory Resident Internship Training
Course and on receipt of the intimation from the applicant college that all
the staff members appointed in pursuance of the above statutes are in a
position to start the Compulsory Rotatory Resident Internship Training Course,
the University shall, after collecting a sum of Rs. 20,000 (Rupees twenty
thousand only) from the college towards the affiliation fee for the Compulsory
Rotatory Resident Internship Training Course. It shall be competent for the
University to withdraw the provisional affiliation granted herein by giving
three months notice stating the reasons therefor to the management of the
college.

### 42.

The Dental College seeking affiliation to the Compulsory Rotatory Resident
Internship Training shall follow the course contents and regulations of the
Dental Council of India in this regard. The college shall also follow the
modification in the course contents suggested by the Boards of Studies and
Standing Academic Board of the University, from time to time.

### 43.

All the norms prescribed by the Dental Council of India shall be applied by
the University in the area not covered by the statutes, ordinances and
regulations framed by the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai
for the starting of a new Dental College. Thereupon, the University shall
permit the college to admit the students who have provisionally registered
their names with State Dental Council, in the Compulsory Rotatory Resident
Internship Training Course of study.

### 44.

It shall be competent for the University to inspect the Dental College at
least once in five years to observe whether the quality of service, teaching
and research are properly maintained.

### 45.

The University shall also be competent to send observer during examination at
their discretion.

### 46.

The college authorities shall send to the University a report regarding the
service, academic and research activities of the college and also annual staff
return and vacancy position.

### 47.

On the completion of the courses of study by the first batch of students and
on their appearing for the University examination, the management of the
colleges may make an application to the University for the grant of full
affiliation of the B.D.S. Degree course of study. The University shall, after
satisfying itself as to the performance of the college during the previous
years and subject to the statutes and procedures as in force, from time to
time, grant full affiliation to the B.D.S. Degree course of study.

### 48.

The governing council shall have the power after due enquiry to withdraw full
affiliation granted to a college, provided that before coming to such a
decision, the governing council shall inform the governing body of the college
concerned of its findings after enquiry and shall allow it an opportunity of
making such representation as it may deem fit and shall record its opinion on
the representation so made.

### 49.

It shall be competent for the governing council to entertain or decline to
entertain for reasons to be recorded in writing the application received from
the management of the Dental College for increase in the number of seats in
the college.

### 50.

No Dental College shall apply to the University for increase in seats until
the first batch of students pass out of the college and the B.D.S. Degree so
obtained is recognized by the Dental Council of India and notified by the
Government of India.

### 51.

The management of the Dental College shall satisfy the University with the
following norms as prescribed by the University and the Dental Council of
India in this regard, from time to time, while making application for increase
in seats: -(i)proportionate increase in the staff pattern;(ii)proportionate
increase in the equipment and laboratory facilities; and(iii)proportionate
increase in the accommodation.

### 52.

On receipt of the application 'from the Management of the Dental College for
increase in seats, the University shall appoint an inspection commission to
inspect the suitability of the facilities provided by the College for such
increase in seats. A sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) or such
amount as may be prescribed by the governing council, from time to time, shall
be paid by the applicant college through a demand draft drawn in favour of the
Registrar of the University towards the inspection fee.

### 53.

The inspection commission referred to in statute 52 shall report to the
University as to whether all the requirements specified in statute 51 which
are to be provided by the management of the college for increase in,seats have
been provided. The inspection commission shall also point gut in its report
the lacunae, if any, in the fulfilment of the requirements to be. provided and
also advise as to the capability of the college to rectify the lacunae within
a period of two months. The University shall conduct re-inspection on payment
of a sum of Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) or such amount as may be
prescribed by the governing council, from time to time, by the management of
the college towards re-inspection fee. The commission shall send its final
report.

### 54.

On receipt of the final report of the above inspection commission, and if the
report is found satisfactory, the University shall recommend to the Dental
Council of India for its inspection and concurrence.

### 55.

On receipt of the concurrence from the Dental Council of India to increase the
seats in the college concerned, the University shall grant permission to the
college concerned to admit students in the seats so increased.

### 56.

The permission granted to the management of the Dental College by the
University under statute 55 is liable to be withdrawn if the students and
teachers ratio become disproportionate and is not in accordance with the
regulations of the Dental Council of India. In case of such withdrawal, the
permission shall be restored only when a satisfactory report is received by
the University on an inspection that the student-teachers ratio is
proportionate as per the regulations of the Dental Council of India.

### 57.

It shall be competent for the University to send an Inspector at any time to
inspect the Dental College after two weeks notice to the management of the
college and on receipt of report from the Inspector, the University may take
any decision which in its opinion deems fit and necessary.Form I(See Statutes
3, 5, 6)Application for Certificate of Registration for Affiliation

### 1\. Name(s) of the applicant(s) Trust/Society.

### 2\. Name of the College proposed.

### 3\. Whether the permission of the Government to establish the college is
obtained. (Copy of the order of the Government to be enclosed).

### 4\. Whether the approval of the Dental Council of India is obtained. (Copy
of the order of the approval to be enclosed).

### 5\. Whether the approval of the Government of India is obtained. (Copy of
the order of approval to be enclosed).

### 6\. Details of the constitution of the managing body of the college
(copies of bye-laws/terms of the Trust/Society, etc. to be enclosed).

### 7\. Address to which communications are to be sent, with telephone number,
if available.

### 8\. Address where the college is proposed to be located.

### 9\. Number of candidates to be admitted in the First-Year B.D.S. Degree
Course.

### 10\. Details regarding availability of land, ready built area and other
physical infrastructures, etc., of the college and the hospital (Copies of
title deeds and documents and latest encumbrance certificate, etc. to be
enclosed).

### 11\. Particulars regarding arrangements of residential quarters for the
staff.

### 12\. Details regarding availability of play grounds.

### 13\. Details regarding hostel facility proposed.

### 14\. Details of facilities and other requirements fulfilled as stipulated
in the statutes of the University for issue of certificate of registration
(with necessary break up details).

### 15\. Details of earmarked assets and resources to be utilized for running
the proposed Dental College.

### 16\. Details of the Master Plan regarding the development of college and
hospital, future teaching hospital, strength of beds and other necessary
facilities available (plan shall be enclosed).

### 17\. Details regarding the availability of water supply, transport, etc.

### 18\. Details regarding the financial soundness of the Trust/Society.

### 19\. Whether the Trust/Society has the capacity to deposit the amount
specified in the statutes.

### 20\. Details regarding the annual income of the Trust/Society, etc.

### 21\. Particulars of fee remittances made by the applicant Trust/ Society.

### 22\. Whether the Trust/Society fulfils all the conditions and requirements
as specified in the statutes to apply for Certificate of Registration.

Station:Date:Signature of the applicant.Form II(See Statute 8)Certificate of
RegistrationUnder statute ....................... of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R.
Medical University, Chennai (Affiliation of Dental Colleges) Statutes, it is
hereby certified that the applicant of.............College for the starting of
B.D.S. Degree Course of study has been registered with the Tamil Nadu Dr.
M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai.The issue of this Certificate of
Registration alone shall not confer any right on the applicant college to
start the B.D.S. Degree Course.This certificate is valid for a period of one
year from the date of issue.(By order of the Governing
Council)Date:Chennai:SealSignature of the Registrar.Form III(See statutes 11
and 12)Application for Provisional Affiliation by College to Start I, II, III,
Final B.D.S. Degree Course of Study

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant.

### 2\. Location of college with full address with telephone number, if
available.

### 3\. Does the college satisfy all the conditions stipulated in the statutes
for the affiliation (with full details with evidence therefor).

### 4\. Does the college posses the Certificate of Registration issued by the
Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai for starting B.D.S. Degree
course by the college (copy of the Certificate of Registration to be
enclosed).

### 5\. Whether the No Objection Certificate from the Dental Council of India
has been obtained by the college (produce evidence).

### 6\. Whether the permission of the Government of Tamil Nadu has been
obtained by the college (produce evidence).

### 7\. Whether the approval of the Government of India has been obtained by
the college (produce evidence).

Date:Chennai:Signature.

