## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1983

## Act 26 of 1983

  * Published on 28 May 1983 
  * Commenced on 28 May 1983 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 May 1983.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1983(Tamil Nadu
Act 26 of 1983)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - By the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1980), cultivating tenants were given certain relief from the burden of
discharging arrears of rent payable to landlords or public trusts, for the
fasli year ending with the 30th day of June 1976 and for any previous fasli
year. Similar relief was given to the cultivating tenants in the cyclone and
flood-affected areas in respect of arrears of rent for the fasli year ending
with the 30th June 1978 and for any previous fasli year by the Tamil Nadu
Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenant Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1980). As there has been failure of monsoon in
1981-82 and 1982-83 in the State, the cultivating tenants would not be in a
position to pay the rent for the current fasli or the arrears of rent for any
previous fasli year. It is, therefore, considered necessary to provide that
such defaulting tenants are protected till the 15th January 1984 from eviction
on ground of default in payment of rent due for the fasli year ending with the
30th day of June 1983 and for any previous fasli year. It is also proposed to
restore possession of lands to such tenants who have been evicted on or after
the 1st day of July 1982, but before the date of the publication of the
proposed Act for default in payment of rent.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects.Published in Part IV-section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, dated the 15th February 1983.Received the assent of the President on
the 28th May 1983 and published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, dated the 2nd day of June 1983.An Act to provide for the
protection from eviction of cultivating tenants who are in arrears with
respect to the rent payable to the landlords.Be it enacted by the Legislature
of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India
as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and duration.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection from
Eviction) Act, 1983.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of July 1982
and shall remain in force up to and inclusive of the 15th day of January
1984.(4)Upon the expiry of this Act, the provisions of section 8 of the Tamil
Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1891) shall apply as if
this Act had been repealed by a Tamil Nadu Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"cultivating tenant"
means-(i)a cultivating tenant as defined in clause (aa) of section 2 of the
Tenants Protection Act; or(ii)a cultivating tenant as defined in clause (5) of
section 2 of the Public Trusts Act;(b)"Public Trusts Act" means the Tamil Nadu
Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961);(c)"Tenants Protection Act" means the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955);(d)words
and expressions used and not defined in this Act but defined in the Tenants
Protection Act or in the Public Trusts Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Tenants Protection Act or in the Public
Trusts Act, as the case may be.

### 3. Cultivating tenant not to be evicted on the ground that he is in
arrear.

\- During the continuance of this Act,-(i)no application under the Tenants
Protection Act or under Chapter III of the Public Trusts Act shall be made by
or at the instance of a landlord or a public trust for the eviction of a
cultivating tenant from his holding or any part thereof on the ground that the
cultivating tenant is in arrear with respect to the rent payable to the
landlord or to the public trust, as the case may be;(ii)no cultivating tenant
shall be evicted from his holding or any part thereof by or at the instance of
the landlord or the public trust concerned, whether in execution of a decree
or order of a court or otherwise on the ground that the cultivating tenant is
in arrear with respect to the rent payable to the landlord or to the public
trust, as the case may be.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section and
section 4, "rent" means rent accrued and due for the fasli year ending with
the 30th day of June 1983 and for any previous fasli year.

### 4. Stay of applications and suits for eviction of a cultivating tenant.

(a)All applications under the Tenants Protection Act or under Chapter III of
the Public Trusts Act; and(b)all suits, proceedings in execution of decrees or
orders and other proceedings, for the eviction of a cultivating tenant, on the
ground that he is in arrear with respect to the rent payable to the landlord
or to the public trust, as the case may be, and pending before a Revenue
Divisional Officer, an authorised officer, a Court or other authority, as the
case may be, shall stand stayed.

### 5. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for a
suit or an application for the eviction of a cultivating tenant or an
application for the execution of a decree or order for such eviction, the time
during which he was protected by sections 3 and 4 from eviction shall be
excluded.Explanation. - A decree or order shall be deemed to be a decree or
order for the eviction of a cultivating tenant, notwithstanding that any other
relief is also granted by such decree or order.

### 6. Continuance of applications and suits and proceedings after the
expiration of the Act.

\- All applications for the eviction of a cultivating tenant under the Tenants
Protection Act or under Chapter III of the Public Trusts Act, as the case may
be, and all suits and proceedings stayed under this Act, shall, after the
expiration of this Act, be proceeded with subject to the provisions of any law
which may then be in force, from the stage which had been reached when the
application, suit or proceeding was stayed.

### 7. Right to restoration of possession of evicted cultivating tenants.

(1)Any cultivating tenant who had been evicted from any land on or after the
1st day of July 1982, but before the date of the publication of this Act in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, on the ground that such cultivating tenant
was in arrear with respect to the rent payable to the landlord or the public
trust, as the case may be, shall, on application to the Revenue Divisional
Officer within a period of three months after the date of such publication, be
entitled to be restored to possession of such land and to hold it with all the
rights and subject to all the liabilities of a cultivating tenant under the
Tenants Protection Act or under the Public Trusts Act, as the case may
be:Provided that the application may be received after the period of three
months aforesaid, but before the expiry of this Act, if the applicant
satisfies the Revenue Divisional Officer that he had sufficient cause for not
making the application within the said period of three months.(2)The
Provisions of sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Tenants Protection Act, or,
as the case may be, sub-section (2) of section 20 of the Public Trusts Act
shall, so far as may be, apply to applications under sub-section (1).

### 8. Act to override other laws, contract, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Tenants Protection Act, the Public
Trusts Act, the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980), the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected
Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act
16 of 1980), the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), or in
any other law for the time being in force, or any custom, usage or contract,
or decree or order of a Court or other authority.

