## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Re-Enacting Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Re-Enacting Act, 1956

## Act 6 of 1956

  * Published on 31 March 1956 
  * Commenced on 31 March 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 March 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Re-Enacting Act, 1956(Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 1956)Received the assent of the
President on the 31st March 1956 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette Extraordinary dated the 1st April 1956.An Act to re-enact the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning
(Temporary Powers) Act, 1949.Whereas it is expedient to re-enact the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning
(Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of 1949) for the
purposes hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted in the Seventh Year of the
Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control
and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Re-enacting Act, 1956.(2)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 26th day of January 1956.

### 2. Re-enactment of [Tamil Nadu Act] [Substituted for the expression
'Madras Act' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.] XXXIX of 1949.

\- The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and
Requisition in (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 [Tamil of Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act,
XXIX of 1949), a amended, from time to time, and in force on the 25th day of
January 195 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), is hereby re-enacted
subject to the modification that, for sub-section (3) of section 1 the
following sub-section shall be substituted, namely: -(3)It shall come into
force at once and shall remain in force up to an inclusive of the 25th January
1958.

### 3. Savings.

\- Anything done or any action taken (including any rule or order made
notification issued, decision, award or direction given, proceeding taker
liability or penalty incurred and punishment awarded) under the provisions -
of the said Act -(a)as in force immediately before its expiry; or(b)on or
after the 26th day of January 1956, and before the date of publication of this
Act in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.],
on the footing that the said Act was in force at the relevant time,shall be
deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the
said Act as hereby re-enacted:Provided that nothing contained in this section
shall render any person liable to any punishment whatsoever by reason of
anything done or omitted to be done by him contrary to the provisions of the
said Act on or after the 26th day of January 1956, and before the date of
publication of this Act i the Fort St. George Gazette.

