## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003

## Act 38 of 2003

  * Published on 14 November 2003 
  * Commenced on 14 November 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 November 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003(Tamil Nadu
Act No. 38 of 2003)Last Updated 31th December, 2019Received the assent of the
Governor on the 14th November, 2003 and published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, Extraordinary.An Act to prohibit the charging of exorbitant interest
by any person and matters incidental thereto-Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant
Interest Act, 2003.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 9th day of June, 2003.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"daily vatti" means
interest on daily basis which will work out to an interest rate more than that
fixed by the Government under section 7 of the Money-lenders Act;(2)"debtor"
means a person who receives loan for exorbitant interest;(3)"exorbitant
interest" means and includes daily vatti, hourly vatti, kandhu vatti, meter
vatti and thandal;(4)"hourly vatti" means interest on hourly basis which will
work out to an interest rate more than that fixed by the Government under
section 7 of the Money-lenders Act;(5)"kandhu vatti" means an interest which
will work out to an interest rate more than that fixed by the Government under
section 7 of the Money-lenders Act;(6)"loan" means an advance of money for
daily vatti, hourly vatti, kandhu vatti, meter vatti or thandal;(7)"meter
vatti" means an interest which will work out to an interest rate more than
that fixed by the Government under section 7 of the Money-lenders Act, for
every day on the loan amount not paid within the stipulated time;(8)"Money-
lenders Act" means the Tamil Nadu Money-lenders Act, 1957;(9)"thandal" means
interest which will work out to an interest rate more than that fixed by the
Government under section 7 of the Money-lenders Act, which is to be collected
daily along with the part of the loan amount;(10)words and expressions used
but not defined in this Act, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the
Money-lenders Act.

### 3. Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant interest.

\- No person shall charge exorbitant interest on any loan advanced by him.

### 4. Penalty.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Money-lenders Act, whoever
contravenes the provisions of section 3 or molests or abets the molestation of
any debtor for recovery of any loan shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to three years and also with fine which may extend to
thirty thousand rupees.

### 5. Deposit of money and presentation of petition to Court and the
procedure thereof.

(1)A debtor may deposit the money due in respect of loan received by him from
any person together with interest at the rate fixed by the Government under
section 7 of the Money-lenders Act, into the Court, having jurisdiction, along
with a petition to record that the amount deposited is in full or part,
satisfaction of the loan including the interest therefor, as the case may
be.(2)The Court shall, on receipt of a petition under sub-section (1) refer a
copy of the petition to the person mentioned in the petition, directing him to
give his version of the case within a period of fifteen days as may be granted
by the Court. The Court may, after due inquiry and after considering the
versions of the parties, pass orders recording the satisfaction of the loan
and interest therefor in full or in part, as the case may be.

### 6. Restoration of possession of property.

\- The Court may, on filing a petition by the debtor, order the restoration of
possession of property whether movable or immovable, if any, forcibly taken by
any person towards repayment of the loan advanced or interest therefor.

### 7. Voluntary disclosure.

\- Any person who charges exorbitant interest may, within one month from the
date of publication of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant
Interest Ordinance, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 2 of 2003) in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, file a petition before the Court disclosing his intention
to charge only the rate fixed by the Government under section 7 of the Money-
lenders Act on the loan advanced by him and on such disclosure, the interest
in respect of such loan shall be as fixed by the Government under section 7 of
the Money-lenders Act and no prosecution for the offences under this Act shall
be instituted in respect of such loan.

### 8. Adjustment of interest.

\- The Court may, on a petition filed by the debtor for settlement of loan
including the interest therefor, pass an order for the adjustment of the
interest, if any, paid by the debtor, over and above the rate of interest
fixed by the Government under section 7 of the Money-lenders Act, towards the
loan.

### 9. Abetment of suicide.

\- Where a debtor or any member of his family commits suicide and if it is
shown that immediately prior to such suicide, the debtor or any member of his
family was subjected to molestation by any person, the person who has advanced
loan shall, unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to have abetted the
commission of such suicide.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section,
"member of family" means the spouse, unmarried daughter or unmarried son.

### 10. Court fees.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the court fee payable in respect of a petition under this Act shall be
rupees one hundred.

### 11. Act not to be in derogation to other laws.

\- The provisions of section 12 of the Money-lenders Act shall not apply in
respect of offences under this Act. The provisions of this Act shall be in
addition to and not in derogation to the provisions of any other law for the
time being in force.

### 12. Application of provisions of Money-lenders Act.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Money-lenders
Act, in so far as they are applicable to money-lenders shall mutatis mutandis
apply to a person referred to in section 3 of this Act.Explanation. - Where an
act of a person constitutes offences under this Act and under the Money-
lenders Act, prosecution shall be launched under this Act.

### 13. Repeal and Saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Ordinance, 2003
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 2 of 2003) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of
Charging Exorbitant Interest Ordinance, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 2 of 2003)
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act.

