## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriages Act, 2009

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriages Act, 2009

## Act 21 of 2009

  * Published on 5 August 2009 
  * Commenced on 5 August 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 August 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriages Act, 2009(Act No. 21 of 2009)Last Updated
23rd January, 2020[Dated 05.08.2009]An Act to provide for compulsory
registration of all marriages in the State of Tamil Nadu and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixtieth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriages Act,
2009.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"District Registrar"
means a District Registrar of Marriages appointed under sub-section (2) of
section 4;(b)"Government" means the State Government;(c)"marriage" includes
all marriages performed by persons belonging to any caste or religion under
any law for the time being in force, or as per any custom or usage in any form
or manner and also includes remarriage;(d)"memorandum" means a memorandum of
marriage referred to in section 5;(e)"priest" means any person who performs a
marriage or any person present in the marriage referred to in section 7-A of
the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (Central Act XXV of 1955);(f)"Registrar" means a
Registrar of Marriages appointed under sub-section (3) of section
4;(g)"Registrar-General" means the Registrar-General of Marriages appointed
under sub-section (1) of section 4;(h)"State" means the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 3. Marriages to be compulsorily registered.

\- Every marriage performed on and from the date of commencement of this Act
shall be registered under this Act notwithstanding the fact that the said
marriage had been entered in the marriage registers governed by any other
personal laws of the parties to the marriage or custom or usage or tradition.

### 4. Appointment of Registrar- General, District Registrar and Registrar of
Marriages.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, appoint a person to be the
Registrar-General of Marriages for the State of Tamil Nadu.(2)The Government
shall, by notification, appoint a person to be the District Registrar of
Marriages for each District for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(3)The
Government shall, by notification, appoint such number of persons as it thinks
necessary, to be the Registrar of Marriages for such local areas as may be
specified in the notification, and one or more Registrars may be appointed for
one or more such areas for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(4)Every
District Registrar and Registrar shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as may be prescribed and shall be under the general supervision and
control of the Registrar-General.

### 5. Memorandum of marriage.

(1)The parties to a marriage shall prepare a memorandum in such Form as may be
prescribed in duplicate and shall deliver it in person or send in the manner
as may be prescribed, to the Registrar of the area where the marriage is
performed within ninety days from the date of the marriage:Provided that the
memorandum may be delivered or sent to the Registrar within a further period
of sixty days after the expiry of the said ninety days with the payment of
additional fee as may be prescribed.(2)Nothing in the proviso to sub-section
(1) shall affect the liability of any person to any penalty under clause (a)
of sub-section (1) of section 14.

### 6. Signature on memorandum and fees to be paid.

\- Every memorandum referred to in section 5 shall be signed by the parties to
the marriage and by the priest and two witnesses and shall be accompanied by
such fee as may be prescribed.

### 7. Power to refuse registration of marriage.

(1)Where the Registrar, before whom the memorandum is delivered or sent under
section 5 on scrutiny of the documents filed with the memorandum or, on the
other facts noticed or brought to his notice, is satisfied or has reason to
believe that,-(a)the marriage between the parties is not performed in
accordance with the personal laws of the parties, or any custom or usage or
tradition; or(b)the identity of the parties or the witnesses or the persons
testifying the identity of the parties and the performance of the marriage is
not established beyond reasonable doubt; or(c)the documents tendered before
him do not prove the marital status of the parties,he may, after hearing the
parties and recording the reasons in writing, refuse to register the marriage
and may,-(i)call upon the parties to produce such further information or
documents as deemed necessary, for establishing the identity of the parties
and the witnesses or correctness of the information or documents presented to
him, or(ii)if deemed necessary, also refer the papers to the local police
station within whose jurisdiction the parties reside, for
verification.(2)Where, on further verification as provided in sub-section (1),
the Registrar is satisfied that there is no objection to register the
marriage, he may register the same. If in the opinion of the Registrar, the
marriage is not fit for registration, he may pass an order of refusal in
writing, recording the reasons therefor.

### 8. Appeal to District Registrar.

(1)Any person aggrieved by the order of the Registrar under section 7 may,
within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such order, appeal
to the District Registrar in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided that
the District Registrar may, within a further period of thirty days, admit an
appeal presented after the expiration of the first mentioned period of thirty
days if he is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not
presenting the appeal within the first mentioned period.(2)The District
Registrar, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the party affected
and after recording the reasons in writing, direct the Registrar to register
the marriage or confirm the order of the Registrar.

### 9. Appeal against the order under section 8.

\- Any person aggrieved by the order of the District Registrar made under
section 8 may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the
order, appeal against such order to the Registrar-General and the decision of
the Registrar- General on such appeal shall be final and thereupon the
Registrar shall act in conformity with such decision.

### 10. Issue of certificate and maintaining register.

(1)On registration of the marriage, the Registrar shall issue a certificate of
registration of marriage to the parties in such form as may be
prescribed.(2)Every Registrar shall maintain a register of marriages, in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of the memorandum
of marriage under section 5, the Registrar shall file the same in the
register.

### 11. Search of marriage register.

(1)Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the Government including the
rules relating to payment of fee, any person may,-(a)cause a search to be made
by the Registrar for any entry in the register of marriages; and(b)obtain an
extract from such register relating to marriages.(2)All extracts given under
this section shall be certified by the Registrar and shall be admissible in
evidence for the purpose of proving the marriage to which the entry relates.

### 12. Register to be open for public inspection.

\- The register of marriages shall, at all reasonable times, be open to
inspection and the certified extracts therefrom shall, on application, be
given by the Registrar to the applicant on payment of such fee as may be
prescribed.

### 13. Responsibility of employer etc. of verification of marriage
registration certificate.

\- No employer or a Government or quasi-Government Authority or Company or
Public Sector Undertaking or Local Authority shall carry out any change in
their office record or in any office documents, such as change in the marital
status or change of nomination, of its employee or in their dealings with any
person, customer or client unless the employee or, as the case may be, the
applicant, applying for carrying out or recording of such change, submits a
certified copy of the certificate of registration of marriage issued under
section 10.

### 14. Penalties.

(1)Any person who-(a)omits or neglects to deliver or send the memorandum as
required by section 5; or(b)makes any statement in the memorandum which is
false in any material particular, and which he knows or has reason to believe
to be false; or(c)contravenes any of the provisions of this Act, or rules made
thereunder,shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees.(2)The Registrar who willfully fails to file the memorandum
pursuant to section 5 shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees or with both.

### 15. Penalty for secreting, destroying or altering register.

\- Any person secreting, destroying or dishonestly or fraudulently altering
the register of marriage or any part thereof shall, on conviction, be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which
may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.

### 16. Sanction for prosecution.

\- No prosecution for an offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted
except by an officer authorized by the Registrar- General by general or
special order, in this behalf.

### 17. Offences by companies.

(1)If any person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge, or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of the offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is
proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For
this purpose of the section,-(a)'company' means a body corporate and includes
a firm or other association of individuals; and .(b)'director' in relation to
a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or a rule or order made thereunder.

### 19. Registrar, etc. to be public Servant.

\- The Registrar-General, every District Registrar and Registrar and other
officers while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of the provisions of
this Act or rules made thereunder shall be deemed to be a public servant
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860).

### 20. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulties:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

### 21. Power of Government to give direction.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to the Registrar, District
Registrar and to the Registrar- General, as it may thinks fit for the
effective implementation of the provisions of this Act and they shall comply
with such direction.

### 22. Operation of other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force.

### 23. Non-registration not to invalidate marriage.

\- No marriage performed in this State to which this Act applies shall be
deemed to be invalid solely by reason of the fact that it was not registered
under this Act.

### 24. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule or order made or notification issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or in the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in any such rule, order or notification or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule, order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule, order or notification shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule, order or notification.

