## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and Endowments
(Protection and maintenance) Act, 2018

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and Endowments
(Protection and maintenance) Act, 2018

## Act 44 of 2018

  * Published on 27 November 2018 
  * Commenced on 27 November 2018 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 November 2018.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and Endowments
(Protection and maintenance) Act, 2018(Act No. 44 of 2018)Last Updated 25th
January, 2020The following act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative assembly received
the assent of the President on the 27th November 2018 and is hereby published
for general information:-An Act to provide for protection and maintenance of
the public charitable trusts and endowments created and administered by the
persons or organisations of Vanniyakula Kshatriya community in the State of
Tamil Nadu and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it
enacted by the Legislative assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-
ninth year of the republic of India as follows:-Chapter - I Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This act may be called the Tamil Nadu Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public
charitable Trusts and Endowments (Protection and maintenance) Act, 2018.(2)it
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on
such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. application of the Act.

\- This act shall apply to all public charitable trusts and endowments created
and administered by the persons or organisations of Vanniyakula Kshatriya
community.

### 3. Definitions.

\- in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Administrative
Officer1 means an officer appointed by the Board under sub-section (1) of
section 34;(b)"beneficiary" means a person or an institution for whose benefit
a trust or endowment is created and includes charitable objects and any other
objects of public utility;(c)"Board" means the board constituted under section
8;(d)"Chief Administrative Officer1 means the officer appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 19;(e)"Chairperson" means the chairperson appointed
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 9;(f)"charitable purpose"
includes relief of the poor, education, medical relief, advancement of any
other object of utility or welfare or the like purposes to the general public
or a section thereof;(g)"Court" means,-(i)in relation to a property of the
trust and endowment situated in the city of Chennai, the Chennai city civil
court;(ii)in relation to a property of the trust and endowment situated
elsewhere, the court of civil Judge (Senior Division) having jurisdiction over
the area in which the property of the trust and endowment is situated, or if
there is no such court, the District court having such jurisdiction;(iii)in
relation to a property of trust and endowment situated within the ambit of two
or more courts, any court which would have jurisdiction as aforesaid in
relation to either all or any of such properties;(h)"endowment" means all
property given or endowed for the benefit of, or used as of right by, the
Vanniyakula Kshatriya community or any section thereof for the support or
maintenance of objects of utility to the said community or section, such as
rest-houses, choultries, patasalas, schools and colleges, houses for feeding
the poor and institutions for the advancement of education, medical relief and
public health or other objects of a like nature; and includes the institution
concerned;(i)"Government" means the State Government;(j)"hereditary trustee"
means the trustee of a charitable trust, the succession to whose office
devolves by hereditary right or is regulated by usage or is specifically
provided for by the founder, so long as such scheme of succession is in
force;(k)"member" includes the member, ex-officio; Member Secretary and
chairperson of the Board;(l)"person interested" means any person who is
entitled to receive any pecuniary or other benefits from the trust or
endowment and includes a person who is entitled to attend or is in the habit
of attending the performance of service or charity connected with the
institution or who is entitled to partake or is in the habit of partaking in
the benefit of any charity or the distribution of gifts
thereat;(m)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules;(n)"Survey Officer" means an
officer appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4;(o)"Trust" means a trust
created by a person or group of organisation belonging to Vanniyakula
Kshatriya to fulfill charitable purposes as envisaged by the author of the
trust;(p)"trustee or administrator" means any person appointed to manage or
administer any trust or endowment;(q)"Vanniyakula Kshatriya" means the
community of Vanniyakula Kshatriya (including vanniyar, vanniya, vannia
Gounder, Gounder or Kandar, Padayachi, Palli and Agnikula Kshatriya), as
notified by the Government under the Tamil Nadu Backward classes, Scheduled
castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational institutions
and of appointments or posts in the services under the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil
Nadu Act 45 of 1994).Chapter - II Listing of Properties of Trust and Endowment

### 4. Preliminary survey of properties of trusts and endowments.

(1)The Government may, by order, appoint a Survey Officer not below the rank
of Tahsildar for surveying the properties belonging to the trust and endowment
existing within such area as may be specified in such order on the date of the
commencement of this Act.(2)The Survey Officer shall, after making such
enquiry as may be necessary, submit his report in respect of the properties of
trust and endowment to the Board containing the following particulars,
namely:-(a)the number of trusts and endowments available in the area;(b)the
nature and object of the formation of each trust and endowment;(c)the gross
income from each trust and endowment;(d)the amount of land revenue, charges
and taxes payable in respect of each trust and endowment;(e)the expenses
incurred by each trust and endowment; and(f)such other particulars relating to
each trust and endowment as may be prescribed.(3)The Survey Officer shall,
while making any enquiry, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court
under the code of civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) in respect of
the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and examining any
witness;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record from any Court or
office;(d)issuing commissions for the examination of any witness or
accounts;(e)making any local inspection or local investigation;(f)such other
matters as may be prescribed.(4)if, during any such enquiry, any dispute
arises as to whether a particular trust or endowment is a private trust or
endowment or public trust or endowment and there are clear indications in the
deed of trust or endowment as to its nature, the dispute shall be decided on
the basis of such deed.(5)The Government may, by order, direct the Survey
Officer to make a second or subsequent survey of trust and endowment
properties in any area and the provisions of sub-sections (2),(3) and (4)
shall apply to such survey as they apply to a survey directed under sub-
section (1):Provided that no such second or subsequent survey shall be made
until the expiry of a period of twenty years from the date on which the report
in relation to the immediately previous survey was submitted under sub-section
(2).

### 5. Publication of list of properties of trust and endowment.

\- The Board shall examine the report submitted to it under sub-section (2) of
section 4 and publish in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, a list of
properties of each trust and endowment in the State.

### 6. Disputes regarding properties belonging to trust and endowment.

(1)If any question or dispute arises whether a particular property specified
in the list of properties belongs to a trust or endowment, any person
interested therein may institute a suit in a court for the decision of the
question or dispute:Provided that no such suit shall be entertained by the
court after the expiry of one year from the date of the publication of the
list of properties belonging to trust and endowment.(2)The Survey Officer
shall not be made a party to any suit under sub-section (1) and no suit,
prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against him in respect of
anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or any rules made thereunder.(3)The list of properties belonging to a
trust or endowment shall, unless it is modified in pursuance of a decision of
the Court under sub-section (1), be final and conclusive.

### 7. Recovery of cost of survey.

(1)The total cost of making a survey including the cost of publication of the
list of properties belonging to trust and endowment under this chapter shall
be borne by the respective trust or endowment in proportion to the net annual
income of the trust or endowment as assessed by the Chief Administrative
Officer.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or instrument by
which the trust or endowment was created, the trustee or administrator thereof
may pay from the income of the properties of the trust or endowment any sum
due from the trust or endowment under sub-section (1).Chapter - III
Establishment of Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public Charitable Trusts and Endowments
Board and its Functions

### 8. incorporation.

(1)With effect from such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint
in this behalf, there shall be established by the name "Vanniyakula Kshatriya
Public charitable Trusts and Endowments Board" or in such other name as may be
specified in the notification.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate having
perpetual succession and a common seal with power to acquire and hold property
and to transfer any such property subject to such conditions and restrictions
as may be prescribed and shall, by the said name, sue and be sued.

### 9. Composition of the Board.

(1)The Board shall consist of,-(a)a chairperson, who shall be a person
belonging to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya community;(b)the following members who
shall belong to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya community, namely:-(i)one person
from among the retired Judges of the Supreme court or High court or District
court;(ii)one person from the All india Service;(iii)two persons from among
the Member of the Legislative Assembly;(iv)one person from among the trustees
of trusts and administrator of the endowments;(v)one person representing
Vanniyakula Kshatriya community organizations;(vi)two eminent persons having
good reputation in the field of legal profession, auditing, business,
education, engineering and industry;(vii)two women who have served the cause
of Vanniyakula Kshatriya community ;(c)the following ex-officio members,
namely:-(i)Secretary to Government, Backward classes, Most Backward classes
and Minorities Welfare Department; and(ii)commissioner or Director of Most
Backward classes and De-notified Communities Welfare Department:Provided that
it shall not be necessary that the ex-officio members belong to Vanniyakula
Kshatriya community.(d)the Member-Secretary.(2)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the Government shall, by notification, constitute or re-constitute
the Board, appointing the chairperson and the members from such date as may be
specified therein.

### 10. Term of office.

\- The Chairperson and every member of the Board shall hold office for such
period, not exceeding three years, as may be specified by the Government in
this behalf.

### 11. Disqualification for being appointed, or for continuing as, a member
of the Board.

\- A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, or for continuing, as
member of the Board other than the ex-officio members referred to in clause
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 9, if,(i)he is less than twenty-one years of
age;(ii)he is found to be a person of unsound mind;(iii)he is an un-discharged
insolvent;(iv)he has been convicted for an offence involving moral turpitude
and such conviction has not been reversed or he has not been granted full
pardon in respect of such offence;(v)he has been on previous
occasions,-(a)served as a chairperson or member of the Board for two
terms.Explanation. - For the purpose of computing the period of two terms
referred to in this clause, the period during which a person held office
either as a Chairperson or member or as both shall be taken into
account;(b)removed from his office as a member or as a trustee or
administrator of any trust or endowment which is in the purview of the Board;
or(c)removed by an order of a competent court from any position of any trust
or endowment either for mismanagement or for corruption.

### 12. Meetings of the Board.

(1)The Board shall meet for the transaction of business at such time and place
as may be prescribed by regulations.(2)The chairperson, or in his absence, any
member chosen by the members from amongst themselves, shall preside at a
meeting of the Board.(3)Subject to the provisions of this Act, all questions
which come before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of
votes of the members present, and in the case of equality of votes, the
chairperson or, in his absence, any other person presiding shall have a second
or casting vote.

### 13. Quorum.

\- The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be not less than fifty per
cent of members including chairperson, but excluding the number of vacancies.

### 14. Committee of the Board.

(1)The Board may, whenever it considers necessary, constitute either generally
or for a particular purpose or for any specified area, committees for
supervision of the property of trust or endowment;(2)The constitution,
functions and duties and the terms and conditions of office of such committees
shall be determined by the Board:Provided that it shall not be necessary for
the members of such committees to be members of the Board.

### 15. Resignation of chairperson and members.

\- The chairperson or any other member, other than ex-officio member may, at
any time, by writing and addressed to the Government, resign from the office
of the Chairperson or member, as the case may be but shall continue in office
until his resignation is accepted.

### 16. Removal of Chairperson and members.

\- The Government may, by notification, remove the Chairperson of the Board or
any member thereof, other than ex-officio member, if he-(i)is or becomes
subject to any disqualification specified in section 11; or(ii)refuses to act
or is incapable of acting or acts in a manner which the Government, after
hearing any explanation that he may offer, considers to be prejudicial to the
interest of trust or endowment; or(iii)fails, in the opinion of the Board, to
attend three consecutive meetings of the Board without sufficient excuse.

### 17. Filling of a vacancy.

\- When the seat of chairperson or a member becomes vacant by his removal,
resignation, death or otherwise, a new chairperson or a new member shall be
appointed in his place and the Chairperson or such member shall hold office so
long as the Chairperson or member, whose place he fills would have been
entitled to hold office, if such vacancy had not occurred.

### 18. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Board.

\- No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy amongst its members, or any defect in the
constitution thereof.

### 19. Appointment of chief Administrative Officer and his term of office and
other conditions of service.

(1)There shall be a Chief Administrative Officer of the Board not below the
rank of Deputy Secretary to Government who shall be a person belonging to
Vanniyakula Kshatriya community, and shall be appointed by the Government in
consultation with the Board.(2)The term of the office and other conditions of
service of the Chief Administrative Officer shall be such as may be
prescribed.(3)The Chief Administrative Officer shall be the Member- Secretary
of the Board and shall be under the administrative control of the Board.

### 20. Officers and other employees of the Board.

(1)For efficient performance of the functions of the Board under this Act, the
Board may appoint such number of officers and other employees as may be
necessary, with the permission of the Government.(2)The appointment, term of
office and conditions of service of officers and other employees shall be such
as may be provided by the regulations.

### 21. Duties and powers of Chief Administrative officer.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the rules made thereunder and
the directions of the Board, the functions of the Chief Administrative Officer
shall include-(i)to investigate carefully the nature and extent of the
properties of trust and endowment and whenever necessary to call for an
inventory of properties of trust and endowment and to call for accounts,
returns and information's from the trustee and administrator;(ii)to inspect or
to cause inspection of property of trust and endowment and accounts, records,
deeds or related documents;(iii)to do generally such acts as may be necessary
for the control, maintenance and superintendence of trust and endowment.(2)in
exercising the powers of giving directions under sub- section (1) in respect
of any trust or endowment, the Board shall act in conformity with the
directions found in the deed of the trust or endowment.(3)Save as otherwise
expressly provided in this Act, the chief Administrative Officer shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned or delegated
to him under this Act.

### 22. Power of chief Administrative Officer in respect of orders or
resolutions of the Board.

(1)Where the Chief Administrative Officer considers that an order or
resolution passed by the Board-(i)has not been passed in accordance with the
law; or(ii)is in excess of, or is an abuse of, the powers conferred on the
Board by or under this Act or by any other law; or(iii)if implemented, is
likely to-(a)cause financial loss to the Board or to the concerned trust or
endowment; or(b)lead to a riot or breach of peace; or(c)cause danger to human
life, health or safety; or(d)is not beneficial to the Board or to trust or
endowment generally, he may, before implementing such order or resolution,
place the matter before the Board for its re-consideration.(2)The Board may
constitute a committee under section 14 to consider the aspects pointed out by
the Chief Administrative Officer and on the suggestions of the committee, the
Board may reconsider the matter or refer the matter to the Government along
with the committee's report, Chief Administrative Officer's remarks and the
order or resolution of the Board and the decision of the Government thereon
shall be final.

### 23. Delegation of powers of the Board.

\- The Board may, by a general or special order in writing, delegate to the
chairperson, any other member, or any other officer or employee of the Board
or any committee subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
specified in the said order, such of its powers and duties under this Act, as
it may deem necessary.

### 24. Chief Administrative Officer to exercise powers through collectors,
etc.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the rules made thereunder, the
Chief Administrative Officer may,-(a)exercise all or any of the powers
conferred on him by or under this Act with the previous approval of the Board
through the collector of the District in which the concerned trust or
endowment is situated or through any other responsible officer whom the
collector may appoint for such purpose;(b)delegate, from time to time, any of
his power to any collector or any such officer appointed by him; and(c)revoke
at any time the delegation so made by him.(2)Where any delegation of powers is
made by the Chief Administrative Officer under sub-section (1), the person to
whom such delegation is made, may exercise those powers in the same manner and
to the same extent, as if they have been conferred on him directly by this Act
and not by way of delegation.

### 25. Powers of chief Administrative Officer to inspect records, registers,
etc.

\- The Chief Administrative Officer or any officer of the Board duly
authorized by him, shall subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be
prescribed and subject to the payment of such fees, if any, levied under any
law for the time being in force, be entitled at all reasonable time to
inspect, in any public office, any records, registers or other documents
relating to a trust or endowment or movable or immovable properties which are
trust or endowment properties or are claimed to be properties of trust or
endowment.

### 26. Inspection of records.

(1)The Board may allow inspection of its proceedings or other records in its
custody and issue copies of the same on payment of such fees and subject to
such conditions as may be prescribed.(2)All copies issued under this section
shall be certified by the Chief Administrative Officer of the Board in the
manner provided in section 76 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act I of
1872).(3)The powers conferred on the Chief Administrative Officer by sub-
section (2) may be exercised by such other officer or officers of the Board as
may either generally or specially be authorized in this behalf by the Board.

### 27. Powers and functions of the Board.

(1)Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, the general
superintendence of all trust and endowment shall vest with the Board and it
shall be the duty of the Board to exercise its powers under this Act, as to
ensure that the trust and endowment under its superintendence are properly
maintained, controlled and administered and the income thereof is duly applied
to the objects and for the purposes for which such trust and endowment were
created or intended:Provided that in exercising its powers under this Act, in
respect of any trust or endowment, the Board shall act in conformity with the
directions of the trust deed or the documents through which the property was
dedicated to charitable purposes.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that in this sub-section, trust or endowment includes a
trust or endowment in relation to which any scheme has been made by any court
of law, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.(2)Without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the functions of the Board
shall be-(i)to maintain a record containing information relating to the
origin, income, object and beneficiaries of every trust and endowment;(ii)to
ensure that the income and the property of trust and endowment are applied for
the objects and for the purposes for which such trust and endowment were
intended or created;(iii)to give directions for the administration of trust or
endowment;(iv)to settle schemes for management of trust and endowment:Provided
that no such scheme shall be settled without giving an opportunity of being
heard to the affected parties;(v)to scrutinize and approve the budgets
submitted by the trustee or administrator and to arrange for auditing of
accounts of the trust or endowment;(vi)to appoint and remove the trustees and
administrators in accordance with the provisions of this Act;(vii)to take
measures for the recovery of lost properties of any trust or
endowment;(viii)to institute and defend suits and proceedings relating to
property of any trust or endowment;(ix)to sanction any transfer of immovable
property of any trust or endowment by way of sale, gift, mortgage, exchange or
lease in accordance with the provisions of this Act:Provided that no such
sanction shall be given, unless at least two thirds of the total members of
the Board vote in favour of such transaction;(x)to administer the Vanniyakula
Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and Endowments (Protection and Maintenance)
Fund;(xi)to call for such returns, statistics, accounts and other
information's from the trustees or administrators with respect to the property
of trust or endowment as the Board may, from time to time, requires;(xii)to
inspect or cause inspection of the property of trust and endowment, accounts,
records or deeds and documents relating thereto;(xiii)to investigate and
determine the nature and extent of trust and endowment and its property and to
cause, whenever necessary, a survey of the property of such trust and
endowment;(xiv)to direct-(a)the utilization of the surplus income of a trust
and endowment consistent with the objects of trust and endowment;(b)in what
manner the income of a trust or endowment, the objects of which are not
evident from any written instrument, shall be utilized for the benefit of poor
Vanniyakula Kshatriya community for their economic, social, educational up-
liftment and livelihood activities.(c)in any case where any object of trust or
endowment has ceased to exist or has become incapable of achievement, that so
much of the income of the trust or endowment as was previously applied to that
object shall be applied to any other object which shall be similar, or nearly
similar or to the original object or for the benefit of the poor Vanniyakula
Kshatriya community for their economic, social, educational up-liftment and
livelihood activities:Provided that no direction shall be given under this
clause without giving opportunity of being heard to the affected
parties;(xv)generally do all such acts as may be necessary for the control,
maintenance and administration of trust and endowment.(3)Where the Board has
settled any scheme of management under clause (iv) or given any direction
under clause (xiv) of sub-section (2), any person interested in the trust or
endowment or affected by such settlement or direction may institute a suit in
a Court for setting aside such settlement or directions and the decision of
the said court thereon shall be final.(4)Where the Board is satisfied that any
land belonging to trust or endowment offers a feasible potential for
development as a shopping centre, market, housing flats and the like, it may
serve upon the trustee or administrator of the concerned trust or endowment a
notice requiring him to convey its decision whether they are willing to
execute such development as may be specified in the notice within such time,
but not less than sixty days, as may be specified in the said notice.(5)On
consideration of the reply, if any, received to the notice issued under sub-
section (4), if the Board is satisfied that the trustee or administrator is
not willing or is not capable of executing the works required to be executed
as specified in the notice, the Board may, with prior approval of the
Government, take over the property, clear it of any building or structure
thereon, and execute such works from the funds of the trusts or endowments or
by raising funds on the security of the concerned trust or endowments property
and control and manage the properties, till such time as all the expenses
incurred by the Board together with interest thereon, the expenditure on
maintenance of such works and other legitimate charges incurred on the
property are recovered from the income derived from the property:Provided that
the Board shall compensate annually the trustee or administrator of the
concerned trust or endowment to the extent of the average annual net income
derived from the property during the three years immediately preceding the
takeover of the property by the Board.(6)On recouping all the expenses as
detailed in sub-section (5), from the income of the developed property, the
developed property shall be handed over to the trustee or administrator of the
concerned trust or endowment.

### 28. Powers of inspection by chief Administrative Officer or persons
authorized by him.

(1)The Chief Administrative Officer with the prior approval of the Board
either himself or any other person authorized by him in writing in this
behalf, may inspect all movable and immovable properties, which are property
of trust or endowment and all records, correspondences, plans, accounts and
other documents relating thereto, for the purpose of examining whether, by
reason of any failure or negligence on the part of the trustee or
administrator in the performance of his administration or administrative
duties, any loss or damage has been caused to the property of trust or
endowment.(2)Whenever any such inspection as referred to in sub-section (1) is
made, the concerned trustee or administrator and all officers and other
employees working under him and every person connected with the administration
of trust or endowment shall extend all such assistance and facilities as may
be necessary and reasonably required by the person making such inspection to
carry out his work, and shall also produce any movable property or documents
relating to trust or endowment as may be called for by the person making the
inspection and furnish to him such information relating to trust or endowment
as may be required by him.(3)Where after any such inspection, it appears that
the trustee or administrator or any officer or other employee who was working
under him had misappropriated, misapplied or fraudulently retained, any money
or property of trust or endowment, or had incurred irregular, unauthorized or
improper expenditure from the funds of trust or endowment, the Chief
Administrative Officer may after giving reasonable opportunity to the trustee
or administrator to show cause as to why an order for recovery of the amount
or property, should not be passed against him, after considering such
explanation, if any furnished by him, determine the amount or the property,
which has been misappropriated, misapplied or fraudulently retained, or the
amount of the irregular, unauthorized or improper expenditure incurred by such
person and make an order directing such person to pay the amount so determined
and to restore the said property to the trust or endowment, within such time
as may be specified in the order.(4)The trustee or administrator or other
person aggrieved by such order may, within thirty days of the receipt of order
by him, make an appeal to the court:Provided that no such appeal shall be
entertained by the court unless the appellant first deposits with the Chief
Administrative Officer, the amount which has been determined under sub-section
(3) as being payable by the appellant and pending disposal of appeal, the
court shall have no power to make any order of stay of the operation of the
order made by the Chief Administrative Officer under sub-section (3).(5)The
Court after taking evidence as it may think fit, may confirm, reverse, or
modify the order made by the Chief Administrative Officer under sub-section
(3), or may remit either in part, or in whole, the amount specified in such
order and may make such orders as to cost as it may think appropriate.(6)The
order made by the Court under sub-section (5) shall be final.

### 29. Recovery of the amount determined under section 28.

\- Where any trustee or administrator or other person who has been ordered
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (5) of section 28 to make payment or
restore possession of any property, omits or fails to do so within the time
specified in such order, the Chief Administrative Officer with the prior
approval of the Board, shall take such steps, as he may think fit, to recover
possession of the property aforesaid and shall also send a certificate to the
collector of the district in which the property of the trustee or
administrator or other person situate, stating therein the amount that has
been determined by chief Administrative Officer or by the Court, as the case
may be, under section 28, as being payable by the trustee or administrator or
other person, and thereupon, the collector shall recover the amount specified
in such certificate, as if, it was an arrear of land revenue and on the
recovery of such amount, pay the same to the Chief Administrative Officer who
shall credit the amount to the funds of the concerned trust or
endowment.Chapter - IV Registration of Trust and Endowment

### 30. Registration of trust and endowment.

(1)Every trust and endowment, whether created before or after the commencement
of this Act, shall be registered at the office of the Board.(2)Application for
registration shall be made by the trustee or administrator of trust or
endowment:Provided that such application may be made by trust or endowment or
a beneficiary of it or the descendants of the testator or any person belonging
to Vanniyakula Kshatriya community.(3)An application for registration shall be
made in such form and in such manner and at such place as the Board may by
regulation provide from time to time and such application shall contain the
following particulars:-(a)description of trust or endowment sufficient for
identification thereof;(b)annual gross income from property of trust or
endowment;(c)the amount of land revenue, cesses, rates and taxes payable
annually for the property of trust or endowment;(d)an estimate of the expenses
annually incurred in realization of the income from the property of trust or
endowment;(e)the amount set apart for the following:-(i)the salary and other
allowances to the officers and other employees of trust or endowment,(ii)for
charitable purposes,(iii)for the beneficiaries, and(iv)for such other
purposes;(f)any other particulars as may be prescribed by the Board by
regulation.(4)Such application shall be accompanied by a copy of trust deed or
will, or if no such deed has been executed or a copy thereof cannot be
obtained, shall contain the particulars as far as they are known to the
applicant, of the origin, nature and object of the trust or endowment; and
particulars regarding beneficiaries, if any.(5)Such application made under
sub-section (2) shall be signed and verified by the applicant in the manner
provided in the code of civil Procedure 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), for the
signing and verification of the pleadings.(6)The Board may require the
applicant to supply any further particulars or information that the Board may
consider necessary.(7)The Board may, on receipt of application for
registration, make such inquires as it thinks fit in respect of genuineness
and validity of the application and correctness of the particulars therein and
when the application is made by any person other than the person administering
the trust or endowment, and shall hear him if he desires to be heard.(8)in the
case of trust or endowment created before the commencement of this Act, every
application for registration shall be made, within three months from such
commencement and in the case of trust or endowment created after such
commencement, within three months from the date of creation of trust or
endowment.

### 31. Registration of trust and endowment.

\- The Board shall maintain a register of trust and endowment, with such
particulars as may be provided by regulations.

### 32. Decision as to whether a property is trust or endowment.

(1)Where the Board has reason to believe that any property of any trust or
endowment, is a Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trust or Endowment,
the Board may, notwithstanding anything contained in any Act, hold an enquiry
in regard to such property and, if after such enquiry, the Board is satisfied
that such property is trust or endowment property, call upon the trust or
endowment, as the case may be, either to register such property under this Act
as Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trust or Endowment or show cause
why such property should not be so registered:Provided that in all such cases,
notice of action proposed to be taken under this sub-section shall be given to
the authority by whom the trust or endowment had been registered.(2)The Board
shall, after duly considering such cause as may be shown in pursuance of
notice issued under sub-section (1), pass such orders as it may think fit and
the order so made by the Board shall be final, unless it is revoked or
modified by a competent court under this Act.

### 33. Power to cause registration of trust and endowment and to amend the
register.

\- The Board may direct the trustee or administrator to apply for the
registration of trust or endowment and to supply any information regarding a
trust or endowment or may itself cause the trust or endowment to be registered
or may at any time amend the register of trust and endowment.Chapter - V
Administration of Trust and Endowment

### 34. Board to appoint Administrative Officer for trust or endowment.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Board may, if it is of
the opinion that it is necessary so to do in the interests of trust or
endowment, appoint an Administrative Officer, on whole time or part-time basis
with salary or in honorary capacity, with such terms and conditions as may be
specified therefor:Provided that the person to be chosen as Administrative
Officer should be a person from Vanniyakula Kshatriya community.(2)The
Administrative Officer so appointed under sub-section (1) shall exercise such
powers and discharge such duties pertaining to the administration of the
property of trust or endowment for which he has been appointed and shall
exercise those powers and discharge those duties under the direction, control
and supervision of the Board.(3)The salaries and allowances of the
Administrative Officer and his staff shall be fixed by the Board having due
regard to the income of the trust or endowment and the nature of the duties of
the Administrative Officer and his staff.(4)The salaries and allowances of the
Administrative Officer and his staff shall be paid by the Board from its fund
and if the trust or endowment generates any additional income due to the
appointment of the Administrative Officer, the Board may claim reimbursement
of the amount spent towards the salaries and allowances from the fund of the
concerned trust or endowment.(5)The Board may, for sufficient reasons and
after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the Administrative
Officer or a member of his staff, remove or dismiss the Administrative
Officer, or a member of his staff from his post.(6)Any Administrative Officer
or a member of his staff who is aggrieved by any order of removal or dismissal
made under sub-section (5) may, within thirty days from the date of
communication of the order, prefer an appeal against the order to the court
and the court may, after considering such representation as the Board may make
in the matter, and after giving a reasonable opportunity to the Administrative
Officer or a member of his staff of being heard, confirm, modify or reverse
the order.

### 35. Board to cause enquiry in relation to trust or endowment.

(1)The Board shall, if it is satisfied that the objects or any part thereof,
of a trust or endowment have ceased to exist, where such cessation took place
before or after the commencement of this Act, cause an inquiry to be held by
the Chief Administrative Officer, in the prescribed manner, to ascertain the
property and funds pertaining to such trust or endowment.(2)On receipt of the
enquiry report of the Chief Administrative Officer, the Board shall pass an
order-(a)specifying the property and funds of such trust or
endowment;(b)directing that the property and funds of such trust or endowment
which have been recovered shall be applied or utilized for the renovation of
trust or endowment and when there is no need for making any such renovation or
where the utilization of the funds for such renovation is not possible, be
appropriated, to any of the purposes specified in sub-clause (c) of clause (v)
of sub-section (2) of section 27.(3)The Board may, if it has reason to believe
that any building or other place which was being used for charity has, whether
before or after the commencement of this Act, ceased to be used for that
purpose, make an application to the court for an order directing the recovery
of possession of such building or other place.(4)The Court may, after making
such enquiry as it may think fit and satisfied that such building or other
place,-(a)is the property of trust or endowment;(b)has not been acquired under
any law for the time being in force relating to acquisition of land or is not
under any process of acquisition under any such law, or has not vested in the
Government under any other law for the time being in force relating to land
reforms; and(c)is not in the occupation of any person who has been authorized
by or under any law for the time being in force to occupy such building or
other place, make an order,-(i)directing the recovery of such building or
place from any person who may be in unauthorized possession thereof,
and(ii)directing that such property, building or place be used for charitable
purpose or instruction as before, or if such use is not possible, be utilized
for any purpose as given in sub-clause (c) of clause (v) of sub-section (2) of
section 27.

### 36. Change in the management of trust and endowment to be informed.

(1)in case of any change in the management of a registered trust or endowment
due to death or retirement or removal of the trustee or administrator, the
incoming trustee or administrator shall forthwith, and any other person, may
cause notice of the change to the Board.(2)in case of any other change in any
of the particulars mentioned in section 30, the trustee and administrator
shall, within three months from the date of occurrence of the change, cause
notice of such change, to the Board.Chapter - VI Budget of Trust and Endowment

### 37. Budget of trust or endowment not under direct management of Board.

(1)Every trustee or administrator of trust or endowment shall prepare a budget
for the next financial year showing the estimated receipts and expenditure in
such form as may be specified.(2)Every trustee or administrator of trust or
endowment shall submit such budget at least ninety days before the beginning
of the financial year to the Board and shall make adequate provision for the
following:-(i)for carrying out the objects of the trust and endowment;(ii)for
the protection and maintenance of the properties of trust and
endowment;(iii)for discharge of all liabilities and subsisting commitments
binding on the trust or endowment under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force.(3)For making alterations, omissions or additions in the budget
as it may deem fit, the Board may give such direction consistent with the
objects of the trust or endowment and the provisions of this Act.(4)If in the
financial year, the trustee of trust or administrator of endowment finds it
necessary to modify the provision made in the budget in regard to the receipt
or to distribution of the amount to be expended under the different heads, he
may submit to the Board a supplementary or a revised budget and the provision
of sub-section (3) shall, as far as may be, apply to such supplementary or
revised budget.

### 38. Budget of trust and endowment under direct management of the Board.

(1)Budget showing the estimated receipt and expenditure for the next financial
year for each of trust and endowment under direct management of the Board,
shall be prepared by the Chief Administrative Officer in such form and at such
time as may be prescribed and the same to be submitted by him to the Board for
its approval.(2)The Chief Administrative Officer shall submit statement of
details of increase of income, if any, for each trust and endowment under the
direct management of the Board and the steps taken for its better management
during the year, while submitting the budget under sub-section (1).(3)The
Chief Administrative Officer shall keep regular accounts and be responsible
for the proper management of every trust and endowment under the direct
management of the Board.(4)Every budget submitted by the Chief Administrative
Officer under sub-section (1) shall comply with the requirements of section 37
and, for this purpose, references therein to the trustee of trust or
administrator of endowment shall be construed as reference to the Chief
Administrative Officer.(5)The audit of accounts of trust and endowment under
the direct management of the Board shall be undertaken by the State Examiner
of Local Funds or any other officer appointed by the Government for this
purpose, irrespective of the income of the trust and endowment.(6)The
provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 40 and the provisions of
sections 41 and 42 shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this section, apply to the audit of accounts referred to in this
section.(7)Where any trust or endowment is under the direct management of the
Board, such administrative charges, as may be specified by the Chief
Administrative Officer, shall be payable by the trust or endowment to the
Board:Provided that the Chief Administrative Officer shall not collect more
than ten per cent of the gross annual income of the trust or endowment under
the direct management of the Board as administrative charge.Chapter - VII
Accounts of Trust and Endowment

### 39. Submission of accounts of trust and endowment.

(1)Every trustee and administrator shall keep regular accounts of all
transactions relating to the trust and endowment.(2)in every year, every
trustee and administrator shall prepare and furnish to the Board a full and
true statement of accounts, in such form and containing such particulars as
may be provided by regulations of the Board, of all the monies received or
expended by the trustee or administrator on behalf of the trust or endowment
during the period of twelve months ending on the thirty-first day of March and
thereafter the same shall be submitted to the Board on or before thirtieth day
of April:Provided that the date on which the annual accounts are to be closed
may be varied at the discretion of the Board.

### 40. Audit of accounts of trust and endowment.

(1)The accounts of trust and endowment submitted to the Board under section 39
shall be audited and examined in the following manner, namely:-(a)in the case
of a trust or endowment having no income or a net annual income not exceeding
ten thousand rupees, the submission of a statement of accounts shall be a
sufficient compliance with the provision of section 39 and the accounts of ten
per cent of such trust and endowment shall be audited annually by an auditor
appointed by the Board;(b)the accounts of the trust or endowment having net
annual income exceeding ten thousand rupees shall be audited annually, or at
such other intervals as may be prescribed, by an auditor appointed by the
Board from out of the panel of auditors prepared by the Government and while
drawing up such panel of auditors, the Government may specify the scale of
remuneration of auditors.(2)The Government may, at any time, cause the account
of any trust or endowment audited by the State Examiner of Local Funds or by
any other officer designated for that purpose by the Government.(3)The auditor
shall submit his report to the Board and the report of the auditor shall,
among other things, specify all cases of irregular, illegal or improper
expenditure or of failure to recover money or other property caused by neglect
or misconduct and any other matter which the auditor considers it necessary to
report; and the report shall also contain the name of any person, who, in the
opinion of the auditor, is responsible for such expenditure or failure and the
auditor shall, in every such case, certify the amount of such expenditure or
loss as due from such person.(4)The cost of the audit of the accounts of a
trust or endowment shall be met from the funds of that trust or
endowment:Provided that the remuneration of the auditors appointed from out of
the panel drawn by the Government in relation to trust and endowment having a
net annual income of more than ten thousand rupees but less than fifteen
thousand rupees shall be paid in accordance with the scale of remuneration
specified by the Government in clause (b) of sub-section (1):Provided further
that where the audit of the accounts of any trust or endowment is made by the
State Examiner of Local Funds or any other officer designated by the
Government in this behalf, the cost of such audit shall not exceed one and a
half per cent of the net annual income of such trust or endowment and such
costs shall be met from the funds of the trust or endowment concerned.

### 41. Board to pass orders on auditor's report.

(1)The Board shall examine the auditor's report, and may call for the
explanation of any person in regard to any matter mentioned therein, and shall
pass such orders as it thinks fit including orders for the recovery of the
amount certified by the auditor under sub-section (3) of section 40.(2)The
trustee or administrator or any other person aggrieved by any order made by
the Board may, within thirty days of the receipt of the order by him, apply to
the court to modify or set aside the order and the court may, after taking
such evidence as it may think necessary, confirm or modify the order or remit
the amount so certified, either in whole or in part, and may also make such
order as to costs as it may think appropriate in the circumstances of the
case.(3)No application made under sub-section (2) shall be entertained by the
court unless the amount certified by the auditor under sub-section (3) of
section 40 has first been deposited in the court and the court shall not have
any power to stay the operation of the order made by the Board under sub-
section (1).(4)The order made by the Court under sub-section (2) shall be
final.(5)Every amount for the recovery of which any order has been made under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), shall, where such amount remains unpaid,
be recoverable in the manner specified in section 28 or section 29 as if the
said order were an order for the recovery of any amount determined under sub-
section (2) of section 42.

### 42. Dues recoverable as arrears of land revenue.

(1)Every sum certified to be due from any person by an auditor in his report
under section 40 unless such certificate is modified or cancelled by an order
of the Board or of the Court made under section 41, and every sum due on a
modified certificate shall be paid by such person within sixty days after the
service of a demand for the same issued by the Board.(2)if such payment is not
made in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1), the sum payable
may, on a certificate issued by the Board after giving the person concerned an
opportunity of being heard, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of
land revenue.Chapter - VIII Management of Trust and Endowment

### 43. Duties of trustee and administrator.

\- it shall be the duty of every trustee and administrator-(i)to carry out the
directions of the Board in accordance with the provisions of this Act or of
any rule or order made thereunder;(ii)to furnish such returns and supply such
information or particulars as may, from time to time, be required by the Board
in accordance with the provision of this Act or of any rule or order made
thereunder;(iii)to allow inspection of trust and endowment properties,
accounts or records or deeds and documents relating thereto by the
Board;(iv)to discharge all public dues; and(v)to do any other act which he is
lawfully required to do so by or under this Act.

### 44. Trustee and administrator entitled to pay certain costs from income of
the property of trust or endowment.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the trust or endowment deed, every
trustee or administrator may pay from the income of the property of trust or
endowment any expenses properly incurred by him for the purpose of enabling
him to furnish any particulars, documents or copies under section 30 or any
accounts under section 39 or any other information or documents required by
the Board or for the purpose of enabling him to carry out the directions of
the Board.

### 45. Alienation of property of trust and endowment without sanction of
Board to be void.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the trust and endowment deed, any
gift, sale, exchange or mortgage of any immovable property of trust and
endowment, shall be void unless such gift, sale, exchange or mortgage is
effected with the prior sanction of the Board.Explanation. - if any inam
property was granted to the trust, and included in the trust property, the
provision under sub-section (1) above shall apply for any alienation of that
property.(2)The Board may, after publishing in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, the particulars relating to the transaction referred to in sub-
section (1) and inviting any objections and suggestions with respect thereto
and considering all objections and suggestions, if any, that may be received
by it from the concerned trustee or administrator or any other person
interested in the trust or endowment, accord sanction to such transaction, if
it is of opinion that such transaction is,-(i)necessary or beneficial to the
trust or endowment;(ii)consistent with the objects of the trust or
endowment;(iii)the consideration thereof is reasonable and adequate:Provided
that the sale of the property sanctioned by the Board shall be effected by
public auction and shall be subject to confirmation by the Board within such
time as may be prescribed:Provided further that the court may, on the
application of the aggrieved trustee or administrator or other person, for
reasons to be recorded by it in writing, permit such sale to be made otherwise
than by public auction, if it is of opinion that it is necessary so to do in
the interest of the trust or endowment.(3)The utilization or investment of the
amount realized by sale or exchange, mortgage of any property shall be made by
the trustee or administrator subject to the approval of the Board, and where
any amount has been raised by mortgage of any such property, the trustee or
administrator or other person shall make repayment of the mortgage-debt and
obtain a discharge of the mortgage-debt from the mortgagee within such
reasonable time as the Board may specify.(4)Every approval given by the Board
under sub-section (3) shall be communicated to the trustee or administrator
and shall also be published in the manner prescribed.(5)The trustee or
administrator or any other person having an interest in the trust and
endowment, who is aggrieved by the decision given under sub-section (3), may
within ninety days from the date of communication to him of such decision or
the publication of the decision, as the case may be, prefer an appeal to the
court against such decision, and thereupon, the court may, after giving the
appellant and the Board, a reasonable opportunity of being heard, confirm,
modify or set aside such decision.(6)Where, before the commencement of this
Act, any sale, exchange, or mortgage of any immovable property belonging to
any trust or endowment was effected, without the prior sanction from
appropriate authority or court detriment to the interest of the trust or
endowment, such transaction shall be null and void and shall be deemed never
to have been effected and accordingly no right or title in such property shall
vest in any person acquiring the property by such transaction and any such
property shall be deemed to be the property of the trust or endowment
concerned and any person in possession of such property shall be deemed to be
an encroacher and thereafter the provisions of sections 51 and 52 shall apply.

### 46. Recovery of property of trust and endowment transferred in
contravention of section 45.

(1)If the Board is satisfied, after making any inquiry in such manner as may
be prescribed, that any immovable property of a trust or endowment entered as
such in the register of trust and endowment maintained under section 31, has
been transferred without the previous sanction of the Board in contravention
of the provision of section 45, it may send a requisition to the collector
within whose jurisdiction the property is situated to obtain and deliver
possession of the property to it.(2)On receipt of a requisition under sub-
section (1), the collector shall pass an order directing the person in
possession of the property, to deliver the property to the Board within a
period of thirty days from the date of the service of the order.(3)Every order
passed under sub-section (2) shall be served-(i)by giving or tendering the
order, or by sending it by post to the person for whom it is intended;
or(ii)if such person cannot be found, by affixing the order on some
conspicuous part of his last known place of abode or business, or by giving or
tendering the order to some adult male member or servant of his family or by
causing it to be affixed on some conspicuous part of the property to which it
relates:Provided that where the person on whom the order is to be served is a
minor, service upon his guardian or upon any adult male member or servant of
his family shall be deemed to be the service upon the minor.(4)Any person
aggrieved by the order of the collector under sub-section (2) may, within a
period of thirty days from the date of the service of the order, prefer an
appeal to the court within whose jurisdiction the property is situate and the
decision of the court on such appeal shall be final.(5)Where an order passed
under sub-section (2) has not been complied with and the time for appealing
against such order has expired without an appeal having been preferred or the
appeal, if any, preferred within that time has been dismissed, the collector
shall obtain possession of the property in respect of which the order has been
made, taking such police assistance, as may be necessary for the purpose and
deliver it to the Board.(6)in exercising his functions under this section, the
collector shall be guided by such rules as may be prescribed.

### 47. Restrictions on purchase of property on behalf of trust or endowment.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in a trust and endowment deed, no
immovable property shall be purchased for or on behalf of any trust or
endowment from the funds of any trust or endowment except with the prior
sanction of the Board, and the Board shall not accord such sanction unless it
considered that the acquisition of such property is necessary or beneficial to
the trust or endowment and that the price proposed to be paid therefor is
adequate and reasonable:Provided that before such sanction is accorded, the
particulars relating to the proposed transaction shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette inviting objections and suggestions with respect
thereto and the Board shall, after considering the objections and suggestions
that may be received by it from the trustee or administrator or any other
person interested in the trust and endowment make such orders as it may deem
fit.

### 48. Restriction on power to grant lease of the properties of trust or
endowment.

(1)A lease for any period exceeding three years of any immovable property
which is property of trust or endowment shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in the deed or instrument of trust or endowment or in any other law
for the time being in force, be void and of no effect.(2)A lease for a period
exceeding one year and not exceeding three years of any immovable property
which is the property of trust or endowment shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in the deed or instrument of trust or endowment or in any other law
for the time being in force, be void and of no effect unless it is made with
the previous sanction of the Board.(3)The Board shall, in granting sanction
for lease or sub-lease or renewal thereof under this section, review the terms
and conditions on which the lease or sub-lease is proposed to be granted or
renewed and make its approval subject to the revision of such terms and
conditions in such manner as it may direct.(4)Every trust and endowment shall
inform the Board about the lease of its property and obtain permission to
continue the lease and for grant of sanction for lease or renewal thereof,
subject to provision of this section.

### 49. Trustee or administrator not to spend any money belonging to trust and
endowment for self-defence.

\- No trustee or administrator shall spend any money out of the funds of the
trust or endowment of which he is the trustee or administrator, for meeting
any costs, charges, or expenses which are or may be, incurred by him, in
relation to any suit, appeal or any other proceeding for, or incidental to,
his removal from office or for taking any disciplinary action against himself.

### 50. Duties of trustee or administrator or committee to deliver possession
of records, etc.

(1)Where any trustee or administrator or committee of management has been
removed by the Board in accordance with the provision of this Act, or of any
scheme made by the Board, the trustee or administrator or the committee so
removed from the office (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
removed trustee or administrator or committee) shall hand over charge and
deliver possession of the records, accounts and all properties of the trust
and endowment (including cash) to the successor trustee or the successor
committee, within one month from the date specified in the order.(2)Where any
removed trustee or administrator or committee fails to deliver charge or
deliver possession of the records, accounts and properties (including cash) to
the successor trustee or administrator or committee within the time specified
in sub-section (1), or prevents or obstructs such trustee or administrator or
committee, from obtaining possession thereof after the expiry of the period
aforesaid, the successor trustee or administrator or any member of the
successor committee may make an application accompanied by a certified copy of
the order appointing such successor trustee or administrator or committee, to
any Judicial Magistrate within the local limits of whose jurisdiction any part
of the trust or endowment property is situate and, thereupon, such Judicial
Magistrate may, after giving notice to the removed trustee or administrator or
members of the removed committee, make an order directing the delivery of
charge and possession of such record, accounts and properties (including cash)
of the trust or endowment, to the successor trustee or administrator or the
committee, as the case may be, within such time as may be specified in the
order.(3)Where the removed trustee or administrator or any member of the
removed committee, omits or fails to deliver charge and possession of the
records, accounts and properties (including cash) within the time specified by
the Judicial Magistrate under sub-section (2), the removed trustee or
administrator or every member of the removed committee, as the case may be,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with
both.(4)Whenever any removed trustee or administrator or any member of the
removed committee omits or fails to comply with the orders made by the
Judicial Magistrate under sub-section (2), the Judicial Magistrate may
authorize the successor trustee or administrator or committee to take charge
and possession of such records, accounts, properties (including cash) and may
authorize such person to take such police assistance as may be necessary for
the purpose.(5)No order of appointment of the successor trustee or
administrator or committee shall be called in question in the proceedings
before the Judicial Magistrate under this section.(6)Nothing contained in this
section shall bar the institution of any suit in a court by any person
aggrieved by any order made under this section, to establish that he has
right, title and interest in the properties specified in the order made by the
Judicial Magistrate under sub-section (2).Chapter - IX Removal of Encroachment

### 51. Removal of encroachment from the property of trust and endowment.

(1)Whenever the Chief Administrative Officer considers whether on receiving
any complaint or on his own motion that there has been an encroachment on any
land, building, space or other property, which is the property of trust or
endowment and, which has been registered as such under this Act, he shall
cause to be served upon the encroacher a notice specifying the particulars of
the encroachment and calling upon him to show cause before a date to be
specified in such notice, as to why an order requiring him to remove the
encroachment before the date so specified should not be made and shall also
send a copy of such notice to the concerned trustee or administrator.(2)The
notice referred to in sub-section (1) shall be served in such manner as may be
prescribed.(3)If, after considering the objections, received during the period
specified in the notice, and after conducting an inquiry in such manner as may
be prescribed, the Chief Administrative Officer is satisfied that the property
in question is property of trust or endowment and that there has been an
encroachment on any such property of trust or endowment, he may, by an order,
require the encroacher to remove such encroachment and deliver possession of
the land, building, space or other property encroached upon, to the trustee of
the trust or administrator of the endowment, within such time as may be
specified in the order.(4)Nothing contained in sub-section (3) shall prevent
any person aggrieved by the order made by the Chief Administrative Officer
under that sub-section from instituting a suit in a court to establish that he
has right, title or interest in the land, building, space or other
property:Provided that no such suit shall be instituted by a person who has
been let into possession of the land, building, space or other property as a
lessee, licensee or mortgagee by the trustee of the trust or administrator of
the endowment or by any other person authorized by him in this behalf.

### 52. Enforcement of the order made under section 51.

(1)Where the person, ordered under sub-section (3) of section 51 to remove any
encroachment, omits or fails to remove such encroachment, within the time
specified in the order or, as the case may be, fails to vacate the land,
building, space or other property to which the order relates, within the time
aforesaid, the Chief Administrative Officer may apply to the Judicial
Magistrate within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the land, building,
space or other property is situate for evicting the encroacher, and,
thereupon, such Judicial Magistrate shall make an order directing the
encroacher to remove the encroachment, or as the case may be, vacate the land,
building, space or other property and to deliver possession thereof to the
concerned trustee or administrator and in default of compliance with the
order, remove the encroachment or, as the case may be, evict the encroacher
from the land, building, space or other property and may, for the purpose,
take such police assistance as may be necessary.(2)(a)Any person who, on or
after the commencement of this Act, continues to be in occupation, otherwise
than by a lawful possession of a land belonging to a charitable trust or
endowment shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.(b)Whoever contravenes
the provisions of clause (a) shall, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may
extend to five years and with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees.(c)No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under clause
(b) except on the complaint in writing of the Chief Administrative
Officer.(d)No offence punishable under clause (b) shall be inquired into or
tried by any Court inferior to that of a Judicial Magistrate of the first
class.Chapter - X Power of Board in the Administration of Trust or Endowment

### 53. Power of Board to pay dues in case of default by trustee or
administrator.

(1)Where a trustee or administrator refuses to pay or fails to pay any
revenue, charges or taxes due to the Government, any local authority or any
statutory Board or any Government company, the Board may discharge the dues
from the Board Fund and may recover the amount so paid from the trust or
endowment property and may also recover damages not exceeding twelve and a
half per cent of the amount so paid.(2)Any sum of money due under sub-section
(1) may, on a certificate issued by the Board after giving the trustee or
administrator concerned an opportunity of being heard, be recovered in the
same manner as an arrear of land revenue.

### 54. Creation of reserve fund.

\- For the purpose of making provision for the payment of rent, land revenue,
charges and taxes due to the Government or any local authority or any
statutory board or any Government company for the discharge of the expenses of
the repair of the property of trust and endowment and for the preservation of
the property of trust and endowment, the Board may direct the creation and
maintenance, in such manner as it may think fit, of a reserve fund from the
income of a trust and endowment.

### 55. Extension of time.

\- The Board may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do, extend the
time within which any act is required to be done by the trustee and
administrator under this Act.

### 56. Penalties.

(1)if a trustee or administrator fails to-(i)apply for the registration of the
trust or endowment;(ii)furnish statements of particulars or accounts or
returns as required under this Act;(iii)supply information or particulars as
required by the Board;(iv)allow inspection of the properties of trust and
endowment, accounts, records or deeds and documents relating
thereto;(v)deliver possession of any trust and endowment property, if ordered
by the Board or court;(vi)carry out the directions of the Board;(vii)discharge
any public dues; or(viii)do any other act which he is lawfully required to do
by or under this Act, he shall, unless he satisfies the Board or the Court
that there was reasonable cause for his failure, be punishable with fine which
may extend to five thousand rupees.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), if-(a)a trustee or administrator omits or fails, with a view
to concealing the existence of a trust or endowment, to apply for its
registration under this Act,-(i)in the case of a trust or endowment created
before the commencement of this Act, within the period specified therefor in
sub-section (8) of section 30;(ii)in the case of any trust or endowment
created after such commencement, within three months from the date of the
creation of the trust or endowment; or(b)a trustee or administrator furnishes
any statement, return or information to the Board, which he knows or has
reason to believe to be false, misleading, untrue or incorrect in any material
particular, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months and also with fine which may extend to fifteen thousand
rupees.(3)No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this
Act save upon a complaint made by the Board or an officer duly authorized by
the Board in this behalf.(4)No court inferior to that of a Metropolitan
Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class shall try any offence
punishable under this Act.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in the code of
criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1973), the fine imposed under sub-
section (1), when realized, shall be credited to the fund specified under
section 70.(6)In every case where offender is convicted of an offence
punishable under sub-section (1) and sentenced to a fine, the Court shall also
impose such term of imprisonment in default of payment of fine as is
authorized by law for such default.

### 57. Power to appoint Administrative Officer in certain cases.

\- When there is a vacancy in the office of the trustee and administrator of a
trust and endowment and there is no one to be appointed under the terms of the
deed of the trust and endowment, or where the right of any person to act as
trustee or administrator is disputed, the Board may appoint any person
belonging to Vanniyakula Kshatriya community to act as Administrative Officer
for such period and on such condition as may be prescribed.

### 58. Removal of trustee and administrator.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or the deed of trust or
endowment, the Board may remove a trustee or administrator from his office if
such trustee or administrator-(a)has been convicted for an offence punishable
under section 56; or(b)has been convicted of any offence of criminal breach of
trust or any other offence involving moral turpitude, and such conviction has
not been reversed and he has not been granted full pardon with respect to such
offence; or(c)is of unsound mind or is suffering from other mental or physical
defect or infirmity which would render him unfit to perform the functions and
discharge the duties of a trustee; or(d)is an undischarged insolvent; or(e)is
proved to be addicted to drinking liquor or other spirituous preparations, or
is addicted to the taking of any narcotic drugs; or(f)is employed as a paid
legal practitioner on behalf of, or against, the trust or endowment; or(g)has
failed, without reasonable excuse, to maintain regular accounts for two
consecutive years or has failed to submit, in two consecutive years, the
yearly statement of accounts, as required by sub-section (2) of section 39;
or(h)is interested, directly or indirectly, in a subsisting lease in respect
of the property of the trust or endowment, or in any contract made with, or
any work being done for the trust or endowment, or is in arrears in respect of
any sum due by him to such trust or endowment; or(i)continuously neglects his
duties or commits any misfeasance, malfeasance, misapplication of funds or
breach of trust in relation to the trust or endowment, or in respect of any
money or property of trust or endowment; or(j)willfully and persistently
disobeys the lawful orders made by the Government, Board under any provision
of this Act or rule or order made thereunder; or(k)misappropriates or
fraudulently deals with the property of the trust or endowment.(2)The removal
of a person from the office of the trustee shall not affect his personal
rights, if any, in respect of the property of the trust or endowment either as
a beneficiary or in any other capacity.(3)No action shall be taken by the
Board under sub-section (1), unless it has held an inquiry into the matter in
a prescribed manner and the decision has been taken by a majority of not less
than two-third of the members of the Board.(4)A trustee, who is aggrieved by
an order passed under any of the clauses (c) to (i) of sub-section (1), may,
within one month from the date of the receipt by him of the order, appeal
against the order to the court and the decision of the court on such appeal
shall be final.(5)Where any inquiry under sub-section (3) is proposed, or
commenced, against any administrator or trustee, the Board may, if it is of
opinion that it is necessary so to do in the interest of the trust or
endowment, by an order suspend such trustee or administrator until the
conclusion of the inquiry:Provided that no suspension for a period exceeding
ten days shall be made except after giving the trustee or administrator a
reasonable opportunity of being heard against the proposed action.(6)Where any
appeal is filed by the trustee to the Court under sub-section (4), the Board
may make an application to the court for the appointment of a receiver to
manage the trust or endowment, pending the decision of the appeal, and where
such an application is made, the court shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in the code of civil procedure, 1908 (Central Act v of 1908),
appoint a suitable person as receiver to manage the trust or endowment, and
direct the receiver so appointed to ensure that the customary rights of the
trustee and of the trust or endowment, are safeguarded.(7)Where a trustee or
administrator has been removed from his office under sub-section (1), the
Board may, by order, direct the trustee or administrator to deliver possession
of the property of trust or endowment, to the Board or any officer duly
authorized in this behalf or to any person or committee appointed to act as
the trustee of the trust or administrator of the endowment.(8)A trustee or
administrator of a trust or endowment removed from his office under this
section shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a trustee of the trust or
administrator of an endowment, for a period of five years from the date of
such removal.

### 59. Assumption of direct management of certain trust and endowment, by the
Board.

(1)Where no suitable person is available for appointment as a trustee or
administrator of a trust or endowment, or where the Board is satisfied, for
reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the filling up of the vacancy in
the office of trustee or administrator is prejudicial to the interests of the
trust or endowment, the Board may, by notification, assume direct management
of the trust or endowment, for such period or periods, not exceeding five
years in the aggregate, as may be specified in the notification.(2)The
Government, may, on its own motion or on the application of any person
interested in the trust or endowment, call for the records of any case for the
purpose of satisfying itself as to the correctness, legality or propriety of
the notification issued by the Board under sub-section (1) and pass such
orders as it may think fit and the orders so made by the Government shall be
final and shall be published in the manner specified in sub-section (1).(3)As
soon as possible after the close of every financial year, the Board shall send
a detailed report to the Government in regard to every trust and endowment,
under its direct management, giving therein-(i)the details of the income of
the trust and endowment for the year immediately preceding the year under
report;(ii)the steps taken to improve the management and income of the trust
and endowment;(iii)the period during which the trust and endowment has been
under the direct management of the Board and explaining the reasons as to why
it has not been possible to entrust the management of the trust and endowment
to the trustee or administrator or any committee of management during the
year; and(iv)such other matters as may be prescribed.(4)The Government shall
examine the report submitted to it under sub-section (3), and after such
examination issue such directions or instructions to the Board as it may think
fit and the Board shall comply with such directions or instructions on receipt
thereof.

### 60. Supervision and supersession of committee of management.

(1)Whenever the supervision or management of trust or endowment is vested in
any committee appointed by the trust deed, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, such committee shall continue to function until it is
superseded by the Board or until the expiry of its term as may be specified by
the trust deed, whichever is earlier:Provided that such committee shall
function under the direction, control and supervision of the Board and abide
by such directions as the Board may issue, from time to time:Provided further
that if the Board is satisfied that any scheme for the management of a trust
or endowment, by a committee is inconsistent with any provision of this Act or
of any rule made thereunder or with the directions of the trust deed, it may,
at any time, modify the scheme in such manner as may be necessary to bring it
in conformity with the directions of the trust deed, or of the provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act and in the deed of the trust or endowment, the Board may, if it is
satisfied for reason to be recorded in writing, that a committee, referred to
in sub-section (1) is not functioning properly and satisfactorily, or that the
trust or endowment, is being mismanaged and that in the interest of its proper
management, it is necessary so to do, by an order, supersede such committee,
and, on such supersession, any direction of trust deed, in so far as it
relates to the constitution of the committee, shall cease to have any
force:Provided that the Board shall, before making any order superseding any
committee, issue a notice setting forth therein the reasons for the proposed
action and calling upon the committee to show cause within such time, not
being less than one month, as may be specified in the notice, as to why such
action shall not be taken.(3)Every order made by the Board under sub-section
(2) shall be published in the prescribed manner and on such publication shall
be binding on the trustee or administrator and all persons having any interest
in the trust or endowment.(4)Any order made by the Board under sub-section (2)
shall be final:Provided that any person aggrieved by the order made under sub-
section (2) may, within sixty days from the date of the order, appeal to the
court.(5)The Board shall, whenever it supersedes any committee under sub-
section (2), constitute a new committee of management simultaneously with the
order made by it under sub-section (2).(6)Notwithstanding anything contained
in the foregoing sub-sections, the Board may, instead of superseding any
committee under sub-section (2), remove any member thereof if it is satisfied
that such member has abused his position as such member or had knowingly acted
in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the trust or endowment, and every
such order for the removal of any member shall be served upon him by
registered post:Provided that no order for the removal of the member shall be
made unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the proposed action:Provided further that any member aggrieved by any
order for his removal from the membership of the committee may, within a
period of thirty days from the date of service of the order on him, prefer an
appeal against such order to the court and the court may, after giving a
reasonable opportunity to the appellant and the Board of being heard, confirm,
modify or reverse the order made by the Board and the order made by the court
in such appeal shall be final.

### 61. Power of Board to frame scheme for administration of trust or
endowment.

(1)Whenever the Board is satisfied, whether on its own motion or on the
application of not less than five persons interested in any trust or
endowment, that it is necessary or desirable to frame a scheme for the proper
administration of the trust or endowment, it may, by an order, frame such
scheme for the administration of the trust or endowment after consultation
with the trustee or administrator or the applicant in the prescribed
manner.(2)A scheme framed under sub-section (1) may provide for the removal of
the trustee and administrator of the trust and endowment, holding office as
such immediately before the date on which the scheme comes into force:Provided
that where any such scheme provides for the removal of any hereditary trustee,
the scheme shall also provide for the appointment of the person next in
hereditary succession to the trustees removed, as one of the members of the
committee appointed for the proper administration of the trust or
endowment.(3)Every order made under sub-section (2) shall be published in the
prescribed manner. Such publication shall be final and binding on the trustee
and administrator and all persons interested in the trust or
endowment:Provided that any person aggrieved by an order made under this
section may, within sixty days from the date of the order, prefer an appeal to
the court and after hearing such appeal, the Court may confirm, reverse or
modify the order:Provided further that the court shall have no power to stay
the operation of the order made under this section.(4)The Board may, at any
time by an order, whether made before or after the scheme has come into force,
cancel or modify the scheme.(5)Pending the framing of the scheme for the
proper administration of the trust or endowment, the Board may appoint an
Administrative Officer to perform all or any of the functions of the trustee
or administrator thereof and to exercise the powers, and perform the duties,
of such trustee or administrator.

### 62. Inquiry relating to administration of trust and endowment.

\- Any person interested in a trust or endowment, may make an application to
the Board supported by an affidavit to institute an inquiry relating to the
administration of the trust or endowment, and if the Board is satisfied that
there are reasonable grounds for believing that the affairs of the trust or
endowment, are being mismanaged, it shall take such action thereon as it
thinks fit.

### 63. Manner of holding inquiry.

(1)The Board may, either on an application received under section 62, or on
its own motion,-(a)hold an inquiry in such manner as may be prescribed;
or(b)authorize any member of the Board in this behalf to hold an inquiry into
any matter relating to a trust or endowment, and take such action as it thinks
fit.(2)For the purposes of an inquiry under this section, the Board or any
member of the Board authorized by it in this behalf, shall have the same
powers as are vested in a civil court under the code of civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908) for enforcing the attendance of witnesses and
production of documents.Chapter - XI Power of the Government to Appoint or
Remove a Trustee or Administrator in Consultation with Board

### 64. Power of appointment and removal of trustee or administrator when to
be exercised by the Government.

\- Where a deed of trust or endowment, or any decree or order of a court or
any scheme of management of any trust or endowment provides that a court or
any authority other than a Board may appoint or remove a trustee or
administrator or settle or modify such scheme of management or otherwise
exercise superintendence over trust or endowment, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in such deed of trust or endowment, decree, order or
scheme, such powers aforesaid shall be exercisable by the Government:Provided
that where a Board has been established, the Government shall consult the
Board before exercising such powers.Chapter - XII Finance of the Board

### 65. Grants by the Government.

\- The Government may pay to the Board by way of grants such sums of money as
the Government may think fit.

### 66. Annual contribution payable to Board.

(1)The trustee or administrator of every trust or endowment, the net annual
income of which is not less than ten thousand rupees, shall pay annually, out
of the net annual income derived by the trust or endowment, such
contributions, not exceeding ten per cent of such annual income, as may be
prescribed, to the Board for the services rendered by such Board to the trust
or endowment.Explanation I. - For the purposes of this Act, "net annual
income" shall mean the gross income of the trust or endowment, from all
sources, including donations which do not amount to contribution to the corpus
of the trust or endowment in a year, after deducting therefrom the following,
namely:-(i)the land revenue paid by it to the Government;(ii)the charges,
taxes and licence fees, paid by it;(iii)expenditure incurred for all or any of
the following purposes, namely:-(a)maintenance of, or repairs to, irrigation
works, which shall not include the capital cost of irrigation;(b)seeds or
seedlings;(c)manure;(d)purchase and maintenance of agricultural
implements;(e)purchase and maintenance of cattle for cultivation;(f)wages for
ploughing, watering, sowing, transplanting, harvesting, threshing and other
agricultural operations:Provided that the total deduction in respect of all
expenditure incurred under this clause shall not exceed twenty-five per cent
of the income derived from lands belonging to the trust or
endowment;(iv)expenditure on sundry repairs to rented buildings, not exceeding
ten per cent of the annual rent derived therefrom, or the actual expenditure,
whichever is less;(v)sale proceeds of immovable properties or rights relating
to, or arising out of, immovable properties, if such proceeds are re-invested
to earn income for the trust or endowment:Provided that the following items of
receipts shall not be deemed to be income for the purposes of this section,
namely:-(a)advances and deposits recovered and loans taken or
recovered;(b)deposits made as security by employees, lessees or contractors
and other deposits, if any;(c)withdrawals from banks or of
investment;(d)amounts recovered towards costs awarded by courts;(e)donations
in cash or kind made by the donors as contributions to the corpus of the trust
and endowment:Provided that the interest on income, if any, accruing from such
donations shall be taken into account in calculating the gross annual
income;(f)voluntary contributions received in cash or kind for a specified
service to be performed by the trust and endowment, and expended on such
service;(g)audit recoveries.Explanation II. - in determining the net annual
income for the purposes of this section, only the net profit derived by any
trust or endowment, from its remunerative undertaking, if any, shall be taken
as income, and in respect of its non-remunerative undertakings, such as,
schools, colleges, hospitals, poor homes, orphanages or any other similar
institutions, the grants given by the Government or any local authority or
donations received from the public or fees collected from the pupils of
educational institutions shall not be taken as income.(2)The trustee or
administrator of a trust or endowment, may realize the contributions payable
by him under sub-section (1) from the various persons entitled to receive any
pecuniary or other material benefit from the trust or endowment, but the sum
realizable from any one of such persons shall not exceed such amount as shall
bear to the total contribution payable the same proportion, as the value of
the benefits receivable by such person bears to the entire net annual income
of the trust or endowment:Provided that if there is any income of the trust or
endowment, available in excess of the amount payable as dues under this Act,
other than the contribution under sub-section (1), and in excess of the amount
payable under the deed of such trust and endowment, the contribution shall be
paid out of such income.(3)The contribution payable under sub-section (1) in
respect of a trust or endowment, shall, subject to the prior payment of any
dues to the Government or any local authority or of any other statutory first
charge on the property of trust or endowment, or the income thereof and shall
be recoverable, on a certificate issued by the Board after giving the trustee
or administrator concerned an opportunity of being heard, as an arrear of land
revenue.(4)if a trustee and administrator realizes the income of the trust or
endowment and refuses to pay or does not pay such contribution he shall also
be personally liable for such contribution which may be realized from his
person or property in the manner aforesaid.(5)Where, after the commencement of
this Act, the trustee of a trust or administrator of the endowment, fails to
submit a return of the net annual income of the trust or endowment, within the
time specified therefor or submits a return which, in the opinion of the Chief
Administrative Officer is incorrect or false in any material particular, or
which does not comply with the provisions of this Act or any rule or order
made thereunder, the chief Administrative Officer may assess the net annual
income of the trust and endowment, to the best of his judgment or revise the
net annual income as shown in the return submitted by the trustee and
administrator and the net annual income as so assessed or revised shall be
deemed to be the net annual income of the trust or endowment, for the purposes
of this section:Provided that no assessment of net annual income or revision
of return submitted by trustee or administrator shall be made except after
giving a notice to the trustee or administrator calling upon him to show
cause, within the time specified in the notice, as to why such assessment or
revision of the return shall not be made and every such assessment or revision
shall be made after considering the reply, if any, given by the trustee or
administrator.(6)Any trustee or administrator who is aggrieved by the
assessment or revision made by the Chief Administrative Officer under sub-
section (5) may prefer an appeal to the Board within thirty days from the date
of the receipt of the assessment or revision of return and the Board may,
after giving the appellant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, confirm,
reverse or modify the assessment or revision of the return and the decision of
the Board thereon shall be final.(7)if, for any reason, the contribution or
any portion thereof leviable under this section has escaped assessment in any
year, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, the Chief
Administrative Officer may, within five years from the last date of the year
to which such escaped assessment relates serve upon the trustee or
administrator a notice assessing him with the contribution or portion thereof
which had escaped assessment, and demanding payment thereof within thirty days
from the date of service of such notice, and the provisions of this Act and
the rules made thereunder, shall, as far as may be, apply as if the assessment
were made under this Act, in the first instance.

### 67. Power of chief Administrative Officer to direct any person to make
payments.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, the Chief Administrative Officer, if he is satisfied that it is
necessary and expedient so to do, make an order directing any person with whom
any money belonging to a trust or endowment, is deposited, to pay the
contribution, leviable under section 66, out of such money, as may be standing
to the credit of the trust and endowment, by way of deposit, or in any other
manner and on receipt of such orders, such person, shall, where no appeal has
been preferred under sub-section (3), comply with such orders or where an
appeal has been preferred under sub-section (3), shall comply with the orders
made by the court on such appeal.(2)Every payment made by a person in
pursuance of any order made under sub-section (1), shall operate as a full
discharge of the liability of such person in relation to the sum so
paid.(3)Any person who is ordered under sub-section (1) to make any payment
may, within thirty days from the date of the order, prefer an appeal against
such order to the court and the decision of the Court on such appeal shall be
final.(4)Every person who fails, without any reasonable excuse to comply with
the order made under sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, under sub-section
(3), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with fine which may extend to eight thousand rupees, or with both.

### 68. Power of Board to borrow.

(1)For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Board
may, with the prior sanction of the Government, borrow such sum of money and
on such terms and conditions as the Government may determine.(2)The Board
shall repay the money borrowed, together with any interest or costs due in
respect thereof, according to the terms and conditions of the loan.

### 69. Trustee and administrator not to lend or borrow moneys without
sanction.

(1)No trustee, administrator or other person in charge of the administration
of a trust or endowment, shall lend any money belonging to the trust or
endowment, or any property of trust or endowment, or borrow any money for the
purposes of the trust or endowment, except with the prior sanction of the
Board.(2)The Board may, while according sanction, specify any terms and
conditions subject to which the person referred to in sub-section (1), is
authorized by him to lend or borrow any money or lend any other property of
trust or endowment.(3)Where any money is lent or borrowed, or other property
of trust or endowment, is lent in contravention of the provisions of this
section, it shall be lawful for the chief Administrative Officer,-(i)to
recover an amount equal to the amount which has been so lent or borrowed,
together with interest due thereon, from the personal funds of the person by
whom such amount was lent or borrowed;(ii)to recover the possession of the
property of trust or endowment, lent in contravention of the provisions of
this Act, from the person to whom it was lent, or from person who claim title
to such property through the person to whom such property was lent.

### 70. Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and Endowments
(Protection and Maintenance) Fund.

(1)All moneys received or realized by the Board under this Act and all other
moneys received as donations, benefactions or grants by the Board shall form a
fund to be called the Vanniyakula Kshatriya Public charitable Trusts and
Endowments (Protection and Maintenance) Fund and vest with the Board.(2)All
moneys received by the Board, as donations, benefactions and grants for the
purposes of the Board shall be deposited and accounted for.(3)The fund
specified under sub-section (1) of this section shall be applied
to,-(a)repayment of any loan borrowed by the Board and payment of interest
thereon;(b)payment of the cost of audit of the Fund and the accounts of trust
and endowment;(c)payment of the salary and allowances to the officers and
staff of the Board;(d)payment of travelling allowances to the chairperson,
members of the Board and officers and staff of the Board;(e)payment of all
expenses incurred by the Board in the performance of the duties imposed, and
the exercise of the powers conferred by, or under this Act;(f)payment of all
expenses incurred by the Board for the discharge of any obligation imposed on
it by or under any law for the time being in force.(4)if any balance remains
after meeting the expenditure referred to in sub-section (4), the Board may
use any portion of such balance for the preservation and protection of the
properties of trust and endowment, or for such other purpose as it may deem
fit.Chapter - XIII Budget, Accounts and Audit of the Board

### 71. Budget of Board.

(1)The Board shall, in every year, prepare, in such form and at such time as
may be prescribed, a budget for the next financial year showing the estimated
receipts and expenditure during that financial year and forward a copy of the
same to the Government.(2)On receipt of the budget forwarded to it under sub-
section (1), the Government shall examine the same and suggest such
alterations, corrections, or modifications to be made therein as it may think
fit and forward such suggestion to the Board for its consideration.(3)On
receipt of the suggestions from the Government, the Board may make written
representations to the Government with regard to the alterations, corrections
or modifications suggested by the Government and the Government shall, after
considering such representations, communicate, within a period of three weeks
from the date of receipt thereof, to the Board its final decision in relation
to the matter and the decision of the Government shall be final.(4)On receipt
of the decision of the Government under sub-section (3), the Board shall
incorporate in its budget all the alterations, corrections, modifications
finally suggested by the Government and the budget as so altered, corrected or
modified, shall be the budget which shall be passed by the Board.

### 72. Accounts of Board.

\- The Board shall cause to be maintained such books of account and other
books in relation to its accounts in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed.

### 73. Audit of accounts of Board.

(1)The accounts of the Board shall be audited and examined annually by such
auditor as may be appointed by the Government.(2)The auditor shall submit his
report to the Government and the report of the auditor shall, among other
things, specify whether the accounts of every trust or endowment, under the
direct management of the Board have been kept separately and whether such
accounts have been audited annually by the State Examiner of Local Funds and
shall also specify all cases of irregular, illegal or improper expenditure or
of failure to recover money or other property caused by neglect or misconduct
and any other matter which the auditor considers it necessary to report; and
the report shall also contain the name of any person who, in the opinion of
the auditor is responsible for such expenditure or failure and the auditor
shall, in every such case, certify the amount of such expenditure or loss as
due from such person.(3)The cost of the audit shall be paid from the fund
specified under section 70.

### 74. Government to pass orders on auditor's report.

\- The Government shall examine the auditor's report and may call for the
explanation of any person in regard to any matter mentioned therein, and shall
pass such orders on the report as it thinks fit.

### 75. Dues of Board to be recovered as arrears of land revenue.

(1)Every sum certified to be due from any person by an auditor in his report
under section 73, be paid by such person within thirty days after the service
of a demand notice by the Board.(2)if such payment is not made in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (1), the sum payable may, on a certificate
issued by the Board, after giving the person concerned an opportunity of being
heard, be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.

### 76. Appointment of a Receiver in certain cases.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the code of civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), or in any other law for the time being in force,
where any suit or other legal proceeding is instituted or commenced-(i)by or
on behalf of a Board-(a)to set aside the sale of any immovable property, which
is the property of trust or endowment, in execution of a decree or order of a
court;(b)to set aside the transfer of any immovable property, which is the
property of trust or endowment, made by the trustee or administrator thereof,
whether for valuable consideration or not, without or otherwise than in
accordance with, the sanction of the Board;(c)to recover possession of the
property referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or to restore possession of
such property to the trustee or administrator of the concerned trust or
endowment; or(ii)by a trustee or administrator to recover possession of
immovable property, which is the property of trust or endowment, which has
been transferred by a previous trustee or administrator whether for valuable
consideration or not, without otherwise than in accordance with the sanction
of the Board, and which is in the possession of the defendant, the Court may,
on the application of the plaintiff, appoint a receiver of such property and
direct such receiver to pay from time to time to the plaintiff, out of the
income of the property, such amount as the court may consider to be necessary
for further prosecution of the suit.

### 77. Bar to the enforcement of right on behalf of unregistered trust or
endowment.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, no suit, appeal or other legal proceeding for the enforcement of any
right on behalf of any trust or endowment, which has not been registered in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, after its commencement, or where
any such suit, appeal or other legal proceeding had been instituted or
commenced, before such commencement, no such suit, appeal or other legal
proceeding shall be continued, heard, tried or decided by any court after such
commencement unless such trust or endowment, has been registered, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.(2)The provision of sub-section (1)
shall apply, as far as may be, to the claim for set-off or any other claim
made on behalf of any trust or endowment, which has not been registered in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 78. Notice of suits by parties against Board.

\- No suit shall be instituted against the Board in respect of any act
purporting to be done by it, in pursuance of this Act or of any rules made
thereunder, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing
has been delivered to, or left at, the office of the Board, stating the cause
of action, the name, description and place of residence of the plaintiff and
the relief which he claims and the plaint shall contain a statement that such
notice has been so delivered or left.

### 79. Notice of suits, etc., by courts.

(1)in every suit or proceeding relating to a title to or possession of
property of trust or endowment, or the right of a trustee or administrator or
beneficiary, the Court shall issue notice to the Board at the cost of the
party instituting such suit or proceeding.(2)Whenever any property of trust or
endowment, is notified for sale in execution of a decree of a court or for the
recovery of any revenue, charges or taxes due to the Government, any local
authority, any statutory Board or any Government company, notice shall be
given to the Board by the court, collector or other person under whose order
the sale is notified.(3)in the absence of a notice under sub-section (1), any
decree or order passed in the suit or proceeding shall be deemed to be void,
if the Board, within one month of its coming to know of such suit or
proceeding, applies to the court in this behalf.(4)in the absence of a notice
under sub-section (2), the sale shall be deemed to be void, if the Board,
within one month of its coming to know of the sale, applies in this behalf to
the court or other authority under whose order the sale was held.

### 80. Board to be party to suit or proceeding.

\- in any suit or proceeding in respect of a trust or endowment, or any
property of trust or endowment, the Board may appear and plead as a party to
the suit or proceedings.

### 81. Bar to compromise of suit by or against trustee or administrator.

\- No suit or proceeding in any court by or against the trustee or
administrator of a trust or endowment, relating to title to property of trust
and endowment, property or the rights of the trustee or administrator shall be
compromised without the prior sanction of the Board.Chapter - XIV
Miscellaneous

### 82. Power to supersede Board.

(1)if the Government is of opinion that the Board is unable to perform or has
persistently made default in the performance of its duty, or abused its
powers, or has willfully and without sufficient cause failed to comply with
any direction issued by the Government or if the Government is satisfied on
consideration of any report submitted after annual inspection, that the
Board's continuance is likely to be injurious to the interests of the trust or
endowment, the Government may, by notification, supersede the Board for a
period not exceeding six months:Provided that before issuing a notification
under this sub-section, the Government shall give a reasonable time to the
Board to show cause why it should not be superseded and shall consider the
explanations and objections, if any, of the Board.(2)Upon the publication of a
notification under sub-section (1) superseding the Board-(a)all the members of
the Board shall, as from the date of supersession, vacate their offices as
such members;(b)all the powers and duties which may, by or under the
provisions of this Act, be exercised or performed by or on behalf of the Board
shall, during the period of supersession, be exercised and performed by such
person or persons as the Government may direct; and(c)all property vested in
the Board shall, during the period of supersession, vest in the
Government.(3)On the expiration of the period of supersession specified in the
notification issued under sub-section (1), the Government may-(a)extend the
period of supersession for such further period as it may consider necessary;
or(b)reconstitute the Board in the manner provided in section 9.

### 83. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Board or chief
Administrative Officer or any other person duly appointed under this Act, in
respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under
this Act central Act xLv of 1860

### 84. Chairperson, Members Survey Officer, chief Administrative Officer and
officers of the Board deemed to be public servants.

(1)The Chairperson and members of the Board, Survey Officer, Chief
Administrative Officer, every officers, including auditor and every other
person duly appointed to discharge any duties imposed on him by this Act or
any rule or regulation or order made thereunder, shall be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal code.(2)Every
trustee or administrator of a trust and endowment, whether appointed under the
provisions of this Act or under any deed of trust or endowment, every
Administrative Officer and every person holding any office in a trust or
endowment, shall also be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of
section 21 of the Indian Penal code.

### 85. Power of Board and chief Administrative Officer to require copies of
documents, etc., to be furnished.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
it shall be lawful for the Board or the Chief Administrative Officer to
require any person having the custody of any record, register, report or other
document relating to a trust or endowment, or any immovable property, which is
property of trust and endowment, to furnish subject to the payment of
necessary cost, copies of, or extracts from, any such record, register, report
or document and every person to whom such a requisition is made, shall
furnish, as soon as may be practicable, to the Board or Chief Administrative
Officer copies or extract from the required record, register, report or other
document.

### 86. Central Act 36 of 1963 not to apply for recovery of properties of
trust or endowment.

\- Nothing contained in the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963)
shall apply to any suit for possession of immovable property comprised in any
trust or endowment, or for possession of any interest in such property.

### 87. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act, shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are so published.(3)Every rule made or notification or order
issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued,
be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly
makes any modification in any such rule or notification or order, or the
Assembly decides that the rule or notification or order should not be made or
issued, the rule or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or notification or order.

### 88. Powers to make regulations by the Board.

(1)The Board may, with the previous sanction of the Government, make
regulations consistent with this Act or the rules made there under, for
carrying out its functions under this Act.(2)No regulation or its cancellation
or modification shall have effect until the same have been approved by the
Government.(3)The Government may, by notification, rescind any regulation made
under this section and, thereupon, the regulation shall cease to have
effect.(4)All regulations made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.

### 89. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)The order
made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before the Legislative Assembly.

### 90. Power of Government to give directions.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the Board,
as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this Act and it
shall be the duty of the Board, to comply with such directions.

### 91. Overriding effect of Act.

\- Save as expressly provided in this Act, any other law in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall cease to apply to public charitable
trusts or endowments created by persons belonging to Vanniyakula Kshatriya
community,-(i)with respect to any matter for which provision is made in this
Act; and(ii)in so far as the provisions of such other Act, is inconsistent
with any of the provisions, contained in this Act.

