## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislator's Pension Rules, 1977

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislator's Pension Rules, 1977

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATOR-S-PENSION-RULES-1977 of 1977

  * Published on 31 January 1977 
  * Commenced on 31 January 1977 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 January 1977.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislator's Pension Rules, 1977Published vide Notification No.
G.O. Ms. No. 250, Public (Elections-7), dated 31st January 1977G.O. Ms. No.
250, Public (Elections-7), dated 31st January 1977. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by section 12-B read with section 14 of the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Legislator's Pension Rules,
1977.(2)They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 9th December 1975.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise require, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of
1951);(b)"Assembly" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;(bb)"Authorised
Officer" means an Officer authorised by the Secretary to claim pension;(bbb)[
"Bank" means a Nationalised Bank. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.]Explanation. - For purposes of
this clause, "Nationalised Bank" means corresponding new Bank as defined in
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970
(Central Act 5 of 1970);](c)[ "Council" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Council which was abolished by the Legislative Council (Abolition). Act, 1986
(Central Act 40 of 1986);] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](cc)[ "Family Pensioner" means a
person who is eligible to receive family pension under sub-section (2-B) of
section 12-B of the Act;] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.](d)"Form" means a Form appended to
these rules;(dd)[ "Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;] [Vide G.O.
Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.](e)[
Explanation. - On and from the 1st day of November 1986 "the House" shall mean
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 484, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](ee)[ "Member"
means the member of the assembly;] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December
2001.](f)"Pensioner" means a person who is eligible to receive pension, under
sub-section (1) of the section 12-B of the Act;(g)"Rules" means the Tamil Nadu
Legislator's Pension Rules, 1977; and(h)"Secretary" means the Secretary to the
Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.

### 3. Sanctioning authority.

\- The Secretary shall be the authority competent to sanction pension to the
persons entitled under the Act.

### 4. [ Application. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I), dated
the 18th August 1980.]

\- The application for the grant of pension under these rules shall be made to
the Secretary in Form I. The application shall be accompanied by three copies
of the passport size photograph of the person and four copies of his specimen
signature duly attested by a person authorised by the Bank in which his
pension is to be credited or by an Officer of any State or the Central
Government having a seal of Office. For revival or revision of pension, the
person shall send an application to the Secretary:Provided that all
applications for grant, revival or revision of pension shall be made within a
period of one year from the date of eligibility. If any application is
received after the said period, sanction shall take effect only from the month
in which the application is made:[Provided further that if the Secretary is
satisfied that there are good and sufficient reasons for not making the
application for the grant, revival or revision of pension in time, he may
order that the sanction shall take effect on and from the date of
eligibility:]Provided also that the period of limitation for arrear claims of
pension shall be three years from the date on which the amount claimed first
becomes due for payment. Such payment shall be made only after investigation
and after effecting a cut of fifteen per cent.[Explanation. - The application
shall be sent to the Secretary. In case, a pensioner is re-elected or
nominated to the Assembly or Parliament or any State Legislature, the pension
shall be suspended and it shall be revived or revised, as the case may be, on
the basis of the total duration of membership, on his ceasing to be a Member,
by the Secretary.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]]

### 5. Sanction of pension.

\- On receipt of the application for grant, revival or revision of pension and
on being satisfied about the eligibility of the applicant for the pension in
accordance with section 12-B of the Act, the Secretary shall make an order in
Form II or Form III, for sanctioning, reviving or revising the pension, as the
case may be, and communicate the order to the person concerned and to the
Accountant-General, Chennai, for purposes of audit.Explanation. - For purposes
of calculating the total period of membership, a month shall be reckoned as a
calendar month or thirty days.

### 5A. Suspension of pension.

\- If the payment of pension is suspended under the Act, the Secretary shall
communicate an order to that effect in Form IV to the pensioner and to the
Accountant-General, Chennai.

### 6. Claim and payment of pension.

\- Pension shall be claimed by the Authorised Officer without any claim being
preferred by the pensioner, in Form V by about the 25th of every month and
credited to the accounts of the pensioner in the Bank in the month subsequent
to the month to which it relates. The Bank shall furnish a receipt for the
amount received by means of cheque:[Provided that if any pensioner desires to
contribute whole or any part of the pension, in writing to a Fund sponsored by
the State, or the Central Government, the pension shall be claimed by the
Authorised Officer and the amount of such contribution shall be credited to
that Fund.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1435, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 5th
September 1988.]

### 6A. Indemnity bond by the bank.

\- The Bank shall execute an indemnity bond in favour of the Governor of Tamil
Nadu to indemnify the Government from and against any loss or damage suffered
or incurred for crediting the pension to a wrong account or after the demise
of a pensioner.

### 6B. Declaration by pensioner.

\- Every pensioner shall furnish a declaration and a [Verification
Certificate] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 759, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 19th August 1994.] obtained from the Bank in which he is having the
account or from an Officer of any State, or the Central Government having a
seal of office in Form VI to the Secretary direct, or through the Bank in
which his pension is credited, on or before the 31st March of every year. If
such a declaration and a verification certificate are not furnished within a
period of one year calculated from the first day of April every year,
subsequent payment of pension shall take effect only from the month of receipt
of such declaration and verification certificate.

### 7. Change of address.

\- It shall be the duty of the pensioner to intimate the change, if any, of
his residence lasting for more than three months, to the Secretary.

### 8. Date of Payment of pension.

\- The pension sanctioned under these rules shall be payable from the date
specified in the order and shall not be commuted for lump sum. The pension
shall become due for payment only on expiry of the month to which it relates.

### 9. Death of pensioner.

\- In the event of the death of the pensioner, the amount of pension due till
the date of his death, including unpaid arrears, shall be paid to his legal
heir.

### 9A. [ Family pension. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

(1)A Member/Pensioner shall furnish the details of his/her family in Form VII
indicating the names of his/her family as defined in subsection (2-B) of
section 12-B of the Act, for family pension.(2)[ The family of a deceased
Member/Pensioner, who is entitled to family pension under sub-section (2-B) of
section 12-B of the Act shall apply in form VII along with the particulars in
Form IX.](3)[ In the event of death of a Member/Pensioner, the Secretary,
shall send a letter to the family of the deceased Member/Pensioner requesting
him/her to apply for the family pension.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.](4)[ The
period for which family pension is payable shall be as follows: -(i)Wife in
case of male member/pensioner or husband in the case of a female
member/pensioner up to the date of death or remarriage, whichever is
earlier;(ii)Son who has not attained the age of twenty one years and unmarried
daughter who has not attained the age of twenty four years including such son
and daughter adopted legally;(iii)Father and mother of the unmarried member /
pensioner till their death.](5)[ (a) (i) Where family pension is payable to
more widows than one, the family pension shall be paid to widows in equal
shares.(ii)On the death of a widow, her share of the family pension shall
become payable to her eligible child:Provided that if the widow is riot
survived by any child, her share of the family pension shall be payable to the
surviving widows in equal share or if there is only one surviving widow it
shall be payable in full, to such widow.(b)Where the deceased member/pensioner
is survived by a widow but has left behind the eligible child or children from
another wife, who is not alive, the eligible child or children shall be
entitled to the share of family pension which the mother would have received
if she had been alive at the time of death of the pensioner:Provided that on
the share or shares of family pension payable to child or children or to widow
or widows, ceasing to be payable, such share or shares shall be payable to
other widow or widows and or to other child or children otherwise eligible, in
equal shares, if there is only one widow or child, in full, to such widow or
child.(c)Where the deceased member/pensioner is survived by a widow, but has
left behind eligible child or children from a divorced wife or wives, the
eligible child or children of the divorced wife or wives shall be entitled to
the share of family pension which divorced wife or wives would have received
at the time of death of the member/pensioner had she not been
divorced:]Provided that on the share or shares of family pension payable to
such a child or children or to widow or widows ceasing to be payable such
share or shares shall be payable to the other widow or widows or to other
child or children otherwise eligible, in equal shares, if there is only one
such widow or child, in full, to such widow or child.(6)(i)Except as provided
in sub-rule (5), the family pension shall not be payable to more than one
member of the family at a time.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule,
the twins born at a single birth shall be treated as of the same age and made
eligible for family pension in equal shares.(ii)If a deceased member/pensioner
leaves behind a widow or widower, the family pension shall become payable to
the widow or widower, failing which to the eligible child.(iii)(a)If sons and
unmarried daughters are alive, the eligible male or female child will be
entitled for family pension in the order of their birth, irrespective of the
sex and the immediate younger of him or her will be eligible for family
pension only after the elder above him or her become ineligible for family
pension.(b)In the case of twins family pension is payable to such twins in
equal shares. In the event of any one of the children ceasing to be ineligible
for family pension, his or her share of family pension will become payable to
the other such child and when both such children become ineligible for family
pension the family pension will become payable to the next eligible child or
twins as the case may be.

### 7\. [ Where a deceased member/pensioner leaves behind more children than
one, the eldest eligible child shall be entitled to the family pension for the
period mentioned in clause (ii) of sub-rule (5) and after the expiry of that
period, the next child shall become eligible for the grant of family pension.]
[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the
21st December 2001.]

### 8\. [ Where family pension is granted under this rule to a minor, it shall
be payable to the guardian of the minor.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December
2001.]

### 9B. [ Sanction of family pension. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

\- On receipt of the application for grant, revival or revision of family
pension and on being satisfied about the eligibility of the applicant for the
family pension, the Secretary shall issue an order in Form X or Form XI, for
sanctioning, reviving or revising the pension as the case may be, and
communicate the order to the person concerned and to the Accountant-General,
Chennai-18 for purpose of audit.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

### 9C. [ Suspension of family pension. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

\- If the payment of family pension is suspended under the Act, the Secretary
shall communicate an order to that effect in Form XII to the pensioner and to
the Accountant-General, Chennai-18.]

### 9D. [ Claim and payment of family pension. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

\- Family pension shall be claimed by the Authorised Officer without any claim
being preferred by the family pensioner in Form XIII by the 25th of every
month and credited to the accounts of the family pensioner in the Bank of the
month subsequent to the month to which it relates. The Bank shall furnish a
receipt for the amount received by means of cheque.]

### 9E. [ Declaration by family pensioner. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.]

\- Every family pensioner, shall furnish a life certificate from the Bank in
which he/she is having the account or from an Officer of any State or the
Central Government having a seal of Office in Form XIV to the Secretary
direct, or through the Bank in which his/her pension is credited, or before
the 31st March of every year if such a life certificate is not furnished
within a period of one year calculated from the first day of April every year,
subsequent payment of family pension shall take effect only from the month of
receipt of such life certificate.]

### 10. Mistake in the calculation of the pension period.

\- A pension sanctioned to any person under these rules is liable to be
cancelled or modified if it is found that there has been any error in the
valuation of the period of his eligibility for the grant of pension.

### 11. Over-payment or irregular payments, etc.

\- If any over payments are made, the amounts so over paid shall be adjusted
in the subsequent payment or recovered under the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery
Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864), an if any irregular payments are made,
such payments shall also be adjusted or recovered, as the case may be, in the
same manner.

### 12. [ Recovery of dues, if any. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1900, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.]

\- Dues, if any, towards arrears of Legislators Hostel Rent, Guest charges,
Trunk-call and Phonogram charges, loss of Library Books or any other dues to
the [Legislative Assembly] Secretariat or to the Legislative Council
Secretariat and dues to the Government of Tamil Nadu payable in the capacity
as a Member of the House, from the pensioner, shall be recovered from the
pension payable to him.]

### 12A. Relinquishment and cancellation of pension.

\- Any pensioner may, at any time, relinquish the whole or any portion of the
pension payable to him under the Act and the relinquishment so made may be
cancelled by him. Every relinquishment or cancellation thereof shall be made
in writing and shall take effect from the first day of the month subsequent to
the month in which it is made.

### 12B. [ Claims of former Members of the Council. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.]

\- These rules shall apply Mutatis Mutandis in respect of former Members of
the Council.]

### 13. Decision of the Secretary is final.

\- The decision of the Secretary on all matters covered by these rules shall
be final.Annexure[Form-I] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I),
dated the 18th August 1980.](See rule 4)Tamil Nadu Legislator's PensionForm of
Application for The Grant of Pension to [Former Legislators] [Vide G. O. Ms.
No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]

1. | Name of the applicant (in block letters), | :  
---|---|---  
2. |  Father's name (Husband name in the case of married womanapplicant), | :  
3. |  Permanent residential address showing village or town anddistrict, | :  
4. |  Particulars of the period during which the applicant was aMember of the Legislature after he 15th day of August 1947, | :  
  
Former Iravancore-Cochin State Legislative Assembly.

From | To |  Name of the Constituency (which now forms partof the State of Tamil Nadu)  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
(Period prior to 1st November 1956 alone need be stated here.)Former Andhra
Pradesh Legislature Legislative Assembly/council.

From | To |  Name of the Constituency (which now forms partof the State of Tamil Nadu)  
---|---|---  
|  |   
  
(period prior to 1st April 1960 alone need be stated here.)Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly

From | To | Name of the Constituency  
---|---|---  
(1) |  |   
(2) |  |   
(3) |  |   
(4) |  |   
  
Tamil Nadu Legislative Council

From | To | Name of the Constituency  
---|---|---  
1. |  |  |  |   
2. |  |  |  |   
3. |  |  |  |   
4. |  |  |  |   
5. |  The House (Assembly or Council) in which he wasa Member last | Assembly/ Council | From | To  
6. | Identification marks | (1) |  |   
(2) |  |   
7. |  Whether three copies of the photographs areenclosed. |  |  |   
8. |  Whether four specimen signatures duly attestedare enclosed. |  |  |   
9\. [] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.] |  The name of the Nationalised Bank in which theapplicant desires to have the pension to be credited (the nameof the Bank, place and account number should be clearlyspecified.) |  |  |   
10\. [] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 2235, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 15th December 1980.] |  Whether theapplicant is in receipt of Salary/emoluments from LokSabha/Rajya Sabha /any State Legislature as a member, and ifso, indicate -(a) the nature ofmembership and the amount of salary/emoluments;(b) the date fromwhich salary/ emoluments is received.(ii) Whether the applicant is in receipt ofSalary/emolument/honorarium from any State or the CentralGovernment or from any company or statutory body owned orcontrolled by any State or the Central Government and if so,indicate - |  |  |   
|  (a) the name of thepost and office;(b) the amount ofsalary/emoluments/honorarium;(c) the date fromwhich the salary/emoluments/honorarium is received.(iii) Whether the applicant is in receipt of pension for havingbeen a member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha/any State Legislatureand if so, indicate -(a) the nature of pension and the amount;(b) the date form which pension is received.(iv) Whether the applicant is in receipt of any pension fromany State or the Central Government or from any Company orStatutory Body owned or controlled by any State or CentralGovernment, and if so, indicate -(a) the nature of pension and the amount;(b) the date fromwhich pension is received. |  |  |   
  
I certify that all the particulars furnished above are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge.Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.ToThe
Secretary,Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly,For St. George, Chennai-600
009.[Form-II] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I), dated the
18th August 1980.](See rule 5)Tamil Nadu legislators' Pension Payment
OrderL.P.P.O.No. ...............Dated: ...............Abstract: Pension-Grant
of Legislators' Pension to Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi ...............
son/wife/daughter of Thiru ..........Reference: From Thiru/Thirumathi/ Selvi
application, dated.Order:Under section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) sanction is hereby accorded for
the payment of Legislators Pension at the rate of
Rs............(Rupees.....................) per mensem to
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi ......................residing at..........with effect
from till death and subject to the Tamil Nadu Legislators Pension Rules, 1977,
as amended from time to time.

### 2\. The above said Pensioner was a member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly/Council from ........... to................(Total number of completed
years should be specified).

### 3\. The identification marks of the pensioner are:

(i)..........(ii).........

### 4\. The pension hereby sanctioned should be credited to his account
in..............

### 5\. The expenditure is debitable to...............

### 6\. This order is liable for cancellation or modification under Rule 10 of
the said rules.

Secretary,[legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 484, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.]Secretariat.ToThiru/Thirumathi/Selvi...........Address...........Copy
to:The Accountant-General, Chennai-18.[Form-III] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 18th August 1980.](See rule
5)Revival/revision of Legislators Pension OrderAbstract: Legislator's
Pensions-Revival/ Revision of.Reference: 1.
L.P.P.O.No...............dated..............

### 2\. Suspension Order No..........dated..........

### 3\. Application, dated...........from Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi

Order:The suspension order cited is hereby cancelled with effect
from.........Under section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act,
1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the sanction is accorded to
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi........... for............ the.............payment of
Legislators Pension at...........Rs............ per mensem in the L.P.P.O.
cited is hereby revived with effect from consequent on............Under
section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act
XX of 1951) and in partial modification of the L.P.P.O. cited, sanction is
hereby accorded for payment of pension of Rs........... to
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi...........with effect from..........The above said
pensioner was a Member, of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly/Council
from........... to.............. (Total number of completed years should be
specified).ToThiru/Tmt./Selvi........,Address...............Secretary,[legislative
Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.] Secretariat.Copy toThe Accountant General,
Chennai.[Form-IV] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I) dated the
18th August 1980.](See rule 5-A)Suspension of Legislators Pension
OrderDated........:Order
No........Subject:...............Reference:..............Under the proviso to
section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act
XX of 1951), the pension sanctioned to Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi............ in
L.P.P.O. No............ dated is hereby suspended with effect from consequent
onSecretary,[Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]
Secretariat.ToThiru / Thirumathi /
Selvi............Address................Copy toThe Accountant-General,
Chennai-18.[Form V] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1900, Public (Establishment-I), dated
the 18th August 1980.](See rule 6)[Legislator's pension bill] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.]Head of Account........Month of.......... year........

Number of Pensioners | Gross Amount | Voucher No. | Name of Bank | Total deductions | Net  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
| (Vide Schedule attached). |  |  |   
  
Counter-signed for Rs......... (Rupees................)Authorised
Officer,[Legislative Assembly Secretariat.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]Certified that
the amount has not been drawn previously.Passed for the payment of
Rs...............(Rupees....................)Paid Cheque
No..........Dated:................Authorised Officer,[Legislative Assembly
Secretariat.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.][Schedule] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 2235, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 15th December 1982.]Legislator's Pension for the
Month of

Serial Number | L.P.P.O. number | Name and address of the pensioners | Account number  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
Name of the Bank and address | Gross amount | Deductions | Net amount  
---|---|---|---  
(5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
| Rs.P. | Rs.P. | Rs.P.  
|  |  |   
  
Authorised Officer,[Legislative Assembly Secretariat.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 22nd April 1992.](For the use of bank
only)Certified that the amount has been credited to the accounts of the
Pensioners as detailed in the above
Schedule.Place:Date:Signature:Designation:Form VI(See rule 6-B)Declaration(For
the period From..........To........)I declare that I am not in receipt of any
salary or any emoluments or honorarium other than Travelling Allowance either
from any State or the Central Government or from any Company or Statutory Body
owned or controlled by any State or the Central Government in India or any
pension for having been a Member of the Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha or any State
Legislature.I also declare that have not been re-elected to Parliament or to
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and I am not a sitting Member of
Parliament or of any other State Legislatures in India.I am in receipt of
Rs........per mensem as pension as...............from ...........with effect
from...............with effect from...........Station:Date:Signature of the
Pensioner.(Score out the portion not applicable)[Verification Certificate]
[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 759, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 19th August
1994.]Certified that I have seen the pensioner ............. (Name of the
pensioner), holder of Legislator's Pension.........Payment Order
No............in person on this date.Place:Date:Seal:NameDesignation of
Authorised Officer.Manager of the Bank in which the pension is credited or any
Officer of any State or the Central Government, having a seal of Office.ToThe
Secretary,[Legislative Assembly Secretariat,] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 484, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]For St. George,
Chennai-600 009.Form VII(See rule 9-A)[Particulars of Family For Claim of
Legislator's family Pension] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I
and Legislature), dated the 21st December
2001.]I,................Member/Pensioner do hereby furnish the details of the
members of my family to receive Legislator's Family Pension in the order shown
below which may be granted by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Secretariat
in the event of my death.

SI. No. | Name and address | Relationship | Date of birth* | Age  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Signature of the Member/Pensioner.Name in Block Letters......Dated:Witness

### 1\. Signature and Date:...........

Name:.................Post:.................

### 2\. Signature and Date:............

Name:.................Post:.................* Either copy of Birth Certificate
or S.S.L.C. Certificate shall be furnished.Form VIII(See rule 9-A)Form of
Application For Grant of Legislators Family Pension(To be submitted in
duplicate with enclosures)FromThiru /Tmt. / Selvi.............widow / son/
daughter of late Shri..........ToThe Secretary,Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly
Secretariat,Secretariat, Chennai-600 009 (w/e).Sir,Subject: Sanction of
Legislator's Family Pension under the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act,
1961In terms of sub-section (2-B) of section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu payment of
Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), I am entitled to Legislator's
family pension as the widow/widower/son/unmarried daughter/father/mother
.................. and hereby for grant of family pension. The relevant
particulars are enclosed herewith.Yours faithfully,Specimen Signature Slip

FamilyPension Payment | Family Pensioner's Name Order No.  
---|---  
Specimen Signature of............... |   
1................... |   
2.................. |   
3................... |   
4.................. |   
  
Certified that the above specimen signature was signed in my presence.Date and
Seal:[Signature.............] [To be attested by an Officer of the State or
Central Government having a seal of
Office]Name..............Designation...................Legislator's Family
Pensioner's PhotographOne Photo should be pastedSignature of family
pensioner.....................Certified that the signature and the Photograph
are those ofDate and Seal:[Signature.............] [To be attested by an
Officer of the State or Central Government having a seal of
Office.]Name.................Designation..............Form IX(See rule
9-A)Form of Application For The Grant of Legislator's family Pension

1. | Name of the Applicant (in Block Letters),: | :  
---|---|---  
2. | Husband's/Father's Name | :  
3. | Date of Birth | :  
4. | Date of Death of Pensioner/Member | :  
5. | Amount of pension drawn by the Pensioner | :  
| Amount of Pension entitled to the Member | :  
6. | Permanent address of Applicant | :  
7. |  Name of the Nationalised Bank in which the applicant desiresto have the Pension to be credited (the name of the bank, placeand account number should be clearly mentioned) | :  
8. | Identification Marks | : (i).......  
|  | : (ii)......  
9. |  Whether three copies of the Passport size Photos are enclosed(one should be pasted in the form) | :  
10. | Whether four specimen signatures duly attested are enclosed | :  
  
I certify that all the particulars furnished above are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge.Place:Date:Signature of applicant.[Form-X] [Vide G. O.
Ms. No. 1397, Public (Establishment-l and Legislature), dated the 21st
December 2001.](See rule 9-B)Tamil Nadu Legislator's Family Pension Payment
OrderLegislators' Family Pension Payment OrderDated:.........Abstract:
Pension-Grant of Legislator's Family Pension to
Thiru/Tmt./Selvi............son/wife/daughter of late
Thiru/Tmt................Reference: From Thiru/Tmt. /Selvi...........
application, dated............Order:Under sub-section (2-B) of section 12-B of
the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951),
sanction is hereby accorded for the payment of Legislator's family pension at
the rate of Rs.......... (Rupees.............. ) per mensem to
Thiru/Tmt./Selvi............... residing at....................with effect
from/till death /till the attainment of the age of 21 years/24 years or till
he/she gets married whichever is earlier and subject to the Tamil Nadu
Legislator's Pension Rules, 1977, as amended from time to time.

### 2\. The above said pensioner is the wife/husband/son/daughter /father
mother of the deceased member/pensioner Thiru/Thirumathi................

### 3\. The identification marks of the family pensioner are. -

(i)...........(ii)..........

### 4\. The family pension hereby sanctioned shall be credited to his/her
account in............

### 5\. The expenditure is debitable to..........

Secretary,Legislative Assembly Secretariat.ToThiru /
Tmt./Selvi............Copy to:The Accountant General, Chennai-18.[Form-XI]
[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the
21st December 2001.](See rule 9-B)Revival/revision of Legislator's family
Pension OrderAbstract: Legislator's Family Pension - Revival/Revision
of.Reference: - 1. Legislator's Family Pension Payment Order
No..........dated.......

### 2\. Suspension Order No............ dated........

### 3\. Application dated from Thiru/Tmt./Selvi................

Order:The Suspension Order cited is hereby cancelled with effect
from................Under sub-section (2-B) of section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act; 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the sanction is
accorded to Thiru/ Tmt./Selvi .............. for the payment of Legislator's
family pension at Rs.........per mensem in the Legislator's Payment of Family
Pension Order cited is hereby revived with effect from...........Under sub-
section (2-B) of section 12-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), and in partial modification of the Legislator's
Family Pension Payment Order cited, sanction is hereby accorded for the
payment of Family Pension of Rs ............... to
Thiru/Tmt./Selvi.............with effect from.............The above said
family pensioner is the wife/husband/daughter/father/mother of the deceased
member/pensioner Thiru/Tmt..............Secretary,Legislative Assembly
Secretariat.ToThiru/Tmt./Selvi.........Copy to:The Accountant-General,
Chennai-18[Form-XII] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.](See rule 9-C)Suspension of
Legislator's Family Pension Payment OrderNo.........dated:...........Sub:
Legislator's Family Pension - Suspension of Legislator's Family Pension
toRef.:...............Under the proviso to sub-section (2-B) of section 12-B
of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951),
the Legislator's Family Pension sanctioned in Legislator's Family Pension
Payment Order No........... dated...........is hereby suspended with effect
from consequent on his/her attainment of the age of 21 years/24 years his/her
marriage held on................Secretary,Legislative Assembly
Secretariat.ToThiru/Tmt./Selvi............Copy to:The Accountant General,
Chennai-18.[Form-XIIA] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.](See rule 9-D)Legislator's Family
Pension BillMonth:...........Year:............Voucher No.:.........Name of the
Bank:......................Head of Account: -No. of Family PensionersAmount
(Rs.)(Vide Schedule attached)Counter-signed for
Rs........(Rupees.............)Authorised Officer,Legislative Assembly
Secretariat.Certified that the amount has not been drawn previously.Passed for
payment of Rs.......(Rupees.............)Authorised Officer,Legislative
Assembly Secretariat.Paid Cheque No...............Date:(issued in favour
of......)[form-XIV] [Vide G.O.Ms No. 1397, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 21st December 2001.](See rule 9-E)Life
CertificateCertified that I have seen the Family Pensioner,
Thiru/Tmt./............ Wife/Husband/Son/Daughter of (late)
Thiru/Tmt.Member/Pensioner..............holder of Legislator's Family Pension
Pay Order No..........dated.......... and that he/she is alive on this day
of..............Place:Date:[Signature] [To be attested by an Officer of the
State or Central Government having a seal of Office.]Name and Designation:

