## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Rules, 1998

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Rules, 1998

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-STATE-COUNCIL-FOR-HIGHER-EDUCATION-RULES-1998 of 1998

  * Published on 25 March 1998 
  * Commenced on 25 March 1998 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 March 1998.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Rules, 1998Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 121, Higher Education (H2), dated 25th March
1998) - No. SRO A-28/1998In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1) of section 21 of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Act,
1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1992), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education
Rules, 1998.

### 2. Terms and conditions of service of Vice-Chairman and nominated and co-
opted members.

(1)A person who is appointed as Vice-Chairman of the Council shall be equated
to that of a Vice-Chancellor of University in State of Tamil Nadu and he shall
be paid pay as admissible, from time to time to the Vice-Chancellor of
University in the State of Tamil Nadu. Other allowances, such as, research
allowance, house rent allowance, city compensatory allowance, etc., payable to
the Vice-Chairman shall be regulated as per general orders issued by the State
Government, from time to time.(2)The Vice-Chairman shall be entitled to car,
telephone and office assistants at residence and at office as per norms and
ceilings on expenditure prescribed by the Government and also entitled for
tour travelling allowance as per the rates admissible to Grade A Officer of
the Government.(3)The nominated or co-opted members of the Council shall be
entitled to travelling allowance and daily allowance as per the rates
admissible to Grade A Officer of the Government.(4)Wherever nominated or co-
opted members are holding full-time official positions, they may draw
travelling allowance and daily allowance from the organisation or body in
which they hold a full time official post in accordance with the rules in
force.(5)The nominated or co-opted members shall be paid a sitting fee at the
rate of rupees one hundred and fifty for each day they attend the meeting of
the Council.(6)If the nominated or co-opted member is a resident of the place
where the meeting of the Council is held, he shall be paid in addition to the
sitting fee, a conveyance allowance of rupees seventy-five per day when no
Government vehicle is provided to him for attending the meeting.

### 3. Powers and functions of the Vice-Chairman.

(1)The Vice-Chairman shall preside over the meeting of the Council in the
absence of the Chairman.(2)The Vice-Chairman shall exercise the powers which
may be specifically delegated to him by the Chairman.

### 4. Terms and conditions of service of the Member-Secretary.

(1)A person who is appointed as Member-Secretary of the Council shall be
equated to the post of the Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu and hence he
shall be paid the pay as admissible to the post of Secretary to Government of
Tamil Nadu and be entitled to all the other allowances, such as, dearness
allowance, house rent allowance, city compensatory allowance, etc., payable as
per rules in force.(2)If a retired Government servant is appointed as Member-
Secretary, the pay shall be regulated according to the rules governing the re-
employed Government official as fixed by the Government.(3)The Member-
Secretary shall be entitled to car, telephone and office assistants at
residence and at office as per norms and ceiling on expenditure as prescribed
by the Government and also entitled to travelling allowance as per rates
admissible for Grade A Officer of the Government.

### 5. Powers and functions of the Member-Secretary.

(1)The Member-Secretary shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Council.
He shall be regulated for-(a)the proper administration of the affairs and
events of the Council and shall keep the Vice-Chairman in the office apprised
of action taken or proposed to be taken on important matters;(b)prescribing
the duties of all employees;(c)exercising supervision and disciplinary control
over the work and conduct, of all employees;(d)co-ordinating and exercising
general supervision over all the activities;(e)executing all contracts deeds
and other instruments on behalf of the Council; and(f)releasing grants based,
on the approval of the Council to the Universities.(2)The Member-Secretary
may, in writing, delegate such of his powers as may be considered necessary to
any other officer or officers in the Council.(3)The Member-Secretary shall be
responsible for preparing the agenda for the meetings of the Council in
consultation with the Vice-Chairman and for obtaining the approval of the
Chairman before notices of the meetings of the Council are issued. He shall
also be responsible for keeping or causing to be kept, minutes of the
proceedings of the Council.

### 6. Functions necessary for promoting excellence in higher education and
scientific research.

(1)The Council shall have the authority to appoint committee or commission to
go into any matter relating to the field of higher education and scientific
research.(2)The Council can arrange for seminars, symposia, workshops,
conferences and special types of meetings by whatever name called for
discussing issues in higher education and scientific research.

### 7. Budget of the Council.

\- The Council shall prepare a detailed budget estimate proposal in the form
of estimated receipts and expenditure with particulars for the next financial
year and forward a copy of it to the Government during the month of November
of each year.

### 8. Investment of Fund of the Council.

\- The surplus fund remaining after meeting the expenditure shall be invested
in short-term deposits with any scheduled or co-operative bank. If long-term
investment is feasible, the funds shall be kept under deposit with Transport
Development Finance Corporation (TDFC) or any other statutory or Corporation
(TIDCO) or any other statutory or corporate body wholly owned by the
Government.

### 9. Annual Accounts and Audit.

(1)The accounts of the Council shall be maintained in the form of receipts and
expenditure accounts.(2)The annual statement of accounts shall be prepared as
receipts and expenditure accounts, for each financial year.(a)The receipts
shall consist of-(i)block grants received from the Government;(ii)grants that
may be received from University Grants Commission or All India Council for
Technical Education or Government of India or other sources;(iii)interest
earned on investments; and(iv)other miscellaneous receipts derived.(b)The
expenditure shall include -(i)salaries and other allowances to officers and
staff;(ii)expenditure on wages, telephone, electricity, newspapers, office
expenses, etc.;(iii)expenditure on meetings of the Council, it committees or
commissions, sitting fees conveyance charges, travelling allowance, daily
allowance and other incidental expenses;(iv)expenditure for the conduct of
conferences and seminars including travelling allowance, daily allowance or
honorarium to the invitees, participants and incidental
expenses;(v)expenditure on welfare of staff, provident fund, contribution
leave salary and pension contribution; and(vi)any item of capital or revenue
expenditure authorised by the Council.(3)The Director of Local Fund Audit,
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], shall be appointed as
auditor of the Council.

### 10. Rights and privileges of auditor.

\- The auditor appointed by the Government shall have the rights, privileges
and authority as prescribed for the Director of Local Fund Audit.

### 11. Forwarding of audited accounts.

\- The audited accounts of the Council shall be forwarded to theGovernment
within six months from the date on which the audit report is received.

### 12. Annual Report.

(1)The Council shall prepare an annual report for every financial yearcovering
from 1st April to 31st March before the 31st December following the financial
year as specified in section 16 of the Act.(2)The annual report may have the
following information, namely:-(i)Introducing including the member of council
meetings held during the year;(ii)The issues discussed in the meetings, future
plans and other activities;(iii)Financial administration.(3)The annual report
as approved by the Council shall be submitted to the Government before 31st
December of the following year.

