## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Municipal Taxation Appeals Committee (Transaction of Business)
Rules, 1988

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Municipal Taxation Appeals Committee (Transaction of Business)
Rules, 1988

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-TAXATION-APPEALS-COMMITTEE-TRANSACTION-OF-
BUSINESS-RULES-1988 of 1988

  * Published on 20 January 1988 
  * Commenced on 20 January 1988 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 January 1988.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Municipal Taxation Appeals Committee (Transaction of Business)
Rules, 1988Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 37, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply Department, dated 20th January, 1988) - SRO
A-6 (a)/88In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (iii) of section 23-A
and section 308 of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil
Nadu Act V of 1920), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules maybe called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Taxation Appeals
Committee (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1988.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of
1920);(b)"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Committee;(c)"Committee" means
the Taxation Appeals Committee referred to in section 23-A of the
Act;(d)"Commissioner" means the Executive Authority of the
Municipality;(e)"Meeting" means the meeting of the Committee;(f)[ "Members"
means the persons referred to in clause (1) of section 23-A of the Act;]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 367, Municipal Administration and Water Supply,
dated 21st June 1989.](g)"Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu.

### 3. [ Convening of meeting. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 434, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply, dated 18th June 1989.]

\- The Committee shall be convened by its chairman and shall meet in the
Municipal Office [on] such days and at such times as may be called by the
Chairman in consultation with the Commissioner.]

### 4. Notice for the meeting.

\- No meeting shall be held unless the notice of the day, time and place of
the meeting are given at least seven clear days before the day of the meeting.

### 5. Preparation of agenda.

\- The agenda for the meeting shall be prepared by Commissioner in
consultation with Chairman of the Committee. The Chairman shall, on a
requisition in writing of the Commissioner, convene the meeting within 15 days
of such requisition.

### 6. President of the meeting.

\- [***] [The sentence 'the Committee may decide the hours of sitting' were
omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 297, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, dated
24th November 1992.] The meeting shall be presided over by the Chairman of the
Committee. If the Chairman is not present at the time fixed for the
commencement of the meeting, the meeting shall be presided over by a member
chosen for the purpose from among the members present.

### 7. Meting not to be adjourned.

\- The meeting shall not be adjourned in any circumstances unless for want of
quorum.

### 8. Decision of the Committee.

\- All matters coming before the Committee shall be decided by a majority of
the members present and voting at the meeting; and in every case of equality
of votes, the Chairman or in his absence, the presiding member shall have and
exercise a second or casting vote.

### 9. [ Quorum for the meeting. [Rule 9 was substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 297,
Municipal Administration and Water Supply, dated 24th November 1992.]

\- The quorum for the meeting of the committee shall be three including
Chairman or the member presiding.]

### 10. Recording the minutes.

\- Minutes of the proceedings at every meeting of the Committee shall be drawn
up and entered in a book to be kept for that purpose. It shall be signed by
the Chairman or, in his absence, by the presiding member and other members
present at the meeting.

### 10A. [ Disposal of appeal petition by the Committee. [Rule 10-A was
Inserted by Q.O. Ms. No. 155, Municipal Administration and Water Supply
(Elec), dated 18th June-1999.]

\- The Committee shall examine the legality or otherwise of the orders passed
by the authority in the light of the provisions contained in the Act and the
Rules made thereunder and the guidelines issued by the Government, from time
to time. The Committee may allow, modify or remit the appeal to the Executive
Authority for reconsideration.]

### 11. Government's power to call for records and pass order.

\- The Government may, suo motu, or on representation or otherwise, if they
consider that the decision of the Committee in respect of any appeal disposed
of by it, is detrimental to the interests of the municipality or otherwise not
in public interest, call for and peruse such records as they may consider
necessary and either decide not to interfere in the matter or pass such order
as found necessary in the matter. The order so passed by the Government in
this behalf shall be binding on the Committee.

