## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (Demand Side Management)
Regulations, 2013

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (Demand Side Management)
Regulations, 2013

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-DEMAND-SIDE-MANAGEMENT-
REGULATIONS-2013 of 2013

  * Published on 26 February 2013 
  * Commenced on 26 February 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 February 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (Demand Side Management)
Regulations, 2013Published vide Notification No. TNERC/DSM/20/1, dated
26-02-2013 Lr. No. TNERC/DD(L)/ D(L)/F. Notifications/D.No./2012 - No.
6(2)/48/2013In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 181
and clause (zp) of sub-section (2) of Section 181 of the Electricity Act, 2003
(Central Act 36 of 2003), the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission
hereby makes the following regulations for the Demand Side Management, the
draft of the same having been previously published as required by sub-section
(3) of Section 181 of the said Act.

## Chapter I  
General

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the "Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Demand Side Management) Regulations, 2013".(2)These regulations
shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.(3)These regulations shall be applicable to all the
Distribution Licensees in the State.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means
the Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of 2003);(b)"Baseline data" means
the initial base level consumption and/or demand for electricity before a
Demand Side Management (DSM) programme begins to provide a starting point for
comparison for assessing the programme impact;(c)"Bureau" means the Bureau of
Energy Efficiency (BEE) established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of The
Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (Central Act 52 of 2001);(d)"Commission" means
the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(e)"Cost Effectiveness Index"
means an indicator of the attractiveness of any investment in DSM programme or
when compared to the costs of energy produced and delivered in the absence of
such an investment;(f)"Demand Side Management" means the actions of a
Distribution Licensee, beyond the consumer's meter, with the objective of
altering the end-use of electricity - whether it is to increase demand,
decrease it, shift it between high and low peak periods, or manage it when
there are intermittent load demands - in the overall interests of reducing
Distribution Licensee's costs;(g)"DSM Resource Acquisition" means a mechanism
to implement DSM projects through consumers, Energy Service Companies, Non-
Government Organisations, manufacturers/suppliers of electrical equipment and
instruments, or other private sector organizations, with payment made to them
by the Distribution Licensee for the resultant energy and load
reductions;(h)"Energy Services Company" means a company which is in the
business of providing energy efficient and load management equipment or
services to end-use consumers and is approved by Bureau;(i)"Evaluation,
Measurement and Verification (EM&V)" means activities which evaluate, measure
and verify performance or other aspects of DSM or energy efficiency programs
or their market environment; and(j)"Monitoring and Reporting" means activities
which monitor and evaluate the progress of DSM or energy efficiency programs
of the Distribution Licensee.

## Chapter II  
DSM Objectives, Targets and Guidelines

### 3. DSM Objectives, benefits and types.

(1)The objective of DSM is to control, reduce and influence electricity
demand, reducing fixed cost, promoting the usage of efficient equipments,
reduction of fossil fuel dependence, reduction of energy consumption, cost
benefit for the consumers and the electricity sector by implementation of
suitable policies and measures;(2)Implementation of DSM leads to (i) reduction
of energy consumption and peak demand, (ii) avoidance or postponement of
generation, transmission and distribution network extension, (iii) drop in
primary energy consumption and consequential reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions, (iv) the economical and efficient use of resources which results in
lowering the overall cost of electricity, (v) provision of win/win solutions
with positive impacts for all the stakeholders involved;(3)DSM measures
improve the consumers' level of information about the rational use of
electricity and provide incentives to the use of more efficient equipments and
the measures that influence the behaviour of consumption.

### 4. Basic Principles.

(1)Every Distribution Licensee shall make DSM an integral part of their day-
to-day operations, and undertake planning, designing and implementation of
appropriate DSM programmes on a sustained basis;(2)The DSM related activity or
programmes undertaken by the Distribution Licensee shall.-(a)need to be cost
effective for the consumers of the Distribution Licensees as well as to the
Distribution Licensees themselves;(b)protect the interest of consumers and be
implemented in an equitable manner;(c)result in overall tariff reductions for
all the consumers of the licensee.(3)Distribution Licensee shall be guided by
these regulations.-(a)while planning and submitting long-term power
procurement plan to the Commission as part of their application seeking
determination of tariff;(b)while submitting to the Commission the measures
proposed to be implemented by them as regards to load management, energy
conservation and energy efficiency;(c)while submitting to the Commission the
impact on energy and demand, together with the cost benefit analysis.(4)While
carrying out cost-effectiveness, Distribution Licensee shall be guided by the
Commission's guidelines issued in this regard.

### 5. Assessment of technical potential for DSM.

(1)The first assessment of technical potential for DSM shall be carried out by
the Distribution Licensee within six months of the coming into force of these
Regulations;(2)Subject to the provisions contained in sub regulation (1), the
Distribution Licensee shall carry out assessment of potential for DSM one year
before the start of every MYT Control Period or financial year.(3)Distribution
Licensee shall follow the methodology developed by Bureau and the Commission
while assessing of technical potential for DSM.

### 6. DSM Targets.

(1)The Commission shall establish DSM targets for Distribution
Licensee;(2)While setting DSM target for the Distribution Licensee, the
Commission shall give due consideration to factors which includes consumer
mix, load profile and similar factors associated with DSM;(3)DSM targets may
include the following:-(a)Percentage of reductions in load growth;(b)Savings
in kW and kWh;(c)Savings as a percentage of total resources to meet
load;(4)While establishing the targets, the Commission shall consider the
technical potential in the State as assessed by the Distribution Licensee and
techno-economic viability of the DSM projects.

### 7. Guidelines on DSM process.

(1)General guidelines issued by the Bureau and the Commission shall provide
for the following activities, namely:-(a)Load and market
research;(b)Implementation of DSM programmes;(c)Cost Effectiveness Assessment
of DSM programmes;(d)Monitoring and Reporting of DSM Plans and
programmes;(e)Eligibility criteria for DSM programmes;(f)Methodology for
setting DSM targets and funding levels;(g)Database development
framework;(2)Issuance of such guidelines shall not be a pre-requisite for
preparation and submission of the first DSM plan by the Distribution Licensee

## Chapter III  
DSM Cell

### 8. Constitution of DSM Cell, its roles and responsibilities.

(1)The Distribution Licensee shall constitute DSM Cell at corporate level
headed by an officer not below the rank of Superintending Engineer within one
month of coming into force of these regulations and a sub cell at each region
level headed by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer shall be
formed to implement the DSM programmes within six months from the date of
coming into force of these regulations.(2)The DSM cell and sub cells
constituted in this regard especially shall look after the DSM activities and
shall be given optimum workforce to carry out all the DSM related jobs;(3)The
DSM cell and sub cells shall offer consultation either free or at nominal
charge to the individual consumers to carry out DSM related activities in
their homes/industries/establishments, etc.;(4)The DSM Cell and sub cells so
constituted shall be provided with necessary authority and resources so as to
execute the functions assigned to it under these Regulations;(5)The DSM Cell
shall be responsible for:-(a)Load research and development of baseline
data;(b)Formulation of DSM Plan;(c)Design and development of DSM projects
including cost benefit analysis, plans for implementation, monitoring &
reporting and for measurement and verification;(d)Seeking necessary approvals
to DSM Plan and individual programmes;(e)Implementation of DSM programmes;
and(f)Any other additional function that may be assigned by the Commission
from time to time.

## Chapter IV  
DSM Consultation Committee

### 9. Constitution of DSM Consultation Committee (DSM-CC) and its functions.

(1)There shall be constituted a DSM-CC by the Commission which shall be the
nodal agency to assist the Licensee and the Commission to drive the DSM
programme under the DSM Regulations. The DSM-CC shall comprise
of.-(a)Secretary of the Commission to act as the
Convener;(b)Director/Engineering to act as Secretary of DSM-CC;(c)One
representative from the Distribution Licensee who is not below the rank of
Chief Engineer;(d)One representative from State Transmission Utility who is
not below the rank of Chief Engineer;(e)Chief Electrical Inspector to the
Government (State designated agency for energy audit and
efficiency);(f)General Manager / Tamil Nadu Energy Development
Agency;(g)Maximum five numbers representatives from educational and research
institutions; industry, agriculture & general public who have special
knowledge or experience of power sector to be nominated by the
Commission;(2)The functions of the DSM -Consultation Committee shall be.-(a)to
advise the licensee on conducting continuous consumer surveys and Load
Research to seek information on end-Use technologies, usage patterns,
willingness to pay, sensitivity studies, market research etc. to assess DSM
potential;(b)to approve awareness activities/campaigns/exhibitions, consumer
interaction sessions developed by the licensee and to supervise the same;(c)to
promote cross-learning among the stakeholders to design appropriate DSM
programmes and plans;(d)to advise innovative Tariff offerings to promote
DSM;(e)to review DSM programme and DSM Plans submitted by the licensee and to
advise the Commission in assessment and approval;(f)to evaluate the terms set
by the financiers/ bankers for funding DSM Plan;(g)to provide support to the
Commission for instituting DSM Plan/Programme monitoring, review, evaluation,
measurement and verification (EM & V) as and when required;(h)to study the
impacts of already implemented DSM programmes;(i)to apprise the Commission
about all DSM related activities on quarterly basis.

## Chapter V  
Demand Side Management Process

### 10. Load and market research and development of baseline data.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall undertake load research to identify the target
consumer segment/s and end uses for DSM programmes to build the necessary
database;(2)Distribution Licensee shall undertake market research to estimate
market potential for specific energy efficiency technologies and applications,
establish key performance indicators, and determine existing baseline market
conditions;(3)On the basis of the results of load and market research, the
Distribution Licensee shall develop baseline data for its area of
supply;(4)Distribution Licensee may design, develop and implement the initial
few DSM programmes on the basis of available data and studies completed by BEE
till the complete baseline data is available for its area of supply and
establishment of base line data shall not be a pre-requisite for design of
such initial DSM programmes by the Distribution Licensee.

### 11. Formulation of DSM Plan.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall formulate and submit to the Commission a
perspective DSM Plan covering the control period for approval, within one year
of coming into force of these regulations. The Plan shall include.-(a)an
overall goal for DSM Plan;(b)description of DSM programmes to form a part of
DSM Plan;(c)implementation process and schedule of each programme in the plan
as a whole;(d)plan for Monitoring and Reporting;(e)indicative cost
effectiveness assessment of programmes(2)The first DSM Plan shall be in force
for a period till the end of ongoing MYT Control Period and subsequent DSM
Plans shall be in force as provided in regulation 12.(3)The Distribution
Licensee shall include all relevant DSM programmes (including multi-state
programmes) developed by Bureau in its perspective plan as and when such
programmes are announced by Bureau.(4)The Distribution Licensee shall submit
on rolling basis, an annual plan, not inconsistent with the perspective plan,
for upcoming year, along with the Annual Performance Review.(5)Selection and
prioritisation of various DSM programmes in the DSM Plan shall be guided by
the following factors:(a)Cost effectiveness;(b)DSM Objectives identified in
Regulation 3;(c)Whether the proposed programmes supplement National level
efforts adopted by the Bureau; and(d)Programmes with high visibility and
therefore potential for creation of awareness within consumers

### 12. Commission's review and approval of DSM plan.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall submit the DSM Plan to the Commission for
approval at least six months before the start date of the next MYT period. The
term of the plan shall coincide with the corresponding MYT term. The DSM plan
submitted by the Distribution Licensee shall be in both hard and soft
copies;(2)The Commission may adopt procedures as specified in the Conduct of
Business Regulations for according approval to the DSM Plan and a
miscellaneous petition shall be filed in line with Fees & Fines Regulations
and Conduct of Business Regulations, 2004;

### 13. Preparation of DSM Programme Document.

(1)After approval of the DSM plan, the Distribution Licensee shall prepare,
for all DSM programmes included in the approved DSM plan, "DSM Programme
Document" (PD);(2)The PD will guide implementation, monitoring, review etc. of
all the approved individual DSM programmes contained in the plan. Each PD
shall include the following:(a)Description of the programme;(b)Objectives and
rationale for the programme;(c)Consumer segments and estimated level of
participation;(d)Estimate of baseline;(e)Assessment of programme in line with
Cost Effectiveness;(f)Mechanism for recovery of cost and performance
incentives;(g)Marketing, delivery strategy and Implementation
schedule;(h)Implementation mechanism e.g. Energy Service Companies, DSM
bidding, DSM resource acquisition, etc;(i)Monitoring and evaluation plan;
and(j)Plan for Training/Seminars/Workshops to increase consumer awareness.

### 14. Approval of DSM Programme Document.

(1)Prior to implementing any DSM Programme, the Distribution Licensee shall
obtain approval of the Commission;(2)The Commission shall approve a Programme
Document (PD) if it is in line with the Objectives set out in regulation 3 of
the Regulations. The Commission may direct modifications to proposed or on-
going programmes to ensure consistency with the DSM Objectives. However, the
Commission shall allow Distribution Licensee adequate time to notify consumers
of program modification.(3)DSM-CC shall scrutinise the DSM programmes
submitted by the Distribution Licensee. The Committee shall hold meetings,
record all its observations in regard to the programmes, shortcomings, if any,
shall be got removed. Thereafter, the Committee shall evaluate each programme
and if satisfied, the Secretary shall put up the programmes to the Commission
with comments. The Commission may get clarifications, if any, from the DSM-CC
or the Distribution Licensee shall accord approval to the programmes after
prudence check. The Commission may also refer the DSM programmes submitted by
the Distribution Licensee to the State Advisory Committee before according
approval;(4)The Commission may encourage the DSM measures related to
implementation of building Code, use of energy efficient or star rated
appliances including agricultural pump sets;

### 15. Implementation of DSM programmes.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall undertake implementation of DSM programmes in
line with the guidelines issued by the Commission from lime to time;(2)The
implementation of the programme shall be undertaken in the manner approved by
the Commission;(3)Distribution Licensee shall undertake implementation of
quick gain DSM Programmes;(4)Distribution Licensee shall carry out
implementation of activities assigned to it either by itself or through
engagement of appropriate independent entity. While doing so, the Distribution
Licensee shall ensure that continuity and consistency is maintained and
interest of the consumers is not compromised.

### 16. Mechanism for Cost Recovery.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall identify the net incremental costs, if any,
associated with planning, design and implementation of
programmes;(2)Distribution Licensee may propose methodology for recovery of
net incremental costs through tariff or any other mechanism. The amounts so
earmarked may be kept separately as DSM fund and shall be exclusively used for
DSM objectives;(3)In order to qualify for cost recovery, each program shall
be.-(a)approved by the Commission prior to implementation;(b)implemented in
accordance with the approved program plan; and(c)implemented cost
effectively.(4)The Commission may direct the Distribution Licensee to
undertake DSM programmes that may not be cost effective but is highly
beneficial to the society;(5)Distribution Licensee shall be allowed to recover
all costs incurred by them in any DSM related activity, including planning,
conducting load research, designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating
DSM programmes, by adding these costs to their ARR to enable their funding
through tariff structure;(6)The Commission may direct the Distribution
Licensee to adopt other complementing DSM funding approaches such as creating
a pool of funds through collection of public benefits charge at a later date,
if such an approach is found beneficial;(7)Distribution Licensee shall obtain
the prior approval of the Commission for implementing DSM Programmes at the
consumer premises through equity placements, provided that such programmes
shall be eligible for Return on Investment and would be evaluated during the
ARR approval process.

### 17. DSM Budget.

(1)Without prejudice to the generality of these Regulations, the following
provisions shall apply:-(a)Distribution Licensee shall set up a Multi-year DSM
plan and DSM programme budgets and submit the same during the MYT approval and
Annual Revenue Requirements (ARR) approval process;(b)The budget shall be
spent only after approval of aggregated DSM Plans/ Programmes and/or
individual DSM Plans/ Programmes by the Commission;(c)DSM implementation plan
and associated budgets shall be substantiated with the prioritization of the
possible programmes within the license area;(d)The DSM budget to be spent
every year shall be substantiated with the kW and kWh savings targets where
such targets shall be developed by carrying out detailed load research
activity and implementing DSM programmes that may be directed by the DSM
Consultation Committee proactively for the benefit of consumers in the
State.(2)Distribution Licensee shall submit year-wise schedule of DSM plan
implementation and corresponding budget allocations relevant to the savings or
shifting/reduction of peak load;(3)The aggregated year wise funds requirement
and achievements shall be the annual DSM budgets and annual DSM targets,
respectively;(4)These annual DSM budgets and targets, determined and approved
at the beginning of the planning cycle shall be revisited during the Annual
Performance Review;(5)The DSM-CC may take special account of measures taken by
Distribution Licensee to develop carbon finance programmes using the Clean
Development Mechanism of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) or any other voluntary carbon financing protocol;(6)Funding
for DSM activities other than DSM plan implementation. - Distribution licensee
shall seek separate budget approval from Commission for additional expenses
(beyond the DSM programme and DSM plan implementation) to be incurred for
activities such as carrying out load research, consumer surveys, DSM plan and
programme development activities, research and analysis, funding of any
activities proposed by the DSM-CC, conduct of potential studies, training &
development, etc.;(7)Allocation of funds for consumer awareness, audits and
equity considerations. - Distribution Licensee shall be allowed to spend a
reasonable amount, pre-approved by the Commission on recommendations by the
DSM-CC to promote programmes of the nature described below:(a)DSM Programmes
that promote consumer awareness and education about why, how, when and where
of load management/energy efficiency and include activities such as.-(i)Energy
audits,(ii)Awareness campaigns,(iii)Energy Efficiency and Load Management
demonstration projects,(iv)Training programmes, seminars, workshops, round
table conferences, business exchange meets (buyer-seller
meets)(v)Establishment of permanent display/demonstration centres cum model
"green"/ ultra energy efficient buildings (buildings that go beyond ECBC -
Energy conservation Building Codes)(b)DSM Programmes for consumers below
poverty line/consumers consuming less than 100 units per month (generally
considered as low income consumers)

### 18. Monitoring and reporting of DSM Programmes.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall prepare a plan and undertake monitoring and
reporting of DSM programmes from time to time;(2)Reports on progress of DSM
plan and expenses incurred on implementation of DSM plan shall be submitted by
the Distribution Licensee every three months to the Commission.

### 19. Evaluation Measurement and Verification of DSM Programme.

(1)Distribution Licensee shall prepare a plan for evaluation, measurement and
verification of savings from DSM programmes;(2)Third party Evaluation
Measurement and Verification of DSM programmes may be undertaken by the
Commission or a third party. Such third party shall be either appointed by the
Commission directly or by the Distribution Licensee after approval from the
Commission. While engaging the agency, the Commission shall ensure that the
Agency is not undertaking any other engagement which could conflict with the
interests of the consumers in the State;(3)Distribution Licensee shall make
available necessary information/data to the Commission or third party assigned
by the Commission to measure and verify the savings from DSM programmes.

## Chapter VI  
DSM Plan and Programme Completion Report

### 20.

The Distribution Licensee shall prepare a detailed Programme Completion Report
and submit the same to the Commission within three months of completion of
such programme;

### 21.

The Report shall cover the programme expenses, achievements, outcomes and
outputs, constraints and difficulties faced, conclusions, recommendations,
lessons learned and way forward.

## Chapter VII  
Incentives

### 22.

The Commission shall consider to provide appropriate tariff interventions to
support DSM, viz. extending Time of day metering up to LT services, load
management, rebate for energy efficient buildings / appliances etc.;

### 23.

The Commission may provide incentives to Distribution Utilities commensurate
with their achieving or exceeding DSM Objectives;

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 24.

The Commission may, at any time add, vary, alter, modify or amend any
provisions of these regulations;

### 25.

If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these
Regulations, the Commission may, by general or specific order, make such
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, as may appear to
be necessary for removing the difficulty;

### 26.

The Commission may, from time to time, issue orders and practice directions in
regard to the implementation of the regulations and procedures to be followed;

### 27.

All disputes arising under these regulations shall be decided by the
Commission based on an application made by the person aggrieved.

