## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003

## Act 16 of 2003

  * Published on 17 May 2003 
  * Commenced on 17 May 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 May 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2003)Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003 (Tamil
Nadu Act 16 of 2003). - It is proposed to provide that it shall be the
responsibility of the State Government to ensure fiscal stability and
sustainability and to enhance the scope for improving social and physical
infrastructure and human development by achieving sufficient revenue surplus,
reducing fiscal deficit and removing impediments to the effective conduct of
fiscal policy and prudent debt management through limits on State Government's
borrowings, debts and deficits; greater transparency in fiscal framework.2\.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published In Part IV-Section I Of
The Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 10th May 2003.Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Act,
2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 2004). - It is proposed to amend the Tamil Nadu
Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2003) to ensure fiscal
stability and sustainability and to enable the Government to work out a fiscal
restructuring plan with an aim of improving the health of Government
finances.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 10th
February 2004Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Fiscal
Responsibility (Amendment) Act, 2015 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 2015). - It is
proposed to amend the Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu
Act 16 of 2003), for achieving the overall objective of maintaining fiscal
management targets set out by extending the time limit for elimination of
revenue deficit.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in
Part IV-Section I of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
31st March, 2015.Received the assent of the Governor on the 17th May 2003 and
published in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 19th May
2003.An Act to provide that it shall be the responsibility of the State
Government to ensure fiscal stability and sustainability, and to enhance the
scope for improving social and physical infrastructure, and human development
by achieving sufficient revenue surplus, reducing fiscal deficit and removing
impediments to the effective conduct of fiscal policy and prudent debt
management through limits on State Government's borrowings, debts and
deficits, greater transparency in fiscal framework and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003.(2)It
shall come into force on such [date] [Enforced on 1.7.2003 vide G. O. Ms. No.
224, dated 1.7.2003.] as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)"Budget" means the
Annual Financial Statement laid before the Legislative Assembly under Article
202 of the Constitution;(b)"current year" means the financial year preceding
the ensuing year;(c)"ensuing year" means the financial year for which the
budget is being presented;(d)"financial year" means the year beginning on the
1st April and ending on the 31st March next following;(e)[ "fiscal deficit"
means the excess of total disbursements from the Consolidated Fund of the
State (excluding repayment of debt) over total receipts into the Consolidated
Fund excluding the debt receipts during a financial year;] [Substituted by the
Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of
2004](f)"Fiscal Indicators" means the measures such as numerical ceilings and
proportions to Gross State Domestic Product, as may be prescribed, for
evaluation of the fiscal position of the State Government;(g)"previous year"
means the financial year preceding the current year;(gg)[ "Revenue deficit"
means the excess of revenue expenditure over revenue receipt;] [Inserted by
the Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 6
of 2004).](h)"total liabilities" means the liabilities under the Consolidated
Fund of the State and the Public Account of the State.

### 3. Medium Term Fiscal Plan to be laid before the Legislature.

(1)The State Government shall lay before the Legislative Assembly a Medium
Term Fiscal Plan along with the Budget.(2)The Medium Term Fiscal Plan shall
set forth a multi-year rolling target for the prescribed fiscal indicators
with specification of underlying assumptions.(3)In particular and without
prejudice to the provisions contained in subsection (2), the Medium Term
Fiscal Plan shall include an assessment of sustain-ability relating to,-(i)the
balance between revenue receipts and revenue expenditure;(ii)the use of
capital receipts including borrowings for generating productive assets.(4)The
Medium Term Fiscal Plan shall, inter alia, contain,-(a)the medium term fiscal
objectives of the State Government:(b)an evaluation of the performance of the
prescribed fiscal indicators in the previous year vis-a-vis the targets set
out earlier, and the likely performance in the current year as per revised
estimates;(c)a statement on recent economic trends and future prospects for
growth and development affecting fiscal position of the State
Government;(d)the strategic priorities of the State Government in the fiscal
matters for the ensuing financial year;(e)the policies of the State Government
for the ensuing financial year relating to taxation, expenditure, borrowings
and other liabilities, lending and investments, pricing of administered goods
and services and description of other activities, such as guarantees and
activities of Public Sector Undertakings which have potential budgetary
implications and the key fiscal measures and targets pertaining to each of
these;(f)an evaluation as to how the current policies of the State Government
are in conformity with the fiscal management principles, set out in section 4
and the fiscal objectives set out in the Medium Term Fiscal Plan.(5)The Medium
Term Fiscal Plan shall be in such form as may be prescribed.

### 4. Fiscal Management Principles.

(1)The State Government shall take appropriate measures to manage the revenue
deficit, fiscal deficit and outstanding debt to sustainable levels.(2)[ The
State Government shall-(a)reduce the ratio of revenue deficit to revenue
receipt every year by three per cent, to five per cent, depending on the
economic situation in that year to a level [not exceeding five per cent by
31st March 2016, eliminate revenue deficit by 2016-2017] and adhere to it
thereafter;(b)reduce the ratio of fiscal deficit to Gross State Domestic
Product beginning from the financial year 2002-2003 with a medium term goal of
not more than three per cent fiscal deficit to Gross State Domestic Product to
be attained by the end of 31st March 2008 and adhere to it thereafter;(c)cap
the total outstanding guarantees to hundred per cent of the total revenue
receipt in the preceding year or at ten per cent of the Gross State Domestic
Product, whichever is lower;(d)cap the risk weighted guarantees to seventy-
five per cent, of total revenue receipt in the preceding year or at seven and
half per cent, of the Gross State Domestic Product, whichever is lower.]

### 5. Measures for fiscal transparency.

(1)The State Government shall take suitable measures to ensure greater
transparency in its fiscal operations, in public interest, in the preparation
of the Budget(2)The State Government shall, at the time of presentation of the
Budget, disclose in a statement in the form as may be prescribed,-(a)the
significant changes in the accounting standards, policies and practices
affecting or likely to affect the computation of prescribed fiscal
indicators;(b)as far as practicable and consistent with protection of public
interest, the contingent liabilities created by way of guarantees.

### 6. Measures to enforce compliance.

(1)The Budget and policies announced at the time of the budget shall be
consistent with objectives and targets specified in the Medium Term fiscal
Plan for the coming and future years.(2)The Minister in-charge of the
Department of Finance shall review every half year, the trends in receipts and
expenditure in relation to the budget, remedial measures to be taken to
achieve the budget targets and place before the Legislative Assembly the
outcome of such reviews.(3)While placing before the Legislative Assembly the
outcome of such review, the Minister shall make a statement explaining,-(a)any
deviation in meeting the obligations cast on the State Government under this
Act;(b)whether such deviation is substantial and relates to the actual or the
potential budgetary outcomes; and(c)the remedial measures the State Government
proposes to take.(4)Whenever outstanding risk weighted guarantees exceed the
limits specified in section 4, no fresh guarantee shall be given.(5)Any
measure proposed in the course of the financial year, which may lead to an
increase in revenue deficit, either through enhanced expenditure or loss of
revenue, shall be accompanied by remedial measures, which will neutralize such
increase or loss and such measures shall be clearly mentioned.(6)The State
Government may assign an independent external agency to carry out the
periodical review for the compliance of the provisions of this Act in the
manner, as may be prescribed.

### 7. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)Every rule or order made under this Act shall, as soon as
possible, after it is made, be placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or in the
next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or order,
or the Assembly decides that the rule or order should not be made, the rule or
order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or order.

### 8. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State
Government or any officer of the State Government for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules made
thereunder.

### 9. Application of other laws not barred.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.

### 10. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the State Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, as may appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.[Substituted by the
Tamil Nadu Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of
2004).]

