## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Co-Operative Handloom Weavers family pension scheme, 1991

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Co-Operative Handloom Weavers family pension scheme, 1991

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-CO-OPERATIVE-HANDLOOM-WEAVERS-FAMILY-PENSION-SCHEME-1991 of
1991

  * Published on 27 March 1992 
  * Commenced on 27 March 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 March 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Co-Operative Handloom Weavers family pension scheme, 1991Published
vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 101, Handlooms, Handicrafts Textiles and
Khadi (D2), dated 27th March 1992

## Chapter 1  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, explanation and commencement.

(1)This scheme may be called the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Handloom Weavers
Family Pension Scheme, 1991.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on
the 1st January 1992.(3)It shall apply to the Handloom Weavers, who are
members of Primary Weavers Co-operative Societies in the State of Tamil Nadu.

## Chapter II

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Rules" means the
Tamil Nadu Co-operative Handloom Weavers Family Pension Rules;(b)"Year" means
the year commencing on the 1st day of April and ending with the 31st day of
March;(c)"Form" means a form appended to the Scheme;(d)"Government" means the
Government of Tamil Nadu;(e)"Government Security" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in the Public Debt Act, 1944 (Central Act XVIII of
1944);(f)"Wages" means wages or remuneration paid or payable to a handloom
weaver for the work done or services rendered by him to Primary Weavers
Cooperative Societies but does not include bonus;(g)All the other words and
expression used in this scheme but not defined shall have the meaning,
respectively, assigned to them in the Rules.

## Chapter III

Tamil Nadu Co-Operative Handloom Weavers Family Pension Funds

### 3. Constitution of the Fund.

(1)The Government shall constitute a Fund called the "Tamil Nadu Co-operative
Handloom Weavers Family Pension Fund" for the benefit of the members of
Primary Weavers Co-operative Societies participating in the scheme.(2)All the
contributions to the fund shall be made by means of deposit into the
Government account or to the account of any other agencies approved by the
Government for the purpose.(3)The fund shall consist of-(a)contribution by the
Government;(b)fund available at the credit of the forfeiture account in the
Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers Savings and Security Scheme in public deposit
account as on the last day of the financial year 1991 and subsequent
years;(c)deposits by the Primary Co-operative Societies admitted into the
scheme;(d)subscription by the members coming under the scheme;(e)any other
contribution coming under the scheme.(4)Control of the Fund - The control of
the fund shall vest with the Trustee.

## Chapter IV

### 4. Membership and contribution.

(1)Every Primary Weavers Co-operative Society functioning in the State of
Tamil Nadu shall he eligible to participate in the scheme. But no society
shall however claim admission into the scheme as a matter of right. The
Government may from time to time, under their discretion decide the number of
societies to which the scheme shall be extended having regard to the financial
and other considerations. The Government shall also have the right to defer,
interrupt, discontinue or modify the scheme wholly or in part of any or all
societies at their discretion and without assigning any reason
therefor.(2)Eligibility of the members to he admitted into the scheme. - Any
member of a Primary Weavers Co-operative Society shall be eligible for
admission in to the scheme, if he satisfies the following conditions:-(a)He
should have been an active member engaged in weaving for the society for a
minimum period of 5 (five) years on the date of his application for
admission;(b)He should have achieved the production level of at least 75 per
cent of the average annual production in linear metres per head for the
society, in respect of the particular variety of cloth which the members were
weaving during the preceding 5 (five) years, at the time of admission. The
prescribed level of production for each member for every year would be
assessed as on the 31st March;(c)He should not be in default in the payment of
subscription to the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Handloom Weavers Family Pension
Fund for a continuous period exceeding 6 (six) months;(d)He should not have
attained the age of 58 (fifty eight) years;(e)He should be of sound health
without any serious ailment, whether hereditary or otherwise;(3)Subscription
to the Fund,-A member admitted into the scheme shall subscribe an amount at
the rate of Rs. 2 (two) per mensem and the same shall be collected from out of
the wages paid to him and remitted by the societies every month into the
Government Treasury.(4)The amount and the period of Family Pension. - (i) The
quantum of family pension shall be Rs. 250 (two hundred and fifty) month
payable for a maximum period of 10 (ten) years.(ii)Family Pension shall he
payable on the death of a member, who continued to be covered under the
scheme, to one or more members of the family of the deceased, nominated by the
member and in case, if, no nominated members are alive, to the member or
members of the family, who are the legal heirs as determined by the Authorised
Officer.(iii)The death of a member for the purpose of pension as above shall
be due to natural causes or unexpected accidents. The family of the member,
who died due to suicide shall not be entitled for any family pension, under
the scheme.(iv)Every member applying for admission into the scheme shall make
a nomination in favour of a member of his family in the form prescribed along
with application for admission into the scheme. A member, il he so desires,
shall nominate more than one person and indicate the proportion at which the
pension is to be paid among them.(v)At the time of making first nomination,
the member may nominate 2 (two) persons independently in the column provided
for in the nomination form. The second person nominated as above shall have
the right to get the family pension for the remaining period, in the event of
death of the first nominee or first set of nominees, before the expiry of the
period of family pension.(vi)The nomination may be in favour of one or more
persons belonging to the family of the member as defined in the rules.(vii)If
the nominee predeceases the member, a fresh nomination shall be made by the
member.(viii)The Authorised Officer in the Directorate of Handlooms and
Textiles shall be the authority competent to sanction the family pension.
After due verification of the details, the Authorised Officer, shall sanction
the pension and intimate the same to the claimant or claimants through the
Circle Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles and the society.

## Chapter V

### 5. Disbursement of Family Pension.

(1)Every recipient of pension under the scheme shall be required to open a
savings account in the Post Office nearest to his or her place of residence.
The circle Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles shall draw every month
one single bill covering all the recipients under his jurisdiction and draw
the consolidated amount, by presenting the bill at the concerned Treasury. He
shall remit the Family Pension at the cost of recipients to the post offices
concerned to be credited to the respective Savings Account of the
pensioners.(2)The family pension amount shall be drawn and credited to the
respective post office savings accounts,before the 10th of succeeding
month.(3)The circle Assistant Director of Plandlooms and Textiles shall
arrange for the physical verification of the pensioners and their pass-books
at least once in a year and shall furnish the life certificate for all of them
to the Authorised Officer, before the 31st March of every
year.(4)Administration of the Fund and Accounts. - (i) It shall be the
responsibility of the Trustee to deploy fund available at the credit of the
fund in securities and deposits of approved agencies in such a way as to gain
maximum monetary advantage for the scheme.(ii)All interest and other income
realised on investment shall be accumulating with the fund under any
recognized money multiplying schemes.(iii)It shall be the responsibility of
the Trustee to cause annual audit of the accounts under the scheme and to
submit the audited accounts and audit report to the Government before the
dales prescribed in the Rules.(iv)The Government shall place the audited
accounts and audit report on the table of the Legislature within a reasonable
time.(5)Appeal. - The Authorised Officer, appointed under the scheme shall be
the first Appellate Authority in respect of orders, awards etc, passed by the
Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles under the Rules and the Trustee
shall be the next Appellate Authority in respect of appeals, revision, etc.,
over the orders of the Authorised Officer and the decision or ruling or awards
or order passed by the Trustee shall be final and binding on all concerned.

## Chapter VI

### 6. Transfer of existing accounts, funds, maintenance of records and
deposit of funds.

(1)Any member already covered by the scheme of the society, in the event of
that society being liquidated and such a member is being removed under the
rules, shall be admitted in the scheme by enrolling himself in a neighbouring
Society with the prior approval of the Authorised Officer and the member shall
continue under the scheme. The time lag that would occur in between his
removal from the scheme due to the liquidation of the earlier society and his
admission into another neighbouring society for the purpose of his continuance
in the scheme shall be condoned and for all practical purposes he shall be
considered to be continuing in the scheme. In case of such admission in the
new society, the accounts as well as the funds available at the credit of the
members in the erstwhile society shall be transferred to the society in which
he/they/is/ are admitted.(2)Maintenance and production of records of the
society - It shall be the responsibility of the Primary Weavers Co-operative
Society, the circle Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles, the
Authorised Officer and the Trustee to maintain the respective records and
registers prescribed under the Rules.

