## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 1994

## Act 7 of 1995

  * Published on 1 January 1995 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 1994Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1995Statement of
Objects and Reasons. - The Urban areas in the State in general, and Madras
City in particular, have been facing an acute shortage of land for housing
purposes, resulting in the enormous increase in land prices beyond the reach
of the lower and middle income groups. Therefore the need to construct, multi-
storeyed housed for persons of these groups has become a necessity and such
need has also been increasingly felt by the Government. In constructing such
multi-storeyed buildings, for sale, a problem has been met with, namely the
individual buyers cannot secure any effective mortgageable title to such
apartments so as to enable them to raise loans under any scheme or from the
financial institutions. To over-come these difficulties and to provide for the
ownership of an individual apartment in a building and to constitute such
apartment together with the undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities as heritable and
transferable immovable property, the Government proposed to enact a
legislation and accordingly introduced in the Legislative Assembly, the "Tamil
Nadu Apartment Ownership Bill", during the year 1981. This Bill was referred
to a Joint Select Legislative Assembly. But, this Bill lapsed due to the
dissolution of the State legislative Assembly in November, 1984. Hence, it has
been decided by the Government to reintroduce the said Bill in the Legislative
Assembly with suitable modifications.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision. The provisions of the Bill are explained in the Notes on
clauses.An Act to provide for the ownership of an individual apartment in a
building and to make such apartment heritable and transferable immovable
property.Whereas with a view to securing that the ownership and control of the
material resources of the community are so distributed as to subserve the
common good, it is expedient to provide for the ownership of an individual
apartment in a building and of an undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities appurtenant to such apartment, and to mala such apartment and
interest heritable and transferable immovable propel and to provide for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto;Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-fifth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act 1994.(2)It
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on
such date1 as the Government may, by notification appoint, and different dates
may be appointed for differed areas.

### 2. Application of this Act.

\- This Act shall apply to every apartment in a building constructed whether
before or after the date of commencement of this Act:Provided that such
building shall contain five or more apartments or three or more floors and
construction of such building has been made in accordance with a planning
permit and also a building plan duly sanctioned by the appropriate authority
concerned under the relevant law for the time being in force.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"apartment" means a
part of property intended for any type of independent use including one or
more floors or enclosed spaces located in one or more floors (or part or parts
thereof) in a building, intended to be used for residence, office, practice of
any profession or for carrying on any occupation, trade or businessor for
other type of independent use and with a direct exit to a public street, road,
or highway or to a common area leading to such street, road or
highway.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, an apartment shall be
deemed to be intended for independent use notwithstanding that provisions for
sanitary, Washing, bathing or other conveniences have been made as common for
two or more apartments;(b)"apartment number" means the number, letter, or
combination thereof designating the apartment in the Deed of the
Apartment;(c)"apartment owner" means the person or persons owning an apartment
and an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities or the limited
common areas and facilities in the percentage specified in the Deed of
Apartment and includes an outright purchaser or a hire purchase allottee of
such apartment and undivided interest;(d)"Association of Apartments owners"
means all of the apartment owners acting as a group in accordance with the by-
laws;(e)"building" means a building containing five or more apartments or
three or more floors and comprising a part of a property;(f)"by-laws" means
the by-laws for the time being in force of the society or Association of
Apartment owners and includes an amendment to such by-laws;(g)"committee"
means the board or the governing body of the society or Association of
Apartment owners to which the management of its affairs is
entrusted;(h)"common areas and facilities", unless otherwise provided in the
Deed of Apartment, means,-(1)the land on which the building is located;(2)the
foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls, roofs, halls,
corridors, lobbies, stairs, stairways, terrace, compound walls, fire escapes,
wells, and sumps and entrances and exits of building;(3)the basements,
cellars, yards, gardens, parking areas and storage spaces;(4)the premises for
lodging of caretakers or persons employed for the maintenance of the
property;(5)water supply, sewerage and drainage connections and the
installations of central services such as power, light, gas, hot and cold
water, heating, refrigeration, air-conditioning and incinerating;(6)the
elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducts and in general all
apparatus and installations existing for the common use;(7)automatic fire
detecting and alarm facilities necessary to warn the occupants of the property
of the existence of the fire;(8)such other community and commercial facilities
as may be prescribed; and(9)all other parts of the property necessary or
convenient to its existence, maintenance and safety, or normally in common
use;(i)"common expenses" means-(1)all sums lawfully assessed against the
apartment owners by the society or the Association of Apartment
owners;(2)expenses of administration, maintenance, repair or replacement of
the common areas and facilities or the limited common areas and
facilities;(3)all legal expenses as may be incurred by the society or the
Association of Apartment owners for the enforcement of lawful claims of the
Apartment owners;(4)expenses resolved as common expenses by the society or the
Association of Apartment owners; and(5)expenses declared as common expenses by
the provisions of this Act, or by the by-laws;(j)"common profits" means the
balance of all income, rents and revenues from the common areas and facilities
or the limited common areas and facilities remaining after deduction of the
common expenses;(k)"competent authority" means-(1)in relation to the society
registered under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu
Act 30 of 1983), the Regional Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies
(Housing) having jurisdiction over the area; or(2)in relation to the society
registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1975), the Registrar as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of that
Act;(3)in relation to the Association of Apartment owners-(a)the Regional
Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies (Housing) having jurisdiction over
the area; or(b)the Registrar as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act27of 1975), having
jurisdiction over the area, with whom the by-laws of the Association of
Apartment owners have been filed under this Act;(l)"date of the commencement
of the Act" in relation to any area means the date appointed by the
notification issued under sub-section (3) of section 1 in relation to such
area;(m)"Deed of Apartment" means a deed of apartment executed in pursuance of
section 5;(n)"Government" means the State Government;(o)"limited common areas
and facilities" means those common areas and facilities designated in the Deed
of Apartment as reserved for certain apartment or apartments to the exclusion
of the other apartments;(p)"person" includes an individual, an imdivided Hindu
family, a firm, a company or an association or a body of individuals whether
incorporated or not;(q)"property" means the land, the buildings, all
improvements and structures thereon, and all easements, rights and
appurtenances belonging thereto;(r)"Society" means-(i)a society registered
under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1983); or(ii)a society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975).

## Chapter II  
Ownership, Heritability and Transferability of Apartments

### 4. Apartment to be heritable and transferable.

\- Each apartment together with the percentage of undivided interest in the
common areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities of
such apartment shall, for all purposes, constitute heritable and transferable
immovable property within the meaning of any law for the time being in force,
and accordingly, an apartment owner may transfer his apartment and the
percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of such
apartment by way of sale, mortgage, lease, gift exchange or in any other
manner whatsoever in the same manner, to the same extent and subject to the
same rights, privileges, obligations, liabilities., legal proceedings,
remedies and to penalty, forfeiture and punishment as any other immovable
property or make a bequeath of the same under the laws applicable to the
transfer and succession of immovable property.

### 5. Ownership of apartments.

\- Each apartment owner shall be entitled to the exclusive ownership and
possession of his apartment in accordance with the Deed of Apartment executed
and registered in accordance with the provisions of the Act.

### 6. Common areas and facilities.

(1)Each apartment owner shall be entitled to an undivided interest in the
common areas and facilities in the percentage specified in the Deed of
Apartment and the limited common areas and facilities. Such percentage shall
be computed by taking as the basis the extent of the plinth area available in
the apartment in relation to the total extent of the plinth area available in
the building.(2)The percentage of the undivided interest of each apartment
owner in the common areas and facilities, and in the limited common areas and
facilities, if any, as expressed in the Deed of Apartment shall have a
permanent character, and shall not be altered without the consent of all the
apartment owners. The percentage of the undivided interest in such common
areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities shall not be
separated from the apartment to which it appertains, and shall be deemed to be
conveyed or encumbered with the apartment whether or not such interest is
expressly mentioned in the conveyance or other instrument.(3)The common areas
and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities shall remain
undivided and no apartment owner or any other person shall bring any action
for partition or division of any part thereof and any covenant to the contrary
shall be null and void.(4)Each apartment owner may use the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities in accordance with the
purpose for which they are intended without hindering or encroaching upon the
lawful rights of the other apartment owners.(5)The necessary work of
maintenance, repairs and replacement of the common areas and facilities and
the limited common areas and facilities and the making of any additions or
improvements thereto shall be carried out only in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the by-laws.

### 7. Compliance with covenants, by-laws and administrative provisions.

(1)Every apartment owner shall comply strictly with the by-laws and with the
covenants, conditions and restrictions set forth in the Deed of Apartment in
relation to his apartment.(2)Where any apartment owner fails to comply with
any of the by-laws or covenants, conditions and restrictions referred to in
sub-section (1), such failure shall be a ground for an action against such
apartment owner to recover sums due, for damages or injunctive relief or both
maintainable by the society or the Association of Apartment owners or, in a
proper case, by the aggrieved apartment owner.

### 8. Certain works prohibited.

\- No apartment owner shall do any work or put the apartment to any other use
which would jeopardise the soundness or safety of the property, reduce the
value thereof or impair any easement or hereditament nor shall any apartment
owner add any material structure or excavate any additional basement or cellar
without previously obtaining the unanimous consent of all the other apartment
owners.

### 9. Charges and encumbrances against apartments, extinguishment of charge
and removal from encumbrances and effect of part payment.

(1)Subsequent to the execution and registration of the Deed of Apartment, no
charge or encumbrance of any nature shall be created or be effective against
the property and any charge or encumbrance may be created only against each
apartment and the percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities of such apartment in
the same manner and under the same conditions in every respect as charge or
encumbrance may be created upon or against upon or against any other separate
parcel of property subject to individual ownership:Provided that if any charge
or encumbrance has been created against such apartment and the percentage of
undivided interest in the common areas and facilities and the limited common
areas and facilities of such apartment, no apartment and no such percentage of
undivided interest shall be partitioned or sub-divided:Provided further that
any labour performed in, or materials furnished to, an apartment by any
apartment owner or his agent or his contractor or sub-contractor shall not
create any charge or encumbrance under the provisions of the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882 (Central Act IV of 1882) against any other apartment owner
unless the written consent of the other apartment owner is obtained for
performance of such labour or furnishing of material. Such consent shall,
however, be deemed to have been obtained in the following cases,
namely:-(i)Where any emergency repairs are carried out to an apartment and
where such emergency repairs are absolutely necessary for the safety or
maintenance of the building;(ii)where the performance of labour or furnishing
of material is in respect of the common areas and facilities or the limited
common areas and facilities and duly authorised by the society, its Secretary
or the Committee or the Association of Apartment owners in accordance with the
provisions of this Act or the by-laws.(2)In the event of any charge or
encumbrance against five or more apartments becoming effective, the apartment
owners may individually free their respective apartments and the percentage of
undivided interest in the common areas and facilities and the limited common
areas and facilities of such apartments from such charge or encumbrance by
payment of the fractional or proportional amounts attributable to each of the
apartments affected. Such individual payment shall be computed with reference
to the percentage of the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities
and the limited common areas and facilities, specified in the Deed of
Apartment Upon such payment, the apartment and the percentage of undivideo
interest in the common areas and the facilities and the limited common area:
and facilities shall be free and clear of the charge or encumbrance:Provided
that such part payment shall not prevent the person having any charge or
encumbrance from enforcing his rights against the other apartment and the
percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and facilities and the
limited common areas and facilities thereof.

## Chapter III  
Deeds of Apartment and its Registration

### 10. Contents of Deed of Apartment.

(1)The Deed of Apartment shall contain the following particulars,
namely:-(a)description of the land on which the building and improvements are
located; and whether the land is freehold or leasehold and, if leasehold, the
period of such lease:(b)description of the building stating the number of
storeys and basements, the number of apartments and the principal materials to
which it is, or is to be, constructed;(c)the apartment number of each
apartment and a statement of its location, approximate plinth area, number of
rooms and immediate common area to which it has access, and any other
particulars necessary for its proper identification;(d)description of the
common areas and facilities and the percentage of undivided interest
appertaining to the apartment in the common areas and
facilities;(e)description of the limited common areas and facilities, if any,
stating to which apartment their use is reserved;(f)total plinth area of the
building and of each apartment and its owner for all purposes, including
voting and a statement that the apartment and such percentage of undivided
interest are not encumbered in any manner whatsoever on the date of execution
of the Deed of Apartment;(g)statement of the purposes for which the building
and each of the apartments are intended and restricted as to use;(h)provisions
as to the percentage of votes by the apartment owners which shall be
determinative of whether to re-build, repair, restore, or sell the property in
the event of damage or destruction of all or any part of the property;(i)any
other details in connection with the property which the person executing the
Deed of Apartment may seem desirable to set forth consistent with this Act;
and (j) such other particulars as may be prescribed.(2)A copy of each of the
Deed of Apartment shall be filed with the competent authority.

### 11. Deed of Apartment and copy of floor Plan to be registered.

(1)The Deed of Apartment and every endorsement thereon relating to the
transfer of the apartment and the Floor Plan of the building shall be
registered under the Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908) and, for
purposes of the said Act, the said documents shall be deemed to be documents
of which registration is compulsory.(2)The Sub-Registrar shall register the
Deed of Apartment along with the Floor Plan of the building in the Register
Books kept under section 51 of the Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of
1908) and shall also enter particulars in the Indices made under section 55 of
the said Act.(3)Whenever any endorsement on a Deed of Apartment is registered,
the Sub-Registrar concerned shall forward a certified copy thereof to the
competent authority to enable that authority to make necessary entries in the
copy of the Deed of Apartment filed with it under sub-section (2) of section
10.(4)Any person acquiring any apartment or any apartment owner shall be
deemed to have notice of the contents of the Deed of Apartment and the
endorsement, if any, thereon as from the date of its registration under this
section.(5)Except as provided in this section, the provisions of the
Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908) shall mutatis mutandis apply
to the registration of such Deed of Apartment and the words and expressions
used in this section, but not defined, in this Act shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of
1908).Explanation I. - For the purpose of this section, Floor Plan of the
building means the plan of the building showing the layout, location, name, if
any, of the building, the total number of apartments, dimensions of the
apartments and their respective apartment duly verified and certified by an
Engineer of the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board in the case of building
constructed by the Tamil Nadu State Housing Board and in the case of building
constructed by others by any other Engineer, as an accurate copy of the plan
of the building as approved by and filed with, the local authority
concerned.Explanation II. - An Engineer shall mean any person holding a
Diploma or a Degree in Civil Engineering or Architecture or a Licensed
Surveyor.

## Chapter IV  
Society or Association of Apartment Owners, its By-Laws and Functions

### 12. Society or Association of Apartment Owner.

\- As soon as the Deeds of Apartments are executed and registered under
sections 5 and 11, but not later than three months from the dale of such
registration, the apartment owners shall form a society either registered
under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1983), or under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1975), or an Association of Apartment owners, with the object to
maintain all common areas and facilities and the limited common areas and
facilities, to provide such amenities as may be necessary in the common
interest of all the apartment owners and to do such other things as maybe
considered incidental or conductive to the attainment of the objects specified
in the by-laws.

### 13. By-laws.

(1)The administration of every property shall be governed by the by-laws, a
true copy of which shall be filed with the competent authority. No amendment
of the by-laws shall be valid unless a copy thereof is duly filed with the
competent authority. Amendment of the by-laws shall take effect from the date,
if any, specified in the amendment. Where no such date is specified, the
amendment shall take effect from the date on which a copy of it is filed with
the competent authority.(2)The by-laws shall provide for the following
matters, namely:-(a)the percentage of the votes which shall constitute the
quorum;(b)the maintenance, repairs and replacement of the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities and payment
therefor;(c)the keeping and maintenance of accounts and books by the society
or the Association of Apartment owners;(d)the convening of general meeting of
the society or the Association of Apartment owners for the procedure at such
meetings including the sending of notice of such meetings, maintenance of
minutes books and the 'powers to be exercised by such meeting;(e)the manner of
collecting from the apartment owners their share of the common expenses;(f)the
appointment and removal of persons employed for the maintenance, repairs and
replacement of the common areas and facilities and the limited common areas
and facilities;(g)the method of adopting and of amending administrative rules
and regulations governing the details of the operation and use of the common
areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities;(h)the
restrictions on the requirements respecting the use and maintenance of the
apartments and the use of the common areas and facilities and the limited
common areas and facilities not set forth in the Deed of Apartment, as are
designed to prevent unreasonable interference with the use of their respective
apartments and of the common areas and facilities and the limited common areas
and facilities by the several apartment owners;(i)the percentage of the votes
required to amend the by-laws;(j)the terms and conditions subject to which
transfer of any apartment and percentage of undivided interest in the common
areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities of such
apartments may be effected;(k)the leasing out part of the building or land, if
any, for commercial(l)such other matters as may be prescribed.

### 14. Co-operative Societies Act and the Societies Registration Act to apply
with modification.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies
Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983) or the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975), the minimum number of members required
for forming a society for the purpose of this Act shall be five.(2)In relation
to the application of this Act to any society, if any provision contained in
this Act is repugnant to any of the provisions contained in the Tamil Nadu Co-
operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983) or the Tamil Nadu
Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975) or the rules made
thereunder, the provisions of this Act shall prevail and the provisions of the
said Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act or the said Tamil Nadu Societies
Registration Act or the rules made thereunder shall, to the extent of
repugnancy, be of no effect.

### 15. Insurance.

\- Without prejudice to the right of each apartment owner to insure his own
apartment for his benefit, the society or the Association of Apartment owners
shall, if so required, by the by-laws or by a majority of the apartment
owners, insure the property against fire, flood, cyclone and such other
hazards under such terms and for such accounts as shall be required. The
policy of insurance shall be written on the property in the name of the
society or the Association of Apartment owners as trustee for each of the
apartment owner in the percentage specified in the Deed of Apartment and the
premium payable under such policy of insurance shall be common expenses.

### 16. Disposition of property on destruction or damage.

\- Where, in the event of the property either in the entirety or in part being
damaged or destroyed and the society or the Association of Apartment owners
has not undertaken to repair, reconstruct or re-build within a period of
ninety days or such further period as may be specified by the competent
authority from the date of damage or destruction-(a)the property shall be
deemed to be owned in common by all the apartment owners in the same
percentage as the percentages of the undivided interest specified in the Deed
of Apartment;(b)the undivided interest in the property owned in common which
shall appertain to each apartment owner shall be the percentage of the
undivided interest previously owned by such owner in the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities;(c)any encumbrance
affecting any of the apartments shall be deemed to be transferred in
accordance with the existing priority to the percentage of the undivided
interest of those apartment owners in the property.

### 17. Action by Society or Association of Apartment owners op behalf of the
apartment owners.

\- Without limiting the rights of any apartment owner, action may be brought
by the society or the Association of Apartment owners on behalf of any
apartment owner as his respective interest may appear with respect to any
cause of action relating to the common areas and facilities and the limited
common areas and facilities of more than one apartment.

### 18. Right of society or Association of Apartment owners to maintain,
repair and replace any of the common areas and facilities, etc.

\- The society or the Association of Apartment owners shall have the
irrevocable right to be exercised by its secretary or by any other person
authorised in this behalf by the committee to have access to every apartment,
from time to time, during reasonable hours as may be necessary for the
maintenance, repairs and replacement of any of the common areas and facilities
and the limited common areas and facilities therein or accessible from such
apartment, or for making emergency repairs therein necessary to prevent damage
to the common areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities
or to another apartment or apartments.

## Chapter V  
Common Profits, Common Expenses and other Matters

### 19. Common profits and expenses.

(1)The common profits shall be distributed among, and the common expenses
shall be charged to, the apartment owners according to the percentage of the
undivided interest of the apartment owners in the common areas and facilities
specified in the Deed of Apartment.(2)Every apartment owner shall,
notwithstanding his waiver of the use or enjoyment of any of the common areas
and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities or his abandonment
of his apartment, be liable to be charged to the common expenses under sub-
section (1).(3)Where the apartment owner is not in occupation of the apartment
owned by him, the common expenses payable by such apartment owner may be
recovered from the person in the occupation of the apartment.

### 20. Common expenses to be charged on property.

\- All sums assessed by the society or the Association of Apartment owners as
the share of the common expenses chargeable to any apartment shall, subject to
the prior claim, if any,-(i)of the Government in respect of land revenue or
any money recoverable as land revenue,(ii)of any municipality or other local
authority in respect of tax or other assessment, and(iii)of the mortgage, in
respect of all stuns unpaid, constitute a charge on such apartment.

### 21. Separate assessment.

\- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time
being in force,-(a)each apartment and its percentage of undivided interest in
the common areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities of
such apartment, shall be deemed to be separate property for the purpose of
assessment to tax on lands and buildings leviable under such law and shall be
assessed and taxed accordingly; and(b)the building, or the property or any of
the common areas and facilities and the limited common areas and facilities
shall not be assessed to any such tax separately,

### 22. Joint and several liability of vendor, etc., for unpaid common
expenses.

\- Where any apartment has been sold or otherwise transferred, the purchaser
or the transferee, as the case may be, of the apartment shall be jointly and
severally liable with the vendor or the transferor for all unpaid assessments
against the latter towards his share or the common expenses up to the time of
sale or transfer without prejudice to the purchaser's or transferee's right to
recover from the vendor or transferor, the amount, if any, paid by the
purchaser or transferee therefor. Any such purchaser or transferee shall be ;
entitled to a statement from the society or the Association of Apartment
owners setting forth the amount of the unpaid assessment against the vendor or
transferor and such purchaser or transferee shall not be liable for, nor shall
the apartment sold or transferred, be subject to a charge for any unpaid share
of common expenses against such apartment accrued prior to such sale or
transfer in excess of the amount set forth in such statement.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 23. Act to be binding on apartment owners, tenants, etc.

(1)All apartment owners, tenants of such owners, employees o apartment owners
or tenants, or any other person who may, in any manner, use the property or
any part thereof to which this Act applies, shall be subject to the provisions
of this Act and the bylaws and the rules made thereunder.(2)All agreements,
decisions and determinations lawfully made by the society or the Association
of Apartment owners, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of
this Act or the by-laws shall be deemed to be binding on all apartment owners.

### 24. Powers to exempt from stamp duty, registration fee and Court-fees and
power to refund.

(1)The Government may, by notification, reduce or remit, whether prospectively
or retrospectively,-(a)the stamp duty with which, under any law for the time
being in force, instruments or documents executed by, or on behalf of, or in
favour of, an apartment owner or the society or the Association of Apartment
owners relating to any of the purposes of this Act are respectively
chargeable;(b)any fee payable under the law of registration or Court-fees for
the time being in force on instruments or documents executed by, or on behalf
of, or in favour of, an apartment owner or the society or the Association of
Apartment owners, relating to any of the purposes of this
Act.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force, the Government may refund the amount of any stamp duty or fee paid
in pursuance of any law referred to in sub-section (1) in such circumstances,
to such extent and subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as the
Government may, by order, determine.

### 25. Act to override other laws.

(1)The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force
or any custom, usage or agreement or decree or order of a Court, Tribunal or
other authority.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), the
provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any
other law for the time being in force.

### 26. Removal of doubts.

\- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (Central Act IV of 1882) shall, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, apply to every
apartment together with its undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities and the limited common areas and facilities of such apartment as
those provisions apply in relation to any immovable property and the
provisions of this Act shall take effect notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in any contract.

### 27. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for Carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the form of Deed of Apartment specified in section 10 and the
particulars to be mentioned therein;(b)the matters to be provided in the by-
laws under sub-section (2) of section 13;(c)the collection of fees from the
apartment owners by the society or the Association of Apartment owners which
shall be payable to the competent authority towards administrative
charges;(d)any other matter which is required to be, or may be,
prescribed.(3)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(c)Every rule or order made or a notification
issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued,
be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly
makes any modification in any such rule or order or notification, or the
Assembly decides that the rule or order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule or order or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only
in such modified form, or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule or order or notification.

### 28. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

