## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Amendment Act, 2021.

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Amendment Act, 2021.

## Act 35 of 2021

  * Published in 497 on 22 October 2021 
  * Commenced on 22 October 2021 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 October 2021.] 

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent
of the Governor on the 22nd October 2021 and is hereby published for general
information:—ACT No. 35 OF 2021.An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu
Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016.BE it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventy-second Year of
the Republic of India as follows:—

### 1.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of
Service) Amendment Act, 2021. (Short title and commencement.)(2)(a)Section 3
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 15th day of September
2016.(b)Section 4 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 2nd day of
March 2017.(c)The remaining sections shall come into force at once. (Tamil
Nadu Act 14 of 2016.)

### 2. In section 73 of the Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of
Service) Act, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for sub-
section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—
(Amendment of section 73.)

“(1) The Government may, by notification, either prospectively or
retrospectively, alter, add to or cancel any of the Schedules.”.

### 3. In the principal Act, for Schedule–IV, the following Schedule shall be
substituted, namely:— (Substitution of Schedule-IV.)

“SCHEDULE – IV.SECOND CLASS LANGUAGE TEST.(See section 21)SYLLABUS.PART – A.
WRITTEN EXAMINATION.Maximum Marks – 100.Minimum pass Marks – 45.Time Duration
– 3 hours.PART – I.(Translation, Composition and Letter Writing). Marks-50.

### 1\. Translation. Marks-10.

Translation from English to Tamil.

### 2\. Composition Marks

(not exceeding 150 words). 2x15=30.(1)Glory of Tamil language.(2)Population
growth.(3)Protection of environment.(4)Education for
all.(5)Patriotism.(6)Spirituality/Devotion.(7)Rural development/ Village
development.(8)Co-operation.(9)Development of Women.(10)Social reforms/Social
work/Social service.(11)Science and Technology.

### 3\. Letter Writing (Official Letter). Marks-1x10=10.

(1)Employee Leave letter.(2)Request letter for Annual increment.(3)Reply
letter for taking further action in the department.(4)Preparation of reply
under the Right to InformationAct, 2005 (Central Act 22 of
2005).(5)Preparation of answers for Legislative Assembly QuestionsPART –
II.Marks- 2x5=10.

### 1\. Comprehension.

### 2\. Dialogue Writing.

PART – III.Marks- 40x1=40.Exercises on Language skills (From 1st-10th Standard
Tamil Text Books).(1)Writing the numbers in words.(2)Sentence
formation.(3)Writing the names of English, Tamil months and week days in
Tamil.(4)Writing the types of Alphabets.(5)Writing the names of Under graduate
and Post graduate courses in Tamil.(6)Differentiate the short vowels and long
vowels.(7)To find out the differences in gender/living /non-
living.(8)Translating the technical terms into Tamil.(9)Writing the title of
the Book and it’s Author.(10)Identifying the Tenses of the Verbs.(11)Writing
the appropriate question for the answer.(12)To find out the phonetic
differences (Mayangoli).(13)Writing the Synonyms.(14)Writing the Tamil word
for the word in other language.(15)Writing the nouns.(16)Writing the
verbs.(17)Writing the words in Alphabetical order.(18)Writing ‘varga letters’
(filling up).(19)Writing the Emblem, Tree, Animal and Bird of Tamil Nadu.PART
– B. VIVA – VOCE EXAMINATION.Maximum Marks. Minimum Pass Marks

### 1\. Conversing with accuracy 100 60 and fluency in Tamil.

### 2\. Dictating an order or delivering 50 25 a short address on a given
subject in Tamil.

PART – C.Maximum Marks. Minimum PassMarks Taking down in English, evidence 50
25 given in Tamil and asking questions thereon in Tamil.PART – D.Reading with
fluency and 100 50translating three petitions or other official manuscripts in
Tamil, written in plain running hand.Explanation.— In the case of candidates
who are required to pass the Second Class Language Test (Full Test), they will
be allowed to appear for Part ‘D’ separately and will be required to appear
for all the other Parts at one time.Amendment of

## IV.

### 4\. In Schedule-IV to the principal Act as so substituted,—

(1)under the sub-heading “PART-A. WRITTEN EXAMINATION”, for the expression
“Time Duration – 3 hours”, the expression “Time Duration – 2.30 hours” shall
be substituted;(2)under the sub-heading “PART-B. VIVA-VOCEEXAMINATION”, for
item 1, and the entries relating thereto, the following item and entries,
shall, respectively, be substituted, namely:—“1. Conversing with 100 60
accuracy and fluency in Tamil. Validation. 5. Notwithstanding anything
contained in the principal Act, all acts done or any action taken by the Tamil
Nadu Public Service Commission in regard to the conduct of the Second Class
Language Test in Tamil prescribed in sub-section (1) of section 21 during the
period commencing on and from the 15th September 2016 and ending with the date
of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, shall be
deemed to have been validly done or taken in accordance with law, as if the
principal Act, as amended by this Act, had been in force at all material times
when such acts or actions were done or taken. Provided that in the case of
candidates belonging to linguistic minorities, the minimum pass mark shall be
50.”.(By order of the Governor)C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,Secretary to Government
(Legislation),Law Department

