## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Rules, 1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Rules, 1995

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MOTOR-VEHICLES-SPECIAL-PROVISIONS-RULES-1995 of 1995

  * Published on 18 May 1995 
  * Commenced on 18 May 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 May 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Rules, 1995Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 718, Home, dated 18th May 1995 - No. SRO
A-31/95G.O. Ms. No. 718. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1) of section 8 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act,
1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of 1992), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules : -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules be called the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provision)
Rules, 1995.(2)They shall come into force on the 18th day of May 1995.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle (Special Provisions) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of
1992);(2)"Motor Vehicles Rules" means the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules,
1989, issued under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988).

### 3. Renewal of permit.

\- The Motor Vehicles Rules in relation to the renewal of permit under Chapter
V of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) shall, so far as
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, apply to the
renewal of permit under sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act.

### 4. Variation of conditions of permit.

(1)Application for variation of conditions of permit under sub-section (4) of
section 6 of the Act shall be made to the State Transport Authority or the
Regional Transport Authority, as the case may be, in Form PVA prescribed in
the Motor Vehicles Rules and shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in the
Table under rule 279 of the said Rules.(2)On receipt of an application under
sub-rule (1), the State Transport Authority or the Regional Transport
Authority, as the case may be, shall display on a notice board provided in its
"office, a notice containing the substance of the application, the period
before which any representation may be submitted, which shall not be less than
fifteen days and the date appointed for consideration of the representation
and a copy of such notice shall also be sent to the operators who are
providing stage carriage transport service on the route (including the
variation portion) or sector thereof.(3)In case where any representations
received by the State Transport Authority or the Regional Transport Authority,
as the case may be, shall, after considering the representation, dispose of
the application on the date appointed for consideration at a public hearing at
which the applicant and the person making the representation shall have an
opportunity of being heard either in person or by a duly authorised
representative.(4)The State Transport Authority or the Regional Transport
Authority, as the case may be, after recording the reasons, by order, grant or
refuse to grant variation sought for in the application and shall furnish a
copy of such order to the person who filed the representation:Provided that in
the case of variation, the distance covered by such variation shall not exceed
twenty-four kilometers.Provided further that such variation shall not have
effect of increasing the number of stage carriages as originally fixed.(5)If
an order granting the variation is passed by the State Transport Authority or
the Regional Transport Authority, as the case may be, under sub-rule (4), the
authority granting the variation shall call upon the holder of the permit to
produce, within four months from the date of receipt of such order, the
permit, the registration certificate of fitness, the insurance certificate and
the proof for payment of tax under the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act,
1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), so as to make entries of variation in the
permit and then fix a date for convening a timing conference, wherever
necessary. If the permit holder fails to produce the aforesaid documents
within the aforesaid period of four months, the Authority granting the
variation shall cancel the variation.(6)The State Transport Authority or the
Regional Transport Authority, as the case may be, may delegate to its
Secretary the powers conferred on it under this rule.(7)Any person aggrieved
by an order of the State Transport Authority or the Regional Transport
Authority, as the case may be, may prefer an appeal to the appellate authority
prescribed under the Motor Vehicles Rules. On such appeal, if the appellate
authority passes an order, the provisions of sub-rule (5) shall, so far as may
be, apply to such order, as they apply to an order passed under sub-rule
(4).(8)Variation of conditions of permit shall not be granted more than once a
year under this rule:Provided that no application for variation by an operator
shall be entertained before the completion of one full year of the
implementation of the earlier variation order issued to that operator.

