## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Act, 1982

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Act, 1982

## Act 33 of 1982

  * Published on 1 June 1982 
  * Commenced on 1 June 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 June 1982.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Act, 1982(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1982)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act,
1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1982). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons,
please see Part IV-Section 1, page 168 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 27th May 1982.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Amendment Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1993). - The Tamil Nadu Manual
Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982 (Tamil
Nadu Act 33 of 1982), provides for regulating the employment of manual workers
employed in certain scheduled employments and the conditions of their work and
security of their employment. The Government have now decided to formulate a
scheme for the welfare of manual workers in the employment in construction or
maintenance of dams, bridges, roads or in any building operations which is one
of the scheduled employment. With this object in view, it is proposed to levy
as contribution towards the fund to be constituted for the benefit of the said
manual workers under a scheme framed under section 3 of the Act, a sum at such
per cent not exceeding one per cent of the estimated cost of the building or
construction work, as may be notified by the Government. The said sum shall be
collected by the local authority concerned at the time of sanction of building
permit from the person who applies for a building permit. !n respect of
construction work other than building- work, every person who undertakes any
construction work or in charge of the construction work shall be liable to pay
the said sum as contribution to the said Fund. The sum so collected shall be
remitted to the Board to be established, in respect of the manual workers
referred to above, under section 6 of the Act for being credited to the said
fund. The said Board shall administer the fund to provide welfare measures
contemplated in the scheme referred to above in accordance with such scheme.
It has, therefore, been decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982, accordingly.2\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-
Section 1, page 103 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 30th April 1993.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Manual
Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 1998.
- The Government have constituted in G.O. (Misc) No. 126, Labour and
Employment Department, dated 27th August 1997, two tripartite committees to
study the problems and issues of unorganised workers engaged in the
employments which are covered by the provisions of labour enactments as well
as the employments not covered by labour enactments and to make suitable
suggestions. The said committees have made certain recommendations to the
Government in their common report, dated 6th February 1998. After examining
the said recommendations the Government considered it necessary to amend the
expression, "manual worker" occurring in clause (10) of section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act,
1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1982) so as to include self-employed worker and to
make new provision providing for the contribution to a Fund for the benefit of
manual workers in the employments under a scheme framed under the said] Act
other than those employed in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges,
roads or in any building operations in. respect of whom a scheme has already
been framed under the said Act. The Government have accordingly decided to
amend the said Act, suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisionPublished in Part IV-Section 1, page 359 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th November 1998.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions
of Work) Amendment Act, 2003. - Section 6(1) of the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33
of 1982) provides for the establishment of Boards, for any scheduled
employment in any area and that one or more Boards may be appointed for one or
more scheduled employments and for one or more areas. However, there is no
enabling provision in the said Act for the amalgamation of Boards in the
public interest or for securing the proper management of any Board when the
Government are satisfied that such amalgamation is necessary.2\. The
Government have decided to amend the said Act to make provision for
amalgamation of Boards.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1, page 253 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 3rd November 2003.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions
of Work) Amendment Act, 2006. - Sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1982), empowers the Government to establish one or more
Boards for one or more employment specified in the Schedule to that Act for
administering the Scheme made under that Act by the Government for the said
scheduled employment. Sub-section (3) of the said section 6 provides that the
Board shall consist of members nominated, from time to time, by the Government
representing the employers, the manual workers and the Government. Sub-section
(4) of the said section 6 provides that the members representing employers and
manual workers shall be equal in number, and the members representing the
Government shall not exceed one third of the total number of members
representing employers and manual workers.2\. In many of the scheduled
employment, there is no employer and employee relationship and the manual
workers engaged in those scheduled employment are mostly self-employed. In
these circumstances, the Government considered that the provisions contained
in sub-section (3) of the said section 6 is sufficient for the purpose and
accordingly decided to omit sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said Act.3\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-
Section 1, page 128 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 24th August 2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Manual
Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 2007
(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 2007). - Section 29 of the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33
of 1982) provides for modifying any item of the Schedule or add to the
Schedule to the said Act by the Government, by notification, after giving not
less than three months notice of its intention so to do. By the Tamil Nadu
Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Second
Amendment Ordinance, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 1 of 2001), the said section
29 was substituted by a new section which enabled the Government to modify any
item of the Schedule or add to the Schedule to the said Act without giving
such notice. The said Ordinance was not replaced by an Act of the Legislative
Assembly. Therefore, the provisions of the said section 29 as so substituted
by the said Ordinance ceased to operate on and from the 2nd July 2001. Now,
the Government have decided to make a provision enabling the Government to
modify any item of the Schedule or add to the Schedule to the said Act without
giving notice, by amending the said Act suitably for the purpose.2\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1,
page 71 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 9th May
2007.Received the assent of the President on 1st June 1982 and first published
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th June 1982.An
Act for regulating the employment of manual workers employed in certain
employments in the State of Tamil Nadu and the conditions of their work and
security of their employments and for certain other matters connected
therewith.BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Thirty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982.(2)It extends to the employments
specified in the Schedule.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the
State Government may, by notification, appoint; and different dates, may be
appointed for different areas, for different employments and for different
provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"Advisory Committee"
means an Advisory Committee constituted under section 15;(2)"Board" means a
Board established under section 6;(3)"child" means a person who has not
completed sixteen years of age;(4)"contractor" , in relation to a manual
worker, means a person who undertakes to execute any work for an establishment
by engaging such workers on hire or otherwise, or who supplies such workers
either in groups, gangs or as individuals and includes a sub-contractor, an
agent, or a maistry;(5)"employer" , in relation to any manual worker engaged
by or through contractor, means the principal employer and, in relation to any
other manual worker, the person who has ultimate control over the affairs of
the establishment and includes any other person to whom the affairs of such
establishment are entrusted, whether such person is called an agent, manager
or is called by any other name prevailing in the scheduled
employment;(6)"establishment" means any place or premises including the
precincts thereof, in which or in any part of which any scheduled employment
is being or is ordinarily carried on;(7)"family", in relation to an employer,
means the spouse, son, daughter, father, mother, brother or sister of such
employer who lives with him and is wholly dependent on him;(8)"Government"
means the State Government;(9)"Inspector" means an Inspector appointed under
section 16;(10)"manual worker" means a person who is engaged or to be engaged
directly or through any agency, in any scheduled employment whether for wages
or not, to do manual work in any scheduled employment, and includes any person
not employed by any employer or a contractor, but working with the permission
of, or under agreement with the employer or contractor and a person who is
given raw materials by an employer or a contractor for making or altering or
for any work, [and a person who directly engages himself in any scheduled
employment, but does not include any member of the family of an employer or
any employee who is in the enjoyment of benefits by or under the Employees'
State Insurance Act, 1948 (Central Act XXXIV of 1948) or the Employees'
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (Central Act XIX of
1952)] [Substituted for the words 'and registered as such manual workers under
this Act, but does not include any member of the family of an employer' by the
Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Amendment Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 60 of 1998).];(11)"principal employer"
means an employer who engages manual workers by or through a contractor in any
scheduled employment;(12)"scheduled employment" means any employment specified
in the schedule wherein any manual work is undertaken by the manual worker or
any process or branch of manual work forming part of such
employment;(13)"scheme" means a scheme made under this Act;(14)"wages" means
all remunerations expressed in terms of money or capable of being so expressed
which would, if the terms of contract of employment, express or implied were
fulfilled, be payable to a manual worker in respect of work done in any
scheduled employment, but does not include-(i)the value of any house
accommodation, supply of light, water, medical attendance, or any other
amenity or any service excluded from the computation of wages by general or
special order of the Government;(ii)any contribution paid by the employer to
any pension fund or provident fund or under any scheme of social insurance and
the interest which may have accrued thereon;(iii)any travelling allowance or
the value of any travelling concession;(iv)any sum paid to the manual worker
to defray special expenses entailed on him by the nature of his employment;
or(v)any gratuity payable on discharge.

### 3. Scheme of ensuring regular employment of manual workers.

(1)For the purpose of ensuring an adequate supply and full and proper
utilisation of manual workers in scheduled employments, and generally for
making better provision for the terms and conditions of employment of such
workers, the Government may, by means of a scheme, provide for the
registration of employers and manual workers in any scheduled employment or
employments, and provide for the terms and conditions of work of manual
workers, and make provision for the general welfare in such employments.(2)In
particular, a scheme may provide for all or any of the following matters, that
is to say,-(a)for the application of the scheme to such classes of manual
workers and employers, as may be specified therein;(b)for defining the
obligations of manual workers and employers subject to the fulfilment of which
the scheme may apply to them;(c)for regulating the recruitment and entry into
the scheme of manual workers and the registration of such workers and
employers, including the maintenance of registers, removal, either temporarily
or permanently, of names from the registers, and provision for appeal.against
such removal to the prescribed authority, and the imposition of fees for
registration;(d)for regulating the employment of manual workers and the terms
and conditions of such employment, including rates of wages, hours of work,
maternity benefit, overtime payment, leave with wages, provision for gratuity
and conditions as to weekly and other holidays and pay in respect
thereof;(e)for securing that, in respect of period during which employment or
full employment is not available to manual workers though they are available
for work, such manual workers will, subject to the conditions of the scheme,
receive a minimum wage;(f)for prohibiting, restricting or otherwise
controlling the employment of manual workers to whom the scheme does not
apply, and the employment of manual workers by employers to whom the scheme
does not apply;(g)for the welfare of manual workers covered by the scheme in
so far as satisfactory provision therefor, does not exist, apart from the
scheme;(h)for health and safety measures in places where the manual workers
are engaged, in so far as satisfactory provision therefor, is required, but
does not exist, apart from the scheme;(i)for the constitution of any fund or
funds including provident fund for the benefit of manual workers, the vesting
of such funds, the payment and contributions to be made to such funds
[provision for provident fund and rates of contribution being made after
taking into consideration the provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (Central Act XIX of 1952) and the scheme
framed thereunder with suitable modifications, where necessary, to suit the
conditions of work of such manual workers] and all matters relating
thereto;(j)for the manner in which, and the persons by whom, the cost of
operating the scheme is to be defrayed, including any contributions to the
fund by employers and manual workers and the rate of such contributions;(k)for
appointing the persons or authorities who are to be responsible for the
administration of the scheme, and for the administration of funds constituted
for the purposes aforesaid;(l)for such incidental and supplementary matters,
as may be deemed necessary or expedient for giving effect to the purposes t of
a scheme.(3)The scheme may further provide that a contravention of any
provision thereof shall be punished with imprisonment for such term as may be
specified (but in no case exceeding three months in respect of a first
contravention or six months in respect of any subsequent contraventions), or
with fine which may extend to such amount as may be specified (but in no case
exceeding five hundred rupees in respect of a first contravention, or one
thousand rupees in respect of any subsequent contraventions) or with both
imprisonment and fine and if the contravention is continued after conviction
with a further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for each day on
which the contravention is so continued.

### 4. Making variation and revocation of.

\- The Government may, after consultation with the Advisory Committee, by
notification [xxx] [The words 'and subject to the condition of previous
publication' were omitted by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 2001 (Tamil
Nadu Act 2 of 2001).] make one or more schemes for any scheduled employment or
group of scheduled employments, in one or more areas specified in the
notification; and in like manner add to, amend, vary or substitute another
scheme for, any scheme made by it:[First proviso was omitted by section 4 of
the Tamil Nadu Manual "Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of
Work) Amendment Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 2001).]Provided further that,
the Government may,-(a)if it considers necessary, or(b)if a demand or request
is made by a majority of the employers or workers in any other scheduled
employment, that the provisions of any scheme so made for any scheduled
employment or any part thereof should be applied to such other scheduled
employment, the Government may, after consulting the employers and workers in
such other scheduled employment, by notification, apply the provisions of such
scheme or part thereof to such other scheduled employment, with such
modifications, if any, as may be specified in the notification.

### 5. Disputes regarding application of the scheme.

\- If any question arises whether any scheme applies to any class of manual
workers or employers, the matter shall be referred to such authority as may be
prescribed in this behalf and the decision of such prescribed authority made
after consultation with the Advisory Committee on the question shall be final.

### 6. Establishment of Board .

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish a Board to be known by such
name as may be specified in the notification for any scheduled employment in
any area. One or more Boards may be appointed for one or more scheduled
employments, and for one or more areas.(2)Every such Board shall be a body
corporate with the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and common
seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, and to contract,
and may by that name sue or be sued.(3)The Board shall consist of members
nominated, from time to time, by the Government representing the employers,
the manual workers, and the Government.(4)Omitted by the Tamil Nadu Manual
Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Employment) Amendment Act,
2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 2006):(5)The chairman of the Board shall be one of
the members appointed to represent the Government, nominated in this behalf by
the Government.(6)After nomination of all the members of the Board including
the chairman, the Government stall, by notification, publish the names of all
the members of .the Board.(7)The term of office of members of the Board shall
be such as may be prescribed.(8)The meetings of the Board and procedure to be
followed for the purpose and all matters supplementary or ancillary thereto
shall, subject to the approval of the Government, be regulated by the Board
itself.

### 6A. [ Amalgamation of Boards. [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 2003 (Tamil
Nadu Act 32 of 2003).]

(1)Where the Government are satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest or for the purpose of securing the proper management of any Board,
that two or more Boards should be amalgamated, the Government may formulate a
proposal for amalgamation and shall publish such proposal in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and in not less than one Tamil daily newspaper having wide
circulation in the State.(2)Any member of the Board concerned, any manual
worker registered under any scheme administered by such Boards or any other
person likely to be affected, may, within thirty days from the date of
publication of the proposal for amalgamation in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette or in the Tamil daily newspaper, whichever is later, file objection or
suggestion to the proposed amalgamation before the Government.(3)The
Government may, after considering the objections and suggestions, if any, pass
an order approving or modifying the proposal or pass such other order as they
deem fit. The order shall specify the constitution and authorities of the
Board and shall contain the duties, liabilities and obligations of such Board
and such other incidental, consequential and supplemental provisions as may,
in the opinion of the Government, be necessary to give effect to the
order.(4)Every order made under sub-section (3) shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(5)On and from the date of order of
amalgamation, the assets, liabilities, properties, rights and interests and
the records, registers and other documents of the Boards so amalgamated shall
stand transferred to the amalgamated Board.]

### 7. Power of Government to appoint one-man Board.

(1)Where by reason of employers or manual workers in any scheduled employment
refusing to nominate persons for representing them on the Board or for any
reasons whatsoever, it appears to the Government that it is unable to
establish a Board for such scheduled employment in accordance with the
provisions of section 6, the Government may, by notification, appoint a person
who shall hold office until a Board is duly established under section 6 for
such scheduled employment.(2)The person so appointed shall be deemed to
constitute the Board for the time being, and shall exercise all the powers and
perform and discharge all the duties and functions conferred and imposed upon
the Board by or under this Act. He shall continue in office until the day
immediately preceding the date of the first meeting of such Board.(3)The
person constituting the Board shall receive such remuneration from the fund of
the Board, and the terms and other conditions of service shall be such as the
Government may determine.

### 8. Powers and duties of the Board.

(1)The Board shall be responsible for administering a scheme, and shall
exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be conferred on it by
the scheme.(2)The Board may take such measures as it may deem fit for
administering the scheme.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law, the Board may nominate persons or officers who would be competent to act
on behalf of any manual worker to initiate action for making any claim under
any law or rules made thereunder or award or settlement made under any such
law and appear on behalf of the manual workers in such
proceedings.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 36 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947), the Board may
nominate persons or officers who would be competent to act in an industrial
dispute raised individually under section 2-A or collectively under section
2(k) of the said Act to represent the workers in any conciliation proceeding
or proceedings before Labour Courts, Industrial Tribunal or National Tribunal
or before an Arbitrator under section 10-A of the said Act, if the Board has
been authorised by the manual workers.(5)The Board shall submit to the
Government as soon as may be, after the first day of April every year, the
annual report on the working of the scheme during the preceding year ending on
thirty-first March of that year.Every report so received shall be laid as soon
as may be after it is received before each House of the State Legislature if
it is in session, or in the session immediately following the date of receipt
of the report.(6)In exercise of the powers and discharge of its functions, the
Board shall be bound by such directions as the Government may, for reasons to
be stated in writing, give to it, from time to time.

### 8A. [ Contribution to fund for benefit of manual workers in the employment
in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, etc. [Inserted by the Tamil
Nadu Act 26 of 1993.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
or in any agreement,-(a)every person who makes an application for building
permit for any building work to a local authority shall be liable to pay the
local authority concerned, in addition to the fee for the building permit;
and(b)every person who undertakes or is in charge of, any construction [work
other than the building work referred to in clause (a) shall be liable to pay,
a sum at such per cent not exceeding one pet cent of the total estimated cost
of the building or construction work proposed to be constructed, as may be
fixed by the Government by notification, as contribution to the fund
constituted for the benefit of manual workers in the employment in
construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads or in any building
operations, under a scheme framed under section 3.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force, every local authority shall,
while sanctioning the building permit, collect the sum specified in clause (a)
of sub-section (1), in such manner as maybe prescribed.(3)(a)Notwithstanding
anything contained in any law for the time being in force, every application
made to any local authority for building permit, shall also be accompanied by
a detailed estimated cost of the building proposed to be constructed for which
a building permit is applied for.(b)The detailed estimate referred to in
clause (a) shall be certified by such authority as may be prescribed as to the
correctness of such estimate.(4)Every local authority referred to in clause
(a) and every person referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall,
within such period as may be prescribed, remit the sum collected or liable to
pay, as the case may be, under the said sub-section (1), to the Board
established under section 6 in respect of the manual workers in the employment
in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads or in any building
operations, in such manner as may be prescribed, for being credited to the
Fund constituted for the benefit of the said workers under a scheme framed
under section 3.(5)(a)The provisions of this section shall apply to-(i)the
City of [Chennai];(ii)the City of Madurai; and(iii)the City of Coimbatore,on
the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 1993.(b)The Government may,
by notification, direct that this section shall apply on such date as may be
specified in the notification to the local area comprised in-(i)any municipal
town;(ii)any township; or(iii)any panchayat.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section,-(a)"local authority" means-(i)the Municipal Corporation of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the words 'Madras' by city madras (Alteration of
Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996)], Madurai, Coimbatore or any other
Municipal Corporation that maybe constituted under any law for the time being
in force; or(ii)a municipal council constituted under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920); or(iii)a Township
Committee constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920
(Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) or the Tamil Nadu Pancha-yats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act XXXV of 1958) or the Mettur Township Act, 1940 (Tamil Nadu Act XI of 1940)
or the Courtallam Township Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1954) or the
Bhavani Sagar Township Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1954) or under any
other law for the time being in force; or(iv)a panchayat constituted under the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958);(b)"person"
includes-(i)[ the Central Government, the Central Government Undertakings, any
State Government or Union Territory Administration;] [Substituted for '(i) any
State Government or Union Territory Administration;' by Act No. 17 of 2014,
dated 2.9.2014.](ii)a local authority including a Panchayat Union Council;
and(iii)an individual, a family, a firm, a company or an association or body
of individuals, whether incorporated or not.]

### 8B. [ Contribution to hind for benefit of manual workers other than those
employed in construction or maintenance of dams, bridge, roads, or in any
building operations. [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 60 of
1998).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
or any agreement, but save as otherwise provided in section 8-A,-(a)every
employer other than an employer operating a motor transport for carrying
passengers or goods by roads, employing manual worker in any scheduled
employment, shall be liable to pay, [to the respective Board established under
section 6, for any scheduled employment, other than the scheduled employment
in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads, or in any building
operations, a sum at such rate, in such manner and within such time, as
specified in the scheme].(b)every employer operating any motor transport for
carrying passengers or goods by roads, shall be liable to pay, in addition to
the tax payable by him under the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974) (hereafter in this section referred to as the said
Act), a sum at such rate not exceeding one per cent of the tax payable by him
under the said Act, as may be fixed by the Government by notification;(c)every
manual worker in any scheduled employment other than the scheduled employment
in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads in any building
operations, [shall pay a sum, at such rate, in such manner and within such
time, as specified in the scheme in respect of such scheduled employment]
[Substituted for the words 'shall pay a sum of rupees twenty per month in such
manner and within such time as may be specified in the scheme' by the Tamil
Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Amendment Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 2001).].(d)the Government may, from
time to time, make grants to the Board on such terms and conditions as the
Government may, in each case, determine,as contribution to the Fund
constituted for the benefit of manual workers in the scheduled employments
under a scheme framed under this Act, other than those employed in
construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads or in any building
operations.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being
in force, every officer appointed under the said Act shall, while collecting
the tax under the said Act, also collect the sum specified under sub-section
(1) and remit such sum [within such time as maybe prescribed] [Substituted for
the words 'within ninety days from the date of collection of such sum' by the
Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Amendment Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 2001).] to the Board referred to in
sub-section (1), in such manner as may be specified in the scheme.(3)Any sum
paid under sub-section (1) or remitted under sub-section (2) shall be credited
to the Fund constituted for the benefit of the manual workers, under a scheme
framed under this Act, other than those employed in construction or
maintenance of dams, bridge, roads or in any building operation.]

### 9. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts, including a balance-sheet in such
form as may be prescribed.(2)The accounts of the Board shall be audited
annually by such qualified person as the Government may appoint in this
behalf.(3)The auditor shall, at all reasonable times, have access to the books
of accounts and other documents of the Board, and may, for the purposes of the
audit-, call for such explanation and information as he may require or examine
arty member or officer of the Board.(4)The accounts of the Board certified by
the auditor, together with the audited report thereon shall be forwarded
annually to the Government before such date as the Government may specify in
this behalf.(5)The Board shall comply with such directions as the Government
may after perusal of the report of the auditor, think fit to issue.(6)The cost
of audit, as determined by the Government, shall be paid out of the funds of
the Board.

### 10. Disqualifications and removal.

(1)No person shall be chosen as, or continue to be, a member of the Board
who-(a)is a salaried officer of the Board; or(b)is or at any time has been
adjudged insolvent; or(c)is found to be a lunatic or becomes of unsound mind;
or(d)is or has been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)The
Government may remove from office any member who-(a)is or has become subject
to any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (1); or(b)is absent
without leave of the Board for more than three consecutive meetings of the
Board.

### 11. Resignation by members.

\- Any member of the Board may, at any time, resign his office by writing
under his hand addressed to the Government, and his office shall, on
acceptance of resignation by the Government, become vacant.

### 12. Filling up of vacancy.

\- In the event of any vacancy occurring on account of death, resignation,
disqualification or removal or otherwise, the Board shall forthwith
communicate the occurrence to the Government and the vacancy shall be filled
not later than ninety days from the date of the occurrence of the vacancy, and
the person nominated to fill in the vacancy shall hold office so long only as
the member in whose place he is nominated would have held it if the vacancy
had not occurred:Provided that during any such vacancy, the continuing members
may act as if no vacancy has occurred.

### 13. Proceedings presumed to be good and valid.

\- No act or proceedings of the Board shall be questioned or invalidated
merely by reason of any vacancy in its membership or by reason of any defect
in the constitution thereof.

### 14. Recovery of dues to the Board.

(1)On an application made by the Board for the recovery of arrears of any sum
payable to it under this Act or any scheme and on its furnishing a statement
of accounts in respect of such arrears, the Collector may, after making such
inquiries as he deems fit, grant a certificate for the recovery of the amount
stated therein to be due as arrears.(2)A certificate by the Collector shall be
final and conclusive as to the arrears due. The arrears stated to be due
therein shall then be recovered as arrears of land revenue by the Collector
and remitted to the Board.

### 15. Advisory Committee.

\- The Government may constitute an Advisory Committee to advise upon such
matters arising out of the administration of this Act or any scheme made under
this Act or relating to the application of the provisions of this Act to any
particular class of manual workers and employers, or coordination of the work
of various Boards, as the Advisory Committee may itself consider to be
necessary or as the Government may refer it for advice.(2)The members of the
Advisory Committee stall be appointed by the Government and shall be of such
number and chosen in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided that the
Advisory Committee shall include unequal number of members representing
employers, manual workers and the Legislature of the State and members
representing the Government not exceeding one-fourth of its total number of
members.(3)The Chairman of the Advisory Committee shall be one of the members
appointed to represent the Government nominated in this behalf by the
Government.(4)The Government shall publish in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette the names of all the members of the Advisory Committee.(5)The meetings
of the Advisory Committee and procedure to be followed for the purpose shall
be regulated according to rules made under this Act.(6)The term of office of
members of the Advisory Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 16. Inspectors.

(1)The Board may appoint such persons as inspectors, as it thinks fit to be
Inspectors possessing the prescribed qualifications for the purposes of this
Act or of any scheme and may define the limits of their
jurisdiction.(2)Subject to any rules made by the Government in this behalf, an
Inspector may-(a)enter and search, at all reasonable hours, with such
assistants as he things fit, any premises or place where manual workers are
employed or work is given out to manual workers in any scheduled employment,
for the purpose of examining any register, record of wages or notices required
to be kept or exhibited under any scheme, and require the production thereof,
for inspection;(b)examine any person whom he finds in any such premises or
place and who, he has reasonable cause to believe is a manual worker employed
therein or a manual worker to whom work is given out therein;(c)require any
person giving any work to manual worker or to a group of manual workers to
give any information, which is in his power to give, in respect of the names
and addresses of the persons to whom the work is given, and in respect of
payments made, or to be made, for the said work;(d)seize or take copies of
such registers, records of wages or notices or portions thereof as he may
consider relevant, in respect of an offence under this Act or scheme, which he
has reason to believe has been committed by an employer; and(e)exercise such
other powers as may be prescribed:Provided that no one shall be required under
the provisions of this section to answer any question or make any statement
tending to incriminate himself.(3)Every Inspector appointed under this section
shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1980).

### 17. Information required by the Inspector.

\- The employer of an industrial premises shall furnish any information that
an Inspector may require for the purpose of satisfying himself whether any
provision of this Act, or the rules made thereunder has been complied with or
whether any order of an Inspector has been duly carried out. Any demand by an
Inspector of any such information, if made during the course of an inspection,
shall be complied with forthwith if the information is available in the
industrial premises or if made in writing shall be complied with, within seven
days of receipt thereof.

### 18. Prohibition of employment of children.

\- No child shall be required or allowed to work in any scheduled employment.

### 19. Cognizance of offences.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence made punishable by a scheme
or of any abetment thereof except on a complaint in writing made by an
Inspector or by a person specially authorised in this behalf by the Board or
Government within three months of the date on which the alleged commission of
the offence came to the knowledge of the Inspector:Provided that if the
offence consists of disobeying a written order made by the Inspector,
complaint thereof may be made within six months of the date on which the
offence is alleged to have been committed.

### 20. Application of Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 to manual workers.

\- The provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 (Central Act VIII of
1923) and the rules made, from time to time thereunder, shall mutatis mutandis
apply to manual workers employed in any scheduled employment to which this Act
applies, and for that purpose, they shall be deemed to be workmen within the
meaning of that Act; and in relation to such workmen, employer shall mean
where a "Board makes payment of wages to any such workmen, the Board, and in
any other case, the employer as defined in this Act.

### 21. Application of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 to manual workers.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(Central Act IV of 1936), the Government may, by notification, direct that all
or any of the provisions of the said Act or the rules made thereunder shall
apply to all or any class of manual workers employed in any scheduled
employment to which this Act applies, with the modification that in relation
to manual workers, employer shall mean where a Board makes payment of wages to
such worker, the Board, and in any other case, the employer as defined in this
Act; and on such application of the provisions of the said Act, an Inspector
appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be the Inspector for the purpose
of the enforcement of such provisions of the said Act within the local limits
of his jurisdiction.(2)The Government may, by a like notification, cancel or
vary any notification issued under sub-section (1).

### 22. Application of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 to manual workers.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961
(Central Act 53 of 1961), the Government may, by notification, direct that all
or any of the provisions of the said Act or the rules made thereunder shall
apply to manual women workers, employed in any manual scheduled employment to
which this Act applies; and for that purpose," they shall be deemed to be
women within the meaning of the said Act and in relation to such women,
employer shall mean where a Board makes payment of wages to such women, the
Board, and in any other case, the employer as defined in this Act; and on such
application of the provisions of the said Act, an Inspector appointed under
this Act shall be deemed to be the Inspector for the purpose of enforcement of
such provisions of the said Act within the local limits of his jurisdiction.

### 23. Application of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 to manual workers.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (Central
Act XI of 1948), the provisions of that Act shall apply to the manual workers
employed in any scheduled employment, as if the employments specified in the
schedule to this Act had been specified in the schedule to the said Central
Act.

### 24. Rights and privileges under other laws not affected in certain cases.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall affect any rights or privileges, which
any manual worker employed in any scheduled employment is entitled to, on the
date on which this Act comes into force, under any other law, contract, custom
or usage applicable to such worker, if such rights or privileges are more
favourable to him than those to which he would be entitled under this Act and
the scheme: Provided that such worker will not be entitled to receive, any
corresponding benefit under the provisions of this Act and the scheme.

### 25. Exemptions.

\- The Government may, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, by
notification and subject to such conditions and for such period as may be
specified in the notification, exempt from the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act or any scheme made thereunder, all or any classes of
manual workers employed in any scheduled employment in any establishment or
part of any establishment of any scheduled employment, if in the opinion of
the Government, all such manual workers or such class or classes of workers,
are in the enjoyment of benefits which are on the whole not less favourable to
such manual workers than the benefits provided by or under this Act or any
scheme framed thereunder:Provided that the Government may, by notification, at
any time, for reasons to be specified, rescind the aforesaid notification.

### 26. Enquiry into working of the Board.

(1)The Government may, at any time, appoint any person to investigate or
enquire into the working of any Board or scheme and submit a report to the
Government in that behalf.(2)The Board shall give to the person so appointed
all facilities for the proper conduct of the investigation or inquiry, and
furnish to him such documents, accounts or information in possession of the
Board as he may require.(3)Any person so appointed to investigate or inquire
into the working of any Board or scheme may exercise all the powers of an
Inspector appointed under this Act.

### 27. Supersession of the Board.

\- If the Government, on consideration of the report referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 26 or otherwise, is of the opinion-(a)that the Board is
unable to perform its functions; or(b)that the Board has persistently made
default in the discharge of its functions or has exceeded or abused its
powers,the Government may, by notification, supersede the Board and
reconstitute it in the prescribed manner, within a period of twelve months
from the date of supersession. The period of supersession may be extended for
sufficient reasons by a like notification by not more than six months:Provided
that before issuing a notification under this sub-section on any of the
grounds mentioned in clause (b), the Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Board to show cause why it should not be superseded, and
shall consider the explanations and objections, if any, of the Board.(2)After
the supersession of the Board and until it is reconstituted, the powers,
duties and functions of the Board under this Act shall be exercised and
performed by the Government, or by such officer or officers as the Government
may appoint for this purpose.(3)When the Board is superseded, the following
consequences shall ensue, that is to say:-(a)all the members of the Board
shall, as from the date of publication of the notification under sub-section
(1), vacate their office;(b)all the powers and functions, which may be
exercised or performed by the Board, shall during the period of supersession,
be exercised or performed by such persons as may be specified in the
notification;(c)all funds and other property vesting in the Board shall,
during the period of supersession, vest in the Government and on the
reconstitution of the Board, such funds and property shall revest in the
Board.

### 28. Contracting out.

\- Any contract or agreement, whether made before or after the commencement of
this Act, whereby a manual worker relinquishes any right conferred by or any
privilege or concession accruing to him under this Act or any scheme, shall be
void and of no effect in so far as it purports to deprive him of such right or
privilege or concession.

### 29. [ Power to amend Schedule. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Manual Workers
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work) Amendment Act, 2007 (Tamil
Nadu Act 10 of 2007).]

\- The Government may modify any item of the Schedule or add to the Schedule
any employment in respect of which it is of opinion that the provisions of
this Act should apply and the provisions of this Act shall, thereupon, apply
to such employment as modified or added.]

### 30. Penalty.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, any person, who
contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder
shall, on conviction, be punished, with fine, which may extend to five hundred
rupees, and in case of continued contravention thereof, with an additional
fine which may extend to one hundred rupees per day for every day during which
such contravention continues.

### 31. Protection of action taken in goods faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government or the Board or the Chairman Secretary, or any member of the Board
or Advisory Committee, or any Inspector or any other officers of the Board for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act, or any scheme or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 32. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both
Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Law
Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule or notification should not be
made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or notification.The Schedule[See
section 2(12)]Employment in connection with loading, unloading, stacking,
packing, carrying, weighing, measuring or such other manual work including
work preparatory or incidental to such operations:-(a)in any market or shop or
depot, or factory or warehouse or godown or any other establishment;(b)in
docks not being employment of a dock worker within the meaning of Dock Workers
(Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (Central Act IX of 1948);(c)in railway
yards and goods sheds of manual workers who are not employed by Railway
Authorities;(d)in any market under the control of Market Committees
constituted under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1959 (Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 1959)1.

### 2\. Employment in connection with loading of goods into public transport
vehicles or unloading of goods therefrom and any other operation incidental or
connected thereto.

### 3\. Employment in connection with loading, unloading and carrying of food-
grains into godowns, sorting and cleaning of food-grains, filling food-grains
in bags, stitching of such bags and such other work incidental and connected
thereto.

### 4\. Employment in salt pans.

### 5\. Employment in fishing industry.

### 6\. Employment in toddy tapping.

### 7\. Employment in boat working.

### 8\. Employment in timber industry.

### 9\. Employment in coir industry.

### 10\. Employment in construction or maintenance of dams, bridges, roads or
in any building operations.

### 11\. Employment in stone breaking or stone crushing.

### 12\. Employment in tannaries and leather manufactory.

### 13\. [ Employment in Automobile Workshop.

### 14\. Employment in Appalam Munufactory

### 15\. Employment in Bleaching and Dyeing.

### 16\. Employment in Bullock-Cart Driving.

### 17\. Employment in Bricks and Tiles Manufactory.

### 18\. Employment in Construction of Pandals

### 19\. Employment in Cooking Food

### 20\. Employment in coconut peeling.

### 21\. Employment in Collection of Forest Produce.

### 22\. Employment in Catering Establishments

### 23\. Employment in Cashew nut Industry.

### 24\. Employment in Driving Auto rickshaws and Taxi.

### 25\. Employment in Distribution of Liquid Petroleum Gas Cylinders.

### 26\. Employment in Driving Cycle Rickshaws.

### 27\. Employment in Engineering Works.

### 28\. Employment in Fire and Match Works.

### 29\. Employment in Folding Textiles Goods.

### 30\. Employment in Footwear and Leather Goods Manufactory.

### 31\. Employment in Gunny Industry.

### 32\. Employment in Gold and Silver Articles Manufactory.

### 33. Employment in Handlooms and Handlooms Silk Weaving.

### 34. Employment in Incense sticks Manufactory.

### 35. Employment in Laundries and Washing Clothes.

### 36. Employment in Neera tapping.

### 37. Employment in Nib - making.

### 38. Employment in Flour Mills, Oil Mills, Dhall Mills and Rice Mills.

### 39. Employment in Printing Presses.

### 40. Employment in Power - loom Industry.

### 41. Employment in Private Security Services.

### 42. Employment in Plastic Industries.

### 43. Employment in Pottery Works.

### 44. Employment in Rag - Picking.

### 45. Employment in Hair Dressing and Beauty Parlour.

### 46. Employment in Street - vending.

### 47. Employment in Sago Industry.

### 48. Employment in Synthetic Gem Cutting.

### 49. Employment in Sericulture

### 50. Employment in shops and establishments

### 51. Employment in Tailoring

### 52. Employment in Tree climbing

### 53. Employment in Tin Containers Manufactory.

### 54. Employment in Vessels Manufactory.

### 55. Employment in Wood Working Units.

### 56. Employment in Domestic works]. [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 96, Labour
and Employment (N-I), dated the 21st August 1998.]

### 57. [ Employment in Cycle Repairs] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 8,L& E., dated
the 25th January 2000.]

### 58. [ Employment in Agriculture.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 8,L& E., dated
the 25th January 2000.]

### 59. [ Employment in Sculpture] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 181, dated the 22nd
November 2000.]

