## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board Act, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board Act, 1959

## Act 18 of 1959

  * Published on 23 October 1959 
  * Commenced on 23 October 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 October 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board Act, 1959(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of
1959)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village
Industries Board Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1959). - With a view to
promoting and developing khadi and village industries in the country, the
Government of India constituted Board called the All-India Khadi and Village
Industries Board and vested it with powers to prepare and organise programmes
for the production and development of khadi and village industries and to deal
with matters incidental thereto. The State Government considered that there
should be a similar Board for the State of Madras and constituted a Khadi and
Village Industries Board for this State. The Government of India found in
actual practice that the work of the All-India Board was hampered by certain
procedural and financial difficulties which could be removed if a statutory
Commission were set up by them. Parliament, therefore, enacted the Khadi and
Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 61 of 1956), and under
that Act, the Government of India set up a Statutory Commission, viz., the
Khadi and Village Industries Commission which is vested with powers, executive
as well as administrative, to secure the proper development of khadi and
village industries. The State Khadi and Village Industries Board is also faced
with similar difficulties in the preparation and execution of programmes of
khadi and village industries. The functions of the State Board are at present
only advisory and many formalities have to be gone through before the schemes
approved by it are, implemented. It is, therefore, proposed to convert the
Stale Khadi and Village Industries Board into a Statutory Board. The functions
of the proposed Board are to prepare and organise schemes for the production
and development of khadi and village industries including the training of
personnel besides all matters auxiliary thereto as far as possible on the
lines advocated by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission.The Bill seeks
to give effect to the above objects.Published in Part IV-A, page 141 of the
Fort St. George Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 8th April 1959.Received the
assent of the Governor on the 23rd October 1959, and first published in Fort
St. George Gazette, dated the 28th October 1959.An Act to provide for the
establishment of a Board for the development of khadi and village industries
and for matters connected therewith in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted,
for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for the establishment of a Board for
the development of khadi and village industries and for matters connected
therewith in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];Be it enacted in the Tenth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Khadi and Village
Industries Board Act, 1959.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall [come into force on such date] [This Act came into force on
the 1st day of April 1960.] as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Board" means the
[Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board] [Substituted for 'Madras State
Khadi and Village Industries Board' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970.] established under sub-section (1) of section 3;(b)"Government"
means the Tamil Nadu Government;(c)"Khadi" means any cloth woven on handlooms
in India from cotton, silk or woollen yam, handspun in India or from a mixture
of any two or all of such yams;(d)"Khadi and Village Industries Commission"
means the Khadi and Village Industries Commission established under section 4
of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 61 of
1956);(e)"member" means a member of the Board and includes the
president;(f)"president" means the president of the Board;(g)"secretary" means
the secretary of the Board appointed under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of
section 3;(h)"village industries" means-(i)all or any of the industries
specified in the Schedule to the Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act,
1956 (Central Act 61 of 1956); and(ii)any industry specified in this behalf by
the Government by notification in consultation with the Board.and includes any
other industry deemed to be specified in the said Schedule by reason of a
notification Order section 3 of the said Act.

## Chapter II  
Khadi and Village Industries Board

### 3. Establishment and constitution of the Board.

(1)With effect from such date as the Government may, by notification, fix in
this behalf, there shall be established a Board to be called the [Tamil Nadu
Khadi and Village Industries Board] [Substituted for 'Madras State Khadi and
Village Industries Board' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.].
It shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal
with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract and may,
by the said name, sue and be sued.(2)(a)The Board shall consist of not more
than fifteen members including the president, the vice president and the
secretary (where the secretary is appointed by the Government from amongst the
members). The appointment of members, except the president, shall be made by
the Government and shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.].(b)The Minister in charge of khadi
development in the State shall be the president of the Board.(c)The vice-
president shall be elected from amongst the non-official members of the
Board.(d)The Government may, in consultation with the Board, appoint a person
who may or may not be a member of the Board to be the secretary of the
Board:Provided that where a person other than a member is appointed as
secretary, he shall not be entitled to vote at meetings of the Board.(e)The
majority of the members shall be non-officials.(f)The Government shall appoint
as members-(i)only such non-officials as have shown an active interest in the
production and development of khadi or in the development of village
industries, and(ii)officials.

### 4. Resignation of office by member.

\- Any member may resign his office by giving notice in writing to the
Government and on such resignation being notified in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] by the Government, he shall
be deemed to have vacated his office.

### 5. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate acts and proceedings of the Board.

\- No act or proceedings of the Board shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy amongst its members or any defect in the constitution
thereof.

### 6. Temporary association of persons with the Board for particular
purposes.

(1)The Board may associate with itself in such manner and for such purposes as
may be determined by regulations made under this Act any person whose
assistance or advice it may desire in complying with any of the provisions of
this Act.(2)A person associated with the Board under sub-section (1) for any
purpose shall have the right to take part in the discussions of the Board
relevant to that purpose, but shall not have the right to vote and shall not
be a member for any other purpose.(3)The Government may, by order, depute one
or more officers of the Government to attend any meetings of the Board and to
take part in the discussions of the Board, but such officer or officers shall
not have the right to vote.

### 7. Meetings of the Board.

(1)The Board shall meet at such times and places and shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-sections (2) to (4), observe such rules of procedure in
regard to transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at
meetings) as may be provided by regulations made by the Board under this
Act:Provided that the Board shall meet at least once in every three
months.(2)The president may, whenever he thinks fit, call special meetings of
the Board.(3)The president or, in his absence, the vice-president, or if he is
also absent, such member as may be chosen by the members present from among
themselves shall preside at a meeting of the Board.(4)All questions at a
meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the
members present and voting in the case of an equality of votes, the president
or, in his absence, the person presiding shall have a second or casting
vote.(5)The proceedings of the meeting of the Board shall be forwarded to the
Government within fifteen days of every meeting.

### 8. Term of office and conditions of service of vice-president, secretary
and other members.

\- The term of office and the terms and conditions of service of the vice-
president, the secretary and the other members of the Board shall be such as
may be prescribed.

### 9. Officers and servants of the Board.

(1)The Secretary shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties as may
be prescribed or as may, from time to time, be delegated to him by the
Government or by the president.(2)Subject to such regulations as may be made
by the Board in this behalf, the Board may appoint such other officers and
servants as it considers necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions.

### 10. Standing Finance Committee.

\- The Board may constitute a standing finance committee consisting of the
vice-president and not more than four members. The vice-president shall be the
chairman of the committee. The committee shall exercise such powers and
perform such functions relating to the finances of the Board as maybe laid
down by regulations made by the Board.

## Chapter III  
Functions of the Board

### 11. Functions of the Board.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions of the Board shall
generally be to plan, organize and implement programmes for the development of
khadi and village industries.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, the Board may take such steps as it may
think fit-(a)to start, encourage, assist and run khadi and village
industries;(b)to provide deserving persons with gainful employment in their
homes through the organization of khadi and village industries;(c)to grant
loans and give other assistance for the development of khadi and village
industries;(d)to organize co-operative societies for khadi and village
industries;(e)to conduct training centres and train persons at such centres or
at other centres outside the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in khadi and
village industries;(f)to arrange for the supply of raw materials, tools and
implements to such industries and for the sale of their finished
products;(g)to arrange for the publicity and popularization of the finished
products of such industries by opening stores, shops, emporia, exhibitions and
the like;(h)to educate public opinion and cultivate in the public a preference
for such industries and for utilization of their products;(i)to seek and
obtain advice and guidance of experts;(j)to encourage and promote research in
the technique of production of khadi or in the development of village
industries; and(k)to provide facilities for a study of the problems relating
to khadi or village industries;

### 12. General powers of the Board.

\- The Board shall, for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this
Act, have the following powers, namely:-(i)to acquire and hold such movable
and immovable property as it deems necessary and to lease, sell or otherwise
transfer any such property:Provided that any lease, sale or other transfer to
any person or authority other than the Khadi and Village Industries Commission
of any immovable property belonging to the Board shall be null and void unless
it is sanctioned by the Government;(ii)to appoint a committee or committees
for securing the efficient performance of its functions and, in particular,
for ensuring that such functions are performed with due regard to the
requirements of the local area concerned;(iii)to incur expenditure and
undertake any work in any area in the State for the framing and execution of
such schemes as it may consider necessary for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act, or as may be entrusted to it by the Government;
and(iv)to enter into any contract and to do all things necessary for the
purposes of this Act.

### 13. Power of Government to give directions.

\- In the performance of its functions under this Act, the Board shall be
bound by such directions as the Government may give to it.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts, Audit and Reports

### 14. Transfer of property to the Board.

\- The Government may transfer to the Board any building, land or other
property, movable, or immovable for the use of and management by the Board on
such conditions and subject to such limitations as maybe imposed by the
Government.

### 15. Funds of the Board.

(1)The Board shall have two separate funds to be called the Khadi Fund and the
Village Industries Fund and all grants and advances made to the funds, from
time to time, by the Government for the purposes of the development of khadi
or the development of village industries and all other grants, subventions,
donations, gifts and loans received from the Central Government or any State
Government or the Khadi and Village Industries Commission or any local
authority of any body or organization, whether incorporated or not, or any
individual for all or any of the purposes of this Act shall be paid to the
Khadi Fund or Village Industries Fund, as the case maybe, and all payments by
the Board for, or in respect of khadi and village industries shall be made
from the appropriate fund.(2)Except as otherwise directed by the Government,
all moneys belonging to such funds shall be deposited in such manner as the
Government may, by general or special order, direct or be invested in such
securities as may be approved by the Government.

### 16. Subventions, loans and grants to the Board.

(1)The Government may, from time to time, make subventions and grants to the
Board for the purposes of this Act on such terms and conditions as the
Government may, in each case, determine.(2)The Government may, from time to
time, advance loans to the Board on such terms and conditions not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act as the Government may determine.

### 17. Power of the Board to spend.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 18, the Board shall have power to
spend such sums as it deems fit on purposes authorized by this Act:Provided
that nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the Board from
spending, with the previous approval of the Government, such moneys as it
thinks fit on any such purpose outside the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].

### 18. Budget.

(1)The Board shall, by such date in each year as may be prescribed, prepare
and submit to the Government for approval two separate budgets in the
prescribed form for the next financial year to be called the Khadi Budget and
the Village Industries Budget, showing the estimated receipts and expenditure
in respect of khadi and village industries respectively during that financial
year.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4), no sum shall be
expended by or on behalf of the Board unless such expenditure is covered by a
specific provision in the budget approved by the Government.(3)The Board may,
within the respective limits of the khadi budget and the village industries
budget, sanction any re-appropriation from one head of expenditure to another
or from a provision made for one scheme to that in respect of another, but in
no case shall a re-appropriation of fund be made from the khadi budget to the
village industries budget or from the village industries budget to the khadi
budget:Provided that no re-appropriation from the head "Loan" to any other
head of expenditure and vice versa in either budget shall be sanctioned by the
Board except with the previous approval of the Government and the Khadi and
Village Industries Commission.(4)The Board may, within such limits and subject
to such conditions as may be prescribed, incur expenditure in excess of the
limit provided in the budget approved by the Government under any head of
expenditure or in connection with any particular scheme so long as the
aggregate amount in either budget approved by the Government is not exceeded.

### 19. Borrowing of money.

\- Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf by the Government, the
Board shall have power to borrow on the security of the Khadi Fund or the
Village Industries Fund or any other asset for any purpose to which such Fund
or asset may be applied.

### 20. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts including the profit and loss account
and the balance sheets in such form as may be prescribed.(2)The accounts of
the Board shall be audited by such person as the Government may appoint in
this behalf.(3)The person appointed under sub-section (2) shall, in connection
with such audit, have such rights, privileges and authority, as may be
prescribed and in particular, such auditor shall have the right to demand the
production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and to
inspect any of the offices of the Board.(4)The accounts of the Board as
certified by such auditor together with the audit report thereon shall be
forwarded annually to the Government and the Khadi and Village Industries
Commission before such date as the Government may specify in this
behalf.(5)The Board shall comply with such directions as the Government may,
after perusal of the report of the auditor, think fit to issue.

### 21. Power to alter scheme.

\- The Board may, with the previous approval of the Khadi and Village
Industries Commission, make any alteration in any scheme so long as the
aggregate amount sanctioned for the scheme is not exceeded.

### 22. Power to write off irrecoverable amount.

\- The Board may write off any amount whatsoever due to it, whether under a
contract or otherwise or any sum payable in connection therewith, if, in its
opinion, such amount or sum is irrecoverable:Provided that the Board shall,
before writing off any such amount or sum exceeding three thousand rupees,
obtain the sanction of the Government.

### 23. Recovery of arrears.

\- If any amount due to the Board in accordance with the terms of a contract
or otherwise or any sum payable in connection therewith, has not been paid,
the Board may, without prejudice to any other remedy provided by law, recover
such amount or sum as arrears of land revenue.

### 24. Returns and reports.

(1)The Board shall furnish to the Government at such time and in such form and
manner as may be prescribed or as the Government may direct, such returns and
statements and such particular in regard to any proposed or existing programme
for the promotion and development of Khadi and Village Industries as the
Government may, from time to time, require.(2)Without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1), the Board shall, as soon as possible after the
end of each financial year, submit to the Government a report in such form and
before such date as may be prescribed, giving a true and full account of its
activities, policy and programme during the previous financial year.(3)All
returns, statements and particulars furnished by the Board to the Government
under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after they are so furnished,
be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both
Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.].

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 25. Dissolution of the Board.

(1)If at any time the Government are satisfied that-(a)the Board has, without
reasonable cause or excuse, made default in the discharge of its duties, or in
the performance of its functions, imposed or entrusted by or under this Act,
or exceeded or abused its powers; or(b)circumstances have so arisen that the
Board is rendered unable, or may be rendered unable, to discharge its duties
or perform its functions under this Act; or(c)it is otherwise expedient or
necessary to dissolve the Board, the Government may, by notification, dissolve
the Board for such period as may be specified in the notification and declare
that the duties, powers and functions of the Board shall, during the period of
its dissolution, be discharged, exercised and performed by such person or
authority, as may be specified in the notification:Provided that the
Government shall, before dissolving the Board, give a reasonable opportunity
to it to show cause against the proposed action.(2)The Government shall,
before the expiration of the period of dissolution, re-constitute the Board in
accordance with the provisions of section 3.(3)The Government may make such
incidental and consequential provisions as may appear to them to be necessary
for giving effect to the provisions of this section.(4)Any notification issued
or order made by the Government under this section shall not be questioned in
any Civil Court.(5)On the Board being dissolved under sub-section (1)-(i)all
funds and other properties vested in the Board shall vest in the Government;
and(ii)all liabilities, legally subsisting and enforceable against the Beard
shall be enforceable against the Government to the extent of the funds and
properties vested in the Government under clause (i).

### 26. Preparation and submission of annual programmes and establishment
schedules.

(1)In each year on or before such date as may be fixed by the Government in
this behalf, the Board shall, in such form as may be prescribed, prepare and
forward to the Government-(a)a programme for the promotion of khadi and
village industries; and(b)a schedule of the staff of officers and servants
employed and to be employed during the next year.(2)The programme shall
contain-(a)particulars of the scheme which the Board proposes to execute
whether in part or in whole during the next year;(b)particulars of any work
which the Board proposes to execute or any undertaking which the Board
proposes to organize during the next year for the purpose of performing its
functions under this Act; and(c)such other particulars as may be
prescribed.(3)The Government may approve and sanction the programme and the
schedule of the staff of officers and servants forwarded to them under sub-
section (1) with such modifications as they may deem fit.(4)The Board may
submit a supplementary budget and supplementary programme for the sanction of
the Government in such form and before such date as the Government may
prescribe and the provisions of section 18 and sub-sections (1) to (3) shall,
respectively, apply to such supplementary budget and programme.

### 27. Members, Officers and other servants of the Board to be public
servants.

\- The members, officers and other servants of the Board shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 28. Protection for acts done in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
president, vice-president, secretary or member or any person in the employment
of the Board for anything which is, in good faith done or intended to be done
in pursuance of this Act.(2)Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act,
no suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Board for any damage
caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done, or
purported to be done, under this Act.

### 29. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to give effect to the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the place at which the office of the Board
shall be located;(b)the term of office of, and the manner of filling casual
vacancies among, the members of the Board and the terms and conditions of
service of the vice-president, the secretary and the other members of the
Board, including the salaries and allowances to be paid to them and travelling
and daily allowances to be drawn by them;(c)the disqualifications for
membership of the Board and the procedure to be followed for removing a member
who is or becomes subject to any disqualification;(d)the procedure to be
followed in the performance of functions by members of the Board;(e)the powers
and duties to be exercised and discharged by the secretary;(f)the date by
which and the form in which the budget and the supplementary budget shall be
prepared and submitted in each year under section 18 and sub-section (4) of
section 26;(g)the procedure to be followed for placing the Board in possession
of funds;(h)the procedure to be followed and the conditions to be observed in
borrowing moneys and in granting loans;(i)the conditions subject to which and
the mode in which contracts may be entered into by or on behalf of the
Board;(j)the form and manner in which the accounts of the Board shall be
maintained under section 20;.(k)the form and manner in which the returns,
reports or statements shall be submitted under section 24; and(l)any other
matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)All rules made and all
notifications issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after they are
made or issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and shall be subject to such
modification by way of amendment or repeal as the Legislature may make either
in the same session or in the next session.

### 30. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Board may, with the previous sanction of the Government, by
notification, make regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the rules
made thereunder, for enabling it to perform its functions under this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)the terms and conditions of appointment and service and the scales
of pay of officers and servants of the Board other than the secretary
including the payment of travelling and daily allowances in respect of
journeys undertaken by such officers and servants for the purposes of this
Act;(b)the time and place of meetings of the Board, the procedure to be
followed in regard to transaction of business at such meetings and the quorum
necessary for the transaction of such business at a meeting;(c)the delegation
of powers and duties to the standing finance committee, secretary or any
employee of the Board;(d)the maintenance of minutes of meetings of the Board
and the transmission of copies thereof to the Government;(e)the persons by
whom and the manner in which payments, deposits and investments may be made on
behalf of the Board;(f)the custody of moneys required for the current
expenditure of the Board and investment of moneys not so required;(g)the
maintenance of accounts.(3)The Government may, by notification, rescind any
regulation made under this section and, thereupon, the regulation shall cease
to have effect.

### 31. Operation of other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force relating to khadi and village
industries.

