## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATIVE-ASSEMBLY-TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-RULES-1955 of
1955

  * Published on 18 July 1955 
  * Commenced on 18 July 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 July 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955Published vide
Notification No. G. O. MS. NO. 2258, Public (Elections), Dated 18th July
1955G. O. MS. NO. 2258, Public (Elections), Dated 18th July 1955. - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 9, 12 and 14 of the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), and in supersession
of the [Tamil Nadu Legislature Travelling Allowance Rides, 1955] [Vide G. O.
Ms.No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 24th June
1981.] the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rides: -

### 1.

(a)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G. O.
Ms.No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 24th June
1981.] Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955.(b)These rules shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 1st April 1955.(c)In these rules unless, there is
anything repugnant in the subject or context, -(i)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951);(ii)"Assembly" means
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;[(ii-A) "Authorised Officer" means the
officer counter-signing the travelling allowance bills of Members, authorised
by the Secretary;] [Vide G. O. Ms.No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 24th June 1981.](iii)[ [Omitted.] [Omitted by G.O. Ms.
No. 479, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992](iv)[ "Committee" means a Committee appointed or elected by the Assembly
or nominated by the Speaker under the rules of the Assembly and includes a
Select Committee, but does not include any Committee appointed by the State
Government;] [Vide G. O. Ms.No. 479, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.](v)"Constitution" means the Constitution of
India;(vi)[ [Omitted] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 479, Public (Establishment-I
and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992].(vii)[ "Meeting" means a meeting
of the Assembly or of the Governor's address or a meeting of a Committee or
two or more of the Committees combined, but does not include "tour" as defined
in clause (xi) of sub-rule (c) of rule 1;] [Vide G. O. Ms.No. 479, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](viii)[ "Member"
means the Member of the Assembly;] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 479, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](ix)"Secretary"
means the Secretary to the Assembly;(x)[ "Speaker" means the Speaker of the
Assembly chosen as such under Articles 178 of the Constitution; and] [Vide
G.O. Ms. No. 66, Legislative Assembly, dated the 4th October 1969.](xi)[
"Tour" means - [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 55, Legislative Assembly, dated the 27th
November 1962.](a)a tour undertaken by a Committee in connection with its
functions within the State; and(b)a tour arranged by the State Government for
groups of Members to various places within the State to. study the
developmental activities;](xii)[ "Session" means the period of time between
the first meeting of the Assembly upon the summons of the Governor under
clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution of India and its prorogation or
dissolution under clause (2) of the said Article.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488
Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992]

### 2. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 479, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.]

(a)The Speaker shall be eligible for travelling allowance for one journey from
his usual place of residence to Chennai or to any other place fixed under
Article 174 of the Constitution for a meeting of the Assembly and for one
journey back there from to his usual place of residence in respect of each
session of the Assembly.(b)[ The Speaker shall be eligible for travelling
allowance -(i)for journey 7 performed for attending Conferences or Committees
of Presiding Officers of Legislatures whether held inside or outside
India;(ii)for journeys in connection with visiting other Legislatures either
inside or outside India; and(iii)[ for journeys performed anywhere in India
for participating in any public function or official function or for receiving
civic address.]](c)The headquarters of the Speaker shall, during a session, be
deemed to be at the place fixed for a meeting of the Assembly under Article
174 of the Constitution and at all other times deemed to be at his usual place
of residence.(d)The Speaker shall not be eligible for daily allowance for the
days of the meeting of the Assembly.(e)The Speaker shall be entitled to take
with him during his journeys under this rule, his Personal Assistant and one
[Office Assistant] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 479, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.] and they shall be entitled to
travelling allowance for such journeys in accordance with the Travelling
Allowance Rules applicable to Government servants drawing similar pay.]

### 3.

For journeys of the nature described in rule 2, performed by the Speaker,
travelling and daily allowances shall be admissible at the rates upon the
conditions applicable to Ministers and specified in the Tamil Nadu Ministers
Travelling Allowance Rules, 1951 issued with G.O. Ms. No. 42, Finance, dated
the 23rd January, 1952 as amended, from time to time, and all references in
those rules to a Minister shall, for purposes of this rule, be construed as
references to the Speaker.

### 4. [ [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 6, Legislative Assembly, dated the 2nd February
1964.]

The Speaker may present bills for travelling allowance without the counter-
signature of a controlling officer. The Speaker shall, furnish a certificate
to the effect that the journey was for a public or official function, as the
case may be, but need not specify in the travelling allowance bill, the nature
of details of the function in connection with which the journey was
performed.]

### 5.

The Speaker may once in respect of each Session of the Assembly, draw the
actual cost of transporting, at owner's risk, a motor car from his usual place
of residence to Chennai or other place of meeting fixed under Article 174 of
the Constitution and back.

### 6. [ [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 35, Legislature, dated the 1st June 1959.]

(a)The Deputy Speaker shall be eligible for travelling allowance -(i)for one
journey from his usual place of residence to Chennai or to any other place
fixed under Article 174 of the Constitution for a meeting of the Assembly, and
for one journey back therefrom to his usual place of residence in respect of
such continuous meeting of the [Assembly];(ii)for journeys for attending
conferences or committees of Presiding Officers of Legislatures whether held
inside or outside India;(iii)for one journey from his usual place of residence
to the place of meeting of a Committee of which he is a member and back
therefrom; and(iv)[ for journeys performed anywhere within the State of Tamil
Nadu for participating in any public or official function arranged by the
State Government or by any Local Authority.] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 1314, Public
(Elections), dated the 15th December 1978.](b)[ for journeys of the nature
described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of sub-rule (a) performed by
the Deputy Speaker, travelling and daily allowances shall be admissible at the
rates and upon conditions applicable to Ministers and specified in the Tamil
Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance Rules, 1951 issued with G.O. Ms. No. 42,
Finance, dated the 23rd January, 1952 as amended, from time to time, and all
references in those rules to a Minister shall, for purpose of this rule, be
construed as references to the Deputy Speaker.] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 2228,
Public (Establishment and Legislature), dated the 28th April 1978.](c)The
Headquarters of the Deputy Speaker shall, during a session, be deemed to be at
the place fixed for meeting of the Assembly under Article 174 of the
Constitution and at all other times be deemed to be at his usual place of
residence.(d)The Deputy Speaker shall not be eligible for daily allowance for
the days of the meeting of the Assembly.(e)The Deputy Speaker may present
bills for travelling allowance without the counter-signature of a controlling
officer. The Deputy Speaker shall specify in the travelling allowance bill the
nature of the business in connection with which the journey was
performed.[Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, a meeting shall be
deemed to be continuous, if the number of days of adjournment between the last
days of a meeting and the first day of another meeting does not exceed ten.]
[Vide G. O. Ms. No. 6, Legislative Assembly, dated the 8th February
1964.](f)The Deputy Speaker shall be entitled to take with him during his
journey under this rule, his Personal Assistant and one [Office Assistant]
[Vide G. O. Ms. No. 488 Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the
22nd April 1992.] and they shall be entitled to travelling allowance for such
journeys in accordance with the Travelling Allowance Rules applicable to
Government servants drawing similar pay.[The sub-rule (f) shall be deemed to
have come into force on 17th day of January, 1970.] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 63,
Legislative Assembly, dated the 26th September 1969.](g)[ [Omitted.] [Omitted
by G. O. Ms. No. 2228, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 28th April,
1978].]]

### 6A. [ [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 1325 Public (Legislature Wing), dated the 9th
August, 1989 (With effect from the 11th February, 1989).]

The Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister shall be eligible for
travelling allowance and daily allowance at the rates applicable to the Deputy
Speaker in rule 6].

### 7.

Rules 8 to 19 shall apply to all members except the Ministers, the Speaker,
the Deputy Speaker and Parliamentary Secretaries.(a)A member who attends a
meeting or goes over to Chennai for the purpose of making or subscribing an
oath or affirmation under Article 188 of the Constitution of India, when the
Assembly is not in session, as the case may be, may draw -(i)for one journey
from his usual place of residence to the place of meeting and one journey back
there from to his usual place of residence -(1)for the portion of each journey
performed by railway, one single railway fare of the highest class of
accommodation available in the train other than air-conditioned I class
accommodation, plus fractional fare at 10 P. per kilometre;[***] [Proviso was
omitted G. O. Ms. No. 1523, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated
the 9th November 2000.](2)mileage at ["25-P"] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.] per kilometer
for the portion performed by road if the places are connected by any public
transport; or mileage at ["50 P"] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.] per kilometer
for the portion performed by road, if the places are not connected by any
public conveyance; and(ii)daily allowance at [Rs. 500 per day.] [Vide G.O. Ms.
No. 1307, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 23rd July 2007
(With effect from the 1st April 2007).](b)[ [Deleted.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No.
1647, Public (Legislature Wing), dated the 12th October 1987 (With effect from
the 1st April 1987).]](c)A member, who attends a meeting may draw daily
allowance admissible to him under clause (ii) of sub-rule (a) -(i)for each day
of attendance at the meeting;(ii)[ for two days before and the day after a
continuous meeting of the Assembly and for one day before and one day after
the meeting of any committee, as the case may be, provided that the member is
present at the place of meeting on those days; and] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 23,
Legislative Assembly, dated the 11th April 1968.](iii)for days of adjournment
in the course of a continuous meeting, provided that the member is present at
the place of the meeting on those days and provided further that the member
attends the sitting on the day before adjournment as well as on the day of the
re-assembly.Explanation. - A meeting shall be deemed to be continuous, if the
number of days between the last day of a meeting and the first day of another
meeting whether held in the same place or not is not more than [four.] [Vide
G.O. Ms. No. 53, Legislative Assembly, dated the 10th October
1962.](d)(i)During an adjournment in the course of a continuous meeting, if a
member leaves the place of meeting, he may draw either the daily allowance
admissible to him under clause (ii) of sub-rule (a) for a period of
adjournment or a single railway fare of the highest class of accommodation
available in the train, other than air-conditioned I Class accommodation or
the portion performed by railway of the journey to and from his usual place of
residence, whichever is less provided he attends the sitting on the day before
the adjournment as well as on the day of the re-assembly.(ii)During the
adjournment of a meeting for a period exceeding five days if a member does not
return to his usual place of residence and attends the sitting on the date on
which it re-assembles after the adjournment, he may draw either the daily
allowance admissible to him under clause (ii) of sub-rule (a) for the period
of adjournment or the travelling allowance which would have been admissible to
him if he had returned to his usual place of residence under clause (i) of
sub-rule (a), whichever is less.(iii)If during an adjournment, a member
proceeds from one place of meeting to another place of meeting, he may draw
travelling allowance for the journey between the two places and daily
allowance for the days of halt during the period of adjournment at either or
both the places of meeting at the rates admissible to him under the rules,
provided he attends the meeting on the day before adjournment as well as on
the day of the re-assembly.Explanation. - (1) The expression "adjournment"
means interval between one meeting and another and may consist of holidays or
non-holidays or of both.(2)Daily allowance is admissible for the day of
arrival in Chennai, if a member arrives in the forenoon and for the day of
departure from Chennai, if a member departs in the afternoon.(e)[ [Deleted.]
[Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 24th June
1981.](f)[ Where a member, during a continuous sitting, has attended the
meeting for not less than seven days and returns to his usual place of
residence, he may draw a single railway fare of the highest class of
accommodation available in the train other than air-conditioned I Class
accommodation plus fractional fare and mileage to and fro as provided in the
rules.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 52, Legislative Assembly, dated the 2nd November
1968.](ff)[ Every member, who travels with his/her spouse shall, once during
every session of the Assembly, be entitled to one railway fare of the highest
class of accommodation available in the train other than air-conditioned 1st
Class railway fare for his/her spouse from the usual place of residence to the
place where the session of the Legislative Assembly is held and for the return
journey from such place.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](g)A Member who participates in a
tour may draw -(i)for one journey from his usual place of residence to the
place where the tour commences and from there to the places visited by the
committee and for one journey back there from to his usual place of residence,
travelling allowance at the rates admissible to him under clause (i) of sub-
rule (a); and(ii)daily allowance for the period of the tour at the rates
admissible to him under clause (ii) of sub-rule (a) inclusive of the day on
which the tour commences or ends.Explanation. - The dates of commencement and
conclusion of a tour shall be determined by the Chairman of the
Committee.(h)If free transport is provided for a member of Committee for any
portion of the tour, no allowances other than daily allowance shall be
admissible to him for that portion of the tour. But, if a member of a
committee does not avail himself of the free transport for any portion of the
tour, draw travelling allowance for that portion of the journey admissible to
him under these rules.(i)[ If free boarding and lodging are provided for a
member of a committee on tour, he shall draw only one-fourth of the daily
allowance admissible to him under these rules. If only boarding or lodging is
allowed free to a member, he shall draw daily allowance at one-half of the
rates admissible to him under these rules.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 53, Legislative
Assembly, dated the 19th August 1959.](j)Whenever the member attend meetings
at Ootacamund or Kodaikanal or whenever tours are undertaken by committees to
such places the rates of daily allowance and mileage shall be increased by 50
per cent.

### 9.

(a)A member's "usual place of residence" shall be such place as may be
specified and certified by him and registered in the office of the Assembly as
such.(b)If such place is within the State, travelling allowance may be drawn
from and to that place.(c)If such place is outside the State, travelling
allowance admissible to a member shall be limited to the amount that may be
drawn for a journey from and to -(i)If he is an elected member, any one of the
district heads-quarters of the constituency which he represents; or(ii)If he
is a member nominated to the Assembly the district headquarters within the
State which is nearest to his usual place of residence.(d)No change of the
usual place of residence will be recognised unless and until the member
reports the change and certifies that such change has lasted for a continuous
period of three months.

### 10.

(a)Mileage allowance for a journey between two stations shall be calculated
with reference to the shortest ordinary route or to the route which is
declared by the State Government to be the shortest route for the purpose of
the travelling allowance rules. When two or more routes are equally short, the
allowance shall be calculated by the cheapest.(b)If a member travels by a
route which is not the shortest but is cheapest than the shortest his mileage
allowance shall be calculated by the route actually used.(c)[ The members who
are entitled, to travel by the highest class of accommodation available in the
train, other than air-conditioned I Class accommodation, travelling from
stations beyond Tiruchirappalli in the Tiruchirappalli-Danushkbdi Section to
Chennai and back, may claim the actual fare paid by them and the incidental
expenses calculated on the main line route.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 48,
Legislative Assembly, dated the 13th September 1962.]

### 11.

The military route book shall be taken as the authority for distances in the
case of all journeys, and the central points used in the military route book
shall be taken as the fixed points at which journeys commence or end. When no
such central point is given the distance shall be calculated with reference to
the principal post office.Explanation. - When a journey by road is combined
with a journey by rail or steamer, unless such journey by road be a journey to
or from the member's usual place of residence, mileage allowance shall be
calculated on the distance actually travelled without regard to the central
point.

### 12.

When a journey is performed by a motor car or by air between places connected
by a railway, the charge shall ordinarily be limited to what would have been
admissible had the member travelled by rail.

### 13.

In calculating mileage allowance, fractions of a [Kilometre] [Vide G.O. Ms.
No. 2339, Public (Elections), dated the 30th August 1973.] shall be omitted
from the total of a bill for any one journey but not from the various items
which make up the bill.

### 14. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1647, Public (Legislature Wing), dated the 12th
October 1987 (with effect from the 1st April 1987).]

A member who is residing at the place of the meeting or at the place of making
or subscribing an oath or affirmation under Article 188 of the Constitution of
India, when the Assembly is not in session, may draw Daily Allowance for each
day of attendance at a meeting or for the day on which the oath or affirmation
is made or subscribed as the case may be at the rate of [Rs. 500/-per day.]]

### 15. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.]

Travelling allowance bills in respect of himself/herself or his/her spouse
shall be drawn up in Form 'A' or Form 'C' as the case may be annexed to these
rules, stamped, if necessary and signed by the Member concerned and delivered
at the office of the Secretary for counter-signature. The travelling allowance
bills so presented shall be counter-signed by the Secretary or by the
Authorised Officer.]

### 16.

All claims for travelling allowance preferred after the expiry of one year
from their becoming due shall be regarded as time-barred and the Secretary
shall reject all such claims.

### 17. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 32, Legislature, elated the 16th May 1959.]

[Omitted.]

### 18. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 765, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 9th July 1993.]

(a)When a Member who leaves his usual place of residence to attend a meeting
is unable from any causes beyond his control: -(i)either to complete the
journey to the place specified in rule 8; or(ii)after arriving at the place of
meeting, actually to attend the meeting, he may be allowed travelling
allowance from his usual place of residence to the place of meeting or to the
place at which his journey was interrupted, as the case may be, and back, but
shall not be entitled to any daily allowance.(b)If and when a member proceeds
from his usual place of residence to attend a meeting and if such meeting
stands postponed or cancelled prior to its holding there of for any reason,
though communications to that effect is sent to the Member concerned, he may
be allowed travelling allowance from his usual place of residence to the place
of meeting and back there from to his usual place of residence, but he shall
not be entitled to any daily allowance.]

### 19. [ [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 24th
June 1981.]

(a)A Member shall before claiming travelling allowance in respect of
himself/herself or his/her spouse for the journey from his/her usual place of
residence to the place of meeting or for the return journey from the place of
meeting to his/her usual place of residence, fill in and sign Form "B" or "D",
as the case may be, and deliver the same to the office of the Secretary.Any
member may have his travelling allowance bills prepared at the office of the
Secretary, if he so desires.(b)(i)The travelling allowance bills of Members
for their journey from their usual place of residence to the place of meeting
will be paid by cheque at the office of the Secretary on bills counter-signed
by the Secretary or by the Authorised Officer.(ii)Bills similarly
countersigned for the daily allowance permissible under these rules for actual
days of attendance or halts during a meeting and for travelling allowance for
the return journey to their usual place of residence may also be paid by
cheque at the office of the Secretary even before the conclusion of the
meeting.(c)If a Member, who has been paid travelling allowance in advance for
his journey, does not perform the proposed return journey, he shall report the
fact to the office of the Secretary for communication to the [" Accountant-
General"], Tamil Nadu. The Accountant-General, Tamil Nadu, will intimate to
the office of the Secretary, the amount recoverable from each Member. The
Secretary will then take steps to recover the amount paid in excess either in
cash or by recovery from the Member's next travelling allowance bill.]

### 19A. [ [Inserted vide G.O. Ms. No. 1206, Public (Estt.-I), dated the 20th
June 1986 (With effect from the 25th February 1985).]

Every Member shall be issued with an identity card containing his photograph
attested by the Secretary, and it shall be treated as a pass referred to in,
section 12(4-A) (a) of the Act.]

### 19B. [ [Inserted vide G.O. Ms. No. 479, Public (Estt.-I and Legislature)
dated the 22nd April 1992.]

These rules shall apply Mutatis Mutandis to claims arising up to the 31st
October 1986 in respect of members of the former Tamil Nadu Legislative
Council.]

### 19C. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 691, dated 11.7.2013, published dated
31.7.2013.]

In the event of the death of member, the travelling allowances and daily
allowances due till the date of of this death, shall be paid to his legal
heir, after recovering the dues, if any, to the Legislative Assembly
Secretariat or to the Government.]

### 20.

The State Government may, by order, relax the provisions of these rules in any
particular case to such extent or subject to such conditions or modification
as may be specified in such order and also fix the rates of travelling and
daily allowances applicable to the case.AnnexureForm A(See rule 15)Travelling
Allowance Bill Form for the Use of the Member of the [assembly.] [Vide G.O.
Ms. No. 479, Public (Estt-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]

District | Name &Designation |  |  |  |  This space is reserved for use in TreasuryOffice and Accountant-General's Office  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Usual place of residence |  |  | Head of service | Month of |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Voucher No. of |  |   
|  |  |  |  | List of payment |  |   
Date (forenoon or afternoon) | Place of departure | Place of arrival | [K.M. for which mileage is claimed] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 2339, Public (Elections), dated the 30th August 1973.] |  Date of attendance at the meeting or halt at theplace of meeting for which daily allowance is claimed | Purpose | Remarks  
Departure | Arrival |  |  |  |  |  |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Instructions for preparing travelling allowance bills - (1) Journeys of
different kinds and journeys and halts should not be entered on the same
line.(2)Number of [Kms.] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 2339, Public (Elections), dated
the 30th August 1973.] travelled should be entered in all cases of journeys by
road.(3)Fractions of K.M. on the total of a bill for anyone journey should not
be charged for.(4)The departure or arrival should be indicated by adding along
with the date, the letters a.n. or f.n., as the case may be.

| Rs.P. | Details for item 4  
---|---|---  
1\. Railway fare for single/[double AC.2 Tier] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1523, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 9th November 2000 (with effect from the 9th November 2000).] |  |   
class at Rs. |  |   
Fractional fare for |  |   
2.[0.25 Paise/0.50 per K.M. for ....] [Vide G O. Ms. No. 488, Public (Estt-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.] |  |   
3\. Daily allowance for .... days |  |   
[Rs. 500/- per day] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1307, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 23rd July 2007 (With effect from 1st April 2007).] |  |   
4\. Deductions |  |   
Net claim |  |   
  
Rupees......... |  I certify that for the days for which dailyallowance is claimed in this bill, I have attended the meeting.  
---|---  
Please Pay to............ |   
Signature of Member.............. | Stamp  
Contents received............ | Member, Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.  
Banker or Agent............. |  countersigned forRs..........(in figures)  
| (in words) Rupees..............  
|  
  
[Authorised Officer] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1243, Public (Establishment-I), dated
the 24th June 1981.],[Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1206, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 20th June 1986 (with effect from the 16th
February 1984).] Secretariat.For use in the TreasuryPay
Rs.................Treasury Officer..........For use of the Accountant-
General's OfficeTotal amount of bill...........Details of
objection...........Admitted
..................Disallowed\-------------Objected to[Form-B] [Vide G.O. Ms.
No. 35, Legislature, dated the 1st June 1959.][See rule (19)(a)](Form To Be
Filled In By Members For Preparing Travelling Allowance Bill)

### 1\.

Name in Block Letters :

### 2\.

Usual place of residence :

### 3\.

Nearest railway station from the usual place of residence. :

### 4\.

Date and hour of departure from the usual place of residence. :

### 5\.

Date of arrival in Chennai (forenoon or afternoon should be specified). :

### 6\.

[Distance by road from the usual place of residence to the nearest railway
station.] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 2339, Public (Elections), dated the 30th August
1973.] : Kms.

### 7\.

Date on which the member attended the meetings. :

### 8.

Whether, during days of adjournment in a continuous sitting and during
holidays, the member resided in Chennai. :

### 9\.

Date of departure from Chennai or intended date of departure from Chennai
(forenoon or afternoon should be specified.) :

### 10\.

Whether payment is required at Chennai or at mofussil treasury. :Member,Tamil
Nadu Legislative Assembly.[Form-C] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public in (Estt.-I
and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](See rule 15)Travelling Allowance
Bill Form For The Use of The Members of The Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly
For Claiming T. A. of His/her Spouse

|  | Name of the Member...... |  |  This space is reserved for use in Treasury Officeand. A.G.  
---|---|---|---|---  
District |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Name of the Spouse. | Month of |  |   
Usual place of Residence |  | Head of Service | Account No. |  |   
| Date |  | Vr. No. | List of payment |   
|  | Place of departure | Place of arrival |  |   
Dep. |  | Arr. |  | Purpose | Remarks  
  
Instructions for preparing travelling allowance bills -(1)Number of kilometres
travelled be entered.(2)The departure or arrival should be indicated by adding
along with date, the letters a.n. or f.n.

| Rs. P. | Remarks  
---|---|---  
Railway fare for single /[double AC.2 Tier] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1523 Public (Establishment-I and Legislature, dated the 9th November 2000 (With effect from the 9th November 2000).]class at Rs.DeductionsNet claim |  |   
|  |   
  
Rupees........................................I certify that my wife/husband
accompanied me .................. to the place where the session of the
Assembly is held during..............session of the .............. Assembly
and this Travelling Allowance claim is towards her/his journey to Chennai and
back to the place of residence.Please pay to..............StampSignature of
Member.contents received banker or Agent.Member, Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly, Countersigned for Rs. (in figures) (in words)
Rupees...................................Authorised Officer, Legislative
Assembly Secretariat.For use in the TreasuryPay
Rupees..................Treasury OfficerFor use of the Accountant-General's
OfficeDetails of ObjectionTotal Amount of
Rs...........Admitted................Disallowed..............Objected................ReceiptReceived
the sum of Rupees ............... only by Cheque, from the Secretary,
Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Chennai in settlement of T.A. claim of my
spouse preferred in my bill of date. Rs............ Signature of Member of the
Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.[Form-D] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 488, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.][See rule
19(a)](Form To be Filled in by Member For Preparing Travelling Allowance Bill
of His or Her Spouse)

### 1\. Name in Block Letters :

### 2\. Name of the Spouse in

Block Letters :

### 3\. Nearest Railway Station from the usual place of residence :

### 4\. Date and hour of departure of spouse from the usual place of
residence. :

### 5\. Date of arrival of spouse in Chennai :

(Fore-noon or after-noon should be specified)

### 6\. Date of departure of spouse from Chennai or intended date ofdeparture
from Chennai :

### 7\. Whether payment is required at Chennai or Mofussil treasury :

Member,Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.

