## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislators Hostel (Accommodation) Rules, 1969

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislators Hostel (Accommodation) Rules, 1969

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATORS-HOSTEL-ACCOMMODATION-RULES-1969 of 1969

  * Published on 20 February 1969 
  * Commenced on 20 February 1969 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 February 1969.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislators Hostel (Accommodation) Rules, 1969Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms.No. 345, Public (Election-4), dated 20.2.1969In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 12 and sub-
section (1) of section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Legislators Hostel (Accommodation)
Rules, 1969.(2)These rules shall be deemed to have come into force on the 14th
August 1968.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rule, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context, -(1)"Assembly" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;(2)[
"Committee" means a Committee appointed or elected by the Assembly or
nominated by the Speaker under the rules of the Assembly and includes a Select
Committee, but does not include any Committee appointed by the State
Government;] [Vide G. O. Ms. No. 483, Public (Establishment-land Legislature),
dated the 22nd April 1992.](3)[Omitted.](4)"Day" means a period of twenty-four
hours beginning at the hour of occupation of accommodation;(5)[Omitted.]
[Omitted by G.O. Ms.No. 564, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated
the 14th July 1994.](6)"Hostel" means the Tamil Nadu Legislators
Hostel;(7)"House Committee" means the House Committee of the Legislative
Assembly;(8)"Meeting" means a meeting of the Assembly or of the Governor's
Address or a meeting of a Committee or two or more Committees combined but
does not include "tours" as defined in clause (11);(9)"Member" means a Member
of the Assembly;(10)[ "Secretary" means the Secretary, Legislative Assembly
Secretariat; and] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 483, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.](11)(a)"Tour" means a tour undertaken
by Committee in connection with its functions within the State; and(b)a tour
arranged by the State Government for groups of members to various places
within the State to study the developmental activities.

### 3. Charge for accommodation.

(1)Every Member shall be entitled to Hostel accommodation free of charge on
every day of meeting, on every day of adjournment and on every such other day
for which he is eligible under the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide
G.O. Ms. No. 483, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd
April 1992.] Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955, for daily allowance in respect
of a meeting.(2)The charge for accommodation on days other than those
mentioned in sub-rule (1) shall be two rupees and fifty paise per Member per
day or part thereof.(3)The charge for a continuous stay of not less than
thirty days shall be sixty rupees per Member for every period of thirty days
of such continuous stay and pro rata for fractions of a month.(4)[ Rental
charges for Ex. Members of Legislative Assembly, Ex. Members of Legislative
Council, Members of Parliament, Ex. Members of Parliament and officials shall
be collected as in the Table below: -[Table]

| Single Room (per day) Rs. | Double Room (per day) Rs.  
---|---|---  
For Ex.-Members of Legislative Assembly,Ex.Members of Legislative Council, Members of Parliament andEx-Members of Parliament for the first five days. | 30.00 | 60.00  
Beyond five days. | 60.00 | 100.00  
For Officials coining to Chennai on duty for thefirst five days. | 30.00 | 60.00  
Beyond five days | 60.00 | 100.00]  
  
[Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1133, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the
9th October 2001]

### 4. [ Charge for Member's family and guests. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 221, Public
(Elections-IV), dated the 6th February 1970.]

(1)(a)A Member's family, if and when accompanied by the Member, shall be
allowed to pay the concessional rent of two rupees and fifty paise per day per
head for the stay in the Legislators Hostel.(b)The charges for accommodation
specified in clause (a) shall be payable even on the days when the Member is
entitled to rent-free accommodation under sub-rule (1) of rule 3.(c)The charge
for a continuous stay of not less than thirty days shall be sixty rupees per
head for every period of thirty days of such continuous stay and pro rata for
fractions of a month.]Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule,
"Member's Family" includes father, mother, spouse and children of tie
Member.(2)[ Guests of Members accommodated in their room between 8.00 p.m. and
8.00 a.m. shall be charged at Rs. 2.50 per head per day:] [Vide G.O. Ms. No.
307, Public (Establishment), dated the 7th March 1973.]Provided that the
number of such guests shall not exceed two at a time:Provided further that no
guests shall be allowed to stay in the rooms when Legislature is not in
session.(3)[ Rental charges [for separate room accommodation for guests of
Members] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1133, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 9th October 2001.] shall be collected as in the Table below:Table

| Single Room (per day) Rs. | Double Room (per day) Rs.  
---|---|---  
For the first five days | 60.00 | 100.00  
Beyond five days | 100.00 | 150.00]  
  
### 5. Mode of payment of charges.

(1)Any charge due by a Member under any of these rules shall be paid -(a)in
the case of continuous stay of not less than thirty days, at the end of the
period of every thirty days, and(b)in any other case, at the time the Member
vacates the room.(2)Any such charge as is referred to in sub-rule (1) in
arrears by any Member shall be recovered from the travelling allowance bill
and/or the salary bill of the Member concerned.(3)No Member shall be provided
with accommodation when [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 483, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.] is not in
session if the arrears of hostel rent at any time is Rs. 250 (Rupees two
hundred and fifty only) or more.

### 6. Servants of Members.

\- Servants of Members shall not be allowed to stay in the room. Such servants
may be allowed to stay in the verandahs subject to the condition that only one
servant for every Member is allowed.

### 7. Prohibition of public meeting.

\- No Member shall hold any public meeting in the room occupied by him in the
Hostel or use it as an office.

### 8. Prohibition of cooking.

\- No cooking shall be permitted in the hostel.

### 9. Responsibility for loss of articles, etc.

\- A Member shall, during his stay be responsible for the loss of articles of
furniture, fixtures, and other articles provided in the room occupied by him
in the hostel.

### 10. [ Use of telephones. [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1823, Public (Establishment),
dated the 10th November 1983 (with effect from 10th November 1983).]

\- A Member shall be entitled to the use of telephone in the hostel, subject
to the condition as may be prescribed in this regard, from time to time.]

### 11. Use of the hostel for other purposes.

\- When there is no meeting the hostel may, subject to availability of
accommodation, be used also for such other purposes as may be determined by
the House Committee.

### 12. Finality of orders.

\- In matters not specifically provided for in these rules, the decision of
the Secretary and, subject to his decision, the decision of the [Under
Secretary (Hostel), Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms. No. 564, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 14th July 1994 (with effect from
1st October 1984).] Secretariat shall be final.

