## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1979

## Act 49 of 1979

  * Published on 29 November 1979 
  * Commenced on 29 November 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 November 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1979(Tamil Nadu Act 49
of 1979)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment
and Validation) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 49 of 1979). - The Police Department
was trifurcated with effect from the 1st June 1979. Three Inspectors-General
had been appointed to be in-charge of Crime and Law and Order, Enforcement and
Armed Police. A new post of Director-General of Police had also been created
to be the new head of the Police Department. Hence, it was considered
necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859 (Central Act XXIV
of 1859) and the Madras City Police (Amendment) Act, 1907 (Tamil Nadu Act III
of 1907) with effect from the 1st June 1979 so as to bring the new post of
Director-General of Police within the preview of the said Acts. Accordingly,
the Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1979 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 19 of 1979) was promulgated by the Governor.2\. The Bill seeks
to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part IV - Section 1, Page 448 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th November
1979.Received the assent of the Governor on the 29th November 1979 and first
published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 3rd December 1979.An Act further to amend the Police
Laws in force in the State of Tamil Nadu. Be it enacted by the Legislature of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment and
Validation) Act, 1979.(2)(a)The provisions of this Act except section 5 shall
be deemed to have come into force on the 1st June 1979.(b)Section 5 shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 13th October 1979.

### 2. Amendment of Central Act XXIV of 1859.

\- In the Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859 (Central Act XXIV of
1859),-(1)in section 1, in the definition of "superior police" for the
expression "the Inspector-General of Police", the expression "the Director-
General of Police, Inspectors-General of Police" shall be substituted;(2)in
section 5, -(a)for the marginal heading, the following marginal heading shall
be substituted, namely: -"Director-General of Police, etc.";(b)for the
expression "Inspector-General of Police for the State of Tamil Nadu", the
expression "Director-General of Police for the State of Tamil Nadu" shall be
substituted;(3)section 7 and the marginal heading relating thereto shall be
omitted;(4)in section 9, -(a)in the marginal heading, for the expression
"Inspector-General", the expression "Director-General" shall be
substituted;(b)for the expression "Inspector-General" in both the places where
it occurs, the expression "Director-General" shall be substituted;(5)in
section 10, for the expression "the Inspector-General", the expression "the
Director-General of Police, Inspectors-General of Police" shall be
substituted;(6)in section 11, for the expression "Inspector-General", the
expression "Director-General of Police" shall be substituted;(7)in section 12,
for the expression "the Inspector-General of Police", the expression "the
Director-General of Police or the Inspector-General of Police" shall be
substituted;(8)in section 13, for the expression "the Inspector-General" in
both the places where it occurs, the expression "the Director-General of
Police or Inspector-General" shall be substituted;(9)in section 14, for the
expression "the Inspector-General" in both the places where it occurs, the
expression "the Director-General of Police" shall be substituted;(10)in
section 19, for the expression "the Inspector-General", the expression "the
Director-General of Police" shall be substituted;(11)in section 45, for the
expression "the Inspector-General", the expression "the Director-General of
Police" shall be substituted;

### 3. Amendment of Tamil Nadu Act III of 1907.

\- In the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Police
(Amendment) Act, 1907 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1907), -(a)in the long title, for
the expression "the Inspector-General of Police", the expression "the
Director-General of Police" shall be substituted;(b)in the preamble, for the
expression "the Inspector-General", the expression "the Director-General"
shall be substituted;(c)in section 2 and in the marginal heading thereto, for
the expression "the Inspector-General", the expression "Director-General"
shall be substituted;(d)in section 3, for the expression "Inspector-General of
Police", the expression "Director-General of Police" shall be substituted.

### 4. Construction of reference.

\- Unless the context otherwise requires, in any enactment other than the
Tamil Nadu District Police Act, 1859 (Central Act XXIV of 1859) or the
1[Chennai] City Police (Amendment) Act, 1907 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1907), any
reference to the Inspector-General of Police shall be construed as a reference
to the Director-General of Police.

### 5. Validation.

\- Anything done or any action taken by the Director-General of Police before
the 13th October 1979 which, under any law, is required to be done or taken by
the Inspector-General of Police, shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be, and
to have always been, validly done or taken in accordance with law as if this
Act had been in force at all material times and it shall not be liable to be
questioned in any Court of law.

### 6. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Police Laws (Amendment) and Validation) Ordinance, 1979
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 19 of 1979) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Police Laws as amended by
the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the Police
Laws as amended by this Act.

