## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009

## Act 22 of 2009

  * Published on 5 August 2009 
  * Commenced on 5 August 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 August 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009(Act No. 22 of
2009)Last Updated 24th January, 2020[Dated 05.08.2009]An Act to provide for
the regulation of collection of fee by schools in the State of Tamil Nadu and
matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixtieth Year of the
Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of
Fee) Act, 2009.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"academic year"
means the year commencing on the first day of June to the last day of
May;(b)"aided school" means a school receiving any sum of money as aid out of
the State funds;(c)"committee" means the committee constituted under section
5;(d)"District Committee" means the committee constituted under section
11;(e)"fee" means any amount, by whatever name called, collected directly or
indirectly by a school for admission of a pupil to any standard or course of
study;(f)"Government" means the State Government;(g)"Government School" means
a school run by the Government or any local authority;(h)"local authority"
means-(i)the Municipal Corporations of Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem,
Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli, Erode, Tiruppur, Vellore, Thoothukudi or any
other Municipal Corporation that may be constituted under any law for the time
being in force; or(ii)a Municipal Council constituted under the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920); or(iii)a
Panchayat Union Council or a Village Panchayat constituted under the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(i)"management" includes
the managing committee or any person, body of persons, committee or any other
governing body by whatever name called in whom the power to manage or
administer the affairs of a school is vested:Provided that the Board of
Trustees or governing body of Wakf Board, by whatever name called, constituted
or appointed by any law for the time being in force relating to the charitable
and religious institutions and endowments and Wakfs shall be deemed to be a
management for the purposes of this Act;(j)"private school" means any pre-
primary school, primary school, middle school, high school or higher secondary
school, established and administered or maintained by any person or body of
persons and recognized or approved by the competent authority under any law or
code of regulation for the time being in force, but does not include,-(i)an
aided school;(ii)a school established and administered or maintained by the
Central Government or the State Government or any local authority;(iii)a
school giving, providing or imparting religious instruction alone but not any
other instructions;Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause,-(1)"code of
regulation" means the Code of Regulations for Approved Nursery and Primary
Schools, Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools and Code of Regulations
for Anglo-Indian Schools;(2)(i)pre-primary school shall consist of Pre-KG to
UKG;(ii)primary school shall consist of LKG to Standard V or Standards I to
V;(iii)middle school shall consist of LKG to Standard VIII, Standards I to
VIII or Standards VI to VIII;(iv)high school shall consist of LKG to Standard
X, Standards VI to X or Standards IX and X;(v)higher secondary school shall
consist of LKG to Standard XII, Standards I to XII, Standards VI to XII or
Standards XI and XII.(3)aided schools conducting any classes or courses, for
which no money is paid as aid out of the State funds, shall be construed as a
private school in so far as such classes or courses are concerned.

### 3. Prohibition of collection of excess fee.

(1)No Government school or aided school shall collect any fee in excess of the
fee fixed by the Government for admission of pupils to any Standard or course
of study in that school.(2)No fee in excess of the fee determined by the
committee under this Act shall be collected for admission of pupils to any
Standard or course of study in a private school,-(a)by any person who is in
charge of, or is responsible for, the management of such private school;
or(b)by any other person either for himself or on behalf of such private
school or on behalf of the management of such private school.(3)The fee
collected by any school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education
shall commensurate with the facilities provided by the school.

### 4. Fixation of fee by Government. Constitution of committee.

\- The Government shall fix the fee for admission of pupils to any Standard or
course of study in Government schools and aided schools.

### 5. Constitution of committee.

(1)The Government shall constitute a committee for the purpose of
determination of the fee for admission to any Standard or course of study in
private schools.(2)The committee shall consist of the following members,
namely:-

(a) a retired High Court Judge, nominated by theGovernment. | - | Chairperson;  
---|---|---  
(b) Director of School Education. | - | Ex-officioMember;  
(c) Director of Matriculation Schools. | - | Ex-officioMember;  
(d) Director of Elementary Education. | - | Ex-officioMember;  
(e) Joint Chief Engineer (Buildings) PublicWorks Department. | - | Ex-officioMember;  
(f) Additional Secretary to Government, SchoolEducation Department. | - | Ex-officioMember- Secretary.  
  
(3)The term of office of the Chairperson shall be for a period of three years
from the date of his nomination and in the case of vacancy arising earlier,
for any reason, such vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the
term.(4)The Chairperson shall be eligible to draw such rate of sitting fee and
travelling allowance as may be applicable to a First Class Committee.(5)No act
or proceeding of the committee shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in, the constitution of the
committee.(6)The Chairperson shall preside over the meeting of the committee.

### 6. Factors for determination of fee.

(1)The committee shall determine the fee leviable by a private school taking
into account the following factors, namely:-(a)the location of the private
school;(b)the available infrastructure;(c)the expenditure on administration
and maintenance;(d)the reasonable surplus required for the growth and
development of the private school;(e)any other factors as may be
prescribed.(2)The committee shall, on determining the fee leviable by a
private school, communicate its decision to the school concerned.(3)Any
private school aggrieved over the decision of the committee shall file their
objection before the committee within fifteen days from the date of receipt of
the decision of the committee.(4)The committee shall consider the objection of
the private school and pass orders within thirty days from the date of receipt
of such objection.(5)The orders passed by the committee shall be final and
binding on the private school for three academic years. At the end of the said
period, the private school would be at liberty to apply for revision.(6)The
committee shall indicate the different heads under which the fee shall be
levied.

### 7. Powers and functions of the committee.

(1)The powers and functions of the committee shall be, -(a)to determine the
fee to be collected by private schools;(b)to hear complaints with regard to
collection of fee in excess of the fee determined by it or fixed by the
Government, as the case may be. If the committee, after obtaining the evidence
and explanation from the management of the private school or aided school
concerned or from the Government school, comes to the conclusion that the
private school or the Government school or aided school has collected fee in
excess of the fee determined by the committee or fixed by the Government, as
the case may be, it shall recommend to the appropriate competent authority for
the cancellation of the recognition or approval, as the case may be, of the
private school or aided school or for any other course of action as it deems
fit in respect of the private school or Government school or aided
school.(2)The committee shall have power to, -(i)require each private school
to place before the committee the proposed fee structure of such school with
all relevant documents and books of accounts for scrutiny within such date as
may be specified by the committee;(ii)verify whether the fee proposed by the
private school is justified and it does not amount to profiteering or charging
of exorbitant fee;(iii)approve the fee structure or determine some other fee
which can be charged by the private school.(3)The Committee shall have power
to, -(i)verify whether the fee collected by the School affiliated to the
Central Board of Secondary Education commensurate with the facilities provided
by the school;(ii)to hear complaints with regard to collection of excess fee
by a school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education; and(iii)to
recommend to the Central Board of Secondary Education for disaffiliation of
the school, if it comes to a conclusion that the school has collected excess
fee.(4)The committee shall have the power to regulate its own procedure in all
matters arising out of the discharge of its functions, and shall, for the
purpose of making any inquiry under this Act, have all the powers of a civil
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) while
trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely: -(i)summoning and
enforcing the attendance of any witness and examining him on oath;(ii)the
discovery and production of any document;(iii)the receipt of evidence on
affidavits;(iv)the issuing of any commission for the examination of witness.

### 8. Regulation of accounts.

\- The Government may regulate the maintenance of accounts by the private
schools in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 9. Penalties.

(1)Whoever contravenes the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder
shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall
not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees:Provided that the court may, for any
adequate and special reason to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence
of imprisonment for a term of less than three years.(2)The person convicted
under this section shall refund to the pupil from whom the excess fee was
collected in contravention of this Act, such excess fee.

### 10. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence against any of the provisions of this Act have been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the
conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section
shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he has exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), where any such offence has been
committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed
with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the
part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of
that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, -(a)"company"
means any body corporate and includes a trust, a firm, a society or other
association of individuals, and(b)"director" in relation to -(i)a firm, means
a partner in the firm;(ii)a society, a trust or other association of
individuals, means the person who is entrusted under the rules of the society,
trust or other association with the management of the affairs of the society,
trust or other association, as the case may be.

### 11. District Committee.

(1)There shall be a District Committee in every revenue district, which shall
consist of the Chief Educational Officer of the district as Chairperson and
such other members as may be prescribed.(2)The District Committee or any
member of the said committee authorised by it in this behalf may, at any time,
during the normal working hours of any private school, enter such private
school or any premises thereof or any premises belonging to the management of
such private school if it or he has reason to believe that there is or has
been any contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder and search and inspect any record, accounts, register or other
document belonging to such private school or of the management, in so far as
any such record, accounts, register or other document relates to such private
school and seize any such record, accounts, register or other document for the
purpose of ascertaining whether there is or has been any such
contravention.(3)The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974) relating to search and seizure shall apply, so far as
may be, to search and seizure under sub-section (2).

### 12. Cognizance of offences.

\- No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except with
the sanction of the Government or such officer as the Government may authorise
in this behalf.

### 13. Operation of other laws.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be
in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in
force.

### 14. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against
the committee or its members, Government or any officer, authority or person
empowered to exercise the powers or perform the functions by or under this Act
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act
or the rules made thereunder.

### 15. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution of the committee
after the date of commencement of this Act or otherwise in giving effect to
the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification, make such
provision, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to
them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:Provided that no
such notification shall be issued after the expiry of five years from the date
of commencement of this Act.

### 16. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)Every rule made or notification issued under this Act shall, as
soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table of the
Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
rule or notification, or the Assembly decides that the rule or notification
should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.

