## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956

## Act 11 of 1956

  * Published on 19 February 1957 
  * Commenced on 19 February 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 February 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1956Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act
XL of 1956). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons, Please see Part IV-A,
pages 245-246 of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 5th December
1956.Received the assent of the President on the 19th February 1957 and first
published in the Fort St, George Gazette on the 27th February, 1957.An Act for
the levy of full assessment on certain inam lands in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the express 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.]Whereas it is expedient to provide for the levy of
full assessment on certain inam lands in [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.]Be it enacted in the Seventh year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act,
1956.(2)It shall be deemed to have come in to force on the 1st day of July
1956.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Collector" means a
Revenue Divisional Officer and includes any person appointed by the State
Government whether by name or in virtue of his office, to exercise any of the
functions of a Collector under this Act;(b)"Estates Land Act" means the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the express 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the express 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908);(e)"inam" means an inam land as
defined in clause (d) and includes an assignment of land revenue on such inam
land;(d)"inam land" means any land the grant of which in inam has been made,
confirmed or recognized by the Government and includes any inam constituting
an estate under the Estates Land Act, but does not include-(i)any estate to
which the provisions of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of
1948), apply or may be applied;(ii)any ryoti land, that is to say, any
cultivable land in an estate held by a person other than the
landholder;(iii)any land granted by a landholder on service tenure either free
of rent or on favourable rates of rent if granted before the passing of the
Estates Land Act or free of rent if granted after that date, so long as the
service tenure subsists;(iv)beds and bunds of tanks and of supply, drainage,
surplus or irrigation channels;(v)thershing-floor, cattle-stands, village
sites, and other lands which are set apart for the common use of the
villagers;(vi)waste lands and forests.Explanation. - The expression
"landholder" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (5) of section 3
of the Estates Land Act;(e)"settlement" includes resettlement.

### 3. Levy of full assessment.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any engagement, contract, grant or
any law for the time being in force, it shall be lawful for the State
Government to levy -(a)on any inam land in a ryotwari village, the full
assessment at the rate of assessment set out in the settlement notification
for lands of a similar description and with similar advantages in the same
village, and if there are no such lands, in the nearest ryotwari village where
such similar lands exist;(b)on any other inam land, the full assessment at the
rate of assessment set out in the settlement notification for lands of a
similar description and with similar advantages the nearest ryotwari village
where conditions are generally similar to those obtaining in the village in
which the inam land is situated:Provided that in the case of an inam granted
on service tenure which is proved to consist of an assignment of land revenue
only, no assessment under this sub-section shall be leviable, and the inamdar
shall be liable to pay only the quit-rent, jodi, kattubadi or other amount of
a like nature, if any, which he has been paying before the commencement of
this Act.Explanation I. - The levy of full assessment on any inam, which
became an estate by virtue of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land
(Third Amendment) Act, 1936 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVIII of 1936), shall
be in addition to any quit-rent, jodi, kattubadi or other amount of a like
nature payable to the State Government by the landholder immediately before
the commencement of this Act.Explanation II. - If any quit-rent, jodi,
kattubadi or other amount of a like nature was payable to the State Government
immediately before the commencement of this Act in respect of any inam other
than one falling under Explanation I, the assessment leviable on such inam
under this section shall be in lieu of such quit-rent, jodi, kattubadi or
other amount aforesaid and, if, in respect of any such inam situated in an
inam village, any jodi or other amount of a like nature is payable by the
inamdar to the landholder of the village, the assessment leviable on such inam
under this section shall be reduced by the jodi or other amount so
payable.(2)(a)Before making the assessment the Collector shall publish in the
District Gazette and in such other manner as may be prescribed, a draft
notification specifying the inam lands in respect of which the assessment is
proposed to be levied under sub-section (1), and the rates of such assessment
together with a notice specifying a date not being less than one month from
the date of such publication at or after which such draft will be taken into
consideration, and shall confirm or modify the assessment or pass such orders
as he deems fit after considering any objections which may be made in respect
of the draft by the inamdar or other person interested before the specified
date and after making such inquiry, if any, as he deems fit. (b) Any person
deeming himself aggrieved by a decision of the Collector under clause (a) may
prefer an appeal to the District Collector within the prescribed period and
the District Collector may, after giving the appellant an opportunity of being
heard, pass such orders on the appeal as he thinks fit.(c)The decision of the
District Collector under clause (b) and in cases where no appeal has been
preferred the decision of the Collector under clause (a) shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act, be final and shall not be liable to be questioned in
any Court of law.(3)The inam lands and rates of assessment leviable thereon as
finally decided shall then be published in the District Gazette and in such
other manner as may be prescribed.(4)[ The rates of assessment as published
under sub-section (3) shall take effect on and from the 1st day of July 1956
and accordingly assessment under this section shall be leviable with effect
from that date.] [Added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment)
Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1968) which was deemed to have come
into farce on the 1st July 1956.]

### 3A. [ Revision of assessment of inam lands. [Inserted by Section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of
1961).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, it shall be lawful for the
State Government to revise, from time to time, the rates of assessment
published under sub-section (3) of section 3, whenever the rate of assessment
set out in the settlement notification referred to in clause (a), or as the
case may be, in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 is revised
subsequently by the appropriate authority:Provided that the revision in the
rates of assessment under this sub-section shall be to the same extent as the
rates of assessment set out in the settlement notification as revised by the
said appropriate authority.(2)The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 3
shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to the revision of the rates of
assessment on inam lands under subsection (1) as they apply in relation to the
making of the assessment on such lands.(4)[ The revised rates of assessment as
published under sub-section (3) shall take effect from the commencement of the
fasli year in which such rates of assessment are published in the District
Gazette and accordingly assessment under this section halite leviable with
effect from the commencement of such fasli year.]]

### 4. Presumption in the case of service inams.

\- In the case of an inam granted for the purpose of any service it shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary that the inam consists
not merely of an assignment of land revenue payable in respect of the land but
also of the land

### 5. Resumption of service inams.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to affect the power of the
State Government to resume any inam on the ground that the holder of such inam
has failed to perform or make the necessary arrangements for performing the
charity or the service for performing which the inam had been made, confirmed
or recognized as aforesaid.

### 6. Survey of inams.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, any inam village, which became an estate by virtue of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XVIII of 1936) or part of an estate as well as any other
land (not forming part of any such estate), the grant of which in inam has
been made, confirmed or recognized by the Government may be surveyed or if it
has been surveyed before the 1st day of July, 1956 may be re-surveyed as if it
were Government land, in accordance with the provisions for the survey of such
land contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act,
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII of 1923).(2)The cost of the survey or re-
survey, except so much thereof as is payable by Any person under the
provisions of section 8 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries act,
1923 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII of 1923), shall be borne by the
State Government.

### 7. Rights as between inamdar and other persons not affected.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to define, limit, infringe or
destroy the rights as between the inamdar and other persons, if any, in
possession or enjoyment of the inam land.

### 8. Power to correct errors.

\- If the State Government are satisfied that in any notification published
[under sub-section (3) of section 3, or sub-section (3) of section 3-A]
[Substituted for original sub-section (3) by section 4(iii) of the Tamil Nadu
Inams (Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1961.] there is
any error including any clerical or arithmetical error arising from any
accidental slip or omission, they may, by notification in the District Gazette
concerned, correct such error.

### 9. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act the
State Government may as occasion may require, by order, do anything which
appears to them necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty.

### 10. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.] make rules to carry out the purpose of this Act.(2)In particular
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for-(a)The determination of the assessment leviable under this Act in
respect of unsurveyed land;(b)The classification of lands as wet, manavari or
dry, for the purpose of fixing the rate of assessment leviable under this
Act;(c)The procedure to be followed by the Collector and the District
Collector in inquiries and appeals under this Act;(d)The manner of publication
of the notifications under section 3, subsections (2) and (3)[and section 3-A,
sub-section (2) and (3)] [Added by section 4(H) of the Tamil Nadu Inams
(Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1961).].(3)[ All rules
made under this Act shall be published in the Fort St. George Gazette and,
unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come
into force on the day on which they are so published.] [Substituted for
original sub-section (3) by section 4(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inams
(Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1961.](4)[ Every rule
made under this Act, shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for original sub-section
(3) by section 4(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inams (Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1961.], and if before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification, in any such rule
or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have, effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.]

### 11. Inams to be subject to restrictions, etc.

\- Where before the date of the coming into force of this Act, any inam land
was held subject to any restrictions or conditions, such inam land shall,
[notwithstanding the levy of full assessment on such inam land under section 3
from the date of coming into force of this Act or the revision of such
assessment under section 3-A.] [Substituted for the words and figure 'not with
standing the levy of full assessment on such inam land under section 3 from
the date of coming into force of this Act' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu
Inams (Assessment) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1961).]

