## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-Holds and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-Holds and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975

## Act 2 of 1976

  * Published on 3 January 1976 
  * Commenced on 3 January 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 January 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-Holds and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975(Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976)Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-holds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2
of 1976). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons, please see Part IV-Section
1, page 256 of the Fort. St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th
October 1975.Received the assent of the President on the 3rd January 1976 and
first published in Part IV- Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 12th January 1976.An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963, the Tamil Nadu
Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 and the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963.Be it
enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-sixth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Leaseholds and Minor
Inams (Abolition and Coorersion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975.

### 2.

[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963).]

### 3.

[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963).]

### 4.

[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)].

### 5. Compensation to be re-determined in certain cases.

\- Where any compensation has been determined under,-(a)the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26
of 1963), for an inam estate as a whole; or(b)the Tamil Nadu Lease-holds
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1963), for a lease-hold as a whole; or(c)the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), for an
inam as a whole, before the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, the amount of such compensation shall be re-
determined in accordance with the provisions of the respective Acts aforesaid,
as amended by this Act.

### 6. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force,
or any custom, usage or contract or decree or order of a Court or other
authority.

