## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Service Regulations, 1989

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Service Regulations, 1989

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LABOUR-WELFARE-BOARD-SERVICE-REGULATIONS-1989 of 1989

  * Published on 1 January 1989 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Service Regulations, 1989Published vide
Notification No. SRO C-8/97No. SRO C-8/97. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 42 of the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1972), the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board hereby makes the
following regulations in respect of the officers and the employees of the
Board.

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These regulations shall be called the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board
Service Regulations, 1989.(2)They shall come into force from the date of
approval by the Government.

### 2. Application.

(1)These regulations with such amendments as may be effected by the Board,
from time to time, shall apply to the employees of all the categories of the
Board except those appointed on part-time or causal basis, provided that
employees who are working in the Board on deputation basis from the State or
Central Government or from elsewhere, as the case may be, shall be governed by
the terms and conditions of their deputation order:Provided that the
regulations shall not be amended or modified or substituted by the Board
without the previous approval of the Government:Provided further that the
regulations shall not be amended, modified or substituted to the disadvantage
of any person already in service.(2)The Board shall be the authority competent
to interpret these regulations and the decisions of the Board shall be final
and binding.(3)The Board may exempt wholly or in part from the operations of
these regulations, the holder of any post or the holders of any class or
category of posts.Clause (3) under regulation 2 shall apply only to
relaxations and exemptions in individual cases, general exemption from the
natural operation of these regulations can be made only by amendment of the
relevant regulation by the Board.

### 3. Definitions.

(1)In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(i)The 'Act' means the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972
(Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1972).(ii)The 'Board' means the Tamil Nadu Labour
Welfare Board;(iii)The 'Government' means the Government of Tamil Nadu.(2)A
person is said to be "appointed to the service" when in accordance with these
regulations he discharges for the first time the duties of a post borne on the
cadre of such class or service or commences probation, instruction or training
prescribed for members thereof;(3)"Probationer" means an officer or servant of
the Board who has been appointed to a post in accordance with the regulations,
but who has not completed his probation;(4)"Approved Probationer" in any class
or category in the service means a member of that class or category who had
satisfactorily completed his probation and has been declared as such in that
class or category;(5)"Discharge of a Probationer" means in case the
probationer is a full member or an approved probationer of another service,
class or category reverting him to such service, class or category and in any
other case dispensing with his services;(6)A person is said to be "on duty" as
a member of the Board's service-(a)when he is performing the duties of a post
borne on the cadre of such service or is undergoing the probation,
instructions or training prescribed by the Board for such service;(b)when he
is on joining time;(c)when he is absent from duty on authorised holidays or on
casual leave taken in accordance with the instructions regulating such leave
issued by the Board having been on duty immediately before and immediately
after such absence;(d)when he is undergoing any course of instruction or
training for which he is deputed by the Board;(e)when he has compulsorily to
wait for orders of posting; or(f)when he is permitted to attend any prescribed
examination which is required to be passed either for continuance in the same
post or for promotion to a higher post, which includes the number of days
actually required for proceeding to, and returning from, the station at which
the examination is held;(7)"Full member" of a service means a member of that
service who has been appointed subsequently to a permanent post borne on the
cadre thereof;(8)"Member of the Service" means a person who has been appointed
to the service of the Board and who has not retired or resigned or been
removed or dismissed or reverted to Government service or discharged otherwise
than for want of vacancy. He maybe a probationer; an approved probationer or a
full member in the Board's service;(9)"Promotion" means the appointment of a
member of one category to the next higher category;(10)A candidate is said to
be "recruited direct" to a service, class, category or post, when at the time
of his first appointment thereto, he is not in the service of the Board or is
not taken on deputation;(11)"war service" means such service as has been
recognised as war service from time to time, by the Government of Tamil
Nadu;(12)"Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes" means the
communities notified as such by the Government of Tamil Nadu, from time to
time;(13)"Minimum General Education Qualification" means the qualification
referred to in Schedule I to Part II of the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu
State and Subordinate Service as amended, from time to time, by the
Government;(14)"Joining time" means the time allowed to an employee of the
Board to join a new post on transfer or to travel to or from a station to
which he is posted;(15)"Holiday" means any day declared as holiday by the
Government of Tamil Nadu;(16)"Leave Salary" means salary payable to an
employee on leave (i.e., pay last drawn);(17)"Month" means a calendar month.
In calculating a period expressed in terms of months and days, complete
calendar months irrespective of the number of days in each should first be
calculated and then add number of days calculated
subsequently;(18)"Subsistence grant" means a monthly grant made to an employee
of the Board who is not in receipt of pay or leave salary;(19)"Travelling
Allowance" means an allowance granted to an employee towards the expenses
which he incurs in travelling for the discharge of his duties including
expenditure incurred on transfer;(20)"Temporary employee" means an employee
who has not completed the prescribed period of probation in any category in
the Board or appointed purely on an emergency basis;(21)"Regular employee"
means an employee appointed by the Board in accordance with the regulations on
regular basis, but does not include an employee appointed purely on an
emergency basis;(22)"Conveyance allowance" means an allowance granted to an
employee for the maintenance of conveyance provided the maintenance of such
conveyance is authorised for the holders of a particular post by the
Board;(23)"Age" - (i) Age for the purpose of these regulations shall be
computed from the date of birth evidence of which shall be produced by the
employee at the time of selection for appointment or within such period as the
appointing authority may direct.(ii)When both the year-and the month of birth
are known but, not the exact date, the 16th of the month should be treated as
the date of birth.(iii)If the year of birth of an employee is known, but not
the month and date, the 2nd July of that year should be treated as the date of
birth.(iv)In the case of all those who opt to serve the Board, the date of
birth as entered in the Service Register of the parent department will be the
date of birth of the employee;(24)"Diploma or Degree" - In cases where the
regulations prescribe a degree or diploma as a qualification, then, the degree
or diploma granted by any of the Universities, Institutions recognised by the
University Grants Commission;(25)"Day" means a calendar day beginning and
ending at midnight;(26)"Board Service" means service rendered in the Tamil
Nadu Labour Welfare Board;(27)"Appointing Authority" means the authority
competent to appoint,, various categories of the employees in the service of
the Board which includes the Government, the Board or an officer authorised to
exercise this function by the Board.

### 4. Creation of posts and mode of recruitments.

\- The Board is empowered to create such number of posts as may be found
necessary by it and to fix suitable scales of pay in conformity with the scale
prescribed for category of post concerned by the Government or consolidated
pay, as the case may be, and to prescribe essential and additional
qualifications and experience required for all such posts, provided for
creation of posts whose minimum scale of pay is Rs. 2,000 and above, the prior
concurrence of the Government is necessary. The Board may also delegate the
said power to such of the officers of the Board as it may decide.

### 5. Filling up of posts.

\- The post so created may be filled in by-(a)absorbing persons in the service
of the State or Central Government; or(b)taking persons on deputation from
State or Central Government or the Indian Audit and Accounts Department;
or(c)direct recruitment; or(d)promotion from lower post or by transfer from
equivalent post; or(e)appointment on contract basis for a specified period.

### 6. Knowledge in official language.

\- All the direct recruits shall possess an adequate knowledge of the official
language of the State viz, Tamil.

### 7. Conditions for appointment.

\- No person shall be eligible for appointment in the Board, unless he
satisfies the Board,-(a)that he is a citizen of India;(b)that his character
and antecedent are such as to qualify him for such services;(c)that he is of
sound health, active habits and free from any bodily defect unfitting him for
such services;(d)that he does not have more than one spouse living or if such
a person is a woman, then, she is not married to a person who has a wife
living; and(e)that he has completed 18 years of age, but has not completed 30
years as on the date of his appointment. However in respect of candidates
belonging to Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, the age
limit shall not apply or shall be increased by 5 years under certain
circumstances as provided under rule 12(d) of the General Rules for the Tamil
Nadu State and Subordinate Services. Every person appointed as staff of the
Board should, before actual joining the Board, produce (i) evidence of age;
(ii) evidence of qualifications; and (iii) a certificate of medical fitness
from a Medical Officer not below the rank of Civil Assistant Surgeon that, he
is physically fit for the job and that he suffers from no disability or
contagious diseases which would affect the discharge of his duties.

### 8. Consultation with Employment Exchange.

\- (i) The Board should call for candidates from the Employment Exchange for
making direct recruitment and selection shall be made by a Selection Committee
in respect of Group A and B Post and by the Secretary of the Board, in respect
of Group C posts and Administrative Officer in respect of Group D
posts.(ii)The Board shall lay down the guidelines in which such Selection
Committees are to be continued and selections are to be made.(iii)In case,
where the candidates are not available through Employment Exchange or where
the candidates sponsored by Employment Exchange found not suitable, the Board
may advertise for such posts.

### 9. Reservation of appointment.

\- The principle of reservation of appointments shall apply to all
appointments by direct recruitment as per Government Orders issued, from time
to time, consistent with the contingencies of specialised operations of the
Board.

### 10. Probation.

\- Every person appointed, either by direct recruitment or by promotion except
on a temporary basis, shall be deemed to have been appointed on probation for
a period of two years from the date of his appointment, provided that-(a)the
appointing authority may extend the period of probation of any probationer in
any of the service;(i)either to enable the probationer to acquire the special
qualifications or to pass the prescribed tests; or(ii)'to enable the
appointing authority to appraise and to decide whether the probationer is
suitable for full membership or not.In case where the probation of a
probationer is extended, unless there are special reasons to the contrary, a
condition shall be attached to the order of extension of probation that
further increments shall be stopped until he is declared to have
satisfactorily completed his probation. Such stoppage of increments shall not
be treated as a penalty, but only as a condition of extension of probation and
shall not have the effect of postponing future increments after he has passed
the prescribed tests or after he is declared to have satisfactorily completed
his probation.

### 11. Completion or termination of probation.

(a)At the end of the prescribed period of probation or extended period of
probation, as the case may be, the appointing authority shall consider the
probationer's suitability for full membership in the post in which he/she is a
probationer.(b)If the appointing authority decides that a probationer is
suitable for such membership, it shall issue an order as soon as the period of
probation is over declaring the probationer to have satisfactorily completed
his/her probation.(c)If within the prescribed period of probation or extended
period of probation, the appointing authority decides that a probationer is
not suitable for full membership or has not acquired the special qualification
prescribed, if any, at its discretion by order, terminate his/her probation
and discharge him/her from service.(d)If no order of completion, extension or
termination is issued within six months fro.m the date of expiry of the
prescribed or extended period of probation, the probationer shall be deemed to
have completed his/her probation on the due date.

### 12. Classification of service.

\- The services under the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board shall be classified
as "A" Group, "B" Group, "C" Group, "D" Group as detailed below:-Group A: All
Officers the minimum of whose scale of pay is Rs. 3.000 or above.Group B: All
Officers the minimum of whose scale of pay is Rs. 2.000 and above and less
than Rs. 3000 and those posts specifically classified by the Board as
such.Group C: All staff the minimum of whose scale of pay is Rs. 775 or above
and less than Rs. 2,000 and also those posts specifically classified by the
Board as such.Group D: All other posts whose scale of pay is below Rs. 775 and
also those posts specifically classified by the Board as such: "Provided that
the Board shall reclassify or modify the classification of its officers and
employees on par with the classification ordered by the Government to their
officers and employees, from time to time.

### 13. Classification of service and posts.

\- The following services shall be constitute for the officers and employees
of the Board:-I. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board (General) Service;II. Tamil
Nadu Labour Welfare Board Subordinate Service;III. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare
Board Technical Service;IV. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Basic Service;The
Posts constituting each service are given below:-I. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare
Board (General) Service.Category.- (1) Secretary to the Board.(2)Financial
Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer.(3)Administrative Officer.(4)Assistant
Accounts Officer.II. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Subordinate
Service.Category.- (1) Manager Grade I and Grade
II.(2)Superintendent.(3)Assistant Inspector of Labour (Welfare
Centre).(4)Accountant.(5)Librarian.(6)Assistant.(7)Junior Assistant/Junior
Assistant-cum-Cashier.(8)Typist and Steno Typist(8A)[ Proof Reader. ]
[Inserted by Notification No. SRO C-6/2009, dated 16.0S.2009, published dated
14.10.2009.](9)Balasevika.(10)Record Clerk.(11)Driver.(12)Sergeant.III. Tamil
Nadu Labour Welfare Board Technical Service.Category.- (1) Assistant/Junior
Engineer.(2)Technical Assistant category.(3)Organiser-cum-Tailoring
Instructresses Grade I and II.(4)Telephone Operators.(5)Electrician-cum-
Plumber.(6)Plumber.(7)Lift Operator.IV. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Basic
Service.Category.- (1) Office Assistant/Room Boy.(2)Conductress.(3)Watchman
and other posts not specifically mentioned under other categories;The Officers
and staff of the Board shall be recruited in accordance with the Recruitment
Rules prescribed in Annexure D.

### 14. Transfers.

\- All officers and employees of the Board are subject to transfer from the
Board's Secretariat to the units, between the units and from any unit to the
Boards Secretariat. All such transfers and postings shall be made by the
authority competent to order such transfers or by the authority to whom powers
are delegated.

### 15. Department Unit.

\- All categories of posts in the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board shall
constitute a single unit for the purpose of recruitment, promotion, for
seniority and discharge for want of vacancies except otherwise provided for in
the regulations.

### 16. Seniority.

(a)The seniority of a person in a category shall, unless he has been reduced
to a lower category as a punishment, be determined by the rank obtained by him
in the list of approved candidates drawn up by the Board or other appointing
authority, as the case may be. The date of commencement of his probation shall
be the date on which he joins duty irrespective of his seniority.(b)The
transfer of a person from one category to another category carrying the same
pay or scale or pay shall not be treated as first appointment to the latter
post for the purpose of seniority and the seniority of a person as transferred
shall be determined with reference to the rank in the category or grade from
which he was transferred. Where any difficulty or doubt arises in applying
this sub-rule, seniority shall be determined by the appointing
authority.(c)Where a member of class of service, category or grade is reduced
to a lower class of service, category or grade, he shall be placed at the top
of the latter, unless the authority ordering such reduction direct that he
shall take rank in such lower class of service, category or grade next below
any specified member thereof:Provided that the seniority of an employee
reduced to a lower post or time scale should be determined from the date of
such repromotion. He should not he restored to his original position unless
this is specifically laid down at the time the order of punishment is passed
or revised on appeal.

### 17. Temporary promotion.

\- The appointing authority may promote temporarily a person in accordance
with the provisions of these regulations in the following cases until a person
is promoted in accordance with the regulation.(a)(i)Where it is necessary to
fill a short vacancy in a post and the promotion of the person who is entitled
to such promotion, would involve excessive expenditure on travelling
allowances or exceptional administrative inconvenience.(ii)Where it is
necessary in the interest of the administration to fill up a vacancy
immediately and there would be undue delay in ordering promotion in accordance
with these regulation:Provided that no employee shall, under any
circumstances, be temporarily promoted for a continuous period exceeding three
months except with the approval of the Board.Note. - (a) No promotion shall
ordinarily be made under the above clauses, of a person who does not posses
the qualification prescribed for the post.(b)Where general or special
qualifications have been prescribed for holding a post in a category and no
member of the lower category from which promotion is to be made to this
category possesses the prescribed qualification, a member of the lower
category may be promoted temporarily to the higher category until a member
qualified becomes available for promotion.(c)Pending charges is not a bar for
one's promotion.(d)A person promoted temporarily under clause (a), (b) or (c)
shall not be entitled by reason of such promotion to any preferential claim to
future regular promotion to such category.(e)Subject to the provision or
regulations for pay, there shall be paid to such person promoted temporarily,
the minimum pay in higher cadre or his pay in the existing cadre whichever is
higher.(f)Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulation, if and when
a temporary post is created as an addition to the cadre of any class or
service or category and the holder thereof is required by the Board to posses
any special qualification, knowledge or experience, any person who possesses
such qualification, knowledge or experience and is considered to be the best
fitted to discharge the duties of such post may be, irrespective of other
considerations, be appointed to that post by the appointing authority, but the
person so appointed shall, not by reason only of such appointment, be regarded
as a probationer in such class of service or category nor shall be he acquire
thereby any preferential right to future appointment to such class of service
or category.

### 18. Regular promotion.

\- The following categories of posts are the promotional categories in the
Board as detailed against each:-I. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Subordinate
Services:-(1)Superintendent: By promotion from among the holders of the post
of Assistant.(2)Accountant: By promotion from among the holders of the post of
Assistant.(3)Assistant Inspector of Labour (Welfare Centre): By promotion from
among the holders of the post of Assistant.(4)[ Assistant: By promotion from
among the holders of the posts of Junior Assistant/Steno-Typist/ /Typist/Proof
Reader.] [Substituted by Notification No. SRO C-6/2009, dated 16.08.2009,
published dated 14.10.2009.](5)Junior Assistant: By promotion from among the
holders of the post of Record Clerk and Office Assistant.(6)Car Driver: By
promotion from among the holders of the post of Office Assistant holding a car
driving licence issued by the Government of Tamil Nadu and having completed 5
years of service in that cadre;(7)Record Clerk: By promotion from among the
holders of the post of Office Assistant.(8)Office Assistant: By promotion from
among the holders of the post of Watchman.II. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board
Technical Services:-(9)Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress: (Grade I): By
promotion from among the holders of the post of Organiser-cum-Tailoring
Instructress Grade. II if they have completed 5 years of service in that
cadre.(10)Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress Grade II: By promotion from
among the holders of the post of Bala Sevika and Conductress if they possess
the required qualifications to hold the post.

### 18A.

The crucial date for the preparation of panel for promotion in respect of the
above categories shall be 1st April of every year.

### 19. Securities.

(a)When a holder of a post is required to deposit security for due and
faithful performance of his duties, appointment to the post shall be made only
after the required security is deposited.(b)When an employee who has furnished
security takes leave other than casual leave or is deputed to other duty the
person who is appointed to officiate for him shall be required to furnish the
full amount of the security prescribed for the post.Note. - Securities to be
furnished for various posts are indicated in Annexure "A".

### 20. Test.

\- The details of tests to be passed in various categories are indicated in
Annexure 'B'.

### 21. Acceptance of date of birth.

\- The date of birth of a candidate entered in the Secondary School Leaving
Certificate or Matriculation Register or certificates issued by recognised
schools shall be taken as authentic for purpose of appointment in the service
of the Board. The date of birth accepted by the appointing authority and
attested by the employee at the time of initial appointment shall be final.

### 22. Delegation of powers.

\- The Board may delegate any of its powers under these regulations to the
Secretary to the Board. No person other than the competent authority
prescribed under these regulations shall exercise or delegate powers under
these regulations without the general or specific orders of the Board.

### 23. Power for classification of service arrangement of grades, etc.

\- The Board may adopt its own classification of service, re-arranged grades,
re-fix responsibilities and prescribed minimum educational technical and other
qualifications as may be considered suitable for making selections and
appointments to posts in each category of service.

### 24. Hours of attendance.

\- There shall be common hours of attendance as may be prescribed by the Board
to all categories of employees which may be regulated by the competent
authorities according to the exigencies of work.

### 25. Savings.

\- Unless a contrary intention is expressly stated in these regulations,
nothing contained in these regulations shall adversely affect the holder of
the post in the service of the Board on the date of issue of these
regulations.

### 26. Pay and allowances leave salary pension and conditions of service.

\- The Fundamental Rules, the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules and the Manual of Special
Pay and Allowances and the Pension Code and General Rules for the Tamil Nadu
Subordinate Officers Rules as amended, from time to time, in so far as they
may be applicable and except to the extent expressly provided in these
regulations, shall mutatis mutandis apply to the employees of the Board
service in the matter of their pay, allowances, travelling allowances, leave
salary and other conditions of service. The powers assigned by the Board and
the powers assigned to the Head of the Department under the Fundamental Rules
shall be exercised by the Secretary in respect of the members of the staff
under his control. The pay scales of the various posts in the Tamil Nadu
Labour Welfare Board is given in Annex-ure C.

### 27. Disciplinary proceedings.

\- The following penalties may, for valid reasons and as hereinafter provided,
be imposed upon the employees of the Board,
namely:-(1)Censure.(2)Fine.(3)Withholding of increments or
promotion.(4)Reduction to a lower rank in the seniority list or to a lower
post or time scale, or to a lower stage in a time scale.(5)(a)Recovery from
pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Board by
negligence of creche or orders or;(b)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary
of monetary value equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be
withheld, where such an order cannot be given effect toExplanation. - In case
of stoppage of increment with cumulative effect, the monetary value equivalent
to three times the amount of increment ordered to be withheld may be
recovered.(6)Suspension where a person has already been suspended under
regulation 27 to the extent considered necessary by the authority imposing the
penalty.(7)Removal from Service of the Board.(8)Dismissal from Service of the
Board.Explanation I. - Discharge from Service of the Board.(a)Where the
Regulations specially made for any service prescribe a period of probation for
appointment as a full member of the service or where such period of probation
has been extended under regulation 11, the appointing authority may at any
time before the expiry of the prescribed or extended period of probation as
the case may be-(i)discharge a probationer from the service for want of
vacancy according to the juniority following the principles of "First come
last Go"; or(ii)at the discretion of the appointing authority in cases where
by reason of disciplinary proceedings for imposition upon the probationer of
the penalties specified under (4), (7) and (8) under the above regulation, a
reasonable opportunity has been given and at the conclusion of disciplinary
proceedings, if a conclusion has been arrived to terminate the probation the
probationer can be discharged:Provided that an opportunity to show cause
against the proposed termination has to be given in all the other cases
envisaging imposition of punishments specified in items (1), (2), (3) and (6)
upon a probationer where termination of probation is to be effected as a
result of disciplinary action.(b)If within the period of probation, a
probationer fails to acquire the qualifications or to pass Special Tests, if
any prescribed for his retention in the same service, the appointing authority
shall discharge the probationer unless his probation is extended under
regulation 11:Provided that where the results of the prescribed tests in which
the probationer has appeared are not known before the expiry of the period of
probation, he shall continue to be on probation until the publication of the
results of the tests or examinations:Provided further that any delay in the
issue or orders discharging a probationer under clause (b) shall not entitle
the probationer to be deemed to have satisfactorily completed his
probation.(c)of a person engaged under contract, in accordance with the terms
of his contract; or(d)of a person appointed otherwise than under contract to
hold a temporary appointment does not amount to removal or dismissal within
the meaning of this regulation;(e)for discharging a person described in any of
the above three categories, no notice will be given nor will be reasons
assigned.Explanation II. - The removal of a person from the service of the
Board shall not disqualify him from future employment, but the dismissal of a
person from the service of the Board shall ordinarily disqualify him from
future employment.

### 28. Suspension from service.

(a)An employee of the Board may be placed under suspension from service,
when-(i)an enquiry into grave charges of alleged disobedience or malpractice,
or misappropriation is contemplated or is pending or during enquiry and his
continuance in service is considered to be detrimental to the interests of the
Board.(ii)a complaint against him of any criminal offence involving moral
turpitude is under investigation or trial and if such suspension is necessary
in the public interest or in the interest of the Board.(b)an employee of the
Board who is detained in police custody, whether on a criminal charge or
otherwise, shall be deemed to have been suspended with effect from the date of
his detention by an order of the competent authority and shall remain under
suspension until further orders, provided that the Board may waive this rule
in appropriate cases.(c)Where a penalty of dismissal or removal from service
imposed upon an employee under suspension is set aside in an appeal or on
review under this regulation or by an order of Court of law and the case is
remitted for further enquiry or action or with any other directions, the order
of the suspension shall be deemed to have been in force on and from the date
of the original order of dismissal or removal and shall remain in force until
further orders.(d)(1) An employee of the Board who is placed or deemed to have
been placed or continues to be under suspension shall be entitled to the
following payments, namely:-(a)Subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the
leave salary which the employees of the Board would have drawn, if he had been
on leave on half average pay or half pay and, in addition, dearness allowance,
if admissible, on the basis of such leave salary:Provided that where the
period of suspension exceeds six months, the authority which made or is deemed
to have made the order of suspension shall be competent to vary the amount of
subsistence allowance for any period subsequent to the period of the first six
months as follows:-(i)The amount of subsistence allowance may be increased by
a suitable amount, not exceeding fifty per cent of the subsistence allowance
admissible during the period of the first six months. If, in the opinion of
the said authority, the period of suspension has been prolonged for reasons to
be recorded in writing not directly attributable to the employee of the
Board.(ii)The amount of subsistence allowance may be reduced by a suitable
amount, not exceeding fifty per cent of the subsistence allowance admissible
during the period of the first six months, if in the opinion of the said
authority, the period of suspension has been prolonged for reasons to be
recorded in writing, directly attributable to the employee of the
Board.(iii)The amount of dearness allowance shall be based on the increase or
the decrease in the amount of subsistence allowance, as the case may be,
admissible under sub-clauses (i) or (ii) above;(b)The authority which made or
which is deemed to have made the order of suspension may, if it is satisfied
that the employee of the Board continues to incur the expenditure for which
the compensatory allowance are granted direct that the employee of the Board
shall be granted in addition, such compensatory allowance as are admissible
from time to time on the basis of pay of which the employee of the Board was
in receipt of the date of suspension as the Board may sanction by general or
special order.(2)No payment under sub-regulation (1) shall be made unless the
employee of the Board furnished a certificate that he is not engaged in any
other employment, business, profession or vocation.(3)No payment under sub-
regulation (1) shall makes the employee of the Board continues to reside in
the place fixed from time to time by the authority which made or which is
deemed to have made the order of suspension.(4)In the case of a employee of
the Board to whom subsistance allowance is drawn on an establishment pay bill
a certificate to the effect that he continues to reside in the headquarters
fixed by the competent authority should be obtained from him by the head of
the office before the subsistence allowance is disbursed to him. In the case
of a employee of the Board who draws his own bill, a similar certificate
should be attached to the bill claiming his subsistence allowance.(5)Recovery
from the subsistence grant due to a employee of the Board shall be made as
follows:-(a)Compulsory deductions:(i)Income-tax and super-tax (provided the
employees yearly income calculated with reference to subsistence allowance is
taxable).(ii)House rent and allied charges, i.e., electricity water furniture,
etc.(iii)Repayment of loans and advances taken from the Board at such rates as
the Secretary of the Board deems it right to fix.(6)The above deductions shall
be enforced from the subsistence allowance.(b)Optional deduction:(i)Premia due
on Postal Life Assurance Policies;(ii)Amounts due to Co-operative Stores and
Co-operative Credit Societies;(iii)Refund of advances taken from General
Provident Fund.(7)The deductions under category (b) above shall not be made
from the subsistance allowance except with the written consent specifically
obtained from the employee of the Board under suspension.(8)The following
deductions shall not be made from the subsistence allowance:(i)Subscription to
a General Provident Fund.(ii)Amount due on Court attachments.(iii)Recovery of
loss to the Board for which the employee of the Board is responsible.(9)the
employee of the Board under suspension is dismissed or removed from service
with retrospective effect, arrears of subsistence allowance, if any, due to
him up to the date of termination of proceedings should be paid to
him.(10)When an employee of the Board who has been dismissed, removed or
suspended is reinstated, the authority competent to order the reinstatement
shall consider and made a specific order-(a)regarding the pay and allowances
to be paid to the employee of the Board for the period of his absence from
duty; and(b)whether or not the said period shall be treated as a period spent
on duty.(2)Where the authority mentioned in clause (1) is of opinion that the
employee of the Board has been fully exonerated or in the case of suspension,
that it was wholly unjustified, the employee of the Board shall be given the
full pay and allowance to which he would have been entitled, had he not been
dismissed, removed or suspended as the case may be.(3)In other cases, the
employee of the Board shall be given such proportion of such pay and
allowances as competent authority may prescribed:Provided that the payment of
allowances under clause (2) or clause (3) shall be, subject to all other
conditions under which such allowances are admissible:Provided further that
such proportion of such pay and allowances shall not be less than the
subsistences and other allowances admissible under regulation 27(d).(4)In a
case falling under clause (2), the period of absence from duty shall be
treated as a period spent on duty for all purposes.(5)In a case falling under
clause (3), the period of absence from duty shall not be treated as a period
absent on duty unless such competent authority specifically directs that it
shall be so treated for any specified purpose:Provided that such authority may
direct that the period of absence from duty shall be converted in to leave of
any kind due and admissible to the employee of the Board.(11)The headquarters
of an employee of the Board under suspension is his last place of duty. An
employee of the Board under suspension may change his head quarters provided
the competent authority who has placed him under suspension is satisfied that
such, a course will not put the Board to any extra expenditure like grant of
travelling allowance.(12)Uniform allowance shall not be granted during the
period of suspension even if the period is subsequently treated as duty or
leave, as the case may be.(13)In the case of an employee of the Board who dies
during the period of suspension before the enquiry is over, the period of
suspension shall be treated as duty.(14)Leave shall not be granted to the
employee of the Board under suspension.(15)The Government servants, on
deputation in the Board, shall be paid subsistence allowance while under
suspension in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Rules 53 and
54 applicable to Government service and in accordance with the instructions
issued by the Government, from time to time.

### 29. Authorities competent to award punishment.

\- The authority which may impose the penalty of reduction in rank, removal
from service, discharge from service or dismissal from service shall be the
appointing authority. Other penalties may be imposed by the appointing
authority of the Administrative Officer or any Officer above them in rank.

### 30. Procedure for awarding penalties.

(a)Minor Penalties - In case where it is proposed to impose on any employee of
the Board any of the penalties specified in items (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6)
in regulation 26, he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of making
representation, if any, and it shall be taken into consideration before the
order imposing the penalty is passed.(b)Major Penalties - (i) Where it is
proposed to impose of any employee of the Board any of the penalties specified
in items (4), (7) and (8) in regulation 26, the ground on which it is proposed
to take action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges
which shall be communicated to the person charged. He shall be required within
a reasonable time to put in a written statement of his defence and to state
whether he desires an oral enquiry or only to be heard in person. If he
desires or if the authority concerned so directs, an oral enquiry shall be
held. At the enquiry, oral evidence shall be heard as to such of the
allegations as are not admitted and the person charged shall be entitled to
cross-examine the witness, to give evidence in person and to have such
witnesses called as he may wish provided that the officer conducting the
enquiry may, for special and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing,
refuse to call a witness. If no enquiry is held and if he had desired to be
heard in person, a personal hearing shall be given to him. The proceedings
shall contain a sufficient record of the evidence and the statement of the
findings and the grounds thereof.After the enquiry referred to in clause (i)
has been completed and after the authority competent to impose penalty
mentioned in that clause has arrived at provisional conclusions in regard to
the penalty to be imposed, the person charged shall be supplied with a copy of
the report of the enquiry authority and be called on to show cause within a
reasonable time not ordinarily exceeding one month, against the particular
penalty proposed to be inflicted. Any representation in this behalf submitted
by the person charged shall be duly taken into consideration before final
orders are passed, provided such representation shall be based only on the
evidence adduced during the enquiry.(c)The requirement of sub-regulations (c)
and (b) shall not apply where it is proposed to impose on an employee any of
the penalties mentioned in regulation 26 on the basis of facts which have led
to his conviction in a criminal Court or by a Court material or where the
officer concerned has absconded or where it is for other reasons impracticable
to communicate with him.All or any of the provisions of sub-regulations (a)
and (b) may, in exceptional cases for special and sufficient reasons to be
recorded in writing, be waived where there is difficulty in observing exactly
the requirements of the sub-regulations and these requirements can be waived
without injustice to the person charged.If any question arises whether it is
reasonably practicable to follow the procedure prescribed in the sub-
regulations (a) and (b), the decision thereon of the Secretary shall be final.

### 31. Maintenance of record in respect of punishments awarded.

(a)The authority imposing any penalty under theses regulations shall maintain
a record showing-(i)The allegations upon which action was taken against the
person punished;(ii)The charge framed, if any;(iii)The personal
representation, if any, and the evidence taken, if any; and(iv)The findings
and the grounds thereof, if any.(b)All orders of punishment shall also state
the grounds on which they are based and shall be communicated in writing to
the person against whom they are passed.

### 32. Punishment of lent officers.

\- With regard to officers lent by the Government the rules handled by them,
from time to time, shall apply.

### 33. Appeals.

\- Every employee of the Board shall be entitled to appeal as hereinafter
provided against an order passed by an authority imposing upon him any of the
penalties specified in regulation 26.

### 34. Preferring of Appeals.

\- Every employee preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own
name.

### 35. Mode of Appeal.

\- Every appeal preferred under these regulations shall contain all material
statements and arguments relied on by the appellant, shall not contain
disrespectful or improper language and shall be complete in itself. Every such
appeal shall be addressed to the authority to whom the appeal is preferred and
shall be submitted through the authority against whose order the appeal is
preferred.

### 36. Time limit for filing appeal.

\- No appeal preferred under these regulations shall be entertained unless it
is preferred within 30 days from the date on which the appellant received the
order appealed against:Provided that the appellate authority may entertain a
appeal after the expiry of such period if he is satisfied that there was
reasonable cause for the delay. In any case, the delay shall not exceed 90
days from the date of receipt/service of the order.

### 37. Appellate Authority.

\- The appellate authority shall be the authority as specified in the Annexure
to these regulations.

### 38. Procedural errors.

\- Any error of defect in the procedure followed in imposing a penalty may be
disregarded by the appellate authority if he considers for reasons to be
recorded in writing but the employee shall not be retained after and has
neither caused injustice to the person concerned nor affected the decision on
the case.

### 38A. [ Conditions for recognition of Service Association. [Inserted by SRO
No. C/28/97 dated the 26th November 1997.]

(1)No Service Association shall be recognised by the Board after the
commencement of these regulations, unless such Service Association satisfy the
following conditions, namely:-(a)An application for recognition of the Service
Association shall be made with the following particulars, namely:-(1)title of
the Association;(2)headquarters of the Association;(3)the number of members of
the Associations; and(4)the names of branches, if any.(b)The object of the
Service Association shall be to promote the common service interests of its
members;(c)No person, who is not a Board's employee, shall be connected with
the affairs of the Service Associations;(d)The Service Association shall not
be formed on the basis of any caste, tribe or religion; denomination or of any
group within or section of such caste, tribe or religious denomination;(e)The
executive functions of the Service Association shall be vested in one or more
of the members appointed for the purpose;(f)The funds of the Service
Association shall consist exclusively of subscriptions from among its members
and those funds shall be applied only for the furtherance of the object of
Service Associations;(g)The Association seeking recognition should have been
in existence for a minimum period of one year before it applies for
recognition;(h)The Association shall have at least a minimum of 30 per cent of
the total number of employees eligible to become members of the Association as
its members;(2)Every Service Association recognised under these regulations
shall comply with the following conditions, namely:-(a)all representations by
the Service Associations shall be submitted through proper channel, and shall
as a normal practice to be addressed to the Secretary of the Board;(b)a list
of members and Office-bearer, an up to date copy of the regulations and an
audited statement of accounts of the Service Association shall be furnished to
the Board annually through proper channel after the general annual meeting so
as to reach the Board, before the 1st day of July every year;(c)all Service
Associations, whose annual turnover is of the order of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees two
thousand only) and above, shall have their accounts duly audited by a
qualified register Auditor;(d)any amendment to the bye-laws of the Service
Association shall be made duly with the previous approval of the Board;(e)the
Service Association shall not do any act or assist in the doing of any act
which if done by a Board's employee would contravene any of the provisions of
the regulations of the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Boards' Officers and
Servant's Conduct Regulations, 1983;(f)the Service Association shall not
address any communication to a foreign authority except through the Board
which shall have the right to withhold it;(g)communications addressed by the
Service Association or by any officer-bearer on its behalf to the Board or the
Government shall not contain any disrespectful or improper language;(h)the
Service Association shall not, without the previous sanction of the Board,
permit its proceedings to be opened to the press;(i)the Service Association
shall not use any strike or threat of a strike against the Board as a means of
achieving any of the purposes of the Association;(j)the Service Association
shall have the following clause incorporated in its bye-laws, namely:-"A
strike or the threat of a strike against the Board shall never be used as a
means of achieving any of the purposes of the Association";(k)there shall not
be any change in the recognition of an Association for a period of three years
unless there be withdrawal of recognition under regulation 38-B;(l)the
Association shall not adopt a "Go slow" or "Work to rule" policy or advise its
members to apply for mass casual leave;(m)any demonstration by the Association
shall be peaceful and outside the office premises and shall not take place
during office hours;(n)the Association shall not encourage any unfair labour
practice like damage to Board's property, interference with normal work and in
subordination;(o)the Association can send representation only on common
service matters of its member first direct to the Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour
Welfare Board, then, to the secretary to Government, Labour and Employment
Department, Chennai - 600 009 and then to the Government. In respect of
individual case the affected individual can find remedies by following the
statutory rules in existence; and(p)strike shall be deemed to include any
demonstrative fast usually called "Hunger strike" with the object of
compelling something to be done by the superior officers. The Service
Association shall not therefore, indulge in hunger strike with the object to
achieve some of their demands.]

### 38B. [ Power to withdraw recognition. [Inserted by SRO No. C/28/97 dated
the 26th November 1997.]

\- The Board may, if it is of the opinion that a Service Association
recognised or deemed to have been recognised under these regulations has
failed to comply with any of the conditions set out in regulation 38-A, or for
good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, deserves to be de-
recognised, withdraw the recognition accorded to such Service
Association:Provided that the recognition shall not be withdrawn unless such
Service Association has been given an opportunity of making its
representations.]

### 39. Retirements.

(a)The date of retirement of the employees of the Board is the date on which
he/she attains the age of 58 year in respect of the employees in the superior
service. In respect of the employees of the Board in the Basic service, the
date of retirement is the date on which they attain the age of 60
years:Provided that an employee shall retire on the last day of the month in
which he/she has completed the age of 58 or 60, as the case may be.(b)The
employee shall not be retained in service after that age except with the
sanction of the Board which shall be recorded in writing that the error or
defect was not material the age of sixty years except in very special
circumstances.(c)When the employee of the Board is required to retire, revert
or cause to be on leave on attaining a specified age, the day on which he/she
attains that age is reckoned as a non-working day and the employee of the
Board shall retire, revert or cause to be on leave as the case may be with
effect from and including that day.(d)The employee of the Board under
suspension on a charge of misconduct shall not be required or permitted to
retire on his reaching the date of compulsory retirement, but should be
retained in service until the enquiry into the charge it concluded and a final
order passed thereon by the competent authority.Instructions: (1) Whether the
employee of the Board referred to in clause (d) is fully exonerated or not, he
shall be considered to have on extension of service for the period from the
date of compulsory retirement to the date of termination of the proceedings.
During such an extension of service, the service rights which have accrued to
the employee of the Board shall freeze at the level reached on the date of
compulsory retirement.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in instruction (1)
above, the appropriate authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in
the Board's interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire any employee
of the Board by giving him notice of not less than three months in writing or
three month's pay and allowances in lieu of such notice after he/she has
attained the age of fifty years or after he/she has completed thirty years of
qualifying service. The Board shall also have the absolute right to retire any
employee of the Board by giving him notice of not less than three months in
writing or three months pay and allowances in lieu of such notice after he/she
has attained the age of fifty five years. Any employee of the Board who has
attained the age of any years or who have completed who has attained the age
of any years or who have completed twenty five years of qualifying service may
likewise retire from Board's service by giving notice of not less than three
months in writing to the appropriate authority.Explanation I. - Appropriate
authority means the authority which has the power to make substantive
appointments to the post of service from which the employee of the Board is
required to retire or wants to retire.Explanation II. - For the purpose or
Instructions (2) above, the three month's notice may be given before the Board
employee attains the age of fifty years provided that the retirement takes
place after he has attained that age.Explanation III. - In computing the
notice period of three months, the date of service of the notice shall be
included.

### 40. Retirement on medical grounds.

\- The Board may, however, retire an employee, if he/she becomes medically
unfit to continue in his/her employment.

### 41. Resignation.

\- When an employee wants to resign from the services of the Board, he shall
give to the Board a notice of not less than one month.

### 42. Acceptance of resignation.

\- A resignation can be accepted by an authority not less than the appointing
authority and a resignation once accepted, shall be final.

### 43. [ Decision of the Board. [Added by SRO No. C/28/97, dated the 26th
November 1997.]

\- If any question arises as to the interpretation of any of the provisions of
these regulations, it shall be referred to the Board whose decision thereon
shall be final.]Annexure A(See regulation 19)Securities

Name of the post | Amount of security  
---|---  
(1) | Rs.  
1\. Assistant in the Board's Secretariat who isdealing | 200.00 with cash  
2\. Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress | 500.00  
  
The following form of security are acceptable:-(a)Cash deposit.(2)Deposit in a
Savings Bank Account with a Nationalised Bank or Post Office and pledging the
Pass Book with the Board.(3)Furnishing of Fidelity Bond from the Insurance
Corporation.Annexure B(See Regulation 20)Tests To Be Passed For The
Declaration Of ProbationI. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board General Service-

1\. Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer | (i) Special Test on District Office Manual.  
---|---  
|  (ii) Special Test on Account Test for ExecutiveOfficers  
| (iii) Labour and Factories Departmental Test.  
2\. Administrative Officer | (i) Special Test on District Office Manual.  
|  (ii) Special Test on Account Test for theExecutive Officers.  
|  (iii) Labour and Factories Departmental Test,Part A and B.  
3\. Assistant Accounts Officers | (i) Special Test on District Office Manual.  
|  (ii) Special Test on Account Test for theExecutive Officers.  
| (iii) Labour and Factories Departmental Test.  
  
[II. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Subordinate Service.] [SI. No. 7 inserted
by Notification No. SRO C-6/2009, dated 16.08.2009, published dated
14.10.2009.]

1\. Superintendent | (i) Special Test on District Office Manual.  
---|---  
2\. Assistant Inspector of Labour |  (ii) Special Test on Account Test forSubordinate Officers-Part I.  
| (iii) Labour and Factories, Departmental Tests.  
3\. Accountant | (i) Special Test on District Office Manual.  
|  (ii) Special Test on Account Test forSubordinate Officers-Part I.  
| (iii) Labour and Factories Departmental Tests.  
4\. Assistants | Promotion Category.  
| 1\. Labour and Factories Departmental Tests.  
|  2\. Special Test on Account Test for theSubordinate Officers--- Part I.  
5\. Junior Assistant | Special Test on District Office Manual.  
6\. Typists and Steno-Typists | Special Test on District Office Manual.  
7\. [ Proof Reader | Special Test on District Office Manual.]  
  
III. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Technical Service.

1\. Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress Grade Iand | Special Test on District Office Manual. Grade II  
---|---  
2\. Tailoring Instructress and Balasevika. | Special Test on District Office Manual.  
  
(1)In the case of direct recruitment, the penalty for failing to pass tests
within the period of probation shall be extension of probation of maximum of
one year and for extended period the increments will be withheld.(2)In case of
promotees, the penalty after two years will be stoppage of the further
increments.[Annexure C] [Under Heading II (8A) inserted by Notification No.
SRO C-6/2009, dated 16.08.2009, published dated 14.10.2009.](See Regulation
26)

### 1\. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board General Service.

SI. No. | Designation | Scale of Pay1  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1. | Secretary | Rs. 4500-150-5700.  
2. | Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer | Rs. 3000-100-3500-1254500  
3. | Administrative Officer | Rs. 2200-75-2800-100-4000  
4. | Assistant Accounts Officer | Rs. 2000-60-2300-75-3200  
II. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board SubordinateService.  
1. | Manager, Grade I | Rs. 2000-60-2300-75-3200  
2. | Manager, Grade II. | Rs. 1600-50-2300-60-2660  
3. | Superintendent | Rs. 1600-50-2300-60-2660  
4. | Assistant Inspector of Labour | Rs. 1600-50-2300-60-2660  
5. | Accountant | Rs. 1600-50-2300-60-2660  
6. | Assistant | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
7. | Librarian | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
8. | Junior Assistant/Junior Assistant-cum-Cashier | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
[8-A. | Proof Reader: | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1600]  
9. | Typist and Steno Typist | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
(Special Pay as admissible to the GovernmentEmployees in a similar Grade)  
10. | Driver | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
11. | Balasevika | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
12. | Sergeant | Rs. 800-15-1000-20-1150  
13. | Record Clerk | Rs. 775-12-835-15-1030  
III. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board TechnicalService---  
1. | Junior Engineer | Rs. 1400-40-1600-50-2300-60-3600  
| Assistant Engineer | Rs. 2000-60-2300-75-3200  
2. | Technical Assistant | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
3. | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress,Grade-I | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
4. | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress,Grade-II | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
5. |  Telephone Operator/TelephoneOperator-cum-Receptionist | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
6. | Electrician | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
7. | Plumber | Rs. 825-15-900-20-1200  
8. | Lift Operator | Rs. 775-12-835-15-1230  
IV. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board BasicService.  
|  |   
1. | Office Assistant | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
2. | Conductress | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
3. | Room Boy | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
4. | Watchman | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
11. | Balasevika | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
12. | Sergeant | Rs. 800-15-1000-20-1150  
13. | Record Clerk | Rs. 775-12-835-15-1030  
III. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board TechnicalService---  
1. | Junior Engineer | Rs. 1400-40-1600-50-2300-60-3600  
| Assistant Engineer | Rs. 2000-60-2300-75-3200  
2. | Technical Assistant | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
3. | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress,Grade-I | Rs. 1200-30-1560-40-2040  
4. | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress,Grade-II | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
5. |  Telephone Operator/TelephoneOperator-cum-Receptionist | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
6. | Electrician | Rs. 950-20-1150-25-1500  
7. | Plumber | Rs. 825-15-900-20-1200  
8. | Lift Operator | Rs. 775-12-835-15-1230  
IV. Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board BasicService.  
1. | Office Assistant | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
2. | Conductress | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
3. | Room Boy | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
4. | Watchman | Rs. 750-12-870-15-945  
  
[Annexure D] [Amended by Notification No. SRO C-6/2009, dated 16.08.2009,
published dated 14.10.2009.](See regulation 13)Recruitment RulesTamil Nadu
Labour Welfare Board General Service

(i) Name of the post | Secretary  
---|---  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 4,500-150-5,700  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  On deputation from the category of JointCommissioner of Labour in the Labour Department of the Governmentof Tamil Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Government.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority | Do.  
(vi) Appellate | Authority Do.  
(i) Name of the post | Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 3,000-100-3,500-125-4,500  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  On deputation from the category of UnderSecretary to Government in Finance Department of Government ofTamil Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Government  
(v) Disciplinary Authority | Do.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Do.  
(i) Name of the post | Administrative Officer.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 2,200-75-2,800-100-4,000.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  On deputation from the category of LabourOfficers, Administrative Officers in Labour Department or ondeputation from the category of Deputy Collector in Tamil NaduCivil Service.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority | Do.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Assistant Accounts Officer.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 2,000-60-2,300-75-3,200.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Accountant, who have put in not less than 5 years ofservice; or  
|  2\. On deputation from the Directorate ofTreasuries and Accounts Department
on the Government of TamilNadu or from the Accountant General's Office.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority | Do.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Manager (Grade-I).  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 2,000-60-2,300-75-3,200.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. On deputation from the category of DeputyInspector of Labour in the Labour Department of the Government ofTamil Nadu; or  
|  2\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Manager Grade-II or
Assistant Inspector of Labour orSuperintendent Who have put in not less than 5
years service.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority | Do.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Superintendent.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,600-50-2,300-60-2,660.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Assistant who have put in not less than 5 years service;or  
|  2\. On deputation from the Labour department ofthe Government of Tamil
Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. Censure, Fine recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.  
| 2\. Secretary/Board  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Secretary for major punishment.  
(i) Name of the post | Manager (Grade-Ill).  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,600-50-2,300-60-2,660.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Assistant who have put in not less than 5 years ofservice.  
|  2\. On deputation from the Labour Department,Government of Tamil Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishment(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.  
| 2\. Secretary for Major punishment.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Assistant Inspector of Labour  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,600-50-2,300-60-2,660.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Assistant, who have put in not less than 5 years service.  
|  2\. On deputation from the Labour Department ofthe Government of Tamil
Nadu, or  
| 3\. By Direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification recruitment.for direct |  1\. Must be a graduate of any Universityrecognised by the University Grants Commission for the purpose ofits grants.  
|  2\. Must possess Diploma in Social Service or DLAor DSW  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Selection Committee  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishment(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishments.  
(viii) Appellate authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the Post | Accountant  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,600-50-2,300-60-2,660.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Assistant who have put in not less than 5 years service.  
|  2\. On deputation from the Labour of Treasuriesand Accounts department of
the Government or Tamil Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(v) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. Censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.)  
| 2\. Secretary for Major punishment.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Assistant  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,200-30-1560-40-2040  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of theposts of Junior Assistant, Typist, Steno-Typist and Proof Reader,who have put in not less than 5 years of service, or  
|  2\. On deputation from the Labour Department ofthe Government of Tamil
Nadu.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(v) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. Censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.)  
| 2\. Secretary for Major punishment.  
(vi) Appellate Authority | Secretary / Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Librarian  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,200-30456040-2040.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By Direct Recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Must be a Graduate with Certificate inLibrarianship.  
(v) Authority competent to select to directrecruitment | Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. Censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension.)  
| 2\. Secretary for Major punishment.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the Post | Junior Assistant / Cashier  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 975-25-1150-30-1660  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  1\. By promotion from among the holders of theposts of Record Clerk, if they possess required qualification(i.e.) pass in S.S.L.C. or equivalent examination and also thesatisfactory service of 5 yearn in their respective category.  
| 2\. By direct Recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Must posses Minimum General EducationalQualification.  
(v) Authority competent select by directrecruitment | to Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  Administrative officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Steno Typist  
(ii) Scale of pay |  Rs. 975-25-1,150-30-1,660 plus Special Pay asadmissible to the Government employees.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  1\. Must poises Minimum General EducationalQualification.  
|  2\. Must have passed Government TechnicalExamination in Typewriting by
Higher Grade in English and LowerGrade in Tamil and Shorthand by Higher Grade
or Lower Grade inEnglish. Preference to persons with qualification in
TamilShorthand.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishments  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Typist  
(ii) Scale of pay |  Rs. 975-25-1,150-30-1,660 plus Special Pay asadmissible to the Government employees.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  1\. Must posses Minimum General EducationalQualification.  
|  2\. Must have passed Government TechnicalExamination in Typewriting by
Higher Grade in English and LowerGrade in Tamil.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| (2) Secretary for major punishment  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
(i) Name of the post | Proof Reader  
(ii) Scale of pay | 975-25-1150-30-1600  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  (1) Must possess minimum General Educationalqualification;  
|  (2) Must have passed the Government TechnicalExam in Proof Readers Work by
the Lower Grade; and  
| (3) Knowledge to read and write in Tamil.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer-for minor punishments(i.e., censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementand suspension.)  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishments.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Driver  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 975-25-1,100-30-1,660  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | (1) By direct recruitment  
|  (2) By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Office Assistant who
holds a car driving licence issuedby the Government of Tamil Nadu and having
satisfactory serviceof 5 years in the category of Office Assistant.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  1\. Must posses driving licence with endorsementto drive light transport vehicles.  
| 2\. Must have First Aid Certificate.  
| 3\. Must have passed VIII Standard.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment Secretary. |   
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishment  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Balasevika  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 950-20-1,150-25-1,500  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct |  recruitment1. Must posses Minimum GeneralEducational Qualification.  
|  2\. Must have passed one year course ofBalasevika Training...  
(v) Authority competent select by directrecruitment to | Secretary  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishment  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Sergeant  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 800-11-1,100-20-1,150  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Must have studied up to S.S.L.C. Preferenceshall be given for those who have served in the Indian Army.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e., censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding ofincrements and suspension).  
| Secretary for major punishment  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Record Clerk.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 775-12-835-15-1,030  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  "By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Office Assistant who have put in not less than 5 years ofservice.  
(iv) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(v) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishment  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
  
Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Technical Service

(i) Name of the post | Junior Engineer / Assistant Engineer.  
---|---  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,400-40-1,600-50-2,300-60-2,600.  
| Rs. 2,000-60-2,300-75-3,200.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  On deputation from the categories of JuniorEngineer/ Assistant Engineer from Public Works Department or bypromotion from Technical Assistant.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Diploma or Degree in Civil Engineering awardedby the State Board of Technical Education, Chennai, ChennaiUniversity or any other University recognised by the Governmentof Tamil Nadu or equivalent qualification.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Selection Committee.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Discipline Authority | 1\. Secretary  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Technical Assistant  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,200-10-1,560-40-2,040.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | Direct recruitment  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Diploma or Degree in Civil Engineering awardedby the State Board of Technical Education Chennai, ChennaiUniversity or any other University recognised by the Governmentof Tamil Nadu or equivalent qualification.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Selection Committee.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary | Authority Secretary.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress, Grade-I.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 1,200-30-1,560-40-2,040.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  (1) By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress, Grade-II, if theyhave completed a minimum period of 5 years service in the post ofOrganiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress Grade-' II, or  
| (2) By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  (1) Must possess the minimum general educationalqualification.  
|  (2) Must possess a Diploma in 3 years CostumeDesigning and Dress Making.  
|  (3) 6 weeks training in Technical Teacher'sCertificate.  
|  (4) Must have worked as Instructress for atleast 6 months.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary..  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  (1) Administrative Officer for minor punishment(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| (2) Secretary (for major punishments)  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the post |   
(ii) Scale of pay |   
(iii) Mode of recruitment |   
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |   
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment |   
(vi) Appointing Authority |   
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |   
(viii) Appellate Authority |   
(i) Name of the post | Organiser-cum-Tailoring Instructress, Grade-II.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 950-20-1,150-25-1,500.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment |  (1) By promotion from among the holders of thepost of Bala-sevika and Conductress, if they have secured therequired qualification.  
| (2) By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  (1) Must possess the minimum general educationalqualification.  
(2) Higher Grade Certificate in Needle Work. |   
(3) Higher Grade Certificate in Embroidery andDress Making. |   
(4) 6 weeks training in Technical TeachersCertificate. |   
(5) Practical experience for 6 weeks. |   
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  (1) Administrative Officer for minor punishment(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| (2) Secretary (for major punishments)  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary/Board.  
(i) Name of the post Telephone | Operator-cum-Receptionists.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 975-25-1,150-30-1,660  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  (1) Must possess the minimum general educationalqualification.  
(2) Must possess a certificate in TelephoneOperator course. |   
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  (1) Administrative Officer for minor punishment(i.e., censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding ofincrements and suspension).  
| (2) Secretary for major punishments  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Electrician  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs.950-20-1,150-25-1,500.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  1\. Must have studied up to Secondary SchoolLeaving Certificate.  
|  2\. Must possess a certificate of ElectricianTrade of ITI.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  (1) Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishments.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Plumber  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs. 825-15-900-20-1,200.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  1\. Must have studied up to Secondary SchoolLeaving Certificate.  
|  2\. Must possess a certificate of Plumber Tradeof ITI.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment Secretary. |   
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  1\. Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e. censure, fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
| 2\. Secretary for major punishments.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | 1\. Secretary  
| 2\. Board.  
(i) Name of the post | Lift Operator  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs.775-12-835-15-1,030.  
(iii) .Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment | 1\. Must have passed VIII th Standard.  
|  2\. Must have experience in operating the liftsfor a at least 2 years.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Secretary  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Secretary  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority |  Administrative Officer for minor punishments(i.e., censure fine, recovery from pay, withholding of incrementsand suspension).  
Secretary for major punishments. |   
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary / Board.  
Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board Basic Service  
(i) Name of the post | Office Assistant/Room Boy  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs.750-12-870-15-945.  
(iii) .Mode of recruitment |  1\. By transfer from among the holders of thepost of Watchman, or  
| 2\. By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment | 1\. Must have passed VHIth Standard.  
| 2\. Must know cycling. Administrative Officer.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Administrative Officer.  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Administrative Officer.  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority | Administrative Officer.  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary.  
(i) Name of the post | Conductress.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs.750-12-870-15-945.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Secondary School Leaving Certificate passed orfailed.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Administrative Officer  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Administrative Officer  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority | Administrative Officer  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary.  
(i) Name of the post | Watchman.  
(ii) Scale of pay | Rs.750-12-870-15-945.  
(iii) Mode of recruitment | By direct recruitment.  
(iv) Qualification for direct recruitment |  Must have studied up to VHIth Standard. Mustknow cycling.  
(v) Authority competent to select by directrecruitment | Administrative Officer  
(vi) Appointing Authority | Administrative Officer  
(vii) Disciplinary Authority | Administrative Officer  
(viii) Appellate Authority | Secretary.

