## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1978

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1978

## Act 24 of 1978

  * Published on 14 May 1978 
  * Commenced on 14 May 1978 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 May 1978.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1978(Tamil Nadu Act No. 24
of 1978)Last Updated 8th June, 2019Received the assent of the President on the
14th May 1978, first published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary on the 17th May 1978 (yaikasi 3, Kalayukti (2009-Tiruvalluvar
Andu))An Act to provide for the imposition of a filing on vacant land in urban
agglomerations for the acquisition of such land in excess of the ceiling
limit, to regulate the construction of building on such land and for matters
connected therewith, with a view to preventing the concentration of urban land
in the hands of a few persons and speculation and profiteering therein and
with a view to bringing about an equitable distribution of land in urban
agglomerations to subserve the common good.Be it enacted by the Legislature of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th March, 1978, Part IV-Section 1, Pages
317-318.

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation)
Act, 1978.(2)This Act extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)(a)This Act, except sections 14, 15, sub-section (3) of section 20 and
sections 27 and 48, shall be deemed to have come into force on the 3rd day of
August, 1976.(b)Sections 14, 15, sub-section (3) of section 20 and sections 27
and 48 shall come into force on the date of the publication of this Act in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles specified in clause (b) and clause
(c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.

## Chapter II  
Definitions

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"building
regulations" means the regulations contained in the master plan, or the law in
force governing the construction of buildings";(b)"ceiling limit" means the
ceiling limit specified in section 5;(c)"commencement of this Act" means-(i)in
respect of any urban agglomeration specified in Schedule I, the 3rd day of
August, 1976,(ii)in respect of any area declared to be an urban agglomeration
by a notification under sub-clause (ii) of clause (n) of section 3, the date
of publication of such notification in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette;(iii)where any land, not being vacant land, has become vacant land by
any reason whatsoever, the date on which such land becomes vacant
land;(d)"competent authority" means any person or authority authorised by the
State Government, by notification in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, to
perform the functions of the competent authority under this Act for such area:
as may be specified in the notification and different persons or authorities
may be authorised to perform different functions;(e)"dwelling unit" , in
relation to a building or a portion of a building, means a unit of
accommodation, in such building or portion, used solely for the purpose of
residence.Explanation. - Where, according to the plan approved by the
appropriate authority, a unit of accommodation in any building or portion
thereof is to be used solely for the purpose of residence, such unit of
accommodation shall be deemed to be a dwelling unit;(f)"family", in relation
to a person, means the individual, the wife or husband, as the case may be, of
such individual and their unmarried minor children.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this clause, "minor" means a person who has not completed his or
her age of eighteen years;(g)"industrial undertaking" means any undertaking
engaged in the manufacture or production of goods specified in Schedule III or
carrying on any other activities specified in the said Schedule;(h)"land
appurtenant" , in relation to any building means an extent of five hundred
square metres contiguous to the land occupied by such building and
includes,-(i)in the case of any building constructed before or under
construction on the commencement of this Act with a dwelling unit therein,
or(ii)in the case of any building proposed to be constructed with a dwelling
unit therein and in respect of which the plan for such building has been
approved by the appropriate authority before the commencement of this Act,an
additional extent not exceeding five hundred square metros of land, if any,
contiguous to the said extent of five hundred square metres of land:Provided
that in relation to a multi-storeyed building, the extent of land contiguous
to the land occupied by such multi-storeyed building permitted according to
the plan approved by the appropriate authority shall be deemed to be the land
appurtenant;(i)"master plan" , in relation to an area within an urban
agglomeration or, any part thereof, means the plan (by whatever name called)
prepared under any law for the time being in force or in pursuance of an order
made by the State Government for the development of such area or part
thereof;(j)"person" includes an individual, a family, a firm, a company or an
association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or
not;(k)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;(l)"to hold"
with its grammatical variations, in relation to any vacant land, means-(i)to
own such land; or(ii)to possess such land as owner or as tenant or as
mortgagee or under an irrevocable power-of-attorney or under a hire-purchase
agreement or partly in one of the said capacities and partly in any other of
the said capacity or capacities.Explanation I. - For the purpose of this
clause, "tenant" means any person who has paid or has agreed to pay rent or
other consideration for his being allowed by another to enjoy the land of the
latter under a tenancy agreement, express or implied, and includes-(i)any such
person who continues in possession of the land after the determination of the
tenancy agreement;(ii)the heirs, assignees, legal representative of such
person, or persons deriving rights through such person.Explanation II. - Where
the same vacant land is held by one person in one capacity and by another
person in another capacity, then, for the purposes of this Act, such land
shall be deemed to be held by both such persons;(m)"Tribunal" means the Urban
Land Tribunal Constituted under section 13;(n)"urban agglomeration"
means-(i)the area comprised in the urban agglomeration specified in Schedule
I; and(ii)any other area which the State Government may, having regard to its
location, population (population being more than one lakh) and such other
relevant factors as the circumstances of the case may require by notification
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, declare to be an urban agglomeration and
any agglomeration so declared shall be deemed to belong to category III in
that Schedule;(o)"urban land" means-(i)any land situated within the limits of
an urban agglomeration and referred to as such in the master plan; or(ii)in a
case where there is no master plan, or where the master plan does not refer to
any land as urban land, any land within the limits of an urban agglomeration
but deem not include any such land which is mainly used for the purpose of
agriculture.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause and clause
(p),-(A)"agriculture" includes horticulture, but does not include-(i)raising
of grass,(ii)dairy farming,(iii)poultry farming,(iv)breeding of livestock,
and(v)such cultivation, or the growing of such plant, as may be
prescribed;(B)land shall not be deemed to be used mainly for the purpose of
agriculture, in such land is not entered in the revenue or land records before
the commencement of this Act as for the purpose of
agriculture;(C)notwithstanding anything contained in the clause (B) of this
Explanation, land shall not be deemed to be mainly used for the purpose of
agriculture if the land has been specified in the master plan for a purpose
other than agriculture:Provided that where any such land is actually used
mainly for the purpose of agriculture, such land shall not be deemed to be
urban or vacant land so long as it is continued to be so used for the purpose
of agriculture;(D)where on the commencement of this Act, any land is actually
used mainly for the purpose of agriculture, but is used mainly for a purpose
other than agriculture, after such commencement, then on and from the date on
which such land is used for any purpose other than agriculture, the land shall
be deemed to be vacant land and accordingly the provisions of this Act shall
apply.(p)"vacant land" means land, not being land mainly used for the purpose
of agriculture, in an urban agglomeration, but does not include-(i)land on
which construction of a building is not permissible under the building
regulations in force in the area in which such land is situated;(ii)in an area
where there are building regulations,-(a)the land occupied by any building
constructed before, or under construction on the commencement of this Act with
the approval of the appropriate authority and the land appurtenant to such
building;(b)the land where any building is proposed to be constructed in
respect of which the building plan has been approved by the appropriate
authority before the commencement of this Act and the land appurtenant to such
building;(iii)in an area where there are no building regulations, the land
occupied by any building constructed before or under construction on the
commencement of this Act and the land appurtenant to such building; and(iv)the
land which is exclusively used as pathway by one or more families subject to
such limits and conditions as may be prescribed:Provided that where any person
ordinarily keeps his cattle, other than for the purpose of dairy farming or
for the purpose of breeding of livestock, on any land situated in a village
within an urban agglomeration (described as a village in the revenue records),
then, so much extent of the land as has been ordinarily used for the keeping
of such cattle immediately before such commencement shall not be deemed to be
vacant land for the purposes of this clause.

## Chapter III  
Ceiling on vacant land

### 4. Persons not entitled to hold vacant land in excess of the ceiling
limit.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, on and from the commencement of
this Act, no person shall be entitled to hold any vacant land in excess of the
ceiling limit.

### 5. Ceiling limit.

(1)Subject to the other provisions of this section,-(i)in the case of every
person (other than a family and an industrial undertaking), the ceiling limit
shall be,-(A)Where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration
falling within category I specified in Schedule I, five hundred square
metres;(B)Where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration falling
within category II specified in Schedule I, one thousand five hundred square
metres;(C)Where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration falling
within category III specified in Schedule I, two thousand square metres;(ii)in
the case of every family, the ceiling limit shall be as specified
below:-(A)Where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration falling
within category I specified in Schedule I and,-(a)where the family consists of
two members, one thousand square metres;(b)where the family consists of three
members, one thousand five hundred square metres;(c)where the family consists
of four or more members, two thousand square metres;(B)Where the vacant land
is situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category II specified in
Schedule I, and where the family consists of two or more members, three
thousand square metres;(C)Where the vacant land is situated in an urban
agglomeration falling within category III specified in Schedule I, and where
the family consists of two or more members, four thousand square
metres;(iii)in the case of every industrial undertaking, the ceiling limit
shall be,-(A)where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration
falling within category I, specified in Schedule I, two thousand square
metres;(B)where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration falling
within category II, specified in Schedule I, three thousand square
metres;(C)where the vacant land is situated in an urban agglomeration falling
within category III, specified in Schedule I, four thousand square
metres.(2)Where any person holds vacant land situated in two or more
categories of urban agglomerations specified in Schedule I, then, for the
purpose of calculating the extent of vacant land held by him,-(a)(i)in the
case of a person other than an industrial undertaking or a family as is
referred to in sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause (iii), one square metre of vacant
land situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category I shall be
deemed to be equal to three square metres of vacant land situated in an urban
agglomeration falling within category II and four square metres of vacant land
situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category III;(ii)in the case
of a family consisting of three members, one square metre of vacant land
situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category I shall be deemed
to be equal to two square metres of vacant land situated in an urban
agglomeration falling within category II and two and two-third square metres
of vacant land situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category
III;(iii)in the case of a family consisting of four or more members and in the
case of an industrial undertaking, one square metre of vacant land situated in
an urban agglomeration falling within category I shall be deemed to be equal
to one and a half square metres of vacant land situated in an urban
agglomeration falling within category II and two square metres of vacant land
situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category III;(b)one square
metre of vacant land situated in an urban agglomeration falling within
category II shall be deemed to be equal to one and one-third square metres of
vacant land situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category
III.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any person
with the object of development of vacant land for sale by allotment of plots
of land to others, has by himself, or through any other person, obtained
before the commencement of this Act, the sanction of the appropriate authority
for the lay out of such vacant land held by such person, then the person so
holding the land shall be entitled to continue to hold such vacant
land:Provided that such person shall not transfer any such vacant land or part
thereof by way of sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise to any person who
already owns a dwelling unit or any vacant land which together with the land
to be transferred by that person would in the aggregate exceed the ceiling
limit of such transferee.(4)Where any firm or unincorporated association or
body of individuals holds vacant land in any urban agglomeration, then, the
right or interest of any person in the vacant land on the basis of his share
in such firm or association or body shall also be taken into account in
calculating the extent of vacant land held by such person.(5)Where a person is
a beneficiary of a private trust and his share in the income from such trust
is known or determinable, the share of such person in the vacant land in any
urban agglomeration held by the trust, shall be deemed to be in the same
proportion as his share in the total income of such trust bears to such total
income and the extent of such land apportion able to his share shall also be
taken into account in calculating the extent of vacant land held by such
person.(6)Where a person is a member of a Hindu undivided family so much of
the vacant land as would have fallen to his share had the entire vacant land
held by the Hindu undivided family been partitioned amongst its members at the
commencement of this Act shall also be taken into account in calculating the
extent of vacant land held by such person.(7)In the case of a Hindu undivided
family consisting of-(i)a wife or husband;(ii)(a)major sons, or(b)unmarried
minor children, or(c)unmarried major daughters of such wife or husbandand
where in relation to any vacant land held by the wife or husband or both, as
self acquired property, no division had taken place on or before the
commencement of this Act, so much of the vacant land, as would have notionally
fallen to the share of the wife, the husband, the major sons, unmarried major
daughters or unmarried minor children in such family, had the entire vacant
land, held by the wife or husband or both, been divided equally at the
commencement of this Act, among the wife, husband, major sons, unmarried major
daughters, or unmarried minor children aforesaid, shall also be taken into
account in calculating the extent of vacant land held by each such
person:Provided that the notional share of a major son or unmarried major
daughter as provided for in this sub-section shall not be taken into account
in any case where the total extent of the vacant land held by the wife or
husband or both as self-acquired property together with the extent of vacant
land, if any, held by the unmarried minor children of such wife or husband
does not exceed the ceiling limit of the family as fixed under clause (ii) of
sub-section (1):Provided further that where the total extent of the vacant
land held by the wife or husband or both as self-acquired property together
with the extent of vacant land held by the unmarried minor children of such
wife or husband exceeds the ceiling limit as fixed under clause (ii) of sub-
section (1), then, the notional share of the major son or the unmarried major
daughter as provided for in this sub-section shall be calculated only in
respect of the extent of the vacant land which is in such excess.(8)In the
case of a family consisting of-(i)a wife or husband,(ii)(a)major sons,
or(b)unmarried minor children, or(c)unmarried major daughters of such wife or
husband governed by Christian Law, Muslim Law or any other personal law (other
than the personal law relating to Hindus) and where in relation to any vacant
land held by the wife or husband or both, no division had taken place on or
before the commencement of this Act, so much of the vacant land, as would have
notionally fallen to the share of the wife, the husband, the major sons,
unmarried major daughters or unmarried minor children in such family, had the
entire vacant land held by the wife or husband or both, been divided equally
at the commencement of this Act among the wife, husband, major sons, unmarried
major daughters or unmarried minor children aforesaid, shall also be taken
into account in calculating the extent of vacant land held by each such
person:Provided that the notional share of a major son or unmarried major
daughter as provided for in this sub-section shall not be taken into account
in any case where the total extent of the vacant land held by the wife or
husband or both together with the extent of vacant land, if any, held by the
unmarried minor children of such wife or husband does not exceed the ceiling
limit of the family as fixed under clause (ii) of sub-section (1):Provided
further that where the total extent of the vacant land held by the wife or
husband or both together with the extent of vacant land held by the unmarried
minor children of such wife or husband exceeds the ceiling limit as fixed
under clause (ii) of sub-section (1), then, the notional share of the major
son or the unmarried major daughter as provided for in this sub-section shall
be calculated only in respect of the extent of the vacant land which is in
such excess.(9)Where a person being a member of a housing co-operative society
registered or deemed to be registered under any law for the time being in
force, holds vacant land allotted to him by such society, then the extent of
land so held shall also be taken into account in calculating the extent of
vacant land held by such person.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that the definition of "family" in clause (f) of section 3
shall have no application for purposes of sub-sections (6), (7) and (8) except
the provisos to sub-sections (7) and (8).

### 6. Transfer of vacant land.

\- No person holding vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall transfer any such land or part
thereof by way of sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise until he has
furnished a statement under section 7 and a notification regarding the excess
vacant land held by him has been published under sub-section (1) of section
11; and any such transfer made in contravention of this provision shall be
deemed to be null and void.

### 7. Persons holding vacant land in excess of ceiling limit to file
statement.

(1)Every person holding vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit at the
commencement of this Act shall, within such period as may be prescribed, file
a statement before the competent authority having jurisdiction specifying the
location, extent and such other particulars as may be prescribed of all vacant
lands and of any urban or other land on which there is a building, whether or
not with a dwelling unit therein in any urban agglomeration held by him
(including the nature of his right, title or interest therein) and also
specifying the vacant lands within the ceiling limit which he desires to
retain.(2)If the competent authority is of opinion that any person holds at
the commencement of this Act, vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), it may serve a
notice upon such person requiring him to file, within such period as may be
specified in the notice, the statement referred to in sub-section (1) and the
person on whom such notice is served shall be bound to comply with such
notice.(3)The competent authority may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary
so to do, extend the date for filing the statement under this section by such
further period or periods, as it may think fit:Provided that the period or the
aggregate of the periods of such extension shall not exceed such period as may
be prescribed.(4)The statement under this section shall be filed,-(a)in the
case of an individual, by the individual himself; where the individual is
absent from India, by the individual concerned or by some person duly
authorised by him in this behalf; and where the individual is mentally
incapacitated from attending to his affairs by his guardian or any other
person competent to act on his behalf;(b)in the case of a family, by the
husband or wife, and where the husband or wife is absent from India or is
mentally incapacitated from attending to his or her affairs, by the husband or
wife who is not so absent or mentally incapacitated and where both the husband
and the wife are absent from India or are mentally incapacitated from
attending to their affairs, by any other person competent to act on behalf of
the husband or wife or both;(c)in the case of a company, by the principal
officer thereof;(d)in the case of a firm, by any partner thereof;(e)in the
case of any other association, by any member of the association or the
principal officer thereof; and;(f)in the case of any other person, by that
person or by a person competent to act on his behalf.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this sub-section, "principal officer",-(i)in relation to a
company, means the secretary, manager or managing director of the
company;(ii)in relation to any association, means the secretary, treasurer,
manager or agent of the association.and includes any person connected with the
management of the affairs of the company or the association, as the case may
be, upon whom the competent authority has served a notice of its intention of
treating him as the principal officer thereof.(5)If any person who is liable
to file a statement under this section fails to file the statement within the
period within which it has to be filed, the competent authority, may obtain
necessary information in such manner as it thinks fit.

### 8. Filing of statement in cases where vacant land held by a person is
situated within the jurisdiction of two or more competent authorities.

(1)Where a person holds vacant land situated within the jurisdiction of two or
more competent authorities, then, he shall file his statement under sub-
section (1) of section 7 before the competent authority within the
jurisdiction of which the major part thereof is situated and thereafter all
subsequent proceedings under this Chapter shall be taken before that competent
authority to the exclusion of the other competent authority or authorities
concerned and the competent authority, before which the statement is filed,
shall send intimation thereof to the other competent authority or authorities
concerned.(2)Where the extent of vacant land held by any person and situated
within the jurisdiction of two or more competent authorities is equal, he
shall file his statement under sub-section (1) of section 7 before any one of
the competent authorities and send intimation thereof in such form as may be
prescribed to the State Government and thereupon, the State Government shall,
by order, determine the competent authority before which all subsequent
proceedings under this Act shall be taken to the exclusion of the other
competent authority or authorities and communicate that order to such person
and the competent authorities concerned.

### 9. Preparation of draft statement as regards vacant land held in excess of
ceiling limit.

(1)On the basis of the statement filed under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2) of section 7 or on the basis of information obtained under sub-section (5)
of that section and after such enquiry as the competent authority may deem fit
to make, the competent authority shall prepare a draft statement in respect of
the person who has filed the statement under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2) of section 7, or as the case may be, about whose lands information has
been obtained under sub-section (5) of that section.(2)Every statement
prepared under sub-section (1) shall contain the following particulars,
namely:-(i)the name and address of the person;(ii)the particulars of all
vacant lands and of any urban or other land on which there is a building,
whether or not with a dwelling unit therein, in any urban agglomeration held
by such person;(iii)the particulars of the vacant lands which such person
desires to retain within the ceiling limit and the particulars of the vacant
lands which such person is allowed to retain within the ceiling limit;(iv)the
particulars of the right, title or interest of the person in the vacant lands;
and(v)such other particulars as may be prescribed.(3)If any person has
specified the particulars of the vacant lands which he desires to retain
within his ceiling limit, the competent authority shall as far as practicable
declare the same vacant lands as comprised within his ceiling limit:Provided
that the competent authority may having regard to the accessibility to the
vacant lands in excess of the ceiling limit held by such person or the optimum
use to which such vacant lands can be put, and such other matters as may be
prescribed, declare any other vacant lands held by such person as comprised
within his ceiling limit.](4)The draft statement shall be served in such
manner as may be prescribed on the person concerned together with a notice
stating that any objection to the draft statement shall be preferred within
thirty days of the service thereof.(5)The competent authority shall duly
consider any objection received, within the period specified in the notice
referred to in sub-section (4) or within such further period as may be
specified by the competent authority for any good and sufficient reason, from
the person on whom a copy of the draft statement has been served under that
sub-section and the competent authority shall, after giving the objector a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such orders as it deems fit.

### 10. Final statement.

(1)After the disposal of the objections, if any, received under sub-section
(5) of section 9, the competent authority shall make the necessary alterations
in the draft statement in accordance with the orders passed on the objections
aforesaid and shall determine the vacant land held by the person concerned in
excess of the ceiling limit and cause a copy of the statement as so altered to
be served in the manner referred to in sub-section (4) of section 9 on the
person concerned and where such vacant land is held under a lease, or a
mortgage, or a hire-purchase agreement, or an irrevocable power of attorney,
also on the owner of such vacant land and such statement so served shall be
deemed to be the final statement.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where the competent authority is satisfied that any vacant land
which is in excess of the ceiling limit is not fit, or cannot be used, for the
construction of any building or the erection of any structure in accordance
with the building regulations governing such construction or erection or, in a
case where there are no such building regulations in force, the competent
authority is satisfied upon an inquiry made by it in such manner as may be
prescribed that any vacant land which is in excess of the ceiling limit is not
fit, or cannot be used for, the construction of any building or the erection
of any structure, then, the competent authority shall send a report to the
State Government and the State Government may, after such inquiry as it deems
fit, declare that such excess vacant land shall not be declared as land in
excess of the ceiling limit and the decision of the State Government in this
regard shall be final.

### 11. Acquisition of vacant land in excess of ceiling limit.

(1)As soon as may be after the service of the final statement under section 10
on the person concerned, the competent authority shall cause a notification
giving the particulars of the vacant land held by such person in excess of the
ceiling limit and stating that-(i)such vacant land is to be acquired by the
State Government; and(ii)the claims of all persons interested in such vacant
land may be made by them personally or by their agents giving particulars of
the nature of their interests in such land,to be published for the information
of the general public in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and in such other
manner in may be prescribed.(2)After considering the claims of the persons
interested in the vacant land, made to the competent authority in pursuance of
the notification published under sub-section (1), the competent authority
shall determine the nature and extent of such claims and pass such orders as
it deems fit.(3)At any time after the publication of the notification under
sub-section (1) the competent authority may, by notification in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, declare that the excess vacant land referred to in the
notification published under sub-section (1) shall, with effect from such date
as may be specified in the declaration, be deemed to have been acquired by the
State Government and upon the publication of such declaration, such land shall
be deemed to have vested absolutely in the State Government free from all
encumbrances with effect from the date so specified.(4)During the period
commencing on the date of publication of the notification under sub-section
(1) and ending with the date specified in the declaration made under sub-
section (3)-(i)no person shall transfer by way of sale, mortgage, gift, lease
or otherwise any excess vacant land (including any part thereof) specified in
the notification aforesaid and any such transfer made in contravention of this
provision shall be deemed to be null and void; and,(ii)no person shall alter
or cause to be altered the use of such excess vacant land.(5)Where any vacant
land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (3), the competent
authority may, by notice in writing, order any person who may be in possession
of it to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or to
any person duly authorised by the State Government in this behalf within
thirty days of the service of the notice.(6)If any person refuses or fails to
comply with an order made under sub-section (5), the competent authority may
take possession of the vacant land or cause it to be given to the State
Government or to any person duly authorised by the State Government in this
behalf and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary.

### 12. Payment of amount for vacant land acquired.

(1)Where any vacant land is deemed to have been acquired by the State
Government under sub-section (3) of section 11, the State Government shall pay
to the person or persons having any interest therein,-(a)in a case where there
is any income from such vacant land, an amount equal to ten times the net
average annual income actually derived from such land during the period of
five consecutive years immediately preceding the date of publication of the
notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 11:Provided that where in
respect of such vacant land the amount calculated under this clause is less
than the amount calculated under clause (b) the person or persons having
interest in the vacant land shall be paid the higher amount calculated under
clause (b);(b)in a case where no income is derived from such vacant land, an
amount calculated at a rate-(i)not exceeding fifty rupees per square metre in
the case of vacant land situated in an urban agglomeration falling within
category I specified in Schedule I;(ii)not exceeding twenty-five rupees per
square metre in the case of vacant land situated in an urban agglomeration
falling within category II specified in that Schedule; and(iii)not exceeding
fifteen rupees per square metre in the case of vacant land situated in an
urban agglomeration falling within category III specified in that
Schedule.(2)The net average annual income referred to in clause (a) of sub-
section (1) shall be calculated in the manner and in accordance with the
principles set out in Schedule II.(3)For the purpose of clause (b) of sub-
section (1), the State Government shall-(a)divide, by notification in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, every urban agglomeration situated within the
State into different zones, having regard to the location and the general use
of the land situated in an urban agglomeration, the utility of the land in
that urban agglomeration for the orderly urban development thereof and such
other relevant factors as the circumstances of the case may require;
and(b)fix, subject to the maximum rates specified in that clause, the rate per
square metre of vacant land in each zone, having regard to the availability of
vacant land in the zone, the existing use of vacant land in the zone and such
other relevant factors as the circumstances of the case may
require.(4)Different rates may be fixed under clause (b) of sub-section (3)
for vacant lands situated in different zones within each urban
agglomeration.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where
any vacant land which is deemed to have been acquired under sub-section (3) of
section 11 is held by any person under a grant, lease or other tenure from the
Central Government or any State Government and-(i)the terms of such grant,
lease or other tenure do not provide for payment of any amount to such person
on the termination of such grant, lease or other tenure and the resumption of
such land by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may
be or(ii)the terms of such grant, lease or other tenure provide for payment of
any amount to such person on such termination and resumption, then,-(a)in a
case falling under clause (i), no amount shall be payable in respect of such
vacant land under sub-section (1); and(b)in a case falling under clause (ii),
the amount payable in respect of such vacant land shall be the amount payable
to him under the terms of such grant, lease or other tenure on such
termination and resumption or the amount payable to him under sub-section (1),
whichever is less.(6)The competent authority may, by order in writing,
determine the amount to be paid in accordance with the provisions of this
section as also the person, or, where there are several persons interested in
the land, the persons to whom it shall be paid and in what proportion, if
any.(7)Before determining the amount to be paid, every person interested shall
be given an opportunity to state his case as to the amount to be paid to
him.(8)The competent authority shall dispose of every case for determination
of the amount to be paid as expeditiously as possible and in any case within
such period as may be prescribed.(9)Any claim or liability enforceable against
any vacant land which is deemed to have been acquired, under sub-section (3)
of section 11 may be enforced only against the amount payable under this
section in respect of such land and against any other property of the owner of
such land.

### 13. Constitution of Urban Land Tribunal and appeal to Urban Land Tribunal.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, constitute one or more Urban Land Tribunal or Tribunals.(2)The
Tribunal shall consist of a sole member who shall be an officer of the rank of
a Member of the Board of Revenue.(3)The Tribunal shall have jurisdiction over
such area as the State Government may, by notification in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, specify.(4)If any person is aggrieved by an order of the
competent authority under section 12, he may, within ninety days of the date
on which the order is communicated to him, prefer an appeal to the Tribunal
having jurisdiction over the area in which the vacant land (in relation to
which the amount has been determined) is situated or where such land is
situated, within the jurisdiction of more than one Tribunal to the Tribunal
having jurisdiction over the area in which a major part of such land is
situated or where the extent of such land situated within the jurisdiction of
two or more Tribunals is equal, to any of those Tribunals:Provided that the
Tribunal may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of
ninety days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient
cause from filing the appeal in time.(5)In deciding appeals the Tribunal shall
exercise all the powers which a civil court has and follow the same procedure
which a civil court follows in deciding appeals against the decree of an
original court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of
1908).

### 14. Disputes regarding the right to receive the amount.

(1)In the event of there being a doubt or dispute as to the right of a person
to receive the whole or any part of the amount referred to in section 12, the
competent authority or the Tribunal, as the case may be, shall refer the
matter to the court and shall make the disbursements in accordance with the
decision of the court.(2)In deciding a dispute referred to it by the competent
authority or the Tribunal under sub-section (1), the jurisdiction of the court
shall be limited to the decision as to the right of a person to receive the
whole or any part of the amount referred to in section 12 but such court shall
have no jurisdiction to go into the question of the correctness of the
determination or the adequacy of the amount.(3)Subject to the provisions of
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) applicable to
appeals from original decrees, and notwithstanding any thing to the contrary
in any enactment for the time being in force, an appeal shall only lie to the
High Court from any decision of the court under sub-section (1).Explanation. -
For the purposes of this section, "court" means-(i)in the City of Madras, the
City Civil Court;(ii)elsewhere, the Subordinate Judge's Court having
jurisdiction and if there is no such Subordinate Judge's Court, the District
Court having jurisdiction.

### 15. Revision by High Court.

\- An application for revision from any party aggrieved, including the State
Government, shall lie to the High Court within the prescribed period, from any
order passed on appeal by the Tribunal, on any of the following grounds,
namely:-(a)that it exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law; or(b)that
it failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested; or(c)that it acted in the
exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with matetial irregularity.

### 16. Mode of payment of mount.

(1)The State Government shall, within a period of six months from the date of
the order of the competent authority determining the amount to be paid under
section 12, or, in a case where an appeal has been preferred against such
order under section 13 or where a revision has been preferred under section
15, within a period of six months from the date of the final order of the
appellate or revisional authority, pay the amount referred to in section 12 to
the person or persons entitled thereto.(2)Twenty-five per cent of the amount
or twenty-five thousand rupees, whichever is less, shall be paid in cash
forthwith and the balance shall, during a period of fifteen years, be paid in
cash in equal annual instalments carrying an interest at the rate of six per
cent per annum with effect from the date on which the vacant land is deemed to
have been, acquired by the State Government under sub-section (3) of section
11.

### 17. Ceiling limit on future acquisition by inheritance, bequest or by sale
in execution of decrees, etc.

(1)If, on or after the commencement of this Act, any person acquires by
inheritance, settlement or bequest from any other person or by sale in
execution of a decree or order of a civil court or of an award or order of any
other authority or by purchase or otherwise any vacant land the extent of
which together with the extent of vacant land, if any, already held by him
exceeds in the aggregate the ceiling limit, then, he shall, within such period
as may be prescribed, file a statement before the competent authority having
jurisdiction specifying the location, value and such other particulars as may
be prescribed of all the vacant lands held by him and also specifying the
vacant lands within the ceiling limit which he desires to retain.(2)The
provisions of sections 7 to 16 (both inclusive) shall, so far as may be, apply
to the statement filed under this section and to the vacant land held by such
person in excess of the ceiling limit.

### 18. Power to enter upon any vacant land.

\- The competent authority or any person acting under the orders of the
competent authority may, subject to any rules made in this behalf and at such
reasonable time as may be prescribed, enter upon any vacant land or any other
land on which there is a building with such assistance as the competent
authority or such person considers necessary and make survey and take
measurements thereof and do any other act which the competent authority or
such person considers necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

### 19. Penalty for concealment, etc., of particulars of vacant land.

(1)If the competent authority, in the course of any proceedings under this
Act, is satisfied that any person has concealed the particulars of any vacant
land or of any other land on which there is a building, whether or not with a
dwelling unit therein, held by him or furnished inaccurate particulars of such
land or of the user thereof, it may, after giving such person an opportunity
of being heard in the matter, by order in writing, direct that, without
prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be liable under this Act, such
person shall pay, by way of penalty, a sum which shall not be less than, but
which shall not exceed twice, the amount payable under this Act in respect of
the vacant land or of such other land or both, as the case may be, in respect
of which the particulars have been concealed or in respect of which inaccurate
particulars as aforesaid have been furnished.(2)Any amount payable under this
section, if not paid, may be recovered, as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.

### 20. Chapter not to apply to certain vacant lands.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) nothing in this
Chapter shall apply to any vacant land held by-(i)the Central Government or
any State Government, or any local authority or any corporation established by
or under a Central or Provincial or State Act or any Government company as
defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of
1956):(ii)any military, naval, or air force institution;(iii)any
bank;Explanation. - In this clause, "bank" means any banking company as
defined in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
(Central Act 10 of 1949) and includes-(a)the Reserve Bank of India constituted
under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Central Act 2 of 1934);(b)the State
Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Central Act
23 of 1955);(c)a subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India
(Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (Central Act 38 of 1959);(d)a corresponding new
bank constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (Central Act 5 of 1970);(e)the Industrial
Finance Corporation of India, established under the Industrial Finance
Corporation Act, 1948 (Central Act 15 of 1948), the Life Insurance Corporation
of India, established under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (Central
Act 31 of 1956), the Unit Trust of India, established under the Unit Trust of
India Act, 1963 (Central Act 52 of 1963), the Industrial Development Bank of
India established under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964
(Central Act 18 of 1964), the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, the Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India and any other
financial institution which the State Government may, by notification in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, specify in this behalf;(iv)any public
charitable or religious trust (including wakf) and required and used for any
public charitable or religious purposes;Provided that the exemption under this
clause shall apply only so long as such land continues to be required and used
for such purposes by such trust.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
clause,-(1)"public charitable or religious trust", means a trust for a public
purpose of charitable or religious or of an educational nature and
includes-(i)any charitable or educational institution of a public nature;
and(ii)any temple, math, mosque, church or other place by whatever name known,
which is dedicated to, or for the benefit of, or used as of right by, any
community or section thereof as a place of public religious
worship;(2)"charitable purpose" includes relief of the poor, medical relief
and the advancement of any other object of general public utility, not
involving the carrying on of any activity for profit;(v)any co-operative
society, being a land mortgage bank or a housing co-operative society,
registered or deemed to be registered under any law relating to co-operative
societies for the time being in force:Provided that the exemption under this
clause, in relation to a land mortgage bank, shall not apply to any vacant
land held by it otherwise than in satisfaction of its dues;(vi)any such
educational, cultural, technical or scientific,-(i)institution; or(ii)club;not
being a Corporation established by or under a Central or Provincial or State
Act referred to in clause (i) or a society referred to in clause (vii) as may
be approved for the purposes of this clause by the State Government by general
or special order, on application made to it in this behalf by such institution
or club or otherwise:Provided that no approval under this clause shall be
accorded by the State Government unless the State Government is satisfied that
it is necessary so to do having regard to the nature and scope of the
activities of the institution or club concerned, the extent of the vacant land
required bona fide for the purposes of such institution or club and other
relevant factors;(vii)any society registered under the Societies Registration
Act, 1860 (Central Act 21 of 1860) or under any other corresponding law for
the time being in force and used for any non-profit and non-commercial
purpose;(viii)a foreign State for the purposes of its diplomatic and consular
missions or for such other official purposes as may be approved by the State
Government or for the residence of the members of the said missions;(ix)the
United Nations and its specialized agencies for any official purpose or for
the residence of the members of their staff;(x)any international organisation
for any official purpose or for the residence of the members of the staff of
such organisation:Provided that the exemption under this clause shall apply
only if there is an agreement between the Government of India and such
international organisation that such land shall be so exempted.(2)The
provisions of sub-section (1) shall not be construed as granting any exemption
in favour of any person, other than an authority, institution or organisation
specified in sub-section (1), who possesses any vacant land which is owned by
such authority, institution of organisation or who owns any vacant land which
is in the possession of such authority, institution or organisation:Provided
that where any vacant land which is in the possession of such authority,
institution or organisation, but owned by any other person is, declared as
excess vacant land under this Chapter, such authority, institution or
organisation shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any of the foregoing
provisions of this Chapter, continue to possess such land under the State
Government on the same terms and conditions subject to which it possessed such
land immediately before such declarations.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this sub-section, the expression "to possess vacant land" means to possess
such land either as tenant or as mortgagee or under a hire-purchase agreement
or under an irrevocable power of attorney or partly in one of the said
capacities and partly in any other of the said capacity or capacities.(3)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in
force,-(a)no public charitable or religious trust (including wakf) referred to
in clause (iv) of sub-section (1) holding any vacant land in excess of the
extent of land which excess land such trust would not have been entitled to
hold but for the exemption under this section shall transfer any such excess
land or part thereof by way of sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise and
any transfer of such excess land or part thereof in contravention of the
provisions of this clause shall be null and void;(b)if, at any time, the land
held by such public charitable or religious trust (including wakf) referred to
in clause (iv) of sub-section (1) ceases to be required and used for any
public charitable or religious purposes, the provisions of this Act shall,
with immediate effect, apply to such land and accordingly any vacant land in
excess of the extent of land which excess land such trust would not have been
entitled to hold but for the exemption under the said clause (iv), shall be
acquired by the Government in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter:Provided that the expression "commencement of this Act" in this
Chapter shall be construed as the date on which the land ceases to be required
and used for any public charitable or religious purposes.] [This sub-section
was substituted for the following original sub-section by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu
Act 14 of 1979), which was deemed to have come into force on the 17th May,
1978.]

### 21. Power to exempt.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any of the foregoing provisions of
this Chapter,-(a)where any person holds vacant land in excess of the ceiling
limit and the State Government is satisfied, either on its own motion or
otherwise, that, having regard to the location of such land, the purpose for
which such land is being or is proposed to be used and such other relevant
factors as the circumstances of the case may require, it is necessary or
expedient in the public interest so to do, the State Government may, by order,
exempt [whether prospectively or retrospectively and] [These words were
inserted by section 2 (i) of the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 62 of 1981).] subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, such vacant land from
the provisions of this Chapter;(b)where any person holds vacant land in excess
of the ceiling limit and the State Government either on its own motion or
otherwise, is satisfied that the application of the provisions of this Chapter
would cause undue hardship to such person, the State Government may, by order,
exempt [whether prospectively or retrospectively and] [These words were
inserted by section 2 (i) of the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 62 of 1981).] subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, such vacant land from
the provisions of this Chapter;Provided that no order under this clause shall
be made unless the reasons for doing so are recorded in writing.(c)Where any
person holds vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit and where in respect
of such excess land the State Government or the Central Government or any
company or corporation owned or controlled by the Central or State Government
or any educational or medical institution has entered into an agreement before
the commencement of this Act for sale of such excess vacant land or part
thereof and the State Government either on its own motion or otherwise is
satisfied that such agreement is for the benefit of the State Government or
the Central Government or such company or corporation or institution, as the
case may be, and that the transaction is bona fide, the State Government may,
by order, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
order, exempt [whether prospectively or retrospectively] [These words were
inserted by section 2 (i) of the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 62 of 1981).] such vacant land
or part thereof as the case may be, from the provisions of this Chapter.(2)If
at any time the State Government is satisfied that any of the conditions
subject to which any exemption under clause (a), clause (b) or clause (c) of
sub-section (1) is granted is not complied with by any person, it shall be
competent for the State Government to withdraw, by order, such exemption after
giving a reasonable opportunity to such person for making a representation
against the proposed withdrawal and thereupon all the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply accordingly.

### 22. Excess vacant land not to be treated as excess in certain cases.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any of the foregoing provisions of
this Chapter, where a person holds any vacant land in excess of the ceiling
limit and such person declares within such time, in such form and in such
manner as may be prescribed before the competent authority that such land is
to be utilised for the construction of dwelling unit (each such dwelling unit
having a plinth area not exceeding eighty square metres) for the accommodation
of the weaker sections of the society, in accordance with any scheme approved
by such authority as the State Government may, by notification, in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, specify in this behalf, then, the competent authority
may, after making such inquiry as it deems fit, declare such land not to be
excess land for the purposes of this Chapter and permit such person to
continue to hold such land for the aforesaid purpose, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be prescribed including a condition as to the time limit
within which such dwelling units are to be constructed.(2)Where any person
contravenes any of the terms or conditions subject to which the permission has
been granted under sub-section (1) the competent authority shall, by order,
and after giving such person an opportunity of being heard, declare such land
to be excess land and thereupon all the provisions of this Chapter shall apply
accordingly.

### 23. Retention of vacant land under certain circumstances.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any of the foregoing provisions of
this Chapter, where any person has demolished wholly or partly before the
commencement of this Act, or demolishes wholly or partly after such
commencement, any building on any land held by him or any such building is
destroyed or demolished wholly or partly either before or after such
commencement, solely or partly due to natural causes and beyond the control of
human agency and as a consequence thereof, in each such case, the land on
which such building has been constructed becomes vacant land and the aggregate
of the extent of such land and the extent of any other vacant land held by him
exceeds the ceiling limit, then, he shall, within such time as may be
prescribed file a statement before the competent authority having jurisdiction
specifying the location, value and such other particulars as may be
prescribed, of all the vacant lands held by him.(2)Where, on receipt of a
statement under sub-section (1) and after such inquiry as the competent
authority may deem fit to make, the competent authority is satisfied that the
land which has become vacant land is required by the holder for the purpose of
redevelopment in accordance with the master plan, such authority may, subject
to such conditions and restrictions as it may deem fit to impose, permit the
holder to retain such land in excess of the ceiling limit for such purpose and
where the competent authority is not so satisfied and does not so permit, the
provisions of sections 7 to 16 (both inclusive) shall, so far as may be, apply
to the statement filed under sub-section (1) and to the vacant land held by
such person in excess of the ceiling limit.

### 24. Disposal of vacant land acquired under the Act.

(1)It shall be competent for the State Government to allot, by order, in
excess of the ceiling limit any vacant land which is deemed to have been
acquired by the State Government under this Act or which has been, or is,
acquired by the State Government under any other law, or which otherwise
belongs to the State Government, to any person for any purpose relating to, or
in connection with, any industry or for providing residential accommodation of
such type as may be approved by the State Government to the employees of any
industry and it shall be lawful for such person to hold such land in excess of
the ceiling limit.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,-(a)where
any land with a building has been or is acquired by the State Government under
any other law and such building has been subsequently demolished by the State
Government, then, such land shall be deemed to be vacant land acquired under
such other law;(b)'industry' means any business, profession, trade,
undertaking or manufacture.(2)In making an order of allotment under sub-
section (1), the State Government may impose such conditions as may be
specified therein including a condition as to the period within which the
industry shall be put in operation or, as the case may be, the residential
accommodation shall be provided for:Provided that if, on a representation made
in this behalf by the allottee, the State Government is satisfied that the
allottee could not put the industry in operation, or provide the residential
accommodation, within the period specified in the order of allotment, for any
good and sufficient reason, the State Government may extend such period to
such further period or periods as it may deem fit.(3)Where any condition
imposed in an order of allotment is not complied with by the allottee, the
State Government, shall, after giving an opportunity to the allottee to be
heard in the matter, cancel the allotment with effect from the date of the
non-compliance of such condition and the land allotted shall revest in the
State Government free from all encumbrances.(4)Where any vacant land which is
in the possession of any person for any purpose relating to, or in connection
with, any industry but owned by any other person, is declared as excess vacant
land under this Chapter, such person in possession of such vacant land shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any of the foregoing provisions of this
Chapter, continue to possess such land under the State Government under such
terms and conditions as may be fixed by the State Government.Explanation. -
For the purposes of this sub-section,-(i)the expression "to possess vacant
land" shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation under sub-section (2)
of section 20;(ii)the expression "industry" shall have the same meaning as in
clause (b) of the Explanation under sub-section (1).(5)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this section, any vacant
land deemed to have been acquired by the State Government under this Act or
which has been, or is, acquired by the State Government under any other law or
which otherwise belongs to the State Government shall be disposed of in any
manner whatsoever (including sale by auction or otherwise) by the State
Government to subserve common good on such terms and conditions as the State
Government may deem fit to impose and it shall be lawful for any person in
whose favour such land has been disposed of to hold such land in excess of the
ceiling limit so long as he complies with such terms and
conditions.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) to (5),
where the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary to retain or
reserve any vacant land, deemed to have been acquired by that Government under
this Act, for the benefit of the public, it shall be competent for the State
Government to retain or reserve such land for the same.

### 25. Special provision regarding disposal of vacant lands in favour of
certain persons.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 24 where any person, being
the owner of any vacant land, had leased out or mortgaged with possession such
land or had given possession of such land under a hire-purchase agreement to
any other person and as a consequence thereof he has no vacant land in his
possession or has vacant land in his possession less in extent than the
ceiling limit and where the land so leased or mortgaged or given possession of
is deemed to have been acquired by the State Government under this Chapter,
then, such person shall be entitled to make an application to the State
Government in such form and containing such particulars as may be prescribed
within a period of six months from the date of such acquisition for the
assignment to him,-(a)in a case where he has no land in his possession, of so
much extent of land as is not in excess of the ceiling limit; or(b)in a case
where he has land in his possession less in extent than the ceiling limit, of
so much extent of land as is required to make up the deficiency;Provided that
nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to entitle a person for the
assignment of land in excess of the extent of the land leased or mortgaged
with possession or given possession under a hire-purchase agreement as
aforesaid by such person.(2)On receipt of an application under sub-section
(1), the State Government shall, after making such inquiry as it deems fit,
assign such land to such person on payment of an amount equal to the amount
which has been paid by the State Government for the acquisition of the extent
of land to be assigned.

## Chapter IV  
Regulation of use of Urban Property

### 26. Definition.

\- In this Chapter, "plinth area" in relation to-(i)a dwelling unit in a
building consisting of only one floor, means the area of the dwelling unit at
the floor level and includes the thickness of the outer walls thereof;(ii)a
dwelling unit in a building consisting of two or more floors, means the area
of the dwelling unit at each floor level where the dwelling unit is proposed
to be situated and includes the thickness of the outer walls thereof and the
proportionate area intended for any common service facility at the floor level
aforesaid.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, "common service
facility", includes facility like staircase, balcony and verandah.

### 27. Statement to be made before the registering authority in certain
cases.

(1)No document relating to transfer of any vacant land either by sale, gift,
exchange, lease, possessory mortgage, surrender, agreement, settlement, or
otherwise, shall be registered unless a statement in writing is made in
duplicate in such form as may be prescribed and filed by the transferor and
the transferee before the registering authority under the Registration Act,
1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908), as to the total extent of vacant land held by
him:Provided that no statement as required under this sub-section need be
filed by the transferor and the transferee to the registering authority in
respect of such document as is referred to in this sub-section which has been
presented to the registering authority before the commencement of this Act and
is pending registration on the date of the publication of this Act in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(2)The registering authority referred to in sub-
section (1) shall forward within such time and in such manner as may be
prescribed, one copy of the statement referred to in sub-section (1) to the
competent authority, within whose jurisdiction such land which is the subject-
matter of the transfer or the major part thereof is situated.(3)On receipt of
the copy of the statement under sub-section (2), the competent authority may
obtain such information as may be necessary and take such action as he deems
fit in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and in accordance with such
rules as may be made in this behalf.

### 28. Regulation of construction of buildings with dwelling units.

\- No person shall construct any building with a dwelling unit having a plinth
area,-(a)where the building proposed to be constructed is situated in an urban
agglomeration falling within category I specified in Schedule I, in excess of
three hundred square metres;(b)where the building proposed to be constructed
is situated in an urban agglomeration falling within category II or category
III specified in Schedule I, in excess of five hundred square metres:Provided
that nothing in this section shall apply to any building with a dwelling unit
owned by the State Government or Central Government or any Company or
Corporation owned or controlled by the Central or State Government.

### 29. Demolition and stoppage of buildings in certain cases and appeal.

(1)Where the construction of a building is commenced after the commencement of
this Act and is carried on and completed in contravention of the provisions of
section 28, the competent authority having jurisdiction over the area in which
the building is situated, may make an order directing that such construction
shall be demolished, either wholly or partly, or modified by the person at
whose instance the construction has been commenced and is being carried on and
completed, to the extent such demolition or modification does not contravene
the provisions of that section, within such period (not being less than
fifteen days and more than thirty days from the date on which a copy of the
order of demolition with a brief statement of the reasons therefor has been
delivered to that person) as may be specified in the order for the demolition
or modification:Provided that no order for the demolition or modification
shall be made unless the person has been given by means of a notice served in
such manner as the competent authority may think fit a reasonable opportunity
of showing cause why such order shall not be made:Provided further that, where
the construction has not been completed, the competent authority may, by the
same order or by a separate order, whether made at the time of the issue of
the notice under the first proviso or at any other time, direct the person to
stop the construction until the expiry of the period within which an appeal
against the order for the demolition or modification, if made, may be
preferred under sub-section (2):Provided also that nothing in this sub-section
shall apply to any building constructed after the commencement of this Act in
pursuance of a plan approved before the commencement of this Act by the
appropriate authority under any law in force.(2)Any person aggrieved by an
order of the competent authority made under sub-section (1) may prefer an
appeal against the order to the Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in
which the building is situated within the period specified in the order for
the demolition or modification of the construction to which it
relates.(3)Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section(2) against the order
for the demolition or modification the Tribunal may stay the enforcement of
that order on such terms, if any, and for such period, as it may think
fit:Provided that, where the construction of any building has not been
completed at the time of the making of the order for the demolition or
modification, no order staying the enforcement of the order for the demolition
or modification shall be made by the Tribunal unless security, sufficient in
the opinion of the Tribunal, has been given by the appellant for not
proceeding with such construction pending the disposal of the appeal.(4)The
provisions of sub-section (5) of section 13 and of section 15 shall apply to
or in relation to an appeal preferred under sub-section (2) as they apply to
or in relation to an appeal preferred under sub-section (4) of section
13.(5)Save as provided in this section, no court shall entertain any suit,
application or other proceeding for injunction or other relief against the
competent authority to restrain it from taking any action or making any order
in pursuance of the provisions of this section.(6)Where no appeal has been
preferred against an order for the demolition or modification made by the
competent authority under sub-section (1), or where an order for the
demolition or modification made by the competent authority under that sub-
section has been confirmed on appeal, whether with or without variation, the
person against whom the order has been made shall comply with the order within
the period specified therein, or as the case may be, within the period, if
any, fixed by the Tribunal or the High Court on appeal or revision, as the
case may be and on the failure of the person to comply with the order within
such period, the competent authority may himself cause the construction to
which the order relates to be demolished or modified and the expenses of such
demolition or modification shall be recoverable from such person as an arrear
of land revenue.

## Chapter V  
Transfer of vacant lands acquired under the Act to the Central Government

### 30. State Government to transfer certain vacant lands acquired under the
Act to the Central Government.

\- Where any vacant land, situated within the local limits of a cantonment,
declared as such under the Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act 2 of 1924), or
owned by the Central Government is deemed to have been acquired by the State
Government under section 11, then, in such case, the State Government shall
inform the Central Government of such acquisition and if the Central
Government makes the request for the transfer of such vacant land to it, the
State Government shall do so on payment by the Central Government of an amount
equal to the amount which has been paid by the State Government for such
acquisition.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 31. Powers of competent authority.

\- The competent authority shall have all the powers of a Civil Court, while
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908)
in respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery
and production of any document;(c)receiving evidence on
affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court
or office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or
documents; and(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.

### 32. Jurisdiction of competent authorities and Tribunals in special cases.

\- Where under sub-section (2) of section 8, the State Government determines
the competent authority or where, for the reason that the extent of the vacant
land situated within the jurisdiction of two or more Tribunals is equal, an
appeal has been preferred to any one of the Tribunals under sub-section (4) of
section 13, then, such competent authority or Tribunal, as the case may be,
shall, notwithstanding that any portion of the vacant land to which the
proceedings before the competent authority or the appeal before the Tribunal
relates, is not situated within the area of its jurisdiction, exercise all the
powers and functions of the competent authority or Tribunal, as the case may
be, having jurisdiction over such portion of the vacant land under this Act in
relation to such proceedings or appeal.

### 33. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order made by the competent authority under this
Act, not being an order under section 12 or an order under sub-section (1) of
section 29, may, within thirty days of the date on which the order is
communicated to Mm, prefer an appeal to such authority as may be prescribed
(hereafter in this section referred to as the appellate authority):Provided
that the appellate authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the
said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented
by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of an appeal
under sub-section (1), the appellate authority shall, after giving the
appellant an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it deems
fit as expeditiously as possible.(3)Every order passed by the appellate
authority under this section shall be final.

### 34. Revision by State Government.

\- The State Government may, on its own motion, call for and examine the
records of any order passed or proceeding taken under the provisions of this
Act against which no appeal has been preferred under section 13 or section 29
or section 33 for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or
propriety of such order or as to the regularity of such procedure and pass
such order with respect thereto as it may think fit:Provided that no such
order shall be made except after giving the person affected a reasonable
opportunity of being heard in the matter.

### 35. Bar of jurisdiction.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no order passed or proceeding taken
by any officer or authority under this Act shall be called in question in any
court, in any suit or application and no injunction shall be granted by any
court in respect of any action taken or to be taken by such officer or
authority in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 36. Power of State Government to issue orders and directions to the
competent authority.

\- The State Government may issue such orders and directions of a general
character as it may consider necessary in respect of any matter relating to
the powers and duties of the competent authority and thereupon the competent
authority shall give effect to such orders and direction.

### 37. Returns and reports.

\- The competent authority shall furnish to the State Government such returns,
statistics, accounts and other information as the State Government may, from
time to time, require.

### 38. Delegation of powers.

\- The State Government may, by notification, direct that all or any of the
powers exercisable by it under this Act except the power to make rules under
section 47 and the power to issue notification under sub-clause (ii) of clause
(n) of section 3 and section 48 may in such circumstances and under such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification be exercisable
also by such officer or authority subordinate to the State Government as may
be specified in the notification.

### 39. Offences and punishments.

(1)If any person who is under an obligation to file a statement under this Act
fails, without reasonable cause or excuse, to file the statement within the
time specified for the purpose, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees or with both.(2)If any person who, having been convicted under
sub-section (1), continues to fail, without reasonable cause or excuse, to
file the statement he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees for every day during which such contravention continues after
conviction for the first such contravention.(3)If any person who is under an
obligation to file a statement under this Act files a statement which he knows
or has reason to believe to be false, he shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees or with both.(4)If any person contravenes any of the
provisions of this Act for which no penalty has been expressly provided for,
he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
years or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both.

### 40. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been Committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary,
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section,-(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a
firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 41. Indemnity.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government or
any officer or authority of the State Government in respect of anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done by or under this Act.

### 42. Cognizance of offences.

\- No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by the competent authority or any officer
authorised by the competent authority in this behalf and no court inferior to
that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first-class
shall try any such offence.

### 43. Act to override other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith in any other law for the time being in force or any
custom, usage or agreement or decree or order of a court, tribunal or other
authority.

### 44. Court fees.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits
Valuation Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955), every application, appeal or
other proceeding under this Act shall bear a court-fee stamp of such value as
may be prescribed.

### 45. Certain officers to be public servants.

\- Every officer acting under, or in pursuance of, the provisions of this Act
or under the rules made thereunder shall be deemed to be a public servant
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860).

### 46. Correction of clerical errors.

\- Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any order passed by any officer or
authority under this Act or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or
omission may at any time be corrected by such officer or authority either on
his or its own motion or on an application received in this behalf from any of
the parties.

### 47. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)the
cultivation or growing of plant which will not be agriculture under clause (A)
of the Explanation to clause (o) of section 3;(b)the period within which the
statement may be filed under section 7;(c)the form of intimation under sub-
section (2) of section 8;(d)the particulars to be mentioned in the statement
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 7, sub-section (2) of section 9 and
sub-section (1) of section 17;(e)the manner of serving the draft statement
under sub-section (4) of section 9;(f)the manner of publishing the
notification under sub-section (1) of section 11;(g)the time within which the
competent authority shall dispose of a case under sub-section (8) of section
12;(h)the times during which the competent authority or any person acting
under the orders of such authority may enter upon any vacant land under
section 18;(i)the time within which and the form and the manner in which a
declaration under sub-section (1) of section 22 shall be made before the
competent authority;(j)the terms and conditions subject to which a person
permitted under sub-section (1) of section 22 may hold land in excess of the
ceiling limit;(k)the particulars to be mentioned in the statement referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 23;(l)the form in which an application under
sub-section (1) of section 25 may be made and the particulars to be mentioned
in such application;(m)the powers of the competent authority under clause (f)
of section 31;(n)the appellate authority under sub-section (1) of section
33;(o)the value of the court-fee stamp to be affixed on an application,
appeal, or other proceeding under section 44;(p)any other matter which is to
be, or may be, provided for by rules under this Act.(3)Every rule made under
this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made, be placed or, the table
of both Houses of the Legislature and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in making any
modification in any such rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect, only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.

### 48. Inclusion of any adjoining area in Schedule I.

(1)The State Government may, after taking into account the object of this Act
and such other matters as may be prescribed, by notification in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette include any area adjoining the area comprised in the urban
agglomeration specified in category I, II or III in Schedule I in such urban
agglomeration and on the issue of such notification, the provisions of this
Act shall apply to the adjoining area specified in such notification.(2)For
the purposes of application of this Act, in respect of any such adjoining area
included under sub-section (1) in the urban agglomeration specified in
category I, II or III in Schedule I, "commencement of this Act" shall mean the
date of publication of the notification under sub-section (1) in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette.

### 49. Power to amend Schedule III.

\- The State Government may, by notification, amend prospectively or
retrospectively Schedule III.

### 50. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the State Government may, by order, do anything not inconsistent with such
provisions which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
removing the difficulty.(2)No order under sub-section (1) shall be made after
the expiration of a period of two years from the date of publication of this
Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 51. Repeal and Saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 (President's
Act 34 of 1976) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action or
proceeding taken under the said Act including any notification issued, rules
and orders issued, returns furnished and statements filed or served in so far
as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall be deemed
to have been done, taken, issued, filed or published under this
Act.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) and in section 8
of the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1891), any
statement filed by any person before the competent authority, or any statement
served or notification published by any competent authority and all
proceedings taken for the purpose of the determination of excess vacant land
under the provisions of the said Act in so far as they relate to such persons
who are not holding vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit fixed under
this Act, shall be deemed to have never been filed, served, published or taken
and the provisions of this Act shall have effect accordingly.

## Schedule 1

[See sections 3(n), 5, 12, 28 and 48.]Category IMadras Urban
Agglomeration,(1)Madras Corporation.(2)Tiruvottiyur Municipality.(3)Alandur
Municipality.(4)Tambaram Municipality.(5)Pallavaram Municipality.(6)Madhavaram
Township.(7)Kathivakkam Township.(8)Avadi Township.(9)Ambattur
Township.(10)St. Thomas Mount-cum-Pallavaram Cantonment.(11)Villivakkam Town
Panchayat.(12)Thiruvanmiyur Town Panchayat.(13)Kunrathur Town
Panchayat.(14)Anakaputhur Town Panchayat.(15)Kodambakkam Town
Panchayat.(16)Pammal Town Panchayat.(17)Saligramam Town
Panchayat.(18)Velacheri Town Panchayat.(19)Virugambakkam Town
Panchayat.(20)Polal Town Panchayat.(21)Thiruneermalai Town
Panchayat.(22)Chitlapakkam Town Panchayat.(23)Perungalathur Town
Panchayat.(24)Naravarikuppam Town Panchayat.(25)Nandambakkam Town
Panchayat.(26)Maduravayal Town Panchayat.(27)Kodungaiyur Town
Panchayat.(28)Oragadam Panchayat.(29)Erukkancheri Town
Panchayat.(30)Nerkundram Panchayat.(31)Koyambedu Panchayat.(32)Peerkankaranai
Panchayat.(33)Polichalur Panchayat.(34)Meenambakkam Panchayat,(35)Pallikaranai
Panchayat.(36)Thirusulam Panchayat.(37)Thirumangalam Panchayat.(38)Kathirvedu
Panchayat.(39)Perungudi Panchayat.(40)Mathur Panchayat.(41)Vengavasal
Panchayat.(42)Sadayankuppam Panchayat.(43)Madipakkam Panchayat.(44)Kottivakkam
Panchayat.Revenue villages in Saidapet taluk(45)4 Kadappakkam.(46)11
Theerthagirayampattu.(47)13/2 Pullilyon.(48)15 Vadagarai.(49)16
Thandalkalani.(50)24 Vaickadu.(51)26 Manali.(52)29 Chinnasekkadr.(53)62
Soorapattu.(54)64 Puthagaram.(55)65 Kolathur.(56)82 Nolambur.(57)83
Adayalampattu.(58)84 Perumalagaram.(59)85 Ayanambakkam.(60)90
Ayappakkam.(61)91 Koladi.(62)92 Noombal.(63)93 Sivaboodam.(64)94
Chettiaragaram.(65)96 Vanagarara.(66)97 Karambakkam.(67)98 Porur.(68)101
Valasaravakkam.(69)102 Ramapuram.(70)126 Cowl Bazaar.(71)135 Ullagaram.(72)138
Tharamani.(73)139 Kanagam.(74)142 Palavakkam.(75)145 Neelangarai.(76)150
Medavakkam.(77)151 Nanmangalam.(78)152 Kovilambakkam.(79)153 Kolathur.(80)157
Moovarasampattu.(81)161 Sembakkam.(82)164 Pulikkoradu.(83)165
Kadapperi.(84)166 Tambaram.(85)172 Thiruvanjeri.(86)174 Rajakilpakkam.(87)175
Gowrivakkam.(88)188 Jalladiampet.Revenue villages in Ponneri taluk(89)8
Padiyanallur.(90)13 Vichur.Revenue village in Sriperumbudur taluk(91)66
Manapakkam.Revenue villages in Chengalpattu taluk(92)2 Vandalur.(93)3
Kilambakkam.Category II.Madurai Urban Agglomeration(1)Madurai
Corporation.(2)Avaniyapuram Panchayat.(3)Tiruparankundram Panchayat.(4)Paravai
Panchayat.(5)Vilangudi Panchayat.(6)Samayanallur Panchayat.(7)Harveypatti
Township.(8)Tirunagar Panchayat.(9)Thathaneri Panchayat.(10)Thiagarajar Colony
Panchayat.Revenue village in Madurai South taluk(11)15/2 Pudukulam 2nd
Bit.Coimbatore Urban Agglomeration(1)Coimbatore Municipality.(2)Singanallur
Municipality.(3)Kurichi Panchayat.(4)Telungapalayam Panchayat.(5)Sanganur
Panchayat.(6)Kuniamuthur Panchayat.(7)Ganapathi Panchayat.(8)Madukkarai
Township.(9)Komarapalayam Panchayat.(10)Vallalore
Panchayat.(11)Kavundampalayam Panchayat.(12)Vilankurichi Panchayat.(13)Perur
Chettipalayam Panchayat.(14)Perur Panchayat.(15)Chinnavedaropatti
Panchayat.Revenue villages in Coimbatore taluk(16)14 Saravananpatti.(17)19
Vellaikinar.(18)20 Thudiyalur.Tiruchirappalli Urban
Agglomeration(1)Tiruchirappalli Municipality.(2)Srirangam
Municipality.(3)Ponmalai Municipality.(4)Golden Rock Railway Colony Southern
Railway Administration.(5)Ariyamangalam Panchayat.(6)Alathur
Panchayat.(7)Abishekapuram Panchayat.(8)Pirattiyur Panchayat.(9)Ulkadai
Ariyamangalam Panchayat.Salem Urban Agglomeration(1)Salem
Municipality.(2)Suramangalam Municipality.(3)Jari Kondalampatti
Panchayat.(4)Annadanapatti Panchayat.(5)Ammapalayam Panchayat.(6)Ammapet
Panchayat.(7)Puthur Panchayat.(8)Kondalampatti Panchayat.(9)Thadampatti
Panchayat.(10)Alagapuram Panchayat.(11)Neikarapatti Panchayat.(12)Sivadapuram
Panchayat.(13)Meyyanur Panchayat.(14)Komarasamipatti Panchayat.(15)Kandampatti
Panchayat.(16)Reddiapatti Panchayat;(17)Narasojipatti Panchayat.(18)Pallapattt
Panchayat.Revenue villages in Salem taluk(19)29 Reddiyur.(20)54
Alagapurampudur.Category IIITirunelveli Urban Agglomeration(1)Tirunelveli
Municipality.(2)Palayamkottai Municipality.(3)Melapalayam
Municipality.(4)Thatchanallur Panchayat.(5)Naranammalpuram
Panchayat.(6)Thalaiyuthu Panchayat.(7)Palayamkottai (Non-Municipal).(8)Sankar
Nagar Township.(9)Alaganeri Panchayat.(10)Melanatham Panchayat.(11)Pettai
Panchayat.Revenue village in Tirunelveli taluk(12)134 Inam
Karaiyiruppu.[Explanation. [This explanation was added by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Second Amendment Act, 1981
(Tamil Nadu Act 63 of 1981).] \- Where the local limits of any local authority
referred to in this Schedule have been or are altered by the State Government
under the law governing such local authority or where any such local authority
has been or is redesignated, any reference to such local authority in this
Schedule shall, with effect on and from the date on which the local limits
have been, or are, so altered or, as the case may be, the date on which the
redesignation, has taken or takes effect, be deemed to be a reference to the
local authority hiving the local limits as so altered or, as the case may be,
to the local authority with the re-designation.]

## II

[See section 12(2).]Principles for determination of the net average annual
income

### 1\. The competent authority shall first determine the gross income
actually derived by the holder of the vacant land acquired during the period
of five consecutive years referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 12 including any income from any produce derived from cultivation of
the land during the said period.

### 2\. For such determination the competent authority may-

(a)hold any local inquiry and obtain, if necessary, certified copies of
extracts from the property tax assessment books of the municipal or other
local authority concerned showing the rental value of such land;(b)estimate
the income from any produce from such land after holding such local inquiry
and taking such evidence as it thinks fit and after giving an opportunity to
the person concerned of being heard in the matter.

### 3\. The net average annual income referred to in clause (a) of sub-section
(1) of section 12 shall be sixty per cent of the average annual gross income
which shall be one-fifth of the gross income during the five consecutive years
as determined by the competent authority under paragraph 1.

### 4\. Forty per cent of the gross annual income referred to above shall not
be taken into consideration in determining the net average annual income but
shall be deducted in lieu of the expenditure which the holder of the vacant
land would normally incur for payment of any tax to the municipal or other
local authority and for collection and other charges including cultivation
charges.

## III

[See sections 3(g), 5(1)(iii), 5(2) and 49.]Industrial UndertakingsManufacture
of Dairy ProductsManufacture of Milk powder, Ice Cream Powder and condensed
milk except Baby Milk foodsManufacture of Baby Milk FoodsManufacture of Butter
and CreamManufacture of GheeManufacture of CheeseManufacture of
KhoyaManufacture of Pasturised Milk in bottles (plain or flavoured)Manufacture
of Ice-Cream "Kulfi", etc.Manufacture of othersManufacture of Food
ProductsSlaughtering, preparation and preservation of meatMutton slaughtering,
preparationBeef slaughtering, preparationPork slaughtering, preparationPoultry
and other slaughtering, preparationPreservation of meats except by
canningProcessing and canning of meatsCanning and preservation of fruits and
vegetablesArtificial dehydration of fruits and vegetablesSun drying of fruits
and vegetablesManufacture of fruit juice concentrates, squashes and
powdersManufacture of sauces, jam, jellies, marmalades, etc.Manufacture of
pickles, chutneys, murabbas, etc.Canning of fruits and vegetablesFruit and
vegetable preservation not elsewhere classifiedCanning, Preservation and
Processing of fish, Crustacea and similar foodsArtificial dehydration of fish
and sea foodsSun drying of fishProcessing and canning of fishManufacture of
fish oilManufacture of fish mealFish processing and preserving not elsewhere
classifiedGrain mill productsFlour milling (by power machine)Rice milling (by
power machine)Dal milling (by power machine)Processing and grinding of cereals
and grain manuallyOther grain milling and processing activitiesManufacture of
bakery productsBread makingManufacture of breakfast foodsManufacture of
biscuits, cakes, pastries, etc.Manufacture of other bakery productsManufacture
and refining of sugar (Vacuum pan sugar factories)Production of indigenous
sugar, boora, khandsari, Gur, etc, from cane, palm juice, etc.Manufacture of
"Boora" and candyManufacture of "Khandsari" sugarManufacture of
"Gur"Manufacture of othersProduction of common saltManufacture of Cocoa,
Chocolate and sugar confectionery (including sweetmeats)Manufacture of Cocoa
productsManufacture of sugar confectioneryManufacture of SweetmeatsManufacture
of othersManufacture of hydrogenated oils, Vanaspathi, Ghee, etc.Manufacture
of other edible oils and fats, eg, mustard oil groundnut oil, til oil, etc
(Inedible oils)Tea processingCoffee curing, roasting and grindingCoffee
curingCoffee roasting, grinding, etc.Cashewnut processing like drying,
shelling, roasting, saltingCashew and apple processingCashewnut
shellingCashewnut roasting, frying, salting, etc.Cashewnut processing and
packing not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of IceManufacture of prepared
animal feedsManufacture of cattle feedManufacture of poultry feedManufacture
of other animal feedsManufacture of StarchManufacture of Maize
starchManufacture of Tapioca starchManufacture of Tamarind starchManufacture
of Potato starchManufacture of other starchesManufacture of food products not
elsewhere classifiedManufacture of malted foodsGrinding and processing of
spicesManufacture of "Papads", "Appalam", etc.Manufacture of Egg Powder, Semi-
processed foods and instant foodsManufacture of Sago and Sago
ProductsManufacture of Vitaminised High Protein flour (Multi-purpose
foods)Frying of dais, nuts and foods not elsewhere classified Manufacture of
residuary snacks not elsewhere classified Other food processing and
activitiesManufacture of beverages, Tobacco and Tobacco Products Distilling,
rectifying and blending of spirits Wine IndustriesMalt liquors and
maltManufacture of BeerManufacture of other Malt, LiquorsManufacture of other
MaltProduction of country liquor and toddySoft drinks and carbonated water
industriesManufacture of Aerated drinksManufacture of Aerated Natural
flavoured syrupsManufacture of Synthetic flavoured syrupsManufacture of Fruit
JuicesManufacture of Beverages not elsewhere classifiedTobacco stemming,
retrying and all other operations which am connected with preparing raw leaf
tobacco for manufactureManufacture of BidiManufacture of Cigars, Cigarettes,
Cheroots and Cigarette tabaccoManufacture of Cigarette and Cigarette
tobaccoManufacture of Cigars and CherootManufacture of chewing tobacco, zarda
and snuffManufacture of SnuffManufacture of ZardaManufacture of Chewing
tobaccoManufacture of other tobaccoManufacture of tobacco and tobacco products
not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of Cotton TextilesCotton ginning, cleaning
and balingCotton ginning and balingCotton cleaningCotton spinning, weaving,
shrinking, sanforizing, mercerising and finishing of cotton textiles in
millsCotton spinning and weavingCotton textile-shrinking, mercerising,
etc.Printing, dyeing and bleaching of cotton textilesDyeing of cloth and
yarnBleaching of cloth and yarnPrinting of clothCotton spinning other than in
mills (Charkha)Production of KhadiWeaving and finishing of cotton textiles in
handlooms other than khadiWeavingFinishingWeaving and finishing of cotton
textiles in power loomsWeavingFinishingCotton textiles not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of Wool, Silk and Synthetic Fibre textilesWool cleaning,
baling and pressingWool cleaningWool baling and pressingWool Spinning, Weaving
and Finishing in MillsWool Spinning and Weaving (Other than in Mills)Wool
SpinningWool Weaving in handloomsWool Weaving in powerloomsDyeing and
Bleaching of Woollen textilesManufacture of wool not elsewhere
classified:Manufacture of Blankets and shawlsManufacture of feltsManufacture
of othersSpinning, Weaving and Finishing of Silk textilesSpinning and
WeavingFinishingPrinting, Dyeing and Bleaching of Silk textilesSpinning,
Weaving and Finishing of other Textiles-Synthetic Fibre Rayons Nylons,
etc.Spinning and WeavingFinishingPrinting, Dyeing and Bleaching of Synthetic
TextilesSilk and Synthetic Fibre Textiles not elsewhere classifiedManufacture
of Jute, Hemp and Mesta TextilesJute and Mesta Pressing and BalingJute and
Mesta Spinning and WeavingSpinning and WeavingFinishingDyeing, Printing and
Bleaching and Jute TextilesPreparing, Spinning, Weaving and Finishing of Hemp
and other Coarse FibresPreparing, spinning and weavingFinishingManufacture of
Jute Bags and other Jute textiles not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of
Textile Products (including Wearing Apparel other than Foot wear)Knitting
MillsCotton knitting in millsWoollen knitting in millsSynthetic fiber knitting
in millsKnitting other than in millsManufacture of all types of Threads,
Cordage, Ropes, Twines NetsThread and Thread Ball makingManufacture of
Jute/Hemp Rope and CordageManufacture of other Rope and CordageManufacture of
Nets (except mosquito nets)Manufacture of othersEmbroidery and making of
Crepes, Laces and FringesEmbroidery workLaces and fringesZari and Zari
productsOthersWeaving Carpets, Rugs and other Similar Textile
ProductsManufacture of Carpets, Rugs, Druggets, etc., except of
coirManufacture of DurriesManufacture of othersManufacture of all types of
Textiles, Garments including wearing ApparelManufacture of Ready made
garmentsManufacture of custom made wearing apparelManufacture of Rain Coats,
Hats, etc.Manufacture of UmbrellasManufacture of Rain coatsManufacture of
Hats, etc.Manufacture of made-up Textiles Goods (except Garments) such as
curtains, Mosquito Nets, etc.Manufacture of curtains, bed covers and
furnishingsManufacture of mosquito netsManufacture of othersManufacture of
water-proof textiles such as oil cloth, Tarpaulin, etc.Manufacture of Oil
clothManufacture of Rubberised clothManufacture of TarpaulinManufacture of
Artificial LeatherManufacture of othersManufacture of coir and coir
productsManufacture of coir fibre and yarnManufacture of coir mattings,
carpets, etc.Manufacture of ropes and twinesManufacture of coir products not
elsewhere classifiedManufacture of textiles not elsewhere classified like
linoleum, padding, wadding, upholstering, filling, etc.Manufacture of Linoleum
and similar productsManufacture of gas mantlesManufacture of made up canvas
goods (tents, sails, etc)Manufacture of others not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of wood and wood products, furniture and
fixturesManufacture of veneer, plywood and their productsManufacture of
plywood and veneerManufacture of flush doors and boardsManufacture of plywood
productsSawing and planning of wood (other than plywood)Manufacture of wooden
and cane boxes, crates, drums, barrels and other wooden containers, Baskets
and other rattan, bamboo, reed bamboo and willowManufacture of wooden boxes,
barrels, etc., except of plywoodManufacture of plywood chest for tea,
etc.Manufacture of baskets made from bamboo, cane reed and grassManufacture of
othersManufacture of structural wooden goods (including treated timber) such
as beams, posts, doors and windows (excluding hewing and rough shaping of
poles, bolts and other wood material which is classified under
logging)Manufacture of wooden industrial goods, such as bobbins, blocks,
handles, Saddling and similar equipment and fixturesManufacture of
bobbinsManufacture of industrial fixturesManufacture of Tool
HandlesManufacture of BlocksManufacture of othersManufacture of cork and cork
productsManufacture of wooden furniture and fixturesManufacture of bamboo and
cane furniture and fixturesBamboo, Cane and Reed FurnitureBamboo, Cane and
Reed ScreensBamboo, Cane and Reed FixturesGrass matsOthersManufacture of wood
and wood bamboo and cane products not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of
BroomsticksManufacture of wooden household and other products not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of Bamboo, Cane, reed and grass products not elsewhere
classified (thatching, etc)Manufacture of othersManufacture of paper and paper
products and printing, publishing and allied industriesManufacture of pulp,
paper and paper board including newsprintManufacture of pulp (machine
made)Manufacture of paper (machine made)Manufacture of newsprint (machine
made)Manufacture of packaging paper (machine made)Manufacture of paper boards
and straw boards (machine made)Manufacture of hard boards including false
boards and chip boards (machine made)Manufacture of hand made pulp, paper,
boards, etc.Manufacture of othersManufacture of containers and boxes of paper
and paper boardManufacture of paper bagsManufacture of card board
boxesManufacture of paper cups, saucers, plates, etc.Manufacture of
othersManufacture of pulp products not elsewhere classified like
dollsManufacture of paper and paper board articles not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of paper hoopsManufacture of paper conesManufacture of
othersPrinting and publishing of newspapersPrinting and publishing of
periodicals, books, journals, atlases, maps and sheet music, directories,
etc.Printing of Bank notes, currency notes, postage stamps, security passes,
etc.Engraving, etching, block making, etc.Book-bindingPrinting, publishing and
allied activities not elsewhere classified like envelope printing, picture
postcard printing, embossing, etc.Manufacture of leather and leather and fur
products (except repair)Tanning, curing, finishing, embossing and japanning of
leatherFlaying and curing of raw hides and skinsTanning and finishing of sole
leatherTanning and finishing of industrial leatherVegetable tanning of light
leatherChrome tanningFinishing of Upper leathers, Lining leather, Garment
leather, etc.OthersManufacture of foot-wear (excluding repair) except
vulcanized or mounded rubber or plastic foot-wearManufacture of leather
shoesManufacture of leather-cum-rubber/plastic cloth shoesManufacture of
leather sandals and chappalsManufacture of leather-cum-rubber/plastic
clothSandals and chappalsManufacture of wearing apparel like Coats, Gloves,
etc., of leather substitutes of leatherManufacture of leather consumer goods
(other than apparel and foot-wear)Manufacture of Leather Travel Goods like
suit cases, bagsManufacture of Leather purses and ladies handbags, artistic
leather presentation articles and novelties, etc.Manufacture of
othersScrapping, currying, tanning, bleaching and dyeing of fur other pelts
for the tradeManufacture of wearing apparel of fur and peltsManufacture of fur
and skin rugs and other articlesManufacture of leather and fur products not
elsewhere classifiedManufacture of rubber, plastic, petroleum and coal
productsTyre and tube industriesManufacture of tyres and tubes for motor
vehicles, tractors and aircraftManufacture of tyres and tubes for motor cycles
and scootersManufacture of tyres and tubes for cyclesManufacture of other
tyres and tubesRetreading of tyresManufacture of foot-wear made primarily of
vulcanized moulded rubber and plasticManufacture of Rubber foot-
wearManufacture of Plastic and P.V.C. foot-wearManufacture of Canvas-cum-
rubber/plastic foot-wearManufacture of rubber products not elsewhere
classifiedRubber surgical and medical equipment such as gloves, not water
bags, etc.Prophylactics (Rubber contraceptives)Rubber BaloonsManufacture of
Rubber pipesMiscellaneous Rubber Industrial and Domestic goods (Bushes,
washers, etc)Manufacture of Foam Rubber Mattresses and CushionsRubber
SheetsOthersManufacture of plastic products not elsewhere classified (except
house furnishings)Manufacture of Plastic Blow Moulded ContainersManufacture of
Acrylic Plastic SheetsManufacture of Reinforced and Laminated Plastic
SheetsManufacture of Plastic Monofilaments and products therefrom such as
nets, cords, etc.Manufacture of Polythene Bags (plain and printed)Manufacture
of Spectacles FramesPlastic moulded industrial accessories, not elsewhere
classified (like knobs, radio cabinet fixture, etc)Manufacture of Plastic
moulded domestic goods not elsewhere classified (including buckets, jugs,
etc)Manufacture of others (including plastic foam products, buttons,
etc)Petroleum RefineriesManufacture of products of petroleum not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of Liquid paraffinManufacture of PlasticizersManufacture
of CandlesManufacture of othersProduction of coal tar in coke ovensManufacture
of other coal and coal tar products not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of
NapthaleneManufacture of othersManufacture of Chemicals and Chemical products
(except products of Petroleum and Coal)Manufacture of basic industrial organic
and inorganic chemicals and gases such as acids, alkalies and their salts
gases like acetylene, oxygen, nitrogen, etc.Manufacture of basic heavy
inorganic chemicalsManufacture of basic heavy organic chemicalsManufacture of
fertilizers and pesticidesManufacture of inorganic fertilizersManufacture of
organic fertilisersManufacture of mixed fertilisersManufacture of pesticides
(insecticides, fungicides and weedicides)Manufacture of pesticides -
formulationsManufacture of othersManufacture of Paints, Varnishes and
LacquersManufacture of Paints, Varnishes, Lacquers, etc.Manufacture of Dye-
stuffsManufacture of IndigoManufacture of waxes and polishesManufacture of
othersManufacture of drugs and medicinesManufacture of allopathic
medicinesManufacture of Ayurvedic and Unani medicinesManufacture of
Homoeopathic medicinesManufacture of other medicinesManufacture of perfumes,
cosmetics, lotions, hair dressings, tooth pastes, soap in any form, synthetic
detergents, shampoos, shaving products, cleaners, washing and scouring
products and other toilet preparationsManufacture of toilet soapsManufacture
of washing soap and soap powderManufacture of perfumes and lotionsManufacture
of tooth pastes, tooth powder, shaving cream, shaving sticks, etc.Manufacture
of Cosmetics and Toilet Aids like creams, shampoos, Lipsticks, Nail Polish,
Powder, etc.Manufacture of Hair Dressings/OilsManufacture of
GlycerineManufacture of DetergentsManufacture of othersManufacture of inedible
oilsManufacture of vegetable oils including solvent extracted oilsManufacture
of animal oils and FatsManufacture of turpentine, synthetic resins, plastic
materials and synthetic fibres like nylon, terylene except glass,
etc.Manufacture of Turpentine and resinManufacture of Synthetic
ResinsManufacture of Synthetic rubberManufacture of Plastic
MaterialManufacture of Synthetic fibresManufacture of CelluloidManufacture of
Products of fermentation industries other than alcoholManufacture of
othersManufacture of MatchesManufacture of explosives and ammunition and fire
worksManufacture of Explosives (including industrial explosives)Manufacture of
AmmunitionManufacture of Safety fusesManufacture of Fire worksManufacture of
othersManufacture of chemical products not elsewhere classified including
photo-chemicals, sensitized films and paperManufacture of Photo chemical
materials, sensitized films and paperManufacture of fine chemicalsManufacture
of Sizing materials and textile chemicals auxiliariesManufacture of Drug
IntermediariesManufacture of Glue and gelatineManufacture of Synthetic
sweetnersManufacture of ShellacManufacture of Dyes stuff
IntermediariesManufacture of othersManufacture of Non-metallic mineral
productsManufacture of structural clay productsManufacture of Fire
BricksManufacture of RefractoriesManufacture of Furnace lining bricks (Acidic,
Basis and ???)Manufacture of TilesManufacture of othersManufacture of Glass
and Glass ProductsManufacture of Hollow Glassware (bottles, jars,
etc)Manufacture of Sheet and Plate glassManufacture of Glass WoolManufacture
of Laboratory GlasswareManufacture of Optical glassManufacture of Table and
kitchen glasswareManufacture of Glass BanglesManufacture of earthern ware and
earthem potteryManufacture of Chinaware and porcelain wareManufacture of
ChinawareManufacture of SanitarywareManufacture of InsulatorsManufacture of
othersManufacture of cement, lime and plasterManufacture of CementManufacture
of LimeManufacture of othersManufacture of mica productsManufacture of
structural stone goods, stone ware, stone dressing and stone crushingStone
dressing and stone crushingOthersManufacture of earthern and taster statues
and other productsManufacture of asbestos cement and other cement
productsManufacture of Asbestos CementManufacture of Asbestos
SheetsManufacture of othersManufacture of miscellaneous non-metal mineral
products such as state products, abrasives, graphite-products, mineral wool,
silica products and other non-metallic products not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of Hume pipes and other Cement and Concrete Products
(including slabs, poles, pillars and screens)Manufacture of B.C.C. Bricks and
TilesManufacture of Insulating BoardsManufacture of Gypsum boardsManufacture
of Grinding Wheels and AbrasivesManufacture of Graphite products such as
Electrodes, Crucibles, etc.Manufacture of othersBasic Metal and Alloy
IndustriesIron and Steel IndustriesManufacture of Iron and SteelManufacture of
Special SteelFoundaries for casting and forging iron and steelManufacture of
Castings and forgingsManufacture of StructuralsManufacture of PipesManufacture
of PlatesManufacture of Wire DrawingsManufacture of ToolsManufacture of
othersManufacture of Ferro-alloysMaking of AlloysWire drawingsRough
castingsForgingsTool makingOthersCopper ManufacturingMelting and refining of
MetalRolling into basic formWire DrawingsManufacture of othersBrass
ManufacturingMaking of brass and rolling into basic formManufacture of rough
castingsManufacture of othersAluminium ManufacturingMelting and refining of
metalRolling into basic formWire drawingsManufacture of rough
castingsManufacture of ForgingsManufacture of othersZinc manufacturingMelting
and refining of metalRolling into basic formManufacture of othersOther Non-
ferrous metal industriesMelting and refining of metalRolling into basic
formOthersManufacture of Metal products and parts, except Machinery and
Transport EquipmentsManufacture of Fabricated metal products such as metal
cans from tin-plate, terne-plate or enamelled sheet metal, metal shipping
containers, barrels, drums, kegs, pails, safes, vaults, enamelled sanitary and
all other fabricated metal products not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of
Safes and vaults and almirahsManufacture of Steel trunksManufacture of Drums,
Tanks, Rails and Metal containers not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of
Sanitary and plumbing fixtures and fittings of metalManufacture of
StovesManufacture of Hurricane Lanterns and Oil Pressure LampsManufacture of
Welding not elsewhere coveredManufacture of othersManufacture of structural
metal productsManufacture of furniture and fixtures and fixtures primarily of
metalManufacture of hand tools and general hardwareManufacture of Hand
ToolsManufacture of Bolts and nutsManufacture of LocksManufacture of Metal
ChainsManufacture of Agricultural hand tools and implementsManufacture of
General hardwareManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture of
OthersEnamelling, japanning, lacquering, galvanising, plating and polishing of
metal productsManufacture of metal utensils, cutlery and
kitchenwareManufacture of CutleryManufacture of UtensilsManufacture of Pressme
CookersManufacture of Kitchen gadgetsManufacture of OthersManufacture of Metal
Products, except machinery and transport equipment not elsewhere classified
like type foundingType foundingManufacture of Razor bladesManufacture of
springsManufacture of Art MetalwareManufacture of OthersManufacture of
Machinery, Machine Tools and parts except Electrical machineryManufacture of
agricultural machinery and equipment and partsManufacture of Tractors,
Harvestors and Other Heavy machineryManufacture of Light Agricultural
machinery and equipmentManufacture of Forage PressesManufacture of Parts and
AccessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture and repair of drills, coal cutting
machines, earth moving, lifting and hoisting machinery, cranes, conveyors and
road rollers and other heavy machinery and equipment used by construction and
mining industriesManufacture of Earth moving machinery(Bull-dozers, dumpers,
scrapers, loaders, drag lines, bucket wheel, excavators, road rollers,
etc)Manufacture of Fork lift trucks, etc.Manufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of Prime movers, boilers and steam
generating plants such as diesel engines and partsManufacture of Boilers and
Steam Generating PlantsManufacture of Steam Engines and TurbinesManufacture of
Internal Combustion EnginesManufacture of Parts and AccessoriesManufacture of
OthersIndustrial Machinery for Food and Textile IndustriesManufacture of Rice,
Dal and Flour Mill MachineryManufacture of Oil Mill MachineryManufacture of
Sugar MachineryManufacture of Tea MachineryManufacture of Textile Machinery
(such as spinning frames, carding machines, power looms, etc., including
textile accessories)Manufacture of Jute MachineryManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of OthersIndustrial Machinery for other than Food and
Textiles IndustriesManufacture of Pharmaceutical MachineryManufacture of
Chemical MachineryManufacture of Paper MachineryManufacture of Mining
MachineryManufacture of Metallurgical MachineryIndustrial Machinery for other
than Food and Textile Industries-contManufacture of Cement
MachineryManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture
of Refrigerators, Air-conditioners and Fire-Fighting Equipment and their
parts, components and AccessoriesManufacture of Refrigerators and Air-
conditioningPlants for Industrial and Commercial useManufacture of Domestic
Air-conditionersManufacture of Domestic RefrigeratorsManufacture of Fire
fighting Equipment and EnginesManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture
of OthersManufacture, alteration and repair of general items of Non-Electrical
machinery, components, equipment and accessories not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of Size Reduction Equipment-crushers, ball mills, etc.,
and conveying equipment, bucket elevators, ship-hoist cranes., derricks,
etc.Manufacture of Mixers and Reactors (Kneading mills, turbo mixers,
etc)Manufacture of Centrifugal Machines and DriersManufacture of Power driven
pumps, reciprocating, centrifugal, etc.Manufacture of Air-Gas Compressors and
Vacuum pumps (excluding electrical furnaces)Manufacture of Ball Roller and
Tapered bearingsManufacture of Speed and Reduction UnitsManufacture of parts
and accessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of Machine Tools, their parts
and accessoriesManufacture of Automatic, Capstans and Turrets and
LathesManufacture of Boring, Broaching, Drilling and Threading
MachinesManufacture of Milling, Planning, Shaping, Gear cutting and slotting
machinesManufacture of Grinding, Lapping, Honing and polishing
machinesManufacture of Machine Tools, their parts and accessories-
contManufacture of Sawing, Contour Sawing, filling and cut-off
machinesManufacture of Metal Forming MachineryManufacture of other metal work
machine toolsManufacture of parts and accessoriesManufacture of
OthersManufacture of office, computing and accounting machinery and
partsManufacture of TypewritersManufacture of DuplicatorsManufacture of
Calculating machinesManufacture of Postal Franking machinesManufacture of
Addressing machines, Manufacture of Weighing machinesManufacture of Office
copying machines not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture and repair of non-electrical
machinery, equipment components and accessories not elsewhere classified (such
as sewing machines, automatic merchandising machines, washing, laundry, dry-
cleaning and pressing machines, cooking ranges and ovens, other service
industry machines, arms and armaments, etc)Manufacture of Sewing
machinesManufacture of Knitting machinesManufacture of Washing and Laundrying
machinesManufacture of Arms and ArmamentsManufacture of Size Separation units-
screens, Classifiers, etc.Manufacture of Filteration of Distillation
equipmentManufacture of Evaporators and CrystallisersManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of Other including general jobbery
engineeringManufacture of Electrical Machinery, Apparatus and Supplies and
PartsManufacture of electrical industrial machinery and apparatus and parts
(such as electrical motors, generators, transformers, electromagnetic clutch
and brakes, etc)Manufacture of GeneratorsManufacture of
TransformersManufacture of Switch GearsManufacture of Electric
MotorsManufacture of Parts and AccessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of
Insulated wires and cablesManufacture of Storage BatteriesManufacture of Dry
CellsManufacture of Parts and AccessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of
electrical apparatus, appliances and other parts such as lamps, bulbs, tubes,
sockets, switches, fans, insulators (except porcelain), conductors, irons,
heaters, shavers, vaccum cleaners, etc., excluding repairingManufacture of
Electrical FansManufacture of Fluorescent TubesManufacture of Ordinary
Electric LampsManufacture of Miniature LampsManufacture of Power
capacitatorsManufacture of vaccum cleanersManufacture of Household Appliances
(like electric irons, heaters, etc)Manufacture of Parts and
AccessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of radio and television
transmitting and receiving sets including transistor radio sets, sound
reproducing and recording equipment including tape recorders, public addresses
systems, gramaphone records and prerecorded magnetic tapes, wire and wireless,
telephone and telegraph equipment, signaling and, detection equipment and
apparatus, radar equipment and installations, parts and supplies specially
used for electronic apparatus classified in this groupManufacture of Wireless
Communication ApparatusManufacture of RadiosManufacture of Television
setsManufacture of TeleprintersManufacture of TelephonesManufacture of
Telegraph EquipmentManufacture of Phonographs and Record ChangersManufacture
of Parts and AccessoriesManufacture of Others (including public Address
equipment)Manufacture and repair of Radiographic, X-ray apparatus and tubes
and partsManufacture of Electronic Computer, Control Instruments and other
equipmentManufacture of Electronic ComputersManufacture of Electronic Control
InstrumentsManufacture of OthersManufacture of electronic components and
accessories not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of Carbon and Wire Wound
ResistorsManufacture of Electrolytic and Ceramic and Styroflex
capacitatorsManufacture of Gang CondensersManufacture of Intermediate
Frequency TransformerManufacture of volume controls, Band change switches and
similar components (not elsewhere classified)Manufacture of
FerritesManufacture of Trimmers and PaddersManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of electrical machinery,
apparatus, appliances, supplies and parts not elsewhere classifiedManufacture
of Light FittingsManufacture of Emergency Lighting equipmentManufacture of
Flash LightsManufacture of Stage Lighting equipmentManufacture of Electric
Furnaces and OvensManufacture of Telescopic aerialsManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of OthersManufacture of Transport Equipment and parts,
Ship building and repairingMaking of ships and other vessels drawn by
powerBoat BuildingParts and accessoriesManufacture of Locomotives and
partsManufacture of Diesel LocomotivesManufacture of Steam
LocomotivesManufacture of Electric LocomotivesManufacture of Parts and
accessories of LocomotivesManufacture of Railway wagons and coaches and
partsManufacture of Railway coachesManufacture of Railway WagonsManufacture of
parts and accessoriesManufacture of other rail-road equipmentManufacture of
Tramway WorksManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture of
OthersManufacture of Motor Vehicles and partsManufacture of Motor
carsManufacture of Buses, Trucks, etc.Manufacture of Jeeps and Station
WagonsManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of
Motor-cycles and scooters and partsManufacture of Motor CyclesManufacture of
Scooters and ScooterettesManufacture of Parts and accessoriesManufacture of
othersManufacture of bi-cycles, cycle-rickshaw and partsManufacture of bi-
cyclesManufacture of cycle-rickshawsManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of air crafts and its
partsManufacture of aircraftsManufacture of air craft parts and
accessoriesBullocks-carts, push-carts, hand-carts, etc.Manufacture of
transport equipment and parts not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of Fork
Lifts and other material hauling equipmentManufacture of TrailersManufacture
of parts and accessoriesManufacture of othersOther Manufacturing
IndustriesManufacture of medical, surgical and scientific
equipmentsManufacture of Surgical and medical instrumentsManufacture of
Laboratory and Scientific InstrumentsManufacture of Mathematical
InstrumentsManufacture of Water meters, Steam meters and Electricity
metersManufacture of Instruments indicating recording and regulating, devices
for pressure temperature, rate of flow, weights and levels, etc.Manufacture of
Industrial Instruments (not elsewhere classified)Manufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of photographic and optical goods
(excluding photo Chemicals sensitized paper and film)Manufacture of Optical
lensesManufacture of Optical InstrumentsManufacture of Photographic copying
equipmentManufacture of Cinematographic EquipmentManufacture of parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of watches and clocksManufacture
of clocks and table time piecesManufacture of watchesManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of Jewellery and related
articlesManufacture of Gold and Silver and Precious stone JewelleryManufacture
of Gold and Silver articles (other than jewellery)Manufacture of othersMinting
of coinsManufacture of sports and athletic goods and play equipmentManufacture
of children's play equipmentManufacture of musical instrumentsManufacture of
Stationery articles like fountain-pens, pencils, pens, pincushions, tags,
etc., not elsewhere classifiedManufacture of Fountain-pens and ball
pensManufacture of PencilsManufacture of File coversManufacture of Stapling
Machines, punches, etc.Manufacture of Pins and clipsManufacture of Carbons and
type-writer ribbonsManufacture of Rubber stampsManufacture of Parts and
accessoriesManufacture of othersManufacture of miscellaneous products not
elsewhere classified such as costume jewellery, costume novelties, feathers,
plumes, artificial flowers, brooms, brushes, lamp shades, tobacco pipes,
cigarette holders, ivory goods, badges, wigs and similar articlesManufacture
of Hair Brushes and Dusters and Feather ArticlesMaking of signs and
advertising displaysManufacture of Mechanical toysManufacture of Non-
Mechanical toysManufacture of Bones, Ivory, Horns and similar
productsManufacture of WigsManufacture of Costume and Imitation
JewelleryManufacture of Novelties, Lamp shades, presentation articles, Badges,
etc., including Artificial flowers, art works, not elsewhere
classifiedManufacture of others

