## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1983

## Act 8 of 1983

  * Published on 4 March 1983 
  * Commenced on 4 March 1983 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 March 1983.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1983(Tamil Nadu Act 8 of
1983)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation
Act, 1983. - Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution provides that the State
shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the ownership
and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as
best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system
does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the
common detriment. With a view to conserve the fish and to regulate fishing on
scientific basis in the sea, and by way of giving effect to the principles
laid down in the said Article 39(b) and (c), the Government decided to
undertake a special legislation.2\. Further, disputes between the operators of
fishing vessels, and the traditional fishermen regarding the area of their
fishing operations occur frequently in this State and these disputes are more
pronounced in certain areas of intensive fishing in coastal districts of Tamil
Nadu especially during the prawn fishing seasons. The main objections raised
by the traditional fishermen are that, apart from their being deprived of
their legitimate prawn and other fish catches from the coastal water either to
enjoyed by them, due to competition from the more efficient fishing vessels,
their costly nets are also frequently damaged by the trawling operations of
the fishing vessels. It was brought to the notice of the Government that the
traditional fishermen were apprehensive about the danger to their lives and
considerable financial loss by the free movement of mechanised fishing
vessels. With a view to prevent clashes between the operators of fishing
vessels and the traditional fishermen and to regulate the fishing by the
fishing vessels in sea along the whole or part of the coast line of the State
of Tamil Nadu, the Government decided to undertake the special legislation on
the lines of the Model Marine Fishing Regulation Bill sent by the Government
of India. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Ordinance,
1983 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 2 of 1983) was promulgated by the Governor.3\. The
Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part IV - Section 1,
pages 63 and 64 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
7th February 1983.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000). - There is no
specific provision in the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1983
(Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1983) insisting the carrying of life saving appliances
and fire fighting appliances in the mechanised fishing vessels. In pursuit of
exploitation of prawns and fish in the sea, the fishermen, in spite of weather
warning messages, venture out in the sea resulting in loss of their lives. To
avert such occurrence and to ensure safety of life at sea with pragmatic view,
the Government have decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1983 so as
to make specific provisions in the Act insisting the fishing vessels to carry
buoy, first aid box, equipment for communication and life saving and fire
fighting appliances and to give the power of inspection of the fishing
vessels, to the authorised officer.Published in Part IV - Section 1, page 31
of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th May
2000.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act,
2011 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 2011). - At present, mechanized fishing vessels upto
a length of fifteen metres in length and fitted with mechanical means of
propulsion having an engine of not less than fifteen Horse Power but not more
than one hundred and twenty Horse Power, are covered under the definition
which is provided in clause (g) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
Regulation Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1983) and the term deep sea fishing
vessel is also defined in the said clause to cover the vessels fitted with
mechanical means of propulsion having an engine of not less than one hundred
and twenty Horse Power and measuring in length of not less than fifteen
metres. Now, the Government of India have issued the revised guideline in
respect of deep sea fishing vessels to cover only the fishing vessels with a
length of twenty metres and above.2\. In view of the revised guidelines issued
by the Government of India, the Government have decided to amend clause (g) of
section 3 of the said Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1983 so as to cover the fishing
vessels in length of not less than ten metres and not more than twenty metres,
which are fitted with mechanical means of propulsion having an engine of not
less than twenty horse power but not exceeding one hundred and fifty horse
power and consequent to this, it is also to modify the definition of the deep
sea fishing vessels in the said clause.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to
the above decision.Received the assent of the President on the 4th March 1983
and first published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th March 1983.An Act to provide for the
regulation, restriction and prohibition of fishing by fishing vessels [and for
the protection and conservation of fishery resources in the sea along the
whole or part of the coastline of the State and for matters connected
therewith.] [Substituted 'in the sea along the whole or part of the coastline
of the State' by Act No. 18 of 2017.]Be it enacted by the Legislature of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as
follows : -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act,
1983.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 6th January 1983.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles laid down in clauses (b) and (c) of
Article 39 of the Constitution.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"adjudicating
officer" means any officer of the Fisheries Department, not below the rank of
an Assistant Director of Fisheries, authorised by the Government, by
notification, to exercise the powers conferred on, and discharge the duties
imposed upon, the adjudicating officer under this Act, for such area as may be
specified in the notification;(b)"appellate authority" means any officer of
the Fisheries Department not below the rank of Deputy Director of Fisheries,
authorised by the Government, by notification, to exercise the powers
conferred on, and discharge the duties imposed upon, the appellate authority
under this Act, for such area as may be specified in the notification;(bb)[
"artificial reef" means one or more objects of natural or manmade structure
deployed on the seafloor for the purpose of enhancing fishery resources;]
[Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](c)"authorised officer" means an officer
authorised by the Government under section 4;(ca)[ "boat building yard" means
a yard or place where fishing boats are built or repaired irrespective of the
category of fishing boat; [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](cb)"coastal area"
includes coastal water, the coastline and the coastal lands;(cc)"country
craft" means wooden or Fibreglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) vallam or catamaran
or canoe fitted with or without sail and without any engine;(cd)"deep sea
fishing vessel" means a ship or boat fitted with mechanical means of
propulsion having an engine of not less than two hundred and forty Horse Power
and measuring in overall length of not less than twenty four
metre;(ce)"driving licence" means the licence issued by an authorised officer,
authorising the person specified therein, to drive a mechanised fishing vessel
for the purpose of fishing;](d)[ "fish" includes all marine flora and fauna,
live or dead; [Substituted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](da)"fish aggregating
device" means a floating or anchored, permanent, semi-permanent or temporary
structure or device made from any material and used to lure
fish;(db)"fisherman" means any person involved in fishing for livelihood or
profit;(dc)"fishing" means the pursuit of capturing or catching
fish;(dd)"fishing harbour" means the place, which contains the complex of
facilities ensuring safe berthing of fishing vessels and providing such
service to fishing vessels as may be notified by the Government, from time to
time;(de)"fishing net manufacturing unit" means a factory unit involved in
manufacture of nets and fishing implements for fishing;](e)[ "fishing vessel"
means a ship or boat, whether or not fitted with mechanical means of
propulsion, which is engaged in sea or backwater fishing for livelihood or
profit and includes, - [Substituted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](i)a deep sea
fishing vessel,(ii)a mechanised fishing vessel,(iii)a motorised country craft,
wooden or Fibreglass Reinforced Plastic vallam or catamaran,(iv)a country
craft, including wooden or Fibreglass Reinforced Plastic vallam or catamaran
or canoe, engaged in fishing;(ea)"gear" means any tool including net, trap,
hook and line used for fishing;(eb)"inspection officer" means an officer not
below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Fisheries working under the administrative
control of an authorised officer, authorised by an order, to exercise such
powers, and discharge such duties, as may be specified in the order;](g)[
"mechanised fishing vessel" means a ship or boat fitted with mechanical means
of propulsion having an engine of not less than twenty-eight Horse Power but
not more than two hundred and forty Horse Power and measuring in overall
length (OAL) not less than ten metres and less than twenty-four metres, but
does not include a deep sea fishing vessel; [Substituted by Act No. 18 of
2017.](ga)"mesh size" means the size of the square opening space formed by
threads, cord or wire as fully diagonally stretched;(gb)"motorised country
craft" means a wooden or Fibreglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) catamaran or
vallam or canoe of overall length (OAL) not more than twelve metre and fitted
with Out Board Motor (OBM) or Inboard Engine Engine (IBE) having an engine
capacity of less than twenty-eight Horse Power;(gc)"no fishing zone" means
such area as may be notified by the Government, around defence installations,
nuclear installations and any other installations having national security
concern;](h)"owner", in relation to any fishing vessel, includes any person
who has power to sell or transfer the fishing vessel or who has the custody
thereof or who receives, whether on his own behalf or on behalf of any other
person, rent for such fishing vessel;(i)"port" means the space within such
limits as may, from time to time, be defined by the Government, by
notification, for the purposes of this Act;(j)[ "registered fishing vessel"
means a fishing vessel registered under section 435-C of the Merchant Shipping
Act, 1958 (Central Act 44 of 1958) or under this Act; [Substituted by Act No.
18 of 2017.](ja)"sea ranching" means stocking of cultured fish juveniles in
marine and estuarine environments for the purpose of stock
enhancement;(jb)"sea safety" means measures and means of life saving, fire
fighting appliances and materials in sea at the time of
distress;](k)"specified area" means such area in the sea along the whole or
part of the coast line of the State, but not beyond territorial waters as may
be specified by the Government by notification, from time to time;(l)"State"
means the State of Tamil Nadu and includes the territorial water is along the
entire coast line of that State.(m)[ "surveillance and communication system"
means the system used for making communication from fishing vessel and
includes Global Positioning System (GPS), Very High Frequency (VHF), High
Frequency (HF), Wireless, seamless communication, Vessel Tracking and
Monitoring System (VTMS), Navigation lights and shapes; [Inserted by Act No.
18 of 2017.](n)"unit" means boat building yard , fish net manufacturing unit
or supplying unit, as the case may be;]

### 4. Authorisation of officers for the purposes of any provision of this
Act.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise -(a)any officer of the
Government, not being an officer below the rank of a 'B' Group officer;
or(b)any officer of the Central Government, with the consent of that
Government, to exercise the powers conferred on, and discharge the duties
imposed upon, the authorised officer, under this Act in such area as may be
specified in the notification.(2)[ The authorised officer may, by an order,
authorise an inspection officer to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties, for the purpose of registration of fishing vessel, licensing of
fishing vessel, and to enter, search, seize, any fishing vessel, as may be
specified in the order.] [Added by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

## Chapter II  
Regulation, Restriction or Prohibition of fishing in the Specified Area

### 5. Power to regulate, restrict or prohibit certain matters within
specified area.

(1)The Government may, having regard to the matters referred to in sub-section
(2), by notification, -(a)regulate, restrict or prohibit the fishing in any
specified area by such class or classes of fishing vessels as may be specified
in such notification; or(b)regulate or restrict the number of fishing vessel
which may be used for fishing in any specified area; or(c)regulate, restrict
or prohibit the catching in any specified area of such species of fish and for
such period as may be specified in the notification; or(d)regulate, restrict
or prohibit the use of such fishing gear in any specified area as may be
specified in the notification; or(e)fix the hours in a day during which any
person may carry on fishing in any specified area using such class or classes
of fishing vessels as may be specified in such notification.(2)In issuing a
notification under sub-section (1), the Government shall have regard to the
following matters, namely : -(a)the need to protect the interest of different
sections of persons engaged in fishing, particularly, those engaged in fishing
using traditional fishing craft such as catamaran, country craft or
canoe;(b)the need to conserve fish and to regulate fishing on a scientific
basis;(c)the need to maintain law and order in the sea;(d)such other matters
as may be prescribed.(3)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections
(1) and (2),-(a)no owner or master of mechanised fishing vessel shall use or
cause or allow to be used such fishing vessel for fishing operation in the sea
within five nautical miles from the coast line in the State and the owner or
master of a mechanised fishing vessel shall use or cause or allow to be used
such mechanised fishing vessel only beyond five nautical miles from the coast
line in the State and such operation beyond five nautical miles shall be
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the Schedule to this
Act;(b)no owner or master of motorised country craft having motorised means of
propulsion either from single engine or from multiple engines having capacity
of eight Horse Power and above shall use or cause or allow to be used such
fishing vessel for fishing operation in the sea within three nautical miles
from the coast line in the State and the owner or master of a motorised
country craft having motorised means of propulsion either from single engine
or from multiple engines having capacity of eight Horse Power and above shall
use or cause or allow to be used such fishing vessel only beyond three
nautical miles from the coast line in the State and such operation beyond
three nautical miles shall be subject to such conditions as may be specified
in the Schedule to this Act.](4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
sections (1) and (2), no owner or master of a deep sea fishing vessel shall
use or cause or allow to be used such fishing vessel for fishing operation in
the sea within [the territorial waters] [Substituted 'three nautical miles
from the coast line in the State' by Act No. 18 of 2017.] and the owner or
master of a deep sea fishing vessel shall use or cause or allow to be used
such deep sea fishing vessel only beyond [the territorial waters] [Substituted
'three nautical miles from the coast line in the State' by Act No. 18 of
2017.] and [such operation beyond the territorial waters] [Substituted 'such
operation beyond three nautical miles' by Act No. 18 of 2017.] shall be
subject to such conditions as the Government may, by notification, specify.

### 6. Prohibition of use of fishing vessel in contravention of any
notification made under section 5.

(1)No owner or master of a fishing vessel shall use, or cause or allow to be
used, such fishing vessel for fishing in any manner which contravenes a
notification issued under section 5:Provided that nothing in such notification
shall be construed as preventing the passage of any fishing vessel from, or
to, the shore, through any specified area to, or from, any area other than a
specified area for the purpose of fishing in such other area or for any other
purpose:Provided further that the passing of such fishing vessel through any
specified area shall not in any manner cause any damage to [any gear]
[Substituted 'any fishing nets or tackles' by Act No. 18 of 2017.] belonging
to any person who engages in fishing in the specified area by using [country
craft or motorised country craft.] [Substituted 'any traditional fishing craft
such as catamaran, country craft or canoe' by Act No. 18 of 2017.](2)[ No
owner or master of a fishing vessel shall use or cause or allow to be used the
fishing vessel for fishing by using prohibited gears and shall also not carry
any prohibited gear on board which is prohibited under this Act.(3)No owner or
master of a fishing vessel shall use or cause or allow to use the fishing
vessel without sea safety, surveillance and communication system as may be
prescribed.] [Added by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

### 7. Licensing of fishing vessels.

(1)The owner of a fishing vessel may make an application to the authorised
officer for the grant of a licence for using such fishing vessel for fishing
in any specified area.(2)Every application under sub-section (1) shall be in
such form, contain such particulars, and be accompanied with such fees, as may
be prescribed.[(2-A) The authorised officer shall by an order cause the
fishing vessel to be inspected by an inspection officer;(2-B) The inspection
officer shall inspect the fishing vessel to ensure the compliance of the
requirements as may be prescribed for issue of certificate of inspection.]
[Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](3)The authorised officer may, after making
such enquiry as he deems fit and having regard to the matters referred to in
sub-section (4), either grant, or refuse to grant, to the owner of the fishing
vessel, a licence for using such fishing vessel for fishing in the specified
area or specified areas.(4)In granting or refusing licence under sub-section
(3), the authorised officer shall have regard to the following, namely
:-(a)whether the fishing vessel is a registered fishing vessel;(aa)[ whether
the fishing vessel carry the registration mark displayed in the size and
manner as may be prescribed; [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](aaa)whether the
fishing vessel is painted in such manner as may be prescribed by the
Government from time to time;](b)the condition of the fishing vessel including
the accessories and fishing gear with which it is fitted;(bb)[ the condition
of sea safety, surveillance and communication system in the fishing vessel as
may be prescribed for such fishing vessel; [Substituted by Act No. 18 of
2017.](bbb)any dues or charges to be remitted to the Government by the owner
of the fishing vessel;](c)any notification issued under section 5;(d)such
other matter as may be prescribed.(5)A licence granted under this section
shall be in such form and subject to such conditions, including conditions as
to payment of such fees and furnishing such security for the due performance
of the conditions, as may be prescribed:Provided that different fees, and
different amounts by way of security may be prescribed in respect of licences
for different classes of fishing vessels.(5A)[ The owner of a fishing vessel
which has been licensed under this Act section before the date of commencement
of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000, shall
provide busy, first aid box, equipment for communication and such life saving
and fire fighting applications at may be prescribed in such fishing vessel
within thirty days from such commencement.] [Inserted by the Tamil Nadu Marine
Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000).][(5-B)
The owner of a fishing vessel which has been licenced under this section
before the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation
(Amendment) Act, 2016 shall provide sea safety, surveillance and communication
system as may be prescribed in such fishing vessel within ninety days from
such commencement.] [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](6)A licence granted
under this section shall be valid for the period specified therein or for such
extended period as the authorised officer may think fit to allow in any case.

### 7A. [ Driving licence to drive mechanized fishing vessel. [Inserted by Act
No. 18 of 2017.]

(1)No person shall drive a mechanized fishing vessel, unless he holds a valid
drivinglicence authorising him to drive the mechanized fishing vessel.(2)Any
person, who has completed eighteen years of age, may apply to the authorised
officer having jurisdiction in the area, in which he ordinarily resides or
carries on business to issue to him a driving licence for driving a mechanized
fishing vessel.(3)Every application under sub-section (2) shall be in such
form and shall be accompanied by such fee and such documents as may be
prescribed.(4)The authorised officer, on satisfaction of the terms and
conditions as may be prescribed, shall issue the applicant a driving licence
to drive a mechanized fishing vessel.(5)The licence issued under sub-section
(4) shall be valid for a period of five years.

### 7B. Renewal of driving licence.

(1)An authorised officer may, on an application made to him, renew a driving
licence for a further period of five years to drive a mechanized fishing
vessel.(2)An application for the renewal of a driving licence shall be in such
form and shall be accompanied by such fee and such documents as may be
prescribed.] [Substituted by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

### 8. Prohibition of fishing using fishing vessels which are not licensed.

\- No person shall, after the commencement of this Act, carry on fishing to
any specified area using a fishing vessel which is not licensed under section
7:Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to any fishing vessel,
which was being used for fishing immediately before the commencement of this
Act, for a period of three months or such further period as may be specified
by the Government, by notification.

### 9. Cancellation, suspension, variation and amendment of licences and
cancellation and suspension of certificate of registration.

(1)If the authorised officer is satisfied, either on a reference made to him
in this behalf or otherwise, that-(a)a licence granted under section 7 has
been obtained by misrepresentation as to an essential fact; or(b)the holder of
licence has, without reasonable cause, failed to comply with the conditions
subject to which the licence has been granted or has contravened any of the
provisions of this Act, or any notification issued or rule made thereunder,
then, without prejudice to any other penalty to which the holder of the
licence may be liable under this Act, the said authorised officer may, after
giving the holder of the licence a reasonable opportunity of showing cause,
cancel or suspend the licence or forfeit the whole or any part of security, if
any, furnished for the due performance of the conditions subject to which the
licence has been granted.(2)Subject to any rules that may be made in this
behalf, the authorised officer may also vary or amend a licence granted under
section 7.(3)If the authorised officer is satisfied, either on a reference
made to him in this behalf or otherwise, that -(a)a certificate of
registration issued under section 10 has been obtained by misrepresentation as
to an essential fact; or(b)the holder of a certificate of registration has,
without reasonable cause, failed to comply with the conditions subject to
which the certificate of registration has been issued or has contravened any
of the provisions of this Act, or any notification issued, or rule made
thereunder, then, without prejudice to any other penalty to which the holder
of the certificate of registration may be liable under this Act, the
authorised officer may, after giving the holder of the certificate of
registration a reasonable opportunity of showing cause, cancel or suspend the
certificate of registration.

### 10. Registration of fishing vessels.

(1)The owner of every fishing vessel not being a fishing vessel registered
under [section 435-C of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (Central Act 44 of
1958)] [Substituted 'section 11 of the Marine Products Export Development
Authority Act, 1972 (Central Act 13 of 1972)' by Act No. 18 of 2017.], shall
register such fishing vessel under this Act.(2)Every application for
registration of such fishing vessel shall be made by the owner thereof to the
authorised officer in such form, and shall be accompanied by such fees, as may
be prescribed -(a)before the expiration of one month from the date on which he
first became the owner of such fishing vessel; or(b)before the expiration of
three months from the commencement of this Act, whichever is later:Provided
that the authorised officer may, for sufficient reason to be recorded in
writing, extend the time limit for registration by such period as he thinks
fit.[(2-A) On receipt of such application, the authorised officer shall, by an
order, cause the fishing vessel to be inspected by an inspection officer.(2-B)
The inspection officer shall inspect the fishing vessel to ensure the
compliance of the requirements as may be prescribed and issue a certificate of
inspection.] [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.](3)The authorised officer shall
issue to the owner of the fishing vessel registered by him a certificate of
registration in the prescribed form and shall enter in a register to be kept
by him, in such form as may be prescribed, the particulars of such
certificate.(4)The certificate of registration once issued shall continue to
be in force unless it is cancelled or suspended by the authorised
officer.(5)Every fishing vessel registered under this section shall carry a
registration mark, assigned to it by the authorised officer, displayed in the
prescribed manner.[(5-A) No fishing vessel shall be registered under this
section unless such vessel [carries sea safety, surveillance and communication
system] [Sub-sections (5-A) and (5-B) were inserted by the Tamil Nadu Marine
Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000).] as may
be prescribed.(5-B) The owner of a fishing vessel which has been registered
under this section before the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Marine
Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 shall provide buoy, first aid box,
equipment for communication and such life saving and fire fighting appliances
as may be prescribed in such fishing vessel within thirty days from such
commencement.][(5-BB) The owner of a fishing vessel which has been registered
under this section before the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Marine
Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2016 shall provide sea safety,
surveillance and communication systems as may be prescribed in such fishing
vessel within ninety days from such commencement.(5-C) Every fishing vessel
registered under this section shall be painted in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Government from time to time.] [Inserted by Act No. 18 of
2017.](6)No fishing vessel, other than a registered fishing vessel, shall be
entitled to a licence under section 7.

### 10A. [ Registration of boat building yards, fishing net manufacturers or
suppliers. [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

(1)The owner of every boat building yard unit, fishing net manufacturing unit
or supplying unit shall register such unit under this Act.(2)Every
application, for registration of such unit, shall be made, by the owner
thereof to the authorised officer in such form and shall be accompanied by
such fees as may be prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, but subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), every owner of a unit
immediately before the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2016 may continue the unit.(4)Every unit continued
under sub-section (3), shall not continue after the expiry of a period of
three months from the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2016, unless the unit is registered under this
section:Provided that the authorised officer may, for sufficient reasons to be
recorded in writing, extend the time limit for registration for such period
not exceeding three months, as he deems fit.(5)The authorised officer shall,
by an order, cause the unit to be inspected by an inspection officer.(6)The
inspection officer shall inspect such unit and issue a certificate of
inspection.(7)On receipt of such certificate of inspection, the authorised
officer shall register such units and issue a certificate of registration in
the prescribed form and shall enter particulars of such certificate in the
register to be maintained by him, in such form as may be prescribed.(8)The
certificate of registration once issued shall continue to be in force unless
it is cancelled or suspended by the authorised officer.(9)All boat building
yards, building mechanised or non-mechanised fishing vessel of wood or Fibre
glass Reinforced Plastic or steel, shall furnish a certificate to the effect
that the boats are built as per the approved type design and are seaworthy and
such certificate shall be enclosed by the fishermen at the time of
registration of such fishing vessel under this Act.(10)All the fishing net
manufacturers in the State already registered with the Director of Industries
and Commerce and applying for registration, shall obtain a No Objection
Certificate from the Department of Fisheries and shall abide by the conditions
as may be specified under this Act on the quality of the fishing material and
regulation of mesh size.(11)A certificate of registration issued under this
section, shall be valid for the period specified therein or for such extended
period as the authorised officer may think fit to allow in any case.

### 10B. Employment of person below eighteen years of age.

\- No owner or master of any fishing vessel shall engage any person below
eighteen years of age. Person with sound physical and mental health alone
shall be engaged in such fishing vessel.]

### 11. [ Information to be given to authorised officer about movement of
fishing vessels. [Substituted by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

\- Where a registered fishing vessel moves from the notified place of
berthing, the owner of such fishing vessel shall give information to that
effect in the prescribed manner, to the authorised officer having jurisdiction
over the notified place where such fishing vessel is berthed and also to the
authorised officer having jurisdiction over the notified place where such
fishing vessel is intended to be moved.]

### 12. Returns to be made by owners or registered fishing vessels.

(1)Every owner of a registered fishing vessel shall furnish to the authorised
officer at the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner such returns as
may be prescribed.(2)The authorised officer may inspect any registered fishing
vessel at any time to verify the accuracy of any return made under this
section.

### 13. Finality of orders under [sections 7, 9, 10 and 10A.] [Substituted
'sections 7, 9 and 10' by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

\- Every decision of the authorised officer under [section 7, section 9,
section 10 or section 10A] [Substituted 'section 7, section 9 or section 10'
by Act No. 18 of 2017.], granting or refusing to grant licence for a fishing
vessel or cancelling, suspending, varying or amending such licence, or
registering or cancelling or suspending the certificate of the [registration
of a fishing vessel or unit] [Substituted 'registration of a fishing vessel'
by Act No. 18 of 2017.] shall, subject to any right of appeal under section
14, be final.

### 14. Appeals against orders refusing grant of licence, etc.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the authorised officer refusing to
grant licence for a fishing vessel or cancelling, suspending or varying or
amending such licence or refusing to [register a fishing vessel or unit or
transferring or cancelling or suspending the certificate of registration of
such fishing vessel or unit] [Substituted 'register a vessel or cancelling or
suspending the certificate of registration of such vessel' by Act No. 18 of
2017.] may, within thirty days from the date on which the order is
communicated to him, prefer an appeal to the appellate authority:Provided that
the appellate authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said
period of thirty days, but before the expiry of sixty days from the date
aforesaid if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient
cause from filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of an appeal under sub-
section (1), the appellate authority shall, after giving the appellant a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it deems
fit as expeditiously as possible.(3)Every order passed by the appellate
authority under this section shall be final.

### 14A. [ Management and control of fishing harbours and fish landing
centres. [Inserted by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

(1)The Government may, for the purposes of this Act, by notification, declare
any place as a fishing harbour or any centre for landing of fish as a fish
landing centre, and thereupon the management and control of such fishing
harbour and fish landing centre shall vest with the Government.(2)The
Government may, by notification,-(a)appoint a District Level Management
Advisory Committee and transfer to it the management and control of all
fishing harbour and fish landing centre in the District;(b)appoint a Fishing
Harbour Management Committee and transfer to it the management and control of
the fishing harbour.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, "Fishing
Harbour" means any Fishing Harbour or Fish Landing Centre with facilities for
safe landing of harvest, marketing, distribution and other dependent
activities.(3)The constitution, composition, powers and functions of the
District Level Management Advisory Committee and Fishing Harbour Management
Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.(4)The District Level Management
Advisory Committee and Fishing Harbour Management Committee shall meet at such
interval as may be prescribed.(5)The Government shall have power to levy and
collect fee or charge from the operator of the fishing vessel, transporter of
fish and other person using the facilities of the fishing harbour or fish
landing centre at such rates as may be prescribed:Provided that the Government
may authorise the District Level Management Advisory Committee and Fishing
Harbour Management Committee to exercise all or any of the powers of the
Government under this sub-section.]

## Chapter III  
[Offences and Penalties] [Substituted 'Penalties' by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

### 15. [ Power to enter and search fishing vessel. [Substituted by Act No. 18
of 2017.]

(1)The authorised officer or inspection officer may, if he has reason to
believe that any fishing vessels has not been provided with sea safety,
surveillance and communication system in conformity with the rules made under
this Act, or any fishing vessel is being or has been used in contravention of
any of the provisions of this Act or of any notifications issued or rules made
thereunder or any of the conditions of the licence granted under this Act,
enter and search such fishing vessel and seize such fishing vessel and fish
found on it and the authorized officer may impound such fishing vessel after
giving an opportunity of being heard:Provided that if no claim is made by any
person in respect of any seized vessel within a period of six months from the
date of seizure of the vessel, the authorised officer shall declare that the
seized vessel is abandoned and shall provide for the disposal of the abandoned
vessel in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)The authorised officer or
inspection officer may seize the prohibited gear, if he has found such gear on
board, or used for the purpose of fishing and submit seizure mahazar to the
adjudicating officer in the prescribed format.(3)The adjudicating officer may,
if he has any reason to believe that the said gear was used in contravention
of any provisions of the Act, authorize an officer by an order to destroy such
gear into pieces beyond use in the presence of panel of members as he deems
fit.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, "Panel of members" means
an officer not below the rank of Village Administrative Officer in the Revenue
Department and an officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector in the Police
Department and an officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Fisheries in
the Fisheries Department.]

### 16. Disposal of seized fish.

(1)The authorised officer shall keep the fishing vessel impounded under
section 15 in such place and in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)In the
absence of suitable facilities for the storage of the fish seized, the
authorised officer may, if he is of the opinion that the disposal of such fish
is necessary, dispose of such fish and deposit the proceeds thereof in the
prescribed manner in the office of the adjudicating officer.

### 17. Adjudication.

\- [(1) Where any authorised officer has been reason to believe that any
fishing vessel has not been provided with [prescribed sea safety, surveillance
and communication system] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000).] in conformity
with the rules made under this Act or any fishing vessel is being or has been
used in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any
notification issued or rule made thereunder or any of the conditions of the
licence granted under this Act, he shall makes a report thereof to the
adjudicating officer.](2)The adjudicating officer shall hold an enquiry into
the matters mentioned in the report, in the prescribed manner, after giving
all the parties concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 17A. [ Prohibition of fishing vessel for use of other purposes. [Inserted
by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

(1)No owner or master of a fishing vessel shall use or cause or allow to be
used such fishing vessel:-(a)for fishing in contravention of any of the
provisions of the Act or rules or of any notification issued thereunder;(b)for
any unlawful activities other than fishing;(c)for fishing by using prohibited
gear or carry prohibited gear on board;(d)for fishing of any fish species
declared as protected fish species under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972
(Central Act 53 of 1972).]

### 18. Penalty.

(1)The adjudicating officer shall, after the enquiry under section 17, decide
whether any person has [used any fishing vessel [without sea safety,
surveillance and communication system] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Marine
Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000).] in
conformity with the rules made under this Act or has] used, or caused or
allowed to be used, any fishing vessel in contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act, or of any notification issued or of any rule made
thereunder or any of the conditions of the licence granted under this Act and
any such person, on being found guilty by the adjudicating officer, [shall be
liable to such penalty] [Substituted 'shall be liable to such penalty not
exceeding' by Act No. 18 of 2017.]-(a)[ not exceeding fifteen thousand rupees,
if the value of fish involved is three thousand rupees or less; [Substituted
by Act No. 18 of 2017.](b)not exceeding five times the value of the fish, if
the value of the fish involved is more than three thousand rupees; or(c)not
exceeding fifteen thousand rupees, in any other case, being a case not
involving any fish,as may be adjudged by the adjudicating officer.(d)which
shall be,-(i)five thousand rupees, if the fishing vessel entered the specified
area for the first time and discontinuance of any kind of assistance for
fishing extended by the Government for a minimum period of one year;(ii)ten
thousand rupees, if the fishing vessel entered the specified area for the
second time and discontinuance of any kind of assistance for fishing extended
by the Government for a minimum period of three years;(iii)fifteen thousand
rupees, if the fishing vessel entered the specified area for the third time
and discontinuance of any kind of assistance for fishing extended by the
Government for life time;(iv)fifteen thousand rupees, if the fishing vessel
entered the specified area for the fourth time and suspension of fishing for a
week;(v)fifteen thousand rupees, if the fishing vessel entered the specified
area for the fifth time and cancellation of fishing licence;(e)which shall be,
-(i)five thousand rupees and discontinuance of any kind of assistance for
fishing extended by the Government for a minimum period of one year, if the
fishing vessel entered the "no fishing zone" for first time;(ii)ten thousand
rupees and discontinuance of any kind of assistance for fishing extended by
the Government for a minimum period of three years, if the fishing vessel
entered the "no fishing zone" for second time;(iii)fifteen thousand rupees and
discontinuance of any kind of assistance for fishing extended by the
Government for life time along with cancellation of fishing licence, if the
fishing vessel entered the "no fishing zone" for third time;(f)which shall be,
-(i)five thousand rupees for the fishing vessel carrying out fishing during
the specified period for the first time along with impoundment of fishing
vessel for the entire specified period and discontinuance of any kind of
assistance for fishing extended by the Government for a minimum period of one
year;(ii)ten thousand rupees for the fishing vessel carrying out fishing
during the specified period for the second time along with impoundment of the
fishing vessel for the entire specified period and discontinuance of any kind
of assistance for fishing extended by the Government for a minimum period of
three year;(iii)fifteen thousand rupees for the fishing vessel carrying out
fishing during the specified period for the third time along with cancellation
of licence and cancellation of any kind of assistance for fishing extended by
the Government.][(1-A) The adjudicating officer shall after the enquiry under
section 17, decide whether any unit has contravened any of the provisions of
this Act or of any notification issued or of any rule made thereunder or any
of the conditions of the certificate of registration granted under this Act
and any such unit, on being found guilty by the adjudicating officer, shall be
liable to such penalty, -(a)not exceeding fifteen thousand rupees, if the unit
has engaged in such offence for the first time;(b)minimum of fifteen thousand
rupees not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, for subsequent offence by the
unit.](2)In addition to any penalty that may be imposed under sub-section (1),
the adjudicating officer may direct that -(a)the certificate of registration
of the fishing vessel which [does not carry sea safety, surveillance and
communication system or which] [Substituted 'does not carry buoy, first aid
box, equipment for communication and life saving and fire fighting appliances'
by Act No. 18 of 2017.] has been used, or caused or allowed to be used, in the
manner referred to in sub-section (1) or the licence, any condition of which
has been contravened, shall be-(i)cancelled or revoked, as the case may be;
or(ii)suspended for such period as the adjudicating officer deems fit;
or(b)the fishing vessel or fish that may have been impounded or seized, as the
case may be, under section 15 or the proceeds of the fish disposed of, and
deposited in the office of the adjudicating officer, under sub-section (2) of
section 16 shall be forfeited to the Government:Provided that no fishing
vessel shall be forfeited under clause (b), if the adjudicating officer after
hearing the owner of such fishing vessel or any person claiming any right
thereto is satisfied that the owner or such person had exercised due care for
the prevention of the commission of such offence.(c)[ the unit may be kept
closed for such period as the adjudicating officer may deem fit.] [Added by
Act No. 18 of 2017.](3)[ (a) The fishing vessels engaged in unlawful
activities other than fishing and found guilty or violating any provisions of
the Act, shall be impounded by the authorised officer and on adjudication they
shall be confiscated and either be disposed in public auction or destroyed
upon orders of the adjudicating officer or by any other competent authority in
the presence of panel of members.Explanation. - For the purpose of this
section, "Panel of members" includes an officer not below the rank of Village
Administrative Officer in the Revenue Department and an officer not below the
rank of Sub-Inspector in the Police Department, in addition to the officer not
below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Fisheries in the Fisheries
Department.(b)While fishing in the sea, if any person found, engaged in
illegal activities which amount to be a cognizable offence, by an officer of
the Department of Fisheries, a case be registered under relevant section of
the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Central Act XLV of 1860) and any other relevant
Act for the time being in force by the police on a written request to be made
by the authorised officer concerned.]

### 19. Appeals.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the adjudicating officer may, within
thirty days from the date on which the order is made, prefer an appeal to the
appellate authority:Provided that the appellate authority may entertain any
appeal preferred after the expiry of the said period of thirty days, but
before the expiry of sixty days from the date aforesaid, if it is satisfied
that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in
time.(2)No appeal under this section shall be entertained by the appellate
authority, unless the appellant has, at the time of filing the appeal,
deposited the amount of penalty payable under the order appealed
against:Provided that, on an application made by the appellant in this behalf,
the appellate authority may, if it is of the opinion that the deposit to be
made under this sub-section will cause undue hardship to the appellant, by
order in writing dispense with such deposit either unconditionally or subject
to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose.(3)On receipt of an appeal
under sub-section (1), the appellate authority may, after holding such enquiry
as it deems fit, and after giving the parties concerned a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, confirm, modify or set aside the order appealed
against and the decision of the appellate authority shall be final; and -(a)if
the sum deposited by way of penalty under sub-section (2) exceeds the penalty
directed to be paid by the appellate authority, the excess amount; or(b)if the
appellate authority sets aside the order imposing penalty, the whole of the
sum deposited by way of penalty, shall be refunded to the appellant.

### 20. Revision by appellate authority.

\- The appellate authority may call for and examine the records of any order
passed by an adjudicating officer under section 18 and against which no appeal
has been preferred under section 19, for the purpose of satisfying itself as
to the legality or propriety of such order or as to the regularity of the
procedure and pass such order with respect thereto as it may think
fit:Provided that no such order pre-judicially affecting any person shall be
made except after giving the person so affected a reasonable opportunity of
being heard in the matter.

### 21. Powers of adjudicating officer and the appellate authority in relation
to holding enquiry under this Act.

(1)The adjudicating officer and the appellate authority shall, while holding
an enquiry, have all the powers of a Civil Court under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) while trying a suit, in respect of the
following matters, namely : -(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
witnesses;(b)requiring the discovery and production of any
document;(c)requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any Court or
office;(d)receiving evidence on affidavits; and(e)issuing commissions for the
examination of witnesses or documents.(2)The adjudicating officer or the
appellate authority shall, while exercising any power under this Act, be
deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of sections 345 and 346 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974).

### 21A. [ Civil Court not to decide questions under this Act. [Inserted by
Act No. 18 of 2017.]

\- No civil Court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question
which is by or under this Act required to be decided or dealt with by any
authority or officer mentioned in this Act.] [Added by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

### 22. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
such offence has been committed by a company and it is proved, that the
offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, -(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director", in relation to a firm,
means a partner in the firm.

## Chapter IV  
Miscellaneous

### 23. Exemptions.

(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to survey vessels belonging to
the Central Government or any State Government or any public
undertaking.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section, "public
undertaking" means any company or corporation owned or controlled by the
Central or State Government.(2)If the Government is of the opinion that,
having regard to the purposes of this Act, it would not be in the public
interest to apply all or any of the provisions of this Act to any class or
classes of fishing vessels used for fishing in any specified area or specified
areas, it may, by notification, exempt, subject to such conditions as it may
think fit to impose, such class or classes of fishing vessels used for fishing
in such specified area or specified areas, as it may specify in the
notification, from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act.

### 24. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or any officer or authority for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any notification
issued or order or rule made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Government or any officer or authority for any damage
caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any notification issued or
order or rule made thereunder.

### 25. Act to override other laws, contract, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other laws for the time being in
force, or any custom, usage or contract, or order of any authority.

### 26. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely
: -(a)the matters to which regard shall be had in issuing a notification under
sub-section (1) of section 5;(b)the forms of the application for licence under
sub-section (1) of section 7, the particulars which it shall contain and the
fees which shall accompany it;(c)the matters, to which regard shall be had in
granting or refusing a licence, under section 7, the fees payable for the
licence and the security for the due performance of the conditions of the
licence;(d)the procedure to be followed in granting or refusing a licence
under section 7, or cancelling, suspending, varying or amending such licence
or in registering a fishing vessel under section 10 or [cancelling or
suspending the certificate of registration or in registering a unit under
section 10-A or cancelling or suspending the certificate of registration of
unit] [Substituted 'cancelling or suspending the certificate of registration'
by Act No. 18 of 2017.];(e)[ the form of the application for registration of a
fishing vessel under section 10 or registration of a unit under section 10-A,
the particulars which such application shall contain, the fees which shall
accompany the application, the form of the certificate of registration, the
form of the register referred to in that section; [Substituted by Act No. 18
of 2017.](ea)the number and description of sea safety, surveillance and
communication system to be carried by a fishing vessel;(eb)the procedure to be
followed by the inspection officer in conducting inspection and issuing
certificate under section 7 and section 10 and the procedure to be followed to
enter, search and seize the fishing vessel or gear under sub-section (1) of
section 15.](ee)[ the number and description of buoy, first aid box, equipment
for communication and life saving and fire fighting appliances to be carried
by a fishing vessel;] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2000.](f)the
manner in which the information referred to in section 11 shall be
given;(g)the returns to be furnished to the authorised officer under sub-
section (1) of section 12 and the time and the manner in which such returns
shall be furnished;(h)the place and the manner in which an impounded fishing
vessel shall be kept under sub-section (1) of section 16 and the manner in
which the proceeds of the disposal of the seized fish shall be deposited with
the adjudicating officer under sub-section (2) of that section;(i)the
procedure of the enquiry by the adjudicating officer under sub-section (2) of
section 17;(j)the fees payable for the supply of copies of documents or orders
or for any other purpose or matter involving the rendering of any service by
any officer or authority under this Act;(k)the condition that may be imposed
in the notification under sub-section (1) of section 5;(l)[ the prohibition or
regulation of the use of fishing gear; [Substituted by Act No. 18 of
2017.](m)the regulation of the dimension and kind of gear to be used and the
mode of using them;(n)the prohibition of fishing in the specified area;(o)the
prohibition the use of any dynamite or other explosive substance, poison or
noxious materials to catch or destroy the fish;(p)manner of sea ranching of
any fish in the specified area;(q)manner of installation of artificial reef
and Fish Aggregating Device (FAD);(r)any other matter which is to be, or may
be, provided for by rules under this Act;](3)[Every rule made or every
notification issued under this Act] [Substituted 'Every rule made under this
Act or notification issued under section 5' by Act No. 18 of 2017.], shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made, or issued, be placed on the table of [the
Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of
Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the
expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule or [the
Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses
agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
that the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

### 27. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Ordinance, 1983 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 2 of 1983), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance including any
notification, rules or orders issued, returns furnished and statements filed
shall be deemed to have been done, taken, issued, furnished or filed under
this Act.

## Schedule

[See section 5(3)]Conditions Subject to which a Mechanised fishing vessel
shall carry on the fishing operation beyond [five Nautical Miles] [Substituted
'Three Nautical Miles' by Act No. 18 of 2017.]

### 1\. The mechanised fishing vessel referred to in sub-section (3) of
section 5 shall leave the notified place of birth or anchoring only after 5
a.m. and the mechanised fishing vessel shall report back at the notified place
of birth concerned not later than 9 p.m. and such mechanised fishing vessel
shall remain at the notified place of birth or anchoring till 5 a.m. of the
following day.

Explanation. - "Notified place of birth or anchoring", in respect of a
mechanised fishing vessel, means the place of birth or anchoring which the
authorised officer shall specify as a place of birth or anchoring for that
mechanised fishing vessel.(2)Any other condition which the Government may, on
the recommendation of the Director of Fisheries, specify.[Inserted by Act No.
18 of 2017.]

