## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Transfer of Development Rights Rules, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Transfer of Development Rights Rules, 2019

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-TRANSFER-OF-DEVELOPMENT-RIGHTS-RULES-2019 of 2019

  * Published on 24 December 2019 
  * Commenced on 24 December 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 December 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Transfer of Development Rights Rules, 2019Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 198, Housing and Urban Development [UD4(3)],
dated 24.12.2019Last Updated 4th February, 2020No. SRO A-45(c)/2019. - In
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (bb) of sub-section (2) of Section
122 read with clause (45-A) of Section 2 and section 35-A of the Tamil Nadu
Town and country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972), the Governor
of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely :-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Transfer of Development Rights
Rules, 2019.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Town and country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of
1972);(b)"affordable housing" means a housing which is deemed affordable to
those with a median household income as rated by the Government and reckoned
in terms of the plinth area of the house, as may be determined by the
Government, from time to time;(c)"Development Right Certificate" means the
certificate issued under the signature of the Member-Secretary of the Planning
Authorities including digital signature, indicating the floor space index
credit in square metres of the built-up area to which the owner or lessee is
entitled, the place from where it is generated and the rate of that plot as
prescribed in the guideline value issued by the Registration Department for
the relevant year;(d)"dwelling unit" means an independent housing unit with
separate facilities for living, cooking and sanitary requirements, and may be
a part of a building;(e)"economically weaker section housing" means the
dwelling unit with plinth area up to 32 sq.m. in plotted development and in
case of flatted development, carpet area of dwelling of unit not exceeding 40
sq.m. or such maximum area as the Government may specify from time to
time;(f)"low income group housing" means the dwelling unit with plinth area
above 40 sq.m. and not more than 60 sq.m. in plotted development and in case
of flatted development carpet area of dwelling unit not exceeding 60 sq.m., or
such maximum area as the Government may specify from time to
time;(g)"guideline value" means the market value of the property, as per the
market value guidelines of properties prepared by the valuation committee,
constituted under Section 47-AA of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (central Act II
of 1899);(h)"plinth area" means the built-up covered area measured at the
level of the basement or of any storey;(i)The words and expressions used in
these rules and not defined, but defined in the Act shall have the same
meaning, respectively, assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Cases permissible for transfer of development rights.

\- Transfer of development rights under Section 35-A of the Act is
permissible, when the land is surrendered for the following purposes,
namely:-(a)for forming new road and widening of the existing road as proposed
in the Development Plans approved under the Act;(b)for forming new road and
widening of the existing road notified by a Government department, Local
authority or by a Government agency;(c)for any traffic and transport
infrastructure development such as bus stop or bus stand or bus terminus,
metro rail, mass rapid transit system, bus rapid transit system, inter modal
transfer infrastructure, public parking, etc., notified by a Government
department or Local authority or Government agency;(d)for any urban
infrastructure development such as water supply, sewerage, drainage,
electricity, education, health, notified by a Government Department or Local
authority or Government Agency;(e)for conservation as heritage sites, heritage
buildings, heritage precincts or as natural feature areas; or(f)for any other
purpose as may be notified by the Government, from time to time.

### 4. Cases not permissible for transfer of development rights.

\- Transfer of development rights is not permissible for the following cases,
namely:-(a)in the case of any compulsory reservation of space for public
purpose or recreational uses or economically weaker section or social housing
and in the case of subdivisions, layouts, group developments, high rise
buildings or non-high rise buildings or such other developments prescribed in
the Tamil Nadu combined Development and building Rules, 2019;(b)in case the
possession of the land is taken pursuant to an award under any Act; or(c)in
any other case, where possession of the land is taken by the Government or
other authority based on mutual agreement or contract.

### 5. Generation of transfer of development rights.

\- The owner of the land shall be entitled for transfer of development rights,
irrespective of the floor space index permissible or development potential of
the land surrendered, in terms of the value of the land surrendered on the
basis of the guideline value for the site or if the guideline value of the
site for the land surrendered is not available, on the basis of the value /
extent of the land surrounding such land, at the rate as given below:-

|  Area(1) |  Entitlement(2)  
---|---|---  
(i) |  Area surrendered for road formation, widening orfor implementing any public infrastructure project. |  2.25 times the guideline value of thesurrendered land  
(ii) |  Each slum household identified and rehabilitatedby the Tamil Nadu Slum clearance board. |  30 sq.meter of the floor space index of thehouse hold.  
(iii) | For conservation as heritage site / building |  Guide line value of equivalent land portion ofrestricted development  
  
### 6. Application for Development Right Certificate.

(1)An application for issue of Development Right Certificate shall be made to
the planning authority in FORM I along with the relevant documents specified
therein.(2)The specimen signature or thumb impression of the applicant in the
application for grant of Development Right Certificate shall have to be
attested or duly authenticated by a notary.

### 7. Issue of Development Right Certificate.

(1)The planning authority shall verify and satisfy itself as to the ownership
and title of the land proposed to be surrendered and direct the applicant to
surrender the land by a registered deed. The planning authority shall
thereafter also direct the applicant to transfer the patta of the said land in
the name of the planning authority.(2)The Development Right Certificate shall
be issued in FORM II in a Rs.100/- non-judicial stamp paper under the seal and
signature of the planning authority. The Development Right Certificate shall
contain the details of the land surrendered, its guideline value at the time
of surrender, its location, and restrictions / conditions, if any:Provided
that if the floor space index eligible for the land surrendered is availed or
received fully in the remaining part of the available site itself, then the
Development Right Certificate shall not be issued or if floor space index is
availed partly in that site, the Development Right Certificate shall be issued
for the balance portion.(3)The planning authority shall make an entry in a
ledger and assign account number and shall maintain the details in Form iii.

### 8. Duplicate Development Right Certificate.

(1)If the Development Right Certificate is defaced, lost or destroyed, the
owner of the land shall file a police compliant and shall give advertisement
in two leading news papers. Thereafter, the owner of the land shall make an
application for issue of Development Right Certificate enclosing a copy of
First Information Report along with an indemnity bond and a fee of Rs...in the
form of Demand Draft payable to the planning authority.(2)The planning
authority on scrutiny and verification of application shall issue a duplicate
Development Right Certificate.

### 9. Terms and Conditions for Utilization of Transfer of Development Rights.

(1)The Development Rights may be used in one or more sites, consistent with
the development Regulations applicable to a particular site. The Development
Rights generated from anywhere could be utilised on any plot subject to
development regulations.(2)The holder of the Development Right Certificate
shall submit the utilisation application in Form-iv:Provided that no such
application shall be submitted, if application for transfer of Development
Right Certificate is pending.(3)Application for utilisation of transfer of
development rights shall be submitted along with the following documents,
namely:-(a)Development Right Certificate,(b)..........(c)..........(4)On
receipt of the application under sub-rule (2), the planning authority shall
verify and satisfy itself as to the correctness of the documents submitted,
permit the applicant to utilise the required development rights.(5)The
equivalent quantum of transfer of development rights to be permitted on the
receiving plot shall be governed by the formula given below:-(a)Transfer of
development rights interms of land value in the generating site = extent of
the site surrendered x 2.25 times guideline value generating site at the time
of utilisation of transfer of development rights.(b)Transfer of development
rights interms of floor space credit = extent of the site surrendered x 2.25
times guideline value generating site at the time of utilisation of Transfer
of development rights x floor space index at the generating site.(c)Transfer
of development rights valuein the receiving site = transfer of development
rights value in the generating site.(6)For arriving at the development right
value credit, guideline value of the land surrendered and the guide line value
of the land at the utilising site shall be with reference to the calendar year
of utilisation.(7)The guideline value at the time of issue of Development
Right Certificate or the actual guideline value, whichever is higher, shall be
considered for utilisation of transfer of development rights for 5 years from
the date of issue of Development Right Certificate.(8)The transfer of
development rights value may be adjusted towards regularisation charges and
premium floor space index charges.(9)The transfer of development rights may
also be utilised in lieu of payment of floor space index charges.(10)The floor
space index at the utilising site shall not exceed normally permissible floor
space index as per the development regulations and as per the directions
issued by the Government, from time to time.(11)The floor space index credit
shall be issued in Form V.(12)The utilisation of development rights shall be
in multiples of 10 sq.mts., only except the last remainder. Any request of the
transferor or of transferee for utilisation of transfer of development rights
other than in multiples of 10 sq.mts. shall not be considered.(13)In case the
applicant is a holder of power of attorney or limited company or corporate
body or registered societies or trust, the applicant shall apply for
utilisation of development right for transfer, by enclosing the registered
power of attorney or relevant resolution regarding authority to file
application or request for transfer, together with certified copy of the
Memorandum of Association and Article of Association and / or Bye-laws. Any
development right may be utilized on one or more plots or lands whether
vacant, or already developed fully or partly by erection of additional
storeys, or in any other manner consistent with the prevailing development
regulations.(14)In case there are two planning authorities in any urban area,
before permitting utilisation of transfer of development rights, no objection
certificate has to be obtained from the planning authority in whose
jurisdiction it is proposed to be used.(15)The transfer of development rights
in favour of a Non Resident Indian or a foreign national shall be subject to
rules and regulations of the Reserve Bank of India or Government of
India.(16)In case of utilisation of development right jointly held, then all
the joint holders of Development Right Certificate shall have to sign the
application form for utilisation.(17)The planning authority may reject the
application for utilisation of transfer of development rights or cancel the
grant of development rights in the following circumstances, namely:-(a)If any
dues are payable by the owner of the property to the State Government or Local
Body prior to the date of handing over physical possession of the properties
to the planning authority, the said authority on request from the State
Government or Local Body may withhold utilisation of the transfer of
development rights till the dues are paid by the owner of the property.(b)If
the planning authority has reason to believe that the Development Right
Certificate has been obtained by producing fraudulent documents or obtained by
illegal title of land surrendered, shall cancel the Development Right
Certificate, after giving due opportunity to the applicant.(c)The Planning
Authority may suspend the Development Right Certificate, if there is dispute
on the title of the land and the transfer of development rights shall be
effected only after the dispute is settled.

### 10. Terms and Conditions for transfer of Development Right Certificate.

(1)The planning authority shall allow transfer of Development Right
Certificate as follows:-(a)In case of death of holder of the Development
Rights Certificate, development rights shall be transferred only on production
of the documents, as may be specified by it from time to time, after due
verification and satisfaction regarding title and legal successor.(b)If a
holder of Development Right Certificate intends to transfer it to any other
person, he shall submit the original Development Right Certificate to the
planning authority with an application along with following documents,
namely:-(i)registered agreement, duly signed by the transferor and the
transferee.(ii)......(iii).......(c)A new Development Right Certificate will
be issued with details of transfer, in replacement of the original Development
Right Certificate.(2)(a)The specimen signature and thumb impression in the
application form for transfer shall be attested by a Notary Public under his
Official seal.(b)The transfer application form shall be signed by all the
joint holders of the Development Right Certificate.(c)Agreement for transfer
of Development Right Certificate shall have to be executed by both the
transferor and transferee as conveyance deed and stamp duty as applicable
shall be paid on each transfer under the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act,
1899 (central Act II of 1899).(d)Any transfer of Development Right Certificate
shall be charged at the rate of Rs.10/- per sq.mtr. subject to minimum of
Rs.1,000/-.(e)Transfer of Development Right Certificate shall be approved by
the planning authority.(f)The transferor shall not be treated as registered
holder of development rights unless a new Development Right Certificate is
issued to him by the planning authority.(g)In case of the death of the holder
of Development Right Certificate, the Development Right Certificate shall be
transferred only on production of succession certificate or letter of
administration or probate in case of a will, as the case may be. On production
of the aforesaid documents, names of the legal heirs shall be included in the
Development Right Certificate.AppendixForm-IApplication for Development Right
Certificate[see rule 6(1)]FromName of the owner & his
address................................................................................ToThe
Member Secretary,Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority,Thalamuthu-
Natarajan Building, No.1, Gandhi Irwin Road,Egmore, Chennai-600 008.Sir,I/We
intend to surrender the part / whole of the land of extent
about...................sq.m in T.S.No..................Block
No.................S.No.............of.................Village
in........................ Taluk of .........................District which is
reserved as...............a public purpose as per the Second Master Plan for
CMA /............... DDP / as notified by the Government Department or agency
or....................................Local Body for the grant of DRC in lieu
of monitory compensation.I/We enclose herewith the following:(i)Site plan
showing the extent of the site owned by the applicant along with the details
of the existing structures(ii)FMB sketch / PLR extract for the site under
reference duly attested by a revenue official not below the rank of Deputy
Tahsildar(iii)Title deed to prove that the applicant has absolute right over
the land for which DRC is applied for(iv)Area statement of the land for which
DRC applied for, duly certified by an Architect or an Engineer who shall also
be a class-I Licensed Surveyor(v)Encumbrance certificate for 20 yearsI/We
hereby state that no monetary compensation or DRC has been obtained earlier
for the part of the land applied for the DRC now.I agree for all the
regulations and conditions stated in the Annexure XXI of the DR for CMA and
the Guidelines notified there under including the conditions that the DRC
issued can be cancelled if it has been obtained by any fraudulent manner and
if it has come to the notice of the CMDA later that the site under reference
is encumbered or the title is under litigation.Encl.:Signature of the owner of
the landForm-IIDevelopment Rights Certificate[see rule 7(2)]Office of the
Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, Egmore,
Chennai-600 008.I ...........................Member Secretary, Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority having its office at Thalamuthu- Natarajan
Building, No.1, Gandhi Irwin Road, Egmore, Chennai- 600 008, certify that the
persons named hereunder in this certificate is / are the Registered Holders of
the DRC issued subject to the provisions of the Development Regulations No.9
[read with the regulations for TDR given in Annexure - XXI and the guidelines
approved by the Authority] which formed part of the Second Master Plan for
Chennai Metropolitan Area approved under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Town
& Country Planning Act, 1971.i. Location and details of the land
surrendered...............................................................................................ii.
Reservation as per the Master Plan / DDP
or.................................................................................

### 2\. The DRC can be utilised only in the areas notified for the purpose and
subject to the conditions contained in the DR.

(i)Certificate No.......................(ii)Names of the DRC
Holders..................................................................................(iii)Extent
of the land eligible for the FSI credit..............Given under the common
seal..............day of........Year..............Senior Planner / Chief
Planner,Area Plans Unit,CMDAMember Secretary CMDAForm-IIIRegister of DRC
Information[see rule 7(3)](i)S.Nos.(ii)Folio No.(iii)CMDA File No.(iv)Date of
receipt of the DRC request in CMDA(v)Date of award of the DRC & the
Sanctioning Authority(vi)DRC No.(vii)DRC originally issued in favour
of................................................(viii)Details of the land
surrendered(a)S.No.(b)T.S.No.(c)Block No.(d)Village Name(e)Block
No.(f)District(g)Abutting street name(h)Extent of land in each S.No(ix)Date of
submission of utilisation requests(x)Name of the transferor(xi)Details of the
land at which DRC utilised(a)S.No.(b)T.S.No.(c)Block No.(d)Village
Name(e)Block(f)District(g)Abutting street name(h)Extent of land in each
S.No.(xii)Balance extent of DRC if any(xiii)Date of submission of utilisation
request for the balance DRC(xiv)Balance DRC utilisation details(a)S.No.Form-
IVUtilisation Application[see rule
9(2)]From.........................................................................................................ToThe
Member Secretary,Chennai Metropolitan Development AuthorityThalamuthu
Natarajan Building,No.1, Gandhi Irwin Road, Egmore,Chennai-600 008.Sir,I/We,
the undersign, do hereby request to allow to utilise the DRC detailed below
for the construction proposed to be put up at the site bearing
S.No/T.S.No.....Block No.....of
...........................Village....................Taluk.........................District
for which the Planning Permission is applied for
by................................(name)
..........................................(address) and is being dealt in CMDA
file No............Particulars of DRCDRC No. :Issued in favour of :

Name in full | Signatures  
---|---  
.................................. | ..................................  
.................................. | ..................................  
.................................. | ..................................  
  
I/We, the applicants of the PPA for the construction at
.............................is / are willing to utilise the DRC issued in
favour of the above persons, and request CMDA to permit the eligible floor
area to be put up at my premises.

Name in full | Signatures  
---|---  
.................................. | ..................................  
.................................. | ..................................  
.................................. | ..................................  
  
Attestation by Notary PublicI hereby attest the signatures of the DRC holders
and the PPA applicants mentioned above.SignatureName Address & SealWitnesses

### 1\.

...................

### 2\.

..............Form - VFSI and Land Value Credit Form[See rule
9(11)]To......................................................................................

### 1\. Location and details of the land surrendered :

......................................................................................

### 2\. Reservation as per the Master Plan / DDP :

......................................................................................

### 3\. The DRC can be utilized only in the areas notified for the purpose and
subject to the conditions contained in the DR.

### 4\. Details of Development Right Certificate (DRC) :

(i)Certificate No. :.......................(ii)Name of the DRC Holder
:..........................(iii)Extent of the land eligible for the Floor
Space Index credit :.......................(iv)Extend of land value credit
:.................................Given under the common
seal.................day
of......................year.....................Chief PlannerCMDAMember
SecretaryCMDA

