## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act, 1999

## Act 20 of 1999

  * Published on 16 June 1999 
  * Commenced on 16 June 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 June 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Repeal Act, 1999(Tamil Nadu Act
No. 20 of 1999)Last Updated 14th January, 2020Received the assent of the
Governor on the 16th June, 1999 and published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, Extraordinary.An Act to repeal the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and
Regulation) Act, 1978Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Fiftieth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation)
Repeal Act, 1999.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Repeal of Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1978.

\- The Tamil Nadu Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act 24 of 1978) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), is hereby
repealed.

### 3. Savings.

(1)The repeal of the principal Act shall not affect-(a)the vesting of any
vacant land under sub-section (3) of section 11, possession of which has been
taken over by the State Government or any person duly authorised by the State
Government in this behalf or by the competent authority;(b)the validity of any
order granting exemption under sub-section (1) of section 21 or any action
taken thereunder.(2)Where -(a)any land is deemed to have vested in the State
Government under sub-section (3) of section 11 of the principal Act but
possession of which has not been taken over by the State Government or any
person duly authorised by the State Government in this behalf or by the
competent authority; and(b)any amount has been paid by the State Government
with respect to such land, then, such land shall not be restored unless the
amount paid, if any, has been refunded to the State Government.

### 4. Abatement of legal proceedings.

\- All proceedings relating to any order made or purported to be made under
the principal Act pending immediately before the commencement of this Act,
before any court, tribunal or any authority shall abate:Provided that this
section shall not apply to the proceedings relating to sections 12, 13, 14,
15, 15-B and 16 of the principal Act in so far as such proceedings are
relatable to the land, possession of which has been taken over by the State
Government or any person duly authorised by the State Government in this
behalf or by the competent authority.

