## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Irrigation Works (Construction of Field Bothies) Act, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Irrigation Works (Construction of Field Bothies) Act, 1959

## Act 25 of 1959

  * Published on 19 February 1960 
  * Commenced on 19 February 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 February 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Irrigation Works (Construction of Field Bothies) Act, 1959(Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1959)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Madras Irrigation Works
(Construction of Field Bothies) Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1959). - In
the matter of provision of distributories under several irrigation projects
undertaken by this State for conveying water to the lands included in the
ayacut of each project, the general principle adopted by the Government is
that distributories down to a block of 50 acres limit are provided at
Government cost. The excavation of smaller distributories for irrigating
blocks below this 50 acres limit is the responsibility of the ryots. In some
cases, the ryots benefited under the projects construct field bothies
themselves as soon as the project is completed, but in some cases, the
concerned ryots have found it difficult to excavate the field bothies owing to
obstruction by a particular landholder or landholders and thereby the
utilization of irrigation facilities under the project has been retarded. In
order to reduce the burden on the ryots, instructions were also issued to
subordinate officers to acquire lands for distributories at Government cost
for irrigating blocks up to 25 acres limit and to construct the smaller
distributories by the department if the ryots agreed to deposit the cost pi
excavation. It has been found that even this liberalization of the rules has
not produced the desired results due fa disagreement among the ryots.2\. With
a view to expediting the full development of the ayacut and utilization of the
irrigation facilities under a project, the Government have considered it
necessary to take power by legislation-(1) to exclude from the ayacut of any
irrigation project, after giving notice to concerned ryots, lands in respect
of which the ryots fail to dig field bothies within a stipulated time; and(2)
in cases where there are disputes to acquire lands required for the purpose
and excavate field distributories at Government cost in the first instance and
to recover such cost including the cost of special staff, if any, employed for
the purpose from the concerned ryots.The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above objects.Published in Part IV-A, page 289 of the Fort St. George Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 28th August 1959.Received the assent of the Governor
on the 19th February 1960 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette,
dated the 2nd March 1960.An Act to provide for the construction or digging of
field bothies by the Government and by owners of lands entitled to irrigation
under certain irrigation works in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas
it is expedient to provide for the construction or digging of field bothies by
the Government and by owners of lands entitled to irrigation under certain
irrigation works in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]:Be it enacted
in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation Works
(Construction of Field Bothies) Act, 1959.(2)It extends to the whole of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into force on such date
as the Government may, by notification, appoint.Notes. - So much of this Act
as was in force on the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu (Added
Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
8 of 1964) in the State of Madras was extended to the added territories by
section 3 of, and the First Schedule to, the latter Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"ayacut", in
relation to an irrigation work, means the lands which have been registered as
lands entitled to irrigation under that irrigation work by any authority or
officer authorized by the Government;(b)"Collector" means a Revenue Divisional
Officer and includes any person appointed by the Government to exercise any of
the functions of a Collector under this Act;(c)"field bothies" means small
channels which run from outlets in the Government channels and which convey
and distribute water to individual fields;(d)"Government" means the State
Government;(e)"irrigation work" means any of the projects or canals specified
in the Schedule to this Act and any other project or canal which may be
declared by the Government by notification to be an irrigation work;(f)"owner"
means-(i)any person holding land in severally or jointly or in common under a
ryotwari settlement or in anyway subject to the payment of revenue direct to
the Government, or(ii)a landholder as defined in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908), or a ryot as defined in
that Act, or(iii)an inamdar not being a landholder defined as aforesaid, and
includes the person for the time being receiving or entitled to receive,
whether on his own account or as agent, trustee, guardian, manager or
receiver, for another person, the rent or profit derivable from land, or a
mortgagee with possession;(g)"water course" means a river stream, natural
channel, lake or a natural collection of water and includes any tributary or
branch of any river, stream or channel.

### 3. Collector to require owners by notice to construct or dig field
bothies.

\- If the Collector is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient that any
owner should construct or dig field bothies in his land in the ayacut of an
irrigation work, he shall by notice require the owner to construct or dig
field bothies in that land within such time as may be specified-in the notice
and in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 4. Penalty for failure to comply with notice under section 3.

\- If the owner fails to construct or dig field bothies in his land as
required in the notice and in the manner prescribed under section 3, the
Collector may, after giving the owner a reasonable opportunity of being heard,
make an order excluding such land from the ayacut of the irrigation work
concerned.

### 5. Appeal against order under section 4.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the Collector under section 4 may,
within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order was served on
him in the manner prescribed, appeal against such order to the District
Collector:Provided that the District Collector may admit an appeal presented
after the expiration of the said period of thirty days, if he is satisfied
that the appellant had sufficient cause for not presenting the appeal within
the said period.(2)The appeal shall be in such form and shall be verified in
such manner and shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed.(3)In
disposing of an appeal, the District Collector may, after giving the appellant
a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such order on the appeal as he
thinks fit. The order of the District Collector on such appeal shall be final
and shall not be called in question in any Court of law.

### 6. Government to construct or dig field bothies.

(1)It shall be lawful for the Government to construct or dig field bothies on
any land belonging to them or acquired by them for the purpose, for utilizing
the water for the purpose of irrigation, notwithstanding that such
construction or digging may interfere with the right of any person to take
water from any water course for the purpose of irrigating his land or for any
other purpose.(2)Where, in pursuance of sub-section (1), any field bothies
constructed or dug by the Government, the cost of construction or digging of
such bothy, or such portion of the cost, as the Collector may specify, may be
recovered by the Collector from the owners of the lands and other properties
benefited by the field bothy in such proportions and in such manner as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression
"cost of construction or digging of such bothy" shall include-(i)the cost of
the land acquired for the purpose, and(ii)the expenditure incurred towards the
employment of the special staff for the purpose.(3)Any amount recoverable by
the Collector under sub-section (2) may be recovered as if it were an arrear
of land revenue.

### 7. Obstruction or interference with water flowing in field bothy
prohibited in certain cases.

(1)No person shall, except in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed,
do anything which obstructs or interferes or is likely to obstruct or
interfere with the flow of water in any field bothy.(2)If any person
contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees or with both.

### 8. Bar of suits and proceedings.

(1)No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government, at the
instance of any person-(a)in respect of any act done or purporting to be done
under this Act,or(b)on the ground that any field bothy interferes or is likely
to interfere, with his rights in any manner.(2)No suit, prosecution or other
legal proceeding shall lie against any officer or servant of the Government
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 9. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for any matter required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed.(3)All rules made and all notifications issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after they are made, be, placed on the
table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both Houses of
Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] and shall be subject to such modifications by way of amendment or
repeal as the Legislature may make either in the same session or in the text
session.

## Schedule

[See section 2(e)](1)Amaravathi Project.(2)Kattalai High Level
Canal.(3)Krishnagiri Project.(4)Lower Bhavani Project.(5)Manimuthar
Project.(6)Mettur Canal.(7)Pullambadi Canal.(8)Sathanur Project.(9)Vaigai
Project.(10)Vidur Project.(11)Cauvery-Mettur Project.

