## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976

## Act 16 of 1976

  * Published on 16 April 1976 
  * Commenced on 16 April 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 April 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976(Presidents Act 16 of
1976)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 16 of l976). - For Statement of Objects and
Reasons for the enactment, please see in Part IV-Section 2, pages 160-161 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th April
1976.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1976. - By the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15 of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Indebted
Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 16 of 1976), there is a
moratorium on recovery of debts of agriculturists and non-agriculturists up to
the 14th January, 1977. The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976 (President's Act
31 of 1976), provides for total discharge of debts of rural artisans whose
annual household income does not exceed Rs. 2,400 and that of small farmers
and landless agricultural labourers. There is, however, no specific exclusion
of the debts of subscribers to the chit fund schemes. Chit fund schemes are of
a self liquidating nature and partake the character of mutual aid schemes. It
has been represented that the grant of moratorium in respect of recovery of
debts due from subscribes to chit fund schemes and wiping off their debts
under the Debt Relief Acts will seriously jeopardise the future conduct of
chit fund schemes. In the present form, the moratorium and Debt Relief Acts
are bound to disrupt whatever little economic impact chit funds have on the
savings of the community. It is, therefore, considered that chit fund schemes
registered under the Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of
1961), have to be given exemption from the operation of debt relief measures.
Accordingly, it is proposed to exempt any liability incurred or arising under
any chit, the bye-laws of which have been registered under the Tamil Nadu Chit
Funds Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961), from the provisions of the Tamil
Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 and the Tamil Nadu
Debt Relief Act, 1976.2\. The present measure seeks to give effect to this
proposal.3\. The Committee constituted under the proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 3 of the Tamil Nadu State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976
(41 of 1976), has been consulted before the enactment of this measure as a
President's Act.Published in Part IV-Section 2 page 354 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 29th December 1976.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act,
1978. - Under the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act,
1976 (President's Act 15 of 1976), the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 16 of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Debt Belief
Act, 1976 (President's Act 31 of 1976), only certain categories of debts and
liabilities of the persons eligible for relief under the aforesaid Acts have
been exempted. Nidhis and Mutual Benefit Societies are run on the basis of
mutuality of interest among members on the same principles of co-operative
societies. It has been represented that if provisions of the above mentioned
Acts are strictly enforced, it will result in these institutions incurring
heavy losses, as they will not be in a position to repay to the members the
deposits already made by them, and also no fresh deposits will be received,
thus crippling their business and possibly leading to their ultimate
extinction. It is, therefore, proposed to exempt any liability in respect of
any sum due to any company, which is declared to be a Nidhi or Mutual Benefit
Society under sub-section (1) of section 620-A of the Companies Act, 1956
(Central Act 1 of 1956) from the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15 of 1976), the
Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 16
of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976 (President's Act 31 of
1976).2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-
Section 1, pages 343-344 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary
dated the 31st March, 1978.Received the assent of the President on the 16th
April 1976 and first published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 17th April 1976.An Act to provide temporary relief to
certain indebted persons in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be enacted by the
President in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India.In exercise of
the powers conferred by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu State Legislature
(Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976 (41 of 1976), the President is pleased to
enact as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief)
Act, 1976.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 15th day of January, 1976.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"debt" means any
liability in cash or kind, whether secured or unsecured, due from an indebted
person whether payable under a decree or order of a civil or revenue court or
otherwise, but does not include-(i)rent as defined in clause (5);(ii)any debt
to which the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976
(President's Act 15 of 1976), is applicable;(2)"indebted person" means any
person from whom any debt is due:Provided that a person shall not be deemed to
be an indebted person, if he-(i)has in both the financial years ending on the
31st day of March 1974 and the 31st day of March, 1975, been assessed to
income-tax under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), or under the income-
tax law in force in any foreign country; or(ii)has in both the financial years
ending on the 31st day of March 1974 and the 31st day of March 1975, been
assessed to sales tax under the [Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Acts 1959 (Tamil
Nadu Act 1 of 1959)] [This Act has been repealed and reenacted as the Tamil
Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006.], or under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74
of 1956); or(iii)has in all the four half-years immediately preceding the 1st
April 1975 been assessed to property or house-tax in respect of buildings or
lands other than agricultural lands, under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act,
1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil
Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the [Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXXV of 1958)] [See now Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994).], the [Cantonments Act, 1924 (2 of 1924)] [See now Cantonment Act,
2003.], or any law governing Municipal or local bodies in this State or in any
other State or Union territory, provided that the aggregate annual rental
value of such buildings and lands, whether let out or in the occupation of the
owner, is not less than two thousand and four hundred rupees.Explanation. -
The annual rental value of any building or land for the purposes of clause
(iii) of this proviso shall -(1)where the assessment is based on the annual
rental value, be deemed to be such value;(2)where the assessment is based on
the capital value, be deemed to be five per cent of the capital value;
and(3)in any other case, be deemed to be the value ascertained in the
prescribed manner:Provided further that a person shall not be deemed to be an
indebted person if he is an agriculturist as defined in the Tamil Nadu
Agriculturists Relief Act, 1938 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1938), and entitled to
the benefits of that Act;(3)"pay", with its grammatical variations, includes
deliver;(4)"person" means an individual and includes an undivided Hindu
family, a marumakkattayam or aliyasantana tarwad or tavazhi, but does not
include a body corporate, a charitable or religious institution or an
unincorporated company or association or any firm as defined in the Indian
Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 1932);(5)"rent" means the rent payable by any
tenant to the owner of any building in respect of such building or portion
thereof occupied by such tenant.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
clause, the expression "building" shall have the same meaning as in clause (2)
of section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1960);(6)"suit" or "application" does not include an
appeal from a decree or order passed in a suit or application or an
application for revision or review.

### 3. Certain debts and liabilities not to be affected.

\- Nothing in this Act shall affect debts and liabilities of any indebted
person falling under the following heads:-(a)any revenue, tax or cess payable
to the State Government or any other sum due to them by way of loan or
otherwise;(b)any revenue, tax or cess payable to the Central Government or any
other sum due to it, by way of loan or otherwise;(c)any tax or cess payable to
any local authority of any other sum due to it, by way of loan or
otherwise;(d)any liability in respect of any sum due to any co-operative
society including a land development bank registered or deemed to be
registered under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu
Act 53 of 1961):Provided that where the liability mentioned in this clause
arises by reason of an assignment to any such co-operative society either such
assignment has taken place before the 15th day of March 1975 or is an
assignment to any such co-operative society of a loan granted "by another such
co-operative society;(e)any liability arising out of breach of trust;(f)any
liability in respect of maintenance whether under a decree of Court or
otherwise;(g)any liability in respect of wages or remuneration due as salary
or otherwise for services rendered;(h)any liability in respect of any sum due
to-(A)any public company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956);(B)any banking company to which the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of
1949) applies;(C)the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of
India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955);(D)any subsidiary bank as defined in clause (k)
of section 2 of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of
1959);(E)any corresponding new bank as defined in clause (d) of section 2 of
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5
of 1970);(F)any company or corporation owned or controlled by the Central
Government or any State Government;(G)the Committee for the Administration of
the Amalgamated Tamil Nadu Shares of the Post-War Services Reconstruction Fund
and Special Fund for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Ex-servicemen;(H)any
other financial institution notified by the State Government in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette;(I)[ any liability incurred or arising under any chit, the
bye-laws of which have been registered under the Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961);] [Inserted and was deemed always to have
been inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act,
1976 (President's Act 46 of 1976).](J)[ any liability in respect of any sum
due to any company which is declared to be a Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society
under sub-section (1) of section 620-A of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act
1 of 1956).] [Inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section
3 of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1978).]

### 4. Bar of suits and applications.

\- No suit for the recovery of a debt shall be instituted, and no application
for the execution of a decree for payment of money passed in a suit for the
recovery of a debt shall be made, against any indebted person in any civil or
revenue Court on and from the date of commencement of this Act and before the
expiry of [two years and six months] [Substituted for the words 'two years' by
section 3(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil
Nadu Act 2 of 1978). [The words 'two years' were earlier substituted by
section 3(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1977
(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for the words 'one year and six months' which in
turn were substituted for the words 'one year' by section 3(a) of the Tamil
Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 3 of 1977)]] from
the said date.Explanation I. - "Suit" does not include a claim to a set-off
made in a suit instituted by an indebted person.Explanation II. - A suit shall
be deemed to be a suit for the recovery of a debt, notwithstanding that other
reliefs are prayed for in such suit, and a decree shall be deemed to be a
decree for payment of money passed in such suit notwithstanding that other
reliefs are granted by such decree:Provided that a suit for possession of land
shall not be deemed to be a suit for recovery of a debt by reason merely of
mesne profits being also prayed for in such suit.

### 5. Stay of proceedings.

(1)All further proceedings in suits and applications of the nature mentioned
in section 4 in which relief is claimed against an indebted person, not being
proceedings for the amendment of pleadings or for the addition, substitution,
or the striking off of parties, but otherwise inclusive of proceedings
consequent on orders or decrees made in appeals, revision petitions, or
applications for review, shall, subject to the next succeeding sub-section,
stand stayed until the expiry of [two years and six months] [Substituted for
the words 'two years' by section 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1978). [The words 'two years' were
earlier substituted by section 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second
Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for the words 'one year and
six months' which in turn were substituted for the words 'one year' by section
3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act
3 of 1977).] from the date of commencement of this Act:Provided that in regard
to property under attachment, the Court may pass such orders as it deems
necessary for the custody or preservation of the property or for the sale of
such property if it is subject to speedy or natural decay, or, if in respect
of it, the expenses of custody or preservation are considered excessive.(2)On
application made by the defendant or the respondent or by all the defendants
or all the respondents, as the case may be, the stay effected by subsection
(1) in a suit or application shall be dissolved and the suit or application
shall be proceeded with from the stage which had been reached when further
proceedings in the suit or the application were stayed.

### 6. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for a
suit for the recovery of a debt or an application for the execution of a
decree passed in such suit, the time during which the institution of the suit
or the making of the application was barred by section 4, or during which the
plaintiff or his predecessor-in-title, believing in good faith that section 4
applied to such suit or such application, refrained from instituting the suit
or making the application, shall be excluded.Explanation. - "Good faith" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause (22) of section 3 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897).

### 7. Effect of transfer of immovable property by an indebted person.

\- Every transfer of immovable property by an indebted person entitled to the
benefit of section 4 or section 5, made after the date of commencement of this
Act and before the expiry of [two years and six months] [Substituted for the
words 'two years' by section 3(c) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1978). [The words 'two years' were
earlier substituted by section 3(c) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second
Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for the words 'one year and
six months' which in turn were substituted for the words 'one year' by section
3(c) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act
3 of 1977).] from the said date, shall, in any suit or other proceeding, with
respect to such transfer, be presumed until the contrary is proved, to have
been made with intent to defeat or delay the creditors of the transferor.

### 8. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), or in any other law for the time being in force, or any custom, usage
or contract, or decree or order of a Court or other authority.

### 9. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after
it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted
for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 10. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) No. 2 Ordinance, 1976
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 8 of 1976), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such
repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be
deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provision of this
Act.

