## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Rules, 1986

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Rules, 1986

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MANUAL-WORKERS-REGULATION-OF-EMPLOYMENT-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-
WORK-RULES-1986 of 1986

  * Published on 28 May 1986 
  * Commenced on 28 May 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 May 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Work)
Rules, 1986Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 951, Labour, dated
28th May 1986 - S.R.O. A-100/86G. O. Ms. No. 951, Labour, dated 28th May 1986
- S.R.O. A-100/86. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of
section 32 of the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and
Conditions of Work) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1982), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Work) Rules, 1986.(2)They shall extend to the
whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(a)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers (Regulation of
Employment and Conditions of Work) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of
1982);(b)"Advisory Committee" means an Advisory Committee constituted under
section 15 of the Act;(c)"Board" means a Board established under section 6 of
the Act;(d)"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Advisory
Committee;(e)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Labour;(f)"Form" means a
form appended to these rules;(g)"Inspector" means an Inspector appointed under
section 16 of the Act;(h)words and expressions not defined in these rules
shall have the meaning assigned to them under the Act.

### 3. Constitution of Advisory Committee.

\- An Advisory Committee shall consist of the following members, who shall be
nominated by the Government, namely:-(a)a Chairman, representing the
Government;(b)Two officials representing the Government of which one shall be
the Joint Commissioner of Labour or his nominee and the other shall be an
official of the Labour Department not below the rank of a Deputy Commissioner
of Labour who shall be the Member-Secretary of the Advisory Committee;(c)two
officials representing the Government;(d)four persons representing the
employer;(e)four persons representing manual workers;(f)four members
representing the Legislature of the State.

### 4. Term of office.

(1)The official members of the Advisory Committee representing the Government
including the Chairman shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Government.(2)A non-official member of the Advisory Committee shall hold
office for a period of three years commencing from the date on which his
appointment is first notified in the Official Gazette:Provided that such a
member shall, notwithstanding the expiry of the said period of three years,
continue to hold office until his successor is nominated.(3)A non-official
member of the Advisory Committee nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall hold
office so long only as the member in whose place he is nominated would have
held it, if the vacancy has not occurred.(4)If a member is unable to attend a
meeting of the Advisory Committee, the Government may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, nominate a substitute to attend the meeting and such a
substitute (member) shall have all the rights of a member in respect of that
meeting and any decision taken at the meeting shall not become invalid on the
ground that the said substitute was a party to the decision.

### 5. Resignation.

\- A non-official member of the Advisory Committee may resign his office by
writing under his hand addressed to the Chairman and his office shall, on
acceptance of the resignation by the Chairman, become vacant.

### 6. Cessation of membership.

\- If any non-official member of the Advisory Committee fails to attend three
consecutive meetings of the Advisory Committee without obtaining the leave of
the Chairman for such absence, he shall cease to be a member of the Advisory
Committee:Provided that the Chairman may, if he is satisfied that such member
was prevented by sufficient cause from attending three consecutive meetings of
the Advisory Committee, direct that such cessation shall not take place and on
such direction being made, such member shall continue to be a member of the
Advisory Committee.

### 7. Disqualification.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for being nominated as, and for being a
member of, the Advisory Committee-(i)if he is declared to be of unsound mind
by a competent Court; or(ii)if he is an undischarged insolvent; or(iii)if he
has been or is convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the
Government, involves moral turpitute.(2)If any question arises, whether a
disqualification has been incurred under sub-rule (1), the decision of the
Government thereon shall be final.

### 8. Removal from membership.

\- The Government, on a report from the Commissioner of Labour, may remove
from office any non-official member of the Advisory Committee, if in their
opinion, such a member has ceased to represent the interest on whose behalf he
was nominated.

### 9. Vacancy.

\- When a vacancy occurs or is likely to occur in the membership of the
Advisory Committee, the Member-Secretary of the Advisory Committee shall
immediately submit a report to the Government and, on receipt of such report,
the Government shall take steps to fill up the vacancy.

### 10. Disposal of business.

\- All business shall be considered at a meeting of the Advisory Committee and
shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting.

### 11. Disposal of business through circulation.

(1)Where the Chairman considers that a decision has to be taken urgently, he
may direct that the proposal may be circulated to all the members of the
Advisory Committee.(2)Any decision taken through circulation among the members
of the Advisory Committee, shall be valid only if it is supported by not less
than two-third of the members.

### 12. Method of voting.

\- Voting shall ordinarily be by show of hands, but if any member asks for
voting by ballot or if the Chairman so decides, the voting shall be by secret
ballot and shall be held in such manner as the Chairman may decide:Provided
that in the case of equality of votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote.

### 13. Meetings.

(1)The Advisory Committee shall meet at such intervals not exceeding three
months and at such places, and time as may be specified by the Chairman.(2)The
Chairman shall preside over every meeting of the Advisory Committee at which
he is present. If the Chairman is absent from any meeting, the members present
shall elect one of the members to preside over the meeting and the members so
elected shall, at that meeting, exercise all the powers of the Chairman.

### 14. Notice of meetings and list of business.

(1)Notice shall be given to every member, of the time and place fixed for each
ordinary meeting at least fifteen clear days before such meeting and every
member of the Advisory Committee shall be furnished with a list of business to
be transacted at the meeting:Provided that in the case of an emergency
meeting, notice of at least seven clear days shall be given to every member of
the Advisory Committee.(2)No business which is not in the list shall be
considered at a meeting without the permission of the Chairman.

### 15. Minutes of the meetings.

\- The minutes of each meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be circulated
to all members of the Advisory Committee, as soon as possible after the
meeting is over. The minutes shall be confirmed at the next meeting of the
Advisory Committee, and signed by the Chairman or the member presiding, as the
case may be, and shall, thereafter, be recorded in the minutes book maintained
for the purpose.

### 16. Quorum.

\- No business shall be transacted at a meeting whether it be an ordinary or
emergency meeting of the Advisory Committee, unless at least one-third of the
total number of members and at least one representative representing the
employer and one representative, representing the manual workers are
present:Provided that, if at any meeting, less than one-third of the total
number of members are present, the Chairman or, in the absence of Chairman,
the member elected to preside over the meeting, may adjourn the meeting to a
date not less than seven days from the date of the meeting, informing the
members present and giving notice of the meeting to the other members of the
Advisory Committee that he proposes to dispose of the business at the
adjourned meeting irrespective of the quorum and it shall thereupon be lawful
to dispose of the business at the adjourned meeting irrespective of the
quorum.

### 17. Allowances of the members.

(1)The travelling allowance of an official member shall be governed by the
rules applicable to him in the service in which he is a member for journeys,
performed by him on official duties and shall be paid by the authority paying
his salary.(2)A non-official member of the Advisory Committee shall be
entitled to draw travelling and daily allowances for any journey performed by
him in connection with his duties as such member at the rates and subject to
the conditions applicable to non-official member of First Class Committee as
laid down by the Government, from time to time.

### 18. Status of Chairman and Secretary of the Board.

(1)The Chairman of the Board shall be an officer not below the rank of a
Deputy Commissioner of Labour or Deputy Director of Tamil Nadu Institute of
Labour Studies in the Tamil Nadu Labour Service:(2)The Secretary of the Board
shall be an officer not below the rank of a Labour Officer or Inspector of
Plantation in the Tamil Nadu Labour Service.

### 19. Term of office of members of the Board.

(1)The official members of the Board including the Chairman shall hold office
during the pleasure of the Government.[Provided that the Government may
nominate any member representing the Government as Chairman of the Board.]
[Proviso was added by G. O. Ms. No. 159, L & E, dated the 20th November
2006.](2)A non-official member of the Board shall hold office for a period of
two years commencing from the date on which his appointment is first notified
in the Official Gazette:Provided that such member shall, notwithstanding the
expiry of the said period of two years, continue to hold office until his
successor is nominated.

### 20. Application of certain rules to Board.

\- The procedure contained in rules 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 shall,
so far as may be, apply to the disposal of the business by the Board as they
apply to the disposal of the business by the Advisory Committee.

### 20A. [ Collection of contribution and remittance. [Inserted by G.O. Ms.
No. 151, L&E, dated the 24the September 1999.]

(1)The contribution payable under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 8A
of the Act shall be collected by the local authority while sanctioning the
building permit, by means to Demand Draft drawn in favour of the Manual
Workers General Welfare Fund of the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare
Board, payable at Chennai. The contribution so collected by the Local
Authority shall be remitted to the Tamil Nadu Construction Worker Welfare
Board as per sub-section (4) of section 8A of the Act, on or before the 15th
of the Month succeeding the month in which such collection of contribution was
made along with a statement in Form-III.(2)The contribution payable under
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 8A of the Act shall be remitted to
the Secretary, Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board, by the person
who undertakes or is in-charge of the construction work, within 30 (thirty day
from the date of commencement of such construction work. The contribution
shall be remitted as per sub-section (4) of section 8 A of the Act, by means
of Demand Draft drawn in favour of the Manual Workers General Welfare Fund of
the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board, payable at Chennai, along
with a statement in Form IV.]

### 21. Maintenance of accounts.

\- The Board shall maintain its annual statements of accounts and balance
sheet in Forms I and II.

### 22. Qualification of Inspector.

(1)No person shall be eligible for appointment as Inspector unless he is an
officer belonging to the Tamil Nadu Labour Subordinate Service.(2)No person
shall be appointed under sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Act as Inspector
or having been so appointed shall continue to hold office, if he or his family
has acquires, directly or indirectly any share or interest in any
establishment within the limits of his jurisdiction to which the Act
applies:Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply to-(i)any person
who has been permitted by the Board to hold or acquire directly or indirectly
by himself or by his family any share or interest in any cooperative society
registered under any law relating to co-operative societies.(ii)any person who
acquires by inheritance any share or interests in any establishment, but who
is not a working partner therein and intimates such inheritance of interest as
soon as he acquires them.

### 23. Duties of Inspector.

\- The Inspector shall, subject to any directions of the Board, make such
examination of establishments of scheduled employment to which the Act applies
as may appear to him to be necessary for the purpose of satisfying himself
that the provisions of the Act, rules and the schemes framed in relation to
such establishments are duly observed.

### 24. Reconstitution of Board.

\- On supersession of a Board, the Government may reconstitute the Board
within the period of twelve months from the date of supersession in the manner
in which the Board is constituted by the Government under section 6 and,
thereupon, the provisions of rules 10 to 19 shall apply to the reconstituted
Board.Form I(See rule 21)Form of Income and Expenditure Account for the Year
Ending 31st March.

Expenditure | Income  
---|---  
Details of expenditure | Amount | Details of Income | Amount  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
| (Rs.) |  | (Rs.)  
1. |  | 1. |   
2. |  | 2. |   
3. |  | 3. |   
4. |  | 4. |   
  
Form II(See rule 21).........BoardForm Of Balance-Sheet As On 31st March

Liabilities | Assets  
---|---  
Details | Amount | Details | Amount  
(1) | (2) | (1) | (2)  
| (Rs.) |  | (Rs.)  
1. |  | 1. |   
2. |  | 2. |   
3. |  | 3. |   
4. |  | 4. |   
  
[Form III] [Added by GO. Ms. No. 151, L&E (1-1), dated the 24th September
1999.]

1. | Serial Number |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Name and address or the applicant for buildingpermit |   
3. | Building application number |   
4. |  Place of construction in respect of whichbuilding permit is applied for |   
5. | Total estimated cost of the building |   
6. |  0.3 per cent of the total estimated cost of theconstruction work |   
7. |  Demand Draft number, date, amount and Bank onwhich Demand Draft is drawn |   
  
[Form IV] [Added by GO. Ms. No. 151, L&E (1-1), dated the 24th September
1999.]

1. | Serial Number |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Name of the person in-charge of the constructionwork |   
3. | Place of construction |   
4. | Total estimated cost of the construction work |   
5. |  0.3 per cent of the total estimated cost of theconstruction work |   
6. |  Demand Draft number, date, amount and Bank onwhich Demand Draft is drawn | 

