## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Provision Of Special Facilities For The
Differently Abled Persons In The Multi-Storeyed and Public Buildings) Rules,
2013

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Provision Of Special Facilities For The
Differently Abled Persons In The Multi-Storeyed and Public Buildings) Rules,
2013

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-URBAN-LOCAL-BODIES-PROVISION-OF-SPECIAL-FACILITIES-FOR-THE-
DIFFERENTLY-ABLED-PERSONS-IN-THE-MULTI-STOREYED-AND-PUBLIC-BUILDINGS-
RULES-2013 of 2013

  * Published on 1 February 2013 
  * Commenced on 1 February 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 February 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Provision Of Special Facilities For The
Differently Abled Persons In The Multi-Storeyed and Public Buildings) Rules,
2013Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 21, Municipal Administration and
Water Supply (MA.1), 1st February 2013, Thai 19, Nandhana, Thiruvalluvar
Aandu-2044.) - No. SRO A-l(b)/2013In exercise of powers conferred by clause
(gg) of sub-section (3) of Section 191 of the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), clause (hh) of sub-
section (3) of Section 268 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), clause (hh) of sub-section (3) of Section 268 of
the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of
1981), Section 11 of the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1994), Section 11 of the Tirunelveli City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1994), section 11 of the Salem
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1994), Section 10
of the Tiruppur City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2008), Section 10 of the Erode City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil
Nadu Act 8 of 2008), Section 10 of the Vellore City Municipal Corporation Act,
2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of2008) and Section 10 of the Thoothukkudi City
Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of2008), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely: -

### 1. Short title and Commencement.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Provision of
Special Facilities for the Differently Abled Persons in Multi-storeyed
Building and Public Buildings) Rules, 2013.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981),
the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1994), the Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 28
of 1994), the Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1994), the Tiruppur City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of
2008), the Erode City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of
2008), the Vellore City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of
2008) and the Thoothukkudi City Municipal Corporation Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 2008), as the case may be;(b)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner
of a Municipal Corporation or of a Municipality;(c)"Executive Authority" means
the Executive Authority of a Municipality or of a Town Panchayat;(d)"Multi-
storeyed and public building" means, a building having more than two floors,
where public have an access for any purpose and used as a, -(i)school, college
or University or other similar educational institution, hostel, library or
lecture room;(ii)hospital, nursing home, dispensary or any other similar
institution;(iii)boarding and lodging house;(iv)choultry or marriage
hall;(v)cinema theatre, amusement park, swimming pool, recreation centre,
motion picture house, assembly hall, auditorium, exhibition hall, museum,
recreation pier and stadium;(vi)market for the display and sale of
merchandise, either wholesale or retail;(vii)bank, ATM counter, insurance
company;(viii)jewellery shop;(ix)shopping mall (any building providing
multiple services or facilities to the public like shopping, cinema theatres,
restaurants, etc., for example a multiplex or a shopping complex);(x)industry
carrying the activities of production, manufacturing;(xi)institution of
information technology services or radio broadcasting services or television
stations;(xii)office of the Central Government or any State Government or any
local authority or any body corporate owned or controlled by the Central
Government or any State Government;(xiii)office by any quasi-Governmental
organization or any Government undertaking controlled by the Central
Government or any State Government; and(xiv)bus station and bus
terminals;(e)'urban local body' means a Municipal Corporation, a Municipality
or a Town Panchayat; and(f)all words and expressions used but not defined in
these rules shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the
Act.

### 3. Provision of special facilities for the Differently abled Persons in
Multi-storeyed and Public Buildings.

(1)In every multi-storeyed and public building, within the territorial area of
an urban local body, the following special facilities shall be provided for
the benefit of the differently abled persons, namely; -(a)A ramp with slope
not exceeding 1:12 from the ground level of open space on road level to the
entrance door of the lift or staircase;(b)A lift of sufficient size to
accommodate the differently abled persons with a wheel chair;(c)A 90
centimetres high hand rail and an additional hand rail at a height of 75
centimetres above the finished level of the steps for stair cases and for
steps to the ground floor plinth, even if they are enclosed on their sides by
walls;(d)Sufficient number of special toilets for the use of the differently
abled persons depending upon the plinth area and units, preferably located in
the ground floor. The size of the toilet block, the arrangement of various
accessories within the toilet shall follow the specifications given in the
National Building Code;(e)Reservation of ten percent of the required car
parking, subject to a minimum of two car parkings near the entrance of the
building in such a way to provide easy access to the lift and the
staircase.(2)Every person intend to construct or reconstruct a multi-storeyed
or public building shall make necessary provision in the building plan itself
for providing the special facilities for the differently abled persons in the
manner as prescribed in sub-rule (1), while making application to the
Commissioner or the Executive Authority of the urban local body concerned for
issuing a building license.(3)The Commissioner or the Executive Authority of
the urban local body concerned shall, before giving approval for the
construction of a new multi-storeyed and public building or re-construction of
an existing building, ensure that necessary provisions have been made in the
building plan for providing special facilities for the differently abled
persons in the manner as prescribed in sub-rule (1).(4)In every existing
multi-storeyed and public building, the special facilities for the differently
abled persons shall be provided in the manner as prescribed in sub-rule (1),
by the owner or occupier of that building within 180 days from the date of
coming into force of these Rules. The Commissioner or the Executive Authority
of the urban local body concerned shall ensure that the special facilities for
the differently abled persons have been provided in such building in the
manner as prescribed in sub-rule (1).(5)Where a building, which is not used as
a multi-storeyed and public building, is proposed to be used as a multi-
storeyed and public building, the special facilities for the differently abled
persons shall be provided in such building by the owner or occupier, before
such change of use and the concerned licensing authority who is empowered to
permit such business, trade or profession shall permit to carry out such
change of use in the building only after ensuring that the special facilities
for the differently abled persons are provided therein in the manner as
prescribed in sub-rule (1).(6)The Commissioner or the Executive Authority of
the urban local body concerned shall, while receiving the notice of completion
of a multi-storeyed and public building to be furnished by the owner of that
building, shall ensure that the special facilities for the differently abled
persons have been provided properly in such buildings in the manner as
prescribed in sub-rule (1).

