## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board (Accounts and Audit) Rules,
1968

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board (Accounts and Audit) Rules,
1968

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-KHADI-AND-VILLAGE-INDUSTRIES-BOARD-ACCOUNTS-AND-AUDIT-
RULES-1968 of 1968

  * Published on 7 March 1968 
  * Commenced on 7 March 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 March 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board (Accounts and Audit) Rules,
1968Published vide Notification No. G. O. MS. No. 470, dated 7th March 1968G.
O. MS. No. 470, dated 7th March 1968. - In exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 29 read with sub-section (2) of section
15, sub-sections (1) and (4) of sections 18, sub-sections (1) and (4) of
section 20, sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 24, and sub-sections (1) and
(4) of section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu here by makes the
following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu State Khadi and Village Industries
Board (Accounts and Audit) Rules, 1968.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires "Act" means the Tamil
Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1959).

### 3. Funds of the Board.

(1)All moneys received by the Board shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank of
India, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] or in a
Government Treasury and shall be credited to an account entitled "The Tamil
Nadu State Khadi and Village Industries Board Funds" - "Khadi Fund" or
"Village Industries Fund", as the case maybe, under the head "Deposits of
Local Funds" within the Public Account of the Tamil Nadu State.(2)The accounts
of the Board shall be operated upon by such officers jointly or individually
as may be authorised by the Board(3)The Board may invest any part of its funds
which is not immediately required for any purpose in such securities or short-
term deposits as may be approved by the Government, from time to time.

### 4. Budget.

(1)The budget estimates as approved by the Board shall be submitted to the
Government ordinarily by the 31st of January, but in no case latter than the
end of February.(2)For the purpose of sub-section (2) of section 18 of the
Act, the budget sent by the Board for approval of the Government shall be
acted upon for the budget year, subject to orders of approval of the
Government in case of delay in the receipt of orders before the end of
March.(3)The Khadi Budget and the Village Industries Budget shall contain
particulars of-I. Receipts:(a)receipts under:(i)receipts from departmental
schemes and interest of investments, and loans and advances;(ii)grant from
Khadi and Village Industries Commission;(iii)grant from State
Government(iv)grant from other bodies;(v)other Miscellaneous
Receipts;(vi)Deduct: Refunds(b)Recoveries under loans and advances
accounts;(c)Loans raised by the Board:(i)Loans from Khadi and Village
Industries Commissions;(ii)Loans from the state Government;(iii)other
loans.(d)(i)security deposits;(ii)Other depositsII. Charges:Charges
under:(a)revenue account;(b)capital account;(c)loans and advances
account;(d)re-payments of loans raised by the Board;(e)deposits and
advances.(4)The receipts and expenditure of the Board shall be classified
under such major, minor and subordinate heads of accounts and shall be shown
under such further detailed heads of accounts again as the Board may deem
necessary for the purposes of administration and control.(5)The expenditure on
account of "Board's Secretariat" shall, be allocated between the "Khadi Fund"
and the "Village Industries Fund" referred to in subsection (1) of Section 5
of the Act, in proportion to the total expenditure incurred from each Fund at
the end of the financial year, pending such allocation, the expenditure on
Board's Secretariat" shall be debited initially to "Khadi Fund".(6)The
supplementary budget, if any, under sub-section (4) of section 26 of the Act
shall be prepared by the" Board in any financial year and forward to the
Government before the 31st January of the year.(7)The Board shall be competent
to incur expenditure in excess of one third of the limit provided in the
budget approved by the Government under any head of expenditure or in
connection with any particular scheme so long as the aggregate amount in
either budget approved by the Government is not exceeded.

### 5. Accounts of the Board.

(1)The Board shall maintain proper accounts of its receipts and charges. The
Board classification of receipts and charges of the Board shall be maintained
as indicated below:-"Deposits of Local Funds - Other Funds - Other
Miscellaneous Funds -Tamil Nadu State Khadi and Village Industries Board Funds
- (I) Khadi Fund-Development of Khadi Industry".(a)Revenue Account:(i)Receipts
from the Khadi Schemes.(ii)Grant from Khadi and Village Industries
Commission.(iii)Grant from State Government.(iv)Grant from other
bodies.(v)Interest and other miscellaneous receipts.(vi)Deduct
refunds.(b)Loans and Advances Account:-(i)Recoveries of loans and advances
from Co-operatives, registered institutions, Local bodies, etc.(ii)Recovery of
loans and advances from Board's Servants.(c)Board's debt account:-(i)Loans and
Advances from Khadi and Village Industries Commission.(ii)Loans and advances
from State Government,(iii)Other Loans.(d)Deposit Account:-General Provident
Fund, Security Deposit, etc.Charges:(a)Revenue Account.(b)Capital
account.(c)Loans and Advances by the State Board.(d)Boards debt
account.(i)Repayment of loans and advances to the Khadi and Village Industries
Commission.(ii)Repayment of loans and advances to the State
Government.(iii)Repayment of other loans.(e)Deposits and advances
account:-General Provident"Fund, Security deposit - Festival advance,
Permanent advance, Departmental advance, etc.II. Village Industries
Fund:Development of Village Industries.Receipts and ChargesHead mentioned
above shall be adopted.Community Development and National Extension Service
Programme. Rural Arts, Crafts and Industries - Charges and Receipts.(2)The
Board shall prepare an annual statement of accounts including the profit and
loss accounts and the balance sheets in such form as may be prescribed, as
required under sub-section (1) of section 20 of the Act within five months
after the final and supplemental accounts for the financial year are
closed.(3)The Board shall keep at its office proper books of accounts in
respect of-(a)All sums of money received and expended by the Board;(b)all
loans and grants received and paid by the Board including repayments and
refunds;(c)all sales and purchases of goods by the Board; and(d)assets and
liabilities of the Board.(4)(i)The following procedure shall be followed in
regard to the administration of the funds of the Tamil Nadu State Khadi and
Village Industries Board and the maintenance of its accounts.(a)all money
realised or received by the said Board shall be credited;(b)all expenditure of
the said Board in the exercise of its powers and the performance of its
function and duties under the provisions of the said Act; shall be
made;and(c)the accounts of moneys realised or received and of the expenditure
made there from shall be kept and the audit there of shall be kept,in the same
manner in which the same was credited, made or kept, as the case may be, in
respect of the Khadi Department and Industries Department of the State
Government immediately before the 15th September 1960 and all powers,
functions and duties of the said Board in regard to its finance, accounts and
audit shall be exercised or performed subject to the same rules, regulations
and orders which were in force immediately before the aforesaid date in regard
to the powers, functions and duties of the Khadi Department and the Industries
Department of the State Government.(ii)When the Board sanctions grant-in-aid
to a local body, co-operative society, or a registered institution, or a
contribution towards the cost of a public exhibition or fair or a loan to such
body, society on institution, the payment of such sanction shall not be made
without an authorisation from the Pay and Accounts Officer, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] who maintains and compiles the
accounts of the Board.

### 6. Audit.

(1)The audit of the accounts of the Board shall be conducted by the Accountant
General Madras.(2)The Accountant General in connection with the audit of the
accounts of the Board, shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in
connection with such audit as the comptroller and Auditor General has in
connection with the audit of Government accounts and in particular shall have
the right to demand the production of books, accounts vouchers and other
documents and inspect any of the officers of the Board and also the accounts
of any body or institution which is in receipt of any grant-in-aid from the
Board.(3)The auditor shall certify the correctness of statements and accounts
prepared in accordance with sub-rule (2) of rule 5.(4)The auditor shall
prepare an abstract of the audited accounts (receipts, charges and balance
sheet) and submit to the Government two copies thereof with the audit
report.(5)the auditor shall furnish the Board and the Government with a report
whenever he observes any material impropriety or irregularity in the incurring
of any expenditure in the recovery of moneys or in the maintenance of accounts
including stock accounts. The Board shall forth with the remedy any defect or
irregularity that may be pointed out by the Auditor and shall report to the
Government the action taken by it thereon within a reasonable time of the
receipt of the report of the Auditor:Provided that if there is any difference
of opinion between the Board and the auditor or if the Board does nor remedy
any defect or irregularity with a reasonable period or render satisfactory
explanation in regard to the defect or irregularity, the Government, on a
reference specifically made there for by the Auditor shall pass such orders
there on as they may deem fit and the Board shall thereafter take action in
accordance therewith within such time as may be specified by the
Government.(6)The accounts of the Board as certified by the Auditor and the
Audit Report thereon shall be forwarded by the Board annually to the
Government before the 1st October of the following year:Provided the
Government may give such further extension of time as they may consider
necessary for any reasons. Such certified account and audit report furnished
by the Auditor to the Board shall as soon as possible, after they are so
furnished, be forwarded to Government for being placed on the table of both
the Houses of Legislature.(7)The Board may appoint such staff as required for
the conduct of the internal audit of all the transactions of the Board in
consultation with the Government.

### 7. Preparation and submission of Annual Programmes and Establishment
Schedule.

(1)The programme for the promotion of the Khadi and Village Industries in the
form of a note in Annexure I and the staff required therefor in the forms
specified in Annexure II shall be submitted to the Government along with the
Khadi Budget and the Village Industries Budget on or before the 31st January.

| Ultimate cost (net) |   
---|---|---  
Short description of the proposal | Recurring Rs. | Non-recurring Rs. | Cost in (net) Rs.  
|  |  |   
  
(2)If the Programme includes a number of proposals, an abstract of all the
proposals shall be prepared in the following form and submitted to the
Government together with the Notes on Individual proposals:(3)The form of the
supplementary programme shall be in the same form as prescribed in sub-rules
(1) and (2) and shall be submitted to the Government along with the
supplementary budget on or before the 31st January of each year.

### 8. Placing the Board in possession of Funds.

(1)While submitting the budget of the Board for approval of the Government, it
shall indicate the net revenue deficit under "Khadi Fund" and "Village
Industries Fund" and the gap in resources position in these funds. The
Government, while approving the budget, may sanction the payment of grant or
grants to cover the revenue deficit and loan to cover the gap in resources in
these funds. Such grants and loans may be disbursed in advance or by
instalments or in such manner as the Government may determine. Thereupon the
Accountant General shall take action to credit the amounts sanctioned by the
Government to the "Khadi Fund" and "Village Industries Fund" by debit to state
Revenues and intimate the fact of credit to the Board and the
Government.(2)After approval of the Budget by the Government, the Board will
communicate the fact to the Directorate of Khadi and Village Industries where
the allotment under the Khadi Budget and Village Industries Budget will be
distributed among the District Officers and others for expenditure, according
to the details of appropriations shown in the Expenditure Budget of Khadi and-
Village Industries Department.(3)The drawing officers will draw upon the
Board's account presenting bills in Government treasuries where the
expenditure will be debited to the State Khadi and Village Industries board
Funds. Monthly accounts under this head will be rendered to the Heads of
Department concerned who compile the accounts of the Board in the form of
Accounts prescribed by the Board by the drawing officers. The Treasuries
should render monthly statements of receipts and withdrawals to the Pay and-
Accounts Officer, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] duly
supported by the vouchers and other relevant documents. As Khadi and village
Industries, schemes involve sale of finished goods the sale proceeds will be
received by the officers authorised in this behalf and credited to Government
treasuries and the Bank, In performing the duties connected with the receipt
of moneys remitting them into Treasuries, drawing moneys from treasuries by
presenting bills and keeping accounts therefor the Departmental Officers and
the Treasury Officers shall follow the rules prescribed in the Tamil Nadu
Financial Code, Tamil Nadu Treasury Code and the Tamil Nadu Account Code.

### 9. Contracts.

(1)The Board shall follow the provisions in Article 51 of the Tamil Nadu
Financial Code when entering into contract for and on behalf of the Board. The
form of contract and tenders used by the Government Departments may be adopted
with suitable modifications as may be considered by the Board.(2)The Board may
delegates to the President, Vice-President, Secretary or any Officer of the
Board on any Officer subject to it, such power for entering into contract on
its behalf as it may think fit.(3)The President, Vice-President, Secretary or
any Officer of the Board, or any officer subject to it, shall not be liable
for any bona fide assurance or contract made by Board and liabilities arising
out of such bona fide assurance or contract shall be discharged only from the
moneys at the disposal of the Board.

### 10. Reports & Returns.

(1)The Annual report specified in sub-section (2) of section 24 should be
submitted by the Board to the Government not later than the 1st October of the
following year and it shall be in such form as the Government may from time to
time direct and contain particulars among others in respect of the following,
namely:-(i)Budget provision and actual of expenditure;(ii)Production and sale
of Khadi-both traditional and Ambar;(iii)Production and sale of Products of
the Village Industries;(iv)Production of charkas and other
implements;(v)Employment statistics for each industry; and(vi)training of
personnel; and(2)The Board shall submit to the Government and to such other
authority as they may specify-(a)monthly progress reports on the Ambar Charkas
programme;(b)monthly statement of accounts relating to disbursements made by
the Board;(c)Quarterly progress reports on traditional Khadi and other Village
Industries Specified or deemed to be specified under the Act; and(d)monthly
statement of account relating to withdrawals from the Khadi and Village
Industries Funds.(3)The monthly reports and statements should be submitted not
later than the 20th of the following month and the quarterly reports not later
than the 20th of the month following the quarter.

### 11. Power to grant Loans.

(1)The Board shall grant loans in accordance with the provisions of the Rules
framed by the Government from time to time for the grant of loans for Khadi
and Village Industries and in accordance with and at the rates and on terms
sanctioned by the Government or by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission
from time to time.(2)The Board shall not be competent to modify, amend or
otherwise vary the Provisions of the loan rules.(3)The Government may, on its
own initiative or on the recommendation of the Board, modify or amend the land
rules. The modification or amendment will have effect from the date it is made
by the Government.Annexure ISubject

Head of Account | Summary of cost | Cost in (net)(Rs.)  
---|---|---  
Ultimate cost  
Recurring (Rs.) | Non-recurring (Rs.)  
Expenditure heads |  |  |   
Total - Gross Cost |  |  |   
Receipt heads, if any |  |  |   
(i) Departmental receipts |  |  |   
(ii) Grant from Khadi and Village IndustriesCommission |  |  |   
Total-Net Cost |  |  |   
  
Explanatory Note. - (The details of the proposal and its full justification
should be explained in the Note)Annexure IIForm IStatement of Sanctioned Posts
in each Permanent and Temporary Establishment (both Gazetted and Un-Gazetted)

Class of Category of establishment | Details of appointment in each Class or Category | Scale of Pay | No. of persons at each rate of Pay | pay that will be drawn on 1st April next |  Provision to be made in the Budget Estimatesensuing financial year on account of each class or category ofOfficers of Sub-ordinates |  Authority for change in the strength or scale ofpay as compared with the current year's budget estimates | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form IIStatement of Fixed Allowances

Name of office Designation of the appointment | Station | Pay of the Appointment |  No. of allowance attached (whetherlocal,presidency house rent conveyance faxes T.A. etc.) | Amount of fixed allowance |  Provision to be made in the Budget Estimates ofthe ensuing financial year for each class or category or oggicersof sub-ordinates |  Authority for change in the No. of amount ascompared with the current year's budget estimates Board's numberand date | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8

