## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961

## Act 52 of 1961

  * Published on 16 January 1962 
  * Commenced on 16 January 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 January 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961(Tamil Nadu Act 52 of
1961)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and
Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1970) -
Section 4-A of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X
of 1939), provides for the levy of an additional tax on the cinematograph
exhibitions at Rs. 2-50, Rs. 2-00, Rs. 1-50 or Re. 1-00 according as the
exhibition is in the city of Madras, specially notified Municipality, other
Municipality or elsewhere. In order to augment the resources of the State, the
Government have decided to enhance the rates of show-tax on cinematograph
shows, to double the rates now levied.2\. Sub-section (l)(b) of section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961)
provides for the levy of tax as surcharge on each show of cinematograph
exhibition held within the local limits of the local authority, at such rate
not exceeding three times the rate of tax levied under section 4-A of the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 for that show as the local authority
may determine. Representations have been made to the Government that the levy
of surcharged three times the enhanced rate of show-tax as now proposed would
cast a very heavy burden on the theatre owners. The Government have,
therefore, decided that the local authorities concerned should be enabled to
levy surcharge at a rate not exceeding one and a half times the show tax under
section 4-A of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 as proposed to be
revised.3\. Under sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Local
Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961), any alteration in
the rate of surcharge can be given effect to only from the beginning of the
next financial year. In view of this provision, the local authorities will not
be in a position to give effect to the modification in the rate of surcharge
on show-tax, during the years 1970-71. In order to obviate this difficulty,
the Government have decided to omit sub-section (3) of section 3 of the said
Act and to specifically provide for the continuance of the resolution already
passed by the local authorities, till a fresh resolution under the Act as
amended has taken effect.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 4th April 1970.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 29
of 1973). - In order to facilitate the transaction involving fractions of a
rupee, it is proposed to insert a new section 4-A after section 4, in the
Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961),
for rounding off to the nearest rupee, of the amount of surcharge, fee,
penalty, fine or any other sum payable and the amount of refund due, under the
said Act.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-
Section 3, page 210 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 3rd August 1973.Statement Of Objects And Reasons - Tamil Nadu Local
Authorities Finance (Second Amendment) Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 42 of 1973)2.
- Under section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 52 of 1961), any local authority with the previous sanction of the
Government may exempt, admissions to any entertainment or class of
entertainments and shows of any cinematograph exhibition or class of
exhibitions from liability to the tax payable under clauses (a) and (b),
respectively, of sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act. It has now been
decided to amend section 5 of the said Act so as to empower the Government
also to grant similar exemptions.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 304 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th November 1973.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities
Finance (Amendment) Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1974). - With a view to
mobilise additional resources, the Government have decided to replace the
present rates of show tax payable under section 4-A of the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the surcharge on
show tax payable under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961) by a
consolidated rate of show tax. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend the Tamil
Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the Tamil
Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961)
suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-
Section 1, of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th
August 1974.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax
Act and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of
1978). - The Film Industry Enquiry Committee, constituted by the Government in
the year 1975, recommended, as a measure of preventing evasion of tax by
proprietors of cinematograph exhibitions, the compulsory levy of a fixed tax
per show in lieu of the existing taxes levied under the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the Tamil Nadu
Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961). The film
industry also repeatedly represented for the introduction for a scheme for the
composition of the taxes.2\. The Government accordingly decided to introduce a
gross levy per show based on the gross collection capacity of the theatres for
the temporary (touring) theatres and the permanent and semi-permanent theatres
in Municipalities, Grades II and III, in Selection Grade and other Panchayat
towns and in Panchayat villages. The tax payable was proposed to be fixed as a
percentage ranging from 20 per cent to 27-1/2 per cent of the gross collection
capacity of the theatre for every show conducted. The Government also decided
in provide for an option to the proprietors of cinematograph exhibitions to
compound the above tax by paying at a different percentage ranging from 15 per
cent to 22-1/2 per cent of the gross collection capacity of the theatre for a
fixed number of shows ranging from 14 to 20 shows per week irrespective of the
number of shows conducted in a week.3\. The Government also decided to amplify
the definition of show in the Act and also to make some changes in the
penalties provided in the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu
Act X of 1939).4\. The Government, therefore, decided to amend the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the Tamil Nadu
Local Authorities finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961), suitably.
Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance
(Amendment) Ordinance, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 5 of 1977), was
promulgated.5\. The Bill seeks to replace the above Ordinance.Published in
Part IV-Section 1, of the Fort. St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
6th January 1978.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Entertainments
Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 51 of
1979). - According to section 3(9) of Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939
(Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939), the term 'proprietor' in relation to any
entertainment includes any person responsible for the management thereof. It
is proposed to amend the said term 'proprietor', so as to include the State
Government, any local authority or any person responsible for the management
thereof.2\. The temporary (touring) theatres in the areas of Second and Third
Grade Municipalities were eligible to conduct 17 shows including 3 matinee
shows in a week, whereas they had to pay compounded tax for 16 shows per week.
Consequent on the ban of the matinee shows since imposed on the temporary
(touring) theatres in the above areas, they would be able to conduct only 14
shows, whereas they will have to pay compounded tax for 16 shows per week. It
is proposed to amend section 5-B of the Act, so as to provide for payment of
compounded tax at a fixed percentage of the gross collection capacity
applicable to these theatres for 14 shows instead of 16 specified in the
Act.3\. It has also been proposed to amend the provisions of the said Act so
as to demand security for the payment of show tax and additional surcharge on
entertainments tax and show tax also besides entertainments tax. The
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu
Act 52 of 1961) have also been proposed to be amended, so as to demand
security for payment of surcharges on entertainments tax and show tax under
the Act.4\. It has also been proposed to amend the said Acts, so as to vest
the State Government with power to publish in newspapers, the names of
defaulters of entertainments tax and surcharge thereon, subject to certain
conditions as in the case of sales tax and income-tax defaulters.5\. Under
sub-section (1) of section 16-A of the said Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act,
1939, the Government have issued certain notifications amending the Schedules
to the said Act. Under sub-section (2) of the said section 16-A, a Bill has to
be introduced replacing the said notifications in the present session of the
Legislature.6\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part
IV-Section 1, of the Tamil Nadu Government George Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 23rd November 1979.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1984 (Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1984). - The provisions of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax
Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) have been made applicable to the
exhibition of films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and
the definition of "entertainment" in the said Act has also been amplified so
as to include exhibitions of films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders. If has been decided to amend the said Act for the following
purposes, namely:-(i) to levy a tax on each payment for admission to the
exhibitions of cinematograph films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders, at the rate of fifty per cent of the gross payment for admission
inclusive of the amount of tax;(ii) in lieu of the above tax mentioned in item
(i) above, to levy a tax for Video Cassette Recorder films exhibited at the
various rates applicable to permanent and semi-permanent theatres as specified
in the Table under sub-section (1) of section 5-A of the Act;(iii) to provide
for certain other consequential amendments to the Act.2\. It has also been
decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 52 of 1961), so as to provide therein that no surcharge under the
said Act shall be levied for the exhibition of cinematograph films on
Television Screens through Video Cassette Recorders.3\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV-Section 1, of the Tamil
Nadu Government George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st March
1984.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and
Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1989). -
The Government have decided to consolidate the levy of tax on payment for
admission to cinematograph exhibition,' additional tax on cinematograph
exhibition (show tax), additional surcharge on tax on payment for admission to
cinematograph exhibition and additional surcharge on show tax under the Tamil
Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and the levy of
taxes as surcharge on payment for admission to cinematograph exhibition and on
cinematograph exhibition under the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961) into a single tax at a rate of forty percent
of gross payment for admission to cinematograph exhibition inclusive on the
amount of tax.2\. It has also been decided to -(i) reduce the percentage of
the rate of tax levied on cinematograph exhibitions;(ii) extend the scheme of
levy of tax under section 4 of Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939 to theatres, other
than temporary (touring) and open air theatres, located in the area within
five kilometres from the outer peripheral limits of the area where the said
section 4 is in force;(iii) share the proceeds of the entertainments tax from
theatres covered by the scheme of levy of tax on payment for admission to
cinematograph exhibitions in the ratio of 30:70 between the Government and the
local body concerned; and(iv) include Pudukkottai in the list of Selection
Grade Municipality in Part A and Coo-noor in First Grade Municipality in Part
B of Schedule I to Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939.Accordingly the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 1989
was promulgated by the Governor on the 29th June 1989 to amend relevant
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 and the Tamil Nadu
Local Authorities Finance Act, 1961.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said
Ordinance.Published in Part IV-Section 1, of the Tamil Nadu Government George
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st October 1989.Received the assent of the
Governor on the 16th January 1962 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette, dated the 24th January 1962.An Act to enable local authorities to
augment their finances by empowering them to levy to certain taxes.Whereas it
is expedient to enable the local authorities to augment their finances by
empowering them to levy certain taxes;Be it enacted in the Twelfth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Local Authorities Finance
Act, 1961.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Entertainments Tax
Act" means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act X of 1939);(b)"Government" means the State
Government;(c)"local authority" means-(i)the Corporation of [Chennai]
[ubstituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], or(ii)a municipal council or a
township committee constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras ' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] District
Municipalities Act, 1920 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1920), or(iii)a
township committee constituted under the Mettur Township Act, 1940 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XI of 1940)] or the Courtallam Township Act, 1954
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVI of 1954)] or the Bhavanisagar Township Act,
1954 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXV of 1954)], or(iv)a panchayat
union council constituted under any law for the time being in force;(d)"year"
means the financial year;(e)all words and expressions used, but not defined in
this Act and defined in the Entertainments Tax Act shall, in relation to a tax
leviable under section 3, have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
that Act.

### 3. Levy of taxes as surcharge on entertainments tax and on tax on
cinematograph exhibitions.

(1)Any local authority may levy, in the form of a surcharge,-(a)a tax on each
payment for admission to any entertainment held within the local limits of the
local authority at such a rate, not exceeding the rate of tax levied under
section 4 of the Entertainments Tax Act for that payment, as the local
authority may determine;(b)a tax on each show of cinematograph exhibition held
within the local limits of the local authority at such rate not exceeding [one
and a half] [Substituted for the words 'three times' by section 3(1) of the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local, Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act,
1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1970), which was deemed to have come into force on
the 1st April 1970.] the rate of tax levied under section 4-A of the
Entertainments Tax Act for that show as the local authority may
determine:[Provided that where, in case the proprietor of a cinematograph
exhibition held in the theatres specified in column (2) of the table under
section 5-A or 5-B of the Entertainments Tax Act and located in the local
areas specified in the corresponding entry in column (1) of the said table
pays, tax under section 5-A or 5-B, as the case may be, of that Act, no
surcharge shall be levied under this section by the local authority
concerned.] [[The following proviso which was added by section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1974) was omitted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil
Nadu Act 32 of 1975), which was deemed to have come into force on the 21st
July 1975:-'Provided that where in any case the proprietor of a cinematograph
exhibition pay tax at the compounded rates specified in section 5-A of the
Entertainments Tax Act, no surcharge shall be levied under this section by the
local authority concerned.'The present proviso was added by section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act,
1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 1978), which was deemed to have come into force on
the 26th December 1977.]](2)Any resolution of a local authority determining to
levy a tax under subsection (1) shall specify the date from which it shall be
levied.(3)[xxx] [[The following sub-section was omitted by section 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance (Amendment) Act,
1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1970), which was deemed to have come into force on
the 1st April 1970:-'(3) Where any resolution under this section has taken
effect for a particular year, no proposals to alter the rate or date fixed in
such resolution so far as that year is concerned shall be taken into
consideration by the local authority concerned. If any proprietor of a
cinematograph exhibition was paying tax at the rates specified in section 5-A
of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) as
in force immediately before the 21st July 1975, such proprietor shall, with
effect on and from the said date, be liable to pay taxes in accordance with
the provisions of that Act and of the Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance
Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1961) as amended by Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1975.]].(4)Any resolution abolishing an existing tax levied under sub-section
(1) or reducing the rate of such tax shall not be carried into effect without
the sanction of the Government.(5)When local authority shall have determined
to levy a tax under subsection (1) for the first time or at a new rate, the
local authority shall forthwith publish a notice in such manner as may be
prescribed, specifying the rate at which and the date from which such tax
shall be levied.

### 4. Tax under section 3 to be assessed and collected by the Government.

(1)Any tax payable under section 3 shall be assessed and collect by the
Government in the manner provided in sub-section (2).(2)The authorities for
the time being empowered to assess, collect and enforce payment of any tax
under the Entertainments Tax Act shall, subject to any rules made under this
Act, assess, collect and enforce payment of any tax payable under clause (a),
or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 (including any penalty payable
in respect thereof) in the same manner as the tax under section 4 or section
4-A, as the case may be, of the Entertainments Tax Act is assessed, paid and
collected; and for this purpose they may exercise all or any of the powers
they have under the Entertainments Tax Act; and the provisions of that Act
including the provisions relating to composition of tax, returns, appeals,
revisions, offences, penalties and the compounding of offences, shall apply
accordingly.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the
proceeds in any year of any tax so collected shall be paid to the local
authority concerned after deducting towards the expenses incurred by the
Government such percentage of the proceeds as the Government may fix.(4)[ The
person liable to pay the tax under section 3 shall, in addition to the payment
of security mentioned in sub-section (1-A) of section 6 of the Entertainments
Tax Act, also give security up to an amount and in a manner approved by the
Government for the payment of the tax due under section 3.] [Added by section
3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities Finance
(Amendment) Act,1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 51 of 1979.]

### 4A. [ Rounding off of surcharge on entertainments tax and on tax on
cinematograph exhibitions, fees, penalty, etc. [Inserted by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Local Authorities Finance (Amendment)Act,1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1973).]

\- The amount of surcharge, fee, penalty, fine or any other sum payable, and
the amount of refund due, under the provisions of this Act shall be rounded
off to the nearest rupee and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a
part of a rupee consisting of paise, then, if such part, is fifty paise or
more, it shall be increased to one rupee and if such part is less than fifty
paise, it shall be ignored.]

### 4B. [ Publication of information respecting assessees. [Inserted by
section 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax and Local Authorities
Finance (Amendment)Act,1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 51 of 1979).]

(1)If the Government are of opinion that it is necessary or expedient in the
public interest to publish the names of any assessees and any other
particulars relating to any proceedings under this Act in respect of such
assessees, they may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, cause to
be published such names and particulars in such manner as they think fit.(2)No
publication under this section shall be made in relation to any penalty
imposed, or any conviction for any offence connected with any proceedings
under this Act, until the time for presenting an appeal or a revision, as the
case may be, has expired without an appeal or revision having been presented
or the appeal or revision, if presented, has been disposed of.Explanation. -
In the case of a firm, company or other association of persons, the names of
the partners of the firm, directors, managing agents, secretaries and
treasurers, or managers of the company, or the members of the association, as
the case may be, may also be published if, in the opinion of the Government,
the circumstances of the case justify it.]

### 5. Power to exempt.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, [the Government, or any
local authority, with the previous sanction of the Government, may exempt]
[Substituted for the expression, 'any local authority may, with the previous
sanction of the Government, exempt' by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Local
Authorities Finance (Second Amendment) Act,1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 42 of
1973).]-(a)admissions to any entertainment or class of entertainments from
liability to the tax payable under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
3;(b)shows of any cinematograph exhibition or class of exhibitions from
liability to the tax payable under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3.

### 6. Other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act are in addition to, and not in derogation of,
the Entertainments Tax Act or any other law for the time being in force.

### 7.

[The amendment made by this section has been already incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil
Nadu Act IV of 1919)].

### 8. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in
the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and
unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come
into force on the day on which they are published.(3)Every rule made under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the table
of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of
Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session,[the Legislative Assembly agrees] [ Substituted for the
expression 'both Houses of agree' by paragraph 3(2),paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,1987.] in making any modification in any
such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression
'both Houses of agree' by paragraph 3(2),paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order,1987.] that the rule should not be made, the rule
shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so however, that any modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 9. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government as occasion may require may, by order, do anything which
appears to them necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty.(2)Every
order issued under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after it is
issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,1987.], and, if before the expiry of the session
in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly
agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of agree' by paragraph
3(2),paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,1987.] in
making any modification in any such order or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of agree' by paragraph 3(2) of
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,1987.] that the order should not be
issued, the order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that order.

