## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - State Advisory Committee
Regulations, 2004

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - State Advisory Committee
Regulations, 2004

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-STATE-ADVISORY-COMMITTEE-
REGULATIONS-2004 of 2004

  * Published on 8 January 2004 
  * Commenced on 8 January 2004 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 January 2004.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - State Advisory Committee
Regulations, 2004Published vide Notification No. TNERC/SACR/2/2, dated
8.1.2004 - No. 6 (2)7499/2004In exercise of the powers conferred on it by sub-
section (1) of section 87 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003) and
all powers enabling it in that behalf the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
Commission hereby makes the following regulations. These regulations supersede
"Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission - State Advisory Committee
Regulations, 2002" published in Notification No. TNERC/SACR/2/1, dated 5th
July 2002 in the Gazette, dated July 17,2002 of Government of Tamil Nadu.

### 1. Short title, commencement.

(1)These regulations may be called the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
Commission - State Advisory Committee Regulations, 2004.(2)These regulations
shall [come into force on the date] [Published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette on the 18th February 2004 and from that date, these regulations came
into force.] of their publication in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)'Act'
means the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003);(b)'Commission' means the
Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission(c)'Chairperson' means the
Chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(d)'Member'
means a member of the Tamil Nadu Electricity ' Regulatory
Commission;(e)'Secretary' means the Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Electricity
Regulatory Commission;(f)Officer' means an officer of the
Commission;(g)'Committee' means the State Advisory Committee established by
the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission.(2)Words or expressions
occurring in these regulations and not defined herein but defined in the
Electricity Act, 2003 shall bear the same meaning assigned to them in that
Act.

### 3. Formation of an Advisory Committee.

\- The Commission may, by notification, establish with effect from such date,
a Committee to be known as 'TNERC State Advisory Committee'.

### 4. Members of the Committee.

\- Section 87 (2) of the Act, which pertains to the members of the Committee
reads as "The Slate Advisory Committee shall consist of not more than twenty
one members to represent the interests of commerce, industry, transport,
agriculture, labour, consumers, non-governmental organisations and academic
and research bodies in the electricity sector".

### 5. Chairperson and Ex officio members.

\- Pertaining to the Chairperson and ex officio members of the Committee,
section 87(3) of the Act reads as "The Chairperson of the State Commission
shall be the ex officio Chairperson of the members of the State Commission in
charge of the Ministry or Department dealing with Consumer Affairs and Public
Distribution System shall be the ex officio members of the Committee".

### 6. Selection and appointment of Advisory Committee members.

\- The Commission shall appoint the candidates to serve on the Committee,
after consultation with the individuals / representative organisations /
bodies of such interest groups. The Commission may choose to limit the number
of members to be nominated in each sector, depending upon the important
relationship, the concerned sector bears with the electricity industry. The
Commission may also nominate members from other stakeholders in electricity,
over and above the interested sectors indicated in section 87(2) of the Act
but not exceeding the total number of members which is twenty one.

### 7. Term of office for the nominated members of the Advisory Committee.

\- Members of the Committee shall be nominated for a maximum period of three-
year term and one third of the members shall retire annually. The Commission
shall have the power to re-nominate any member on expiry of his / her term.

### 8. Special invitees to the Advisory Committee meetings.

\- The Commission may, from time to time, invite persons with expertise in
specific areas to attend the State Advisory Committee meeting as special
invitees and solicit their views / opinions and also pay suitable honorarium
as it deems fit.

### 9. Secretary of the Advisory Committee.

\- The Secretary of the Commission shall also be the Secretary of the
Committee. He shall not be eligible for any extra remuneration on account of
this additional work.

### 10. Objects of the Advisory Committee.

\- The objects of the State Advisory Committee as envisaged in section 88 of
the Act shall be to advise the Commission on -(a)major questions of
policy;(b)matters relating to quality, continuity and extent of sendee
provided by the licensees;(c)compliance by licensees with the conditions and
requirements of their licence;(d)protection of consumer interest;(e)energy
supply and overall economic and efficiency standards of performance by
utilities.

### 11. Conduct of business by the Advisory Committee.

\- The conduct of business by the Committee shall be regulated on the basis of
the following:-(1)It shall be the duty of the Secretary to convene meetings of
the Committee and to give the Committee members thereof not less than 14 days
notice in writing of the date, time and place of the proposed meeting. If
considered necessary, Chairperson may reduce the period of notice to transact
any urgent business. The notice will also contain the agenda and connected
papers, if any, of the meeting.(2)The members can write to the Secretary,
indicating through a brief note, any relevant subject (as referred in
regulation 9 above) for inclusion in the agenda of the subsequent
meeting.(3)The Chairperson of the Committee shall preside at every meeting of
the Committee. In his absence, the senior most member of the Commission shall
act as the Chairperson of the meeting.(4)All meetings of the Committee shall
be held a I the office premises of the Commission at Chennai, unless the
Commission otherwise notifies.(5)The discussions in the meeting and consequent
conclusions, if any, taken at the meeting shall strictly follow the agenda
only, scheduled for the meeting. Only the Chairperson can bring in additional
subjects to the agenda at the end of the meeting.(6)[ The Commission shall
convene a meeting of the State Advisory Committee, as and when required, to
discuss and advise the Commission on any of the matters specified in Section
88 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of 2003) after giving notice
to all members as provided in sub-regulation (1) at the venue and time as it
thinks convenient.] [Substituted by Notification No. Vl(2)/209/7012. dated
11.06.2012.](7)A notice shall be deemed duly issued if it is sent, by post or
by messenger, within the prescribed time to the registered address of a
member.(8)A member of the Committee who fails to attend three consecutive
meetings of the Committee shall forthwith ceases to be a member of the
Committee.(9)The proceedings of every meeting of the Committee shall be
recorded in a minute book kept for the purpose and shall be signed by the
Chairperson of the meeting. This will be read along with a note on the action
taken by the Commission in the next meeting for the information of the
members.(10)The quorum for a meeting of the Committee shall be six. If there
is no quorum, the Chairperson may adjourn the meeting. No further notice need
be given for an adjourned meeting and no quorum is also necessary for the
adjourned meeting. If, at any time, after a meeting is commenced, a quorum
ceases to exist, the meeting shall not be dissolved but shall continue.(11)No
matter shall be considered at an adjourned meeting other than matters
remaining from the meeting at which the adjournment took place, provided that,
with or without notice, the Chairperson may bring, or direct to be brought,
any new matter which in his opinion is urgent, before an adjourned meeting of
the Advisory Committee.(12)No proceedings of the Committee shall be invalid by
reason solely of vacancies existing m the Committee, or by reason of non-
receipt of the notice or the agenda paper, provided the notice and agenda were
duly issued, or by reason of any irregularity in the conduct of the business
of the meeting.(13)The Chairperson, during any meeting, may direct any member
of the Committee whose conduct at the meeting is, in the Chairperson's
opinion, disorderly, to withdraw. Any such member so ordered shall be deemed
to have withdrawn from the meeting, whether or not he physically
withdraws.(14)In cases not expressly provided for in these guidelines for the
conduct of meetings, the decision of the presiding Chairperson on all matters
relating to the conduct of business during the meeting shall be final.

### 12. Fees and travelling allowances for the committee members.

(1)A member of the Committee shall not be entitled to any remuneration other
than that provided in these regulations.(2)A sitting fee of Rs.1000/- per
meeting shall be payable to all the members of the committee except the ex-
officio members.(3)A members of the committee who is a Government servant or
an employee of any public sector undertaking shall draw travelling and daily
allowances on the scale admissible to him from his parent organisation. The
sitting fee alone shall be paid by the Commission,(4)[(i) For the members
other than those who are governed by sub-regulation (3) above, the payment of
daily allowance shall be at the rates specified by the Commission from time to
time which may also be indicated in their appointment orders. The payment of
Travelling Allowance shall be as follows:(ii)For the members who reside
outside Chennai, 2nd Air-conditioned class train fare from the nearest Railway
Station of the place where he normally resides and Chennai and back shall be
reimbursed by the Commission towards the Travelling Allowance.]

### 13. Resignation.

\- Any member of the Committee may, by writing under his hand, addressed to
Secretary of the Commission, resign his office as member of the Committee. The
Commission will take appropriate action to nominate an alternative
member.[Substituted by Notification No. VI(2) 1210 12012, dated 05.07.2012.]

