## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965

## Act 163 of 1965

  * Published on 10 February 1965 
  * Commenced on 10 February 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 February 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965Published vide Notification No. G. O. P. No. 346, Revenue, Dated The 10th
February 1965 - S.R.O. No. A-163 of 1965G. O. P. No. 346, Revenue, Dated The
10th February 1965 - S.R.O. No. A-163 of 1965. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 73 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963), the Governor
of Tamil Nadu here by makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Form" means a
Form appended to these rules;(c)"Former irrigation work" in respect of a land
means the irrigation work from which the land could be irrigated, before
facilities for its irrigation from a Government irrigation work became
available;(d)"Government irrigation work" in respect of a land means the
irrigation work (belonging to, constructed, or maintained by, or on behalf of,
the Government) under which the land has been registered as wet at the
settlement;(e)"Section" means a section of the Act;(f)"Settlement dry
assessment" in respect of a land means the dry assessment appropriate to the
soil classification assigned to the land at the settlement;(g)"Settlement
manavari assessment" in respect of a land means the mana-vari assessment
appropriate to the soil classification assigned to the land at the
settlement;(h)"Settlement notification" in relation to a land means the
settlement notification published under sub-section (1) of section 20 in
respect of the inam estate or part thereof, in which the land is
situated;(i)"Settlement wet assessment" in respect of a land means the
assessment under the settlement notification appropriate to the soil
classification assigned to the land at the settlement, and the classification
of the irrigation work being that of the former irrigation work as determined
under sub-rule (4) of rule 20.

### 3. Recognition as landholder for purposes of Explanation II to section
2(8).

(1)Where a new inam estate or part thereof has been transferred, by way of
lease, usufructuary mortgage or otherwise-(a)if the transferee is in
possession and the transfer is disputed by the owner, the Settlement Officer
shall hold an enquiry and if he finds that the transfer is prim a facie true
and valid and confers right to possession, he shall recognise the transferee
as the landholder.(b)If the transferee is not in possession and the transfer
is disputed by the owner, the Settlement Officer shall, held an enquiry and if
the finds that the transfer is prima facie true and valid and confers right to
possession, he shall recognise as the landowner.(2)In cases of dispute between
persons claiming against each other, the ownership of a new inam estate or
part thereof of any smaller interest therein, conferring a right to
possession, the Settlement Officer shall hold an enquiry and recognize, as
landholder, the claimant who, in his opinion, is prima facie entitled to the
possession of the new inam estate or part thereof in questions.(3)Where there
are two or more landholders entitled to a new inam estate or part
thereof-(a)if all the landholders are members of a joint Hindu family, the
managing member of the family shall be recognised as the landholder;(b)if
anyone of the landholders has, by all the rest, been appointed, in writing, or
admitted before the Settlement Officer, to be the managing landholder, the
Settlement Officer shall recognize as the landholder;(c)in other cases, the
landholder who is entitled to the largest share of the income shall be
recognized as the landholder but, if there is none among the landholders who
is entitled to a larger share of the income than any one or the rest, the
Settlement Officer shall hold an enquiry and recognise that one among them
who, in his opinion, is fit to be the landholder, as the landholder.(4)The
Settlement Officer's enquiry under this rule shall be summary.

### 4. Procedure for taking possession of an inam estate.

(1)The officer authorised by the Government to take possession of an inam
estate on their behalf under clause (d) of section 3 shall take charge of only
such of the accounts, registers, pattas, muchilikas, maps, plans and other
documents relating to the inam estate as are, in his opinion, necessary for
the administration of the inam estate. He shall prepare a detailed inventory
of those documents in the presence of the landholder or any person deputed, in
writing, by the landholder in that behalf, and give a copy of such inventory
to the landholder or his deputy. Certified copies of the documents shall be
made and given to the landholder, if so required by him.(2)Where the officer
referred to in sub-rule (1) has reason to believe that there are other
documents in the possession or custody of the landholder and is of opinion
that such documents are essential for the administration of the inam estate,
he may summon the landholder to produce all documents and the landholder shall
be bound to produce them.

### 5. Procedure for taking possession of land in an inam estate.

(1)Before taking possession of any land in an inam estate under the proviso to
clause (d) of section 3, the Manager of the inam estate shall examine whether
any person, on the notified date, is personally cultivating that land or
not:Provided that if the Manager is of the status of Revenue Inspector, the
examination referred to in this rule shall be made by the Tahsildar or Deputy
Tahsildar, in whose jurisdiction the inam estate is situated.(2)If the Manager
finds that the occupant of a land on the date on which the inam estate was
notified under sub-section (4) of section 1 is personally cultivating that
land, he shall tentatively allow such occupation to continue, subject to the
payment of assessment on the extent occupied as determined under section 21
and subject to the condition that the payment of such assessment shall not
confer any right of occupancy.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule,
occupation for a part of a fasli year shall be deemed to be occupation for the
whole of a fasli year.(3)(a)If the Manager finds that the occupant of a land,
on the notified date, is not personally cultivating that land and considers
that the occupation is objectionable, he shall cause a notice in Form No. 1 to
be served on him calling upon them to show cause why he should not be
dispossessed of the land.(b)The Manager shall examine the representations, if
any, made on the date fixed for the enquiry and, after such further enquiry as
he may consider necessary, shall pass orders to cause a notice in Form No. 2
to be served on the occupant, if he decided that the occupant should be
dispossessed.(c)On the expiry of the time allowed for filing appeal or
revision petition or if an appeal or revision petition has been filed, after
the disposal of such appeal or revision petition, and if the decision in the
appeal or revision is that the occupant should be dispossessed as he is not
personally cultivating that land, an officer not lower in rank than a Revenue
Inspector duly authorised in this behalf, may formally enter upon the land in
question and take possession of it and record certificate of the village
officers and of at least one ryot of the village that the land has been taken
possession of by the Government.(4)If the occupant of a land, on the notified
date, is not personally cultivating that land, but the occupation is
considered not objectionable, the occupation may be allowed, subject to the
payment by the occupant of the assessment on the land under section 21, until
the ryotwari settlement of the land is effected under section 20 or until the
land is required by the Government for any purpose which ever is earlier. The
payment of such assessment shall not confer on the occupant any occupancy
right. Every decision of the Manager in. this regard shall be communicated to
the occupant concerned in Form No. 3.

### 6. Period within which appeal against an order under proviso to section
3(d) can be filed.

\- Every appeal against an order under the proviso to clause (d) of section 3
deciding the question whether a ryot or a landholder is to be dispossessed or
not, shall be preferred within thirty days from the date of communication of
such order or within such further time as the appellate authority may, in its
discretion, allow.

### 7. Revision petition to the Director of Settlement.

(1)Any person aggrieved by any of the orders, acts or proceedings of a
Settlement Officer, other than those in respect of which an appeal lies to the
Tribunal, may prefer a revision petition to the Director of
Settlements.(2)Every such petition shall be preferred within thirty days from
the date of communication of the order or proceedings of the Settlement
Officer:Provided that the Director of Settlements may admit a petition
preferred after the period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the petitioner
had sufficient cause for not preferring the petition within the said period.

### 8. Revision petition to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980) Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No.
2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].

(1)Any person aggrieved by any of the orders, acts, or proceedings of the
Director of Settlements or of a District Collector including those passed,
done or taken in the exercise of revisional powers, may prefer a revision
petition to the Board of Revenue.(2)Every such petition shall be preferred
within sixty days from the date of communication of the order or proceedings
of the Director of Settlements or of a District Collector, as the case may
be:Provided that the Board of Revenue may admit a petition preferred after the
expiry of the period aforesaid, if it is satisfied that the petitioner had
sufficient reason for not preferring the petition within the said period.

### 9. Enquiry into claims under section 9,10,11 or 14.

(1)Every application for grant of ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
section 9, 10, 11 or 14 shall be in Form No. 4 and shall be either presented
in person or sent by registered post to the Settlement Officer within six
months from the notified date, or from the 23rd November 1966, whichever is
later.(2)Every such application shall be signed and verified by the applicant
and restricted to lands in a single village.(3)If, in respect of any land, no
person has applied under sub-rule (1) or where an urgent enquiry within the
period specified in sub-rule (6) is necessary in the public interest, the
Settlement Officer shall proceed to enquire into the nature and history of the
land suo motu and determine if any person is prima facie entitled to a
ryotwari patta in respect of that land.(4)The Settlement Officer shall then
fix a date for the enquiry and shall cause a notice in Form No. 5 to be served
on each landholder, ryot, cultivator or service holder who has applied for
ryotwari patta or who, in the opinion of the Settlement Officer, is prima
facie entitled to a ryotwari patta, to produce any record or make any
representation, which he may wish to make at the enquiry. A copy of the notice
shall also be sent, to the Manager of the inam estate.(5)The Settlement
Officer shall also publish a notice in Form No. 6 requiring any person, who
has any objection to any of the proposals to grant ryotwari patta, to file
before him a statement of his objections, within a week from the date of the
notice and also requesting all interested persons to be present at the enquiry
either in person or through an authorised representative and make their
representations. Copes of the notice shall be affixed on the notice boards of
the offices of the Settlement Officer and of the Assistant Settlement Officer
concerned.(6)The date of the enquiry shall not be earlier than fifteen days
from the date of the publication of the notice referred to in sub-rule
(5).(7)The enquiry shall be summary. The Settlement Officer shall hear the
parties and afford them a reasonable opportunity for adducing any oral or
documentary evidence.(8)The decision of the Settlement Officer shall be
published in Form No. 7. A copy of the decision shall be given to the party
concerned in person or sent to him by registered post. A copy of the decision
shall also be sent to the Manager of the inam estate and to the Director of
Settlements.

### 10. Appeal to the Tribunal.

(1)On receipt of an appeal preferred under subsection (2) of section 12, the
Tribunal shall cause a notice in Form No. 8 to be published requiring all
persons who have applied to the Settlement Officer under section 9,10 or 11 or
filed a statement before the Settlement Officer in the course of the enquiry
under such section, to appear before it.(2)A copy of the notice shall be
served on the applicant, the Manager of the inam estate and every other person
affected by the appeal, by sending the notice to the individual concerned by
registered post.(3)A copy of the final order of the Tribunal shall be
communicated to the appellant, the respondents and the Manager of the inam
estate.

### 11. Eviction of occupant of land not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect
of it consequent on decision under section 12 or 14.

\- In cases in which the Settlement Officer, the Tribunal, the Special
Appellate Tribunal, the Director of Settlements or the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980) Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] decides that no one is actually entitled to ryotwari patta in respect
of a land, the Manager shall serve on the occupant of any such land a notice
in Form No. 9. The Manager shall also take such further steps as are necessary
to evict him. Any such eviction shall be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of rule 5:Provided that if the
occupation is unobjectionable and if the occupant states, in writing, that he
accepts the decision of the Settlement Officer, the Tribunal, the Special
Appellate Tribunal, the Director of Settlements or the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980) Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.], as the case may be, that he is not entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of the land in his occupation and that he will surrender possession of
it to the Government if it is not assigned to him under the darkhast rules,
his petition being treated as his darkhast application, he need not be
evicted. The Manager may allow the occupation in such cases to continue,
subject to the payment of assessment on the land as determined under section
21, until orders are passed on the darkhast application or the land is
required by the Government for any purpose, whichever is earlier.

### 12. Liability of unauthorised occupant of land to be proceeded against
under any law.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall be construed as exempting any person
unauthorisedly occupying land from liability to be proceeded against, under
any law for the time being in force.

### 13. Assessment of value of buildings.

\- The value of a building, for the purposes of sub-section (3) of section 15,
shall be assessed in the following manner:-(1)Where the building has been
rented. - (a) The value of the building shall be assessed by capitalising its
net annual rent at a certain number of years' purchase as specified
below:-(b)The net annual rent of the building shall be ascertained by
deducting, from the gross annual rent for the building,-(i)the taxes and land
revenue charges payable annually in respect of the building; and(ii)one
month's rent towards the annual cost of ordinary repairs to the building.(c)If
the superstructure is in a reasonably good condition, the number of years'
purchase at which the net annual rent shall be capitalised at such smaller of
years' purchase, as the Tribunal may deem fit, regard being had, in each case,
to the age and condition of the superstructure and any other relevant
factor.(d)A building which has not been rented for a period of twelve months
prior to the date of assessment of its value by the Tribunal or which, in the
opinion of the Tribunal, has been rented only for a nominal rent, shall be
dealt with under clause (2).(2)Where the building has not been rented. - (a)
The value of the building shall be assessed on the basis of sales of similar
buildings in the neighbourhood.(b)If there has been no sale of any similar
building in the neighbourhood, the Tribunal shall first enquire into the
original cost of construction of the superstructure, have regard to the age
and condition of the superstructure, and any other relevant factor, make due
allowance for depreciation and then ascertain the value of superstructure. For
this purpose, the Tribunal shall not only make its own enquiries, but shall
also supplement them by obtaining an estimate or original costs of
construction of the superstructure from the Public Works Department. Such
estimate shall be taken only as a guide and not as the sole determining factor
in arriving at the value of the superstructure. To the value of the
superstructure so ascertained, the Tribunal shall add the value of the land on
which the superstructure stands, on the basis of the value of similar land in
the neighbourhood.

### 14. Procedure to be followed in cases falling under section 15,16,17 or
18.

\- The provisions of rule 11 shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases, in which
the occupant of any land is not entitled, under sections 15,16,17 or 18, as
the case may be, to remain in occupation of the land.

### 15. Landholder to furnish accounts of arrears of rent.

\- Every landholder of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of
rent has been determined before the notified date under the Tamil Nadu Estates
Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1947) shall, not
later than one month from the notified date, submit to the Manager of the inam
estate, correct and true accounts of the arrears of rent, which were
outstanding in the notified date in respect of every holding on the inam
estate. [As amended by G.O. Ms. No. 923, Revenue, dated the 19th May 1967],

### 16. Procedure to be adopted if the landholder of an existing inam estate
does not furnish accounts regarding arrears of rent.

\- If the landholder of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate
of rent has been determined before the notified date under the Tamil Nadu
Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1947) does
not furnish the particulars, as required in rule 15, the Manager of the inam
estate shall serve a notice on him to the effect that if he does not furnish
the particulars within a specified time, it will be assumed that there are no
arrears of rent to be collected by the Government on his behalf. In the
following cases, namely:-(a)where it has been so assumed that there are no
arrears of rent to be collected; and(b)where the landholder pleads that he has
no accounts or that he has not kept any accurate accounts if it is found that
an excess payment has been made by a ryot in respect of his holding for any
fasli year, the land revenue as determined under clause (a) of section 21 in
respect of that holding shall, for the purpose of adjusting the excess
payment, be taken to be the rent due on that holding for that fasli year. The
Manager shall also, in every case coming under clause (b) above, if he is
satisfied that the landholder's plea is genuine, adopt the said land revenue
in respect of any holding to be the rent to be collected for that holding in
respect of any fasli year prior to the notified date. [As amended by G. O. Ms.
No. 923, Revenue, dated the 19th May 1967.]

### 17. Determination of rent in cases falling under section 21(a)(ii).

\- In cases falling under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of section 21 where
the rent, which would have been payable to the landholder in respect of the
fasli year in which the inam estate is notified is in kind or is a share of
the produce, the quantity of such rent shall be determined by the District
Collector or any officer authorized by him, on local enquiries and with
reference to village accounts.

### 18. Commutation of rent into cash.

\- The rent so determined shall be commuted into cash in accordance with the
prices notified by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished
by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980) Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675,
Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] and prevailing on the date on which the
land revenue became payable:Provided that, where no such price has been
notified, the rent shall be commuted in accordance with the price, which the
District Collector may, after making such local enquiry as he deems fit, fix
as the price prevailing on the date on which the land revenue became payable.

### 19. Evidence of payment of rent to landholder.

\- Every payment of rent made by a ryot to the landholder, before the notified
date in respect of the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified shall,
for the purpose of the first proviso to clause (a) of section 21, be
authenticated as hereunder:-(a)In cases where the ryot produces receipt in
token of payment of rent to the landholder, such receipt should have been
signed by the landholder or his duly authorized agent on his behalf.(b)In
cases, where he does not produce such a receipt, he shall produce a
certificate signed by the landholder or his duly authorized agent on his
behalf in token of the payment of rent to the landholder.

### 20. Determination of appropriate assessment.

(1)The following provisions shall govern the determination of the appropriate
assessment, under the Explanation to section 26, in respect of any land in an
inam estate, which has been registered, in pursuance of a settlement effected
under section 20, as wet, under an irrigation work belonging to, constructed
or maintained by, or on behalf of the Government, and which was liable to pay
any water-cess under any law governing the levy of such cess in the State of
Tamil Nadu for irrigation from the said work before the settlement.(2)If in
respect of a land, there was no former irrigation work, the appropriate
assessment shall be the settlement manavari assessment or the settlement dry
assessment, according as, in the absence of facilities for irrigation from the
Government irrigation work, the land would have been registered as manavari or
as dry, at the settlement.(3)In respect of a land, which could be cultivated
with wet crops in normal years with water taken from the former irrigation
work and which was liable to pay any water-cess to the Government after
facilities for irrigation from the Government irrigation work became
available, the appropriate assessment shall be the settlement wet
assessment.(4)In determining the appropriate assessment under these rules, the
Assistant Settlement Officer shall adopt the following procedure,
namely:-(a)(i)He shall first determine provisionally the appropriate
assessment of the land after considering all the relevant information
available in Government records and in any landholder's accounts handed over
to the Government under clause (d) of section 3.(ii)In cases falling under
sub-rule (c), the Assistant Settlement Officer shall, as a preliminary to the
determination of the appropriate assessment, determine the classification,
which would be assigned to the former irrigation work, if it were classified
in accordance with the settlement notification.Explanation. - For the purpose
of this rule "Government records" shall include block survey registers
prepared at the time of the block survey of the district, in which the land is
situated, the record of rights register of the village, in which the land is
situated, the irrigation memoir attached to the record of rights register or
relating to the tract, in which the land is situated, and settlement and re-
settlement registers of ryotwari villages in the neighbourhood.(b)The
Assistant Settlement Officer shall record a brief order indicating the basis
on which he has determined the provisional rate or assessment of each land and
the classification of each former irrigation work and specifying the record
relied upon by him.(c)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall, then, cause to
be published in the village in which the land is situated, a copy of the said
order together with a notice in Form No. 10 requiring all persons interested
in the land to appear before him and make any representation they may have, in
regard to the provisional assessment.(d)The notice referred to in clause (c)
shall specify the date on which the Assistant Settlement Officer proposes to
hear the parties and shall be published and a copy thereof shall also be
affixed on the notice board of the office of the Assistant Settlement
Officer.(e)On the day fixed for the finalisation for the appropriate
assessment, the Assistant Settlement Officer shall, after hearing the parties
present and considering the evidence produced, finalise the said
assessment.(f)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall, then, record his final
order, summarising the representations, if any, made to him, and indicating
the basis on which his final determination has been made and specifying the
evidence relied upon by him.(g)The order of the Assistant Settlement Officer
recorded under sub-rule (f) shall be published in the village.

### 21. Computation of net miscellaneous revenue.

\- For the purpose of determining the net annual miscellaneous revenue
referred to in section 27, the following deductions shall be made from the
gross annual miscellaneous revenue:-(1)In the case of miscellaneous revenue
derived from sources other than forests, fisheries and ferries, 10 per cent of
such miscellaneous revenue.(2)In the case of miscellaneous revenue derived
from forests-(a)when the forests are under the control of the Manager of the
inam estate alone and not administered by the Forest department-(i)ten per
cent, of such revenue, if no special staffs employed in connection with the
management of the forest;(ii)the actual expenditure incurred on account of the
special staff, if any such staff is employed for the management of the forest
or 15 per cent of the revenue derived from the forest, whichever is
less;(b)when the forests are administered by the Forest department, the actual
expenditure incurred on the administration and maintenance of the forests plus
5 per cent, of the same as centage charges towards the cost of supervision of
the administration by superior staffer 15 per cent of the revenue derived from
the forest, whichever is less.(3)In respect of forests in inam estates which
have been taken over and transferred to the control of the Forest department,
the Chief Conservator of Forests, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).], shall arrange to keep accounts of income and expenditure in respect
of each notified inam estate separately, for such period as is referred to in
section 27, excepting that in cases where for any part of the relevant fasli,
the administration of the forest vested in the Manager of the inam estate, the
Conservator of Forests may adopt the accounts maintained by the Manager up to
the date of such transfer. If the forest area in any such inam estate is not
administered as a separate unit of the Forest department, the income and
expenditure shall be apportioned as correctly as possible on the basis of the
available data. As soon as possible after the close of each year, the Chief
Conservator of Forests shall furnish to the Director of Settlements, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], the figures of actual or apportioned
gross revenue expenditure, and net income in respect of such inam
estate.(4)The provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis
to miscellaneous revenue derived from fisheries and ferries.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this sub-rule, the function of the Chief Conservator of Forests
shall be discharged by the Director of Fisheries in respect of Fisheries and
by the Chief Engineer (Highways) or the executive authority of the local body,
in respect of ferries according as the ferry is administered by the Highways
department or by a local body.

### 22. Manner in which quantity of anything deliverable in kind annually by
the landholder of other inam estate should be ascertained.

\- The quantity of anything deliverable in kind annually to the landholder of
an inam estate by the landholder of some other inam estate, in addition to the
jodi, kattubadi or other amount of a like nature payable in cash, shall be
ascertained with reference to custom or documentary evidence available. For
the purposes of commutation of the value of such quantity into cash, the taluk
price tables (wholesale prices) for the time of the year, when payment was
normally due or, if that was not specified, for the time of the year when the
jodi, kattubadi or other amount of a like nature was payable, shall be
adopted.

### 23. Procedure to calculate tasdik allowance to institution and
compensation and interim payment to service-holder.

\- The following procedure shall be adopted for calculating the tasdik
allowance payable under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 32 to any
religious, educational or charitable institution and the compensation and
interim payment payable under sub-section (2) of section 33, to any service-
holder, in respect of a part of an inam estate held by such institution or
service holder, immediately before the notified date.(1)(a)Where the part of
the inam estate held by a religious, educational, or charitable institution or
a service-holder is distinguishable separately on ground by metes and bounds,
the allowance payable shall be the aggregate of the sums specified in section
25 in respect of that part less the deduction specified in sections 26 and 28
relating to that part.(b)The deduction on account of the maintenance of
irrigation works referred to in sub-section (2) of section 26 shall be made
from the portion of the gross annual ryotwari demand relating to the part of
the inam estate held by the institution or service-holder. No deduction shall
be made, if the irrigation works do not actually serve such part.(c)Where the
source specified in clause (b) of section 3 (namely, waste, lands, pasture
lands, forests, mines and minerals, quarries, rivers and streams, tanks and
irrigation sources, fisheries and ferries), from which miscellaneous revenue
is derived, are not held separately by an institution or service holder and
any other landholder or landholders, the average net annual miscellaneous
revenue calculated for the inam estate as a whole as prescribed in section 27,
shall be apportioned between the institution or service-holder and the other
landholder or landholders, in proportion to the shares held by them.(d)The
deductions specified in section 28 shall be apportioned between the
institution or service-holder and other landholder or landholders, in the
proportion in which the obligation to pay the amounts specified in that
section, were shared between them by contract, custom or usage.(2)(a)Where the
part of the inam estate held by a religious, educational or charitable
institution or a service-holder is not distinguishable separately on. ground
by metes and bounds, and the total income from the inam estate is shared
between the institution or service-holder and the other landholder or
landholders, the tasdik allowance payable to the institution or the
compensation and the interim payment payable to the service-holder shall bear
to the total basic annual sum the same proportion as the share or the income
derived by the institution or service-holder bears to the total income from
the inam estate.(b)In case falling under clause (a), the share held by the
institution or service-holder shall be determined with reference to the inam
title deed or other records, as may be available and, where no such records
are available, with reference to custom and usage.(3)The balance of the total
basic annual sum, after deducting the portion to be ascribed to the
institution or service-holder as prescribed above, shall be ascribed to the
remaining part of the inam estate.

### 24. Application for a copy of the data when to be made.

\- An application for a copy of the data, on the basis of which the Director
of Settlements proposes to determine the basic annual sum, shall be made by
the landholder or other person interested within two months from such date as
may be notified by the Director of Settlements in this behalf.

### 25. Form of payment of compensation.

\- The compensation payable in respect of every inam estate shall be paid in
full either in cash or in bonds or partly in cash and partly in bonds issued
by the Government.

### 26. Payment of compensation in instalments.

\- In the case of an inam estate not held immediately before the notified date
by a religious, educational or charitable institution-(a)if the basic annual
sum in respect of the inam estate does not exceed Rs. 3,000, the compensation
shall be paid in one lump sum;(b)if the basic annual sum in respect of the
inam estate exceeds Rs. 3,000, but does not exceed Rs. 50,000, the
compensation shall be paid in equal annual instalments not exceeding three in
number; and(c)if the basic annual sum in respect of the inam estate exceeds
Rs. 50,000, the compensation shall be paid in equal annual instalments not
exceeding five in number.

### 27. Period within which compensation need be paid.

\- The compensation in respect of an inam estate shall be paid not later than
nine months from the date on which the settlement operations in respect of the
inam estate are completed or where the date is earlier than the date of expiry
of the period of fasli years referred to in section 27, not later than nine
months from the latter date:Provided that where the amount of the total
compensation stands altered as a result of any order under section 34, or
otherwise after the payment or payments referred to above, have been made the
amount or the amounts of any deficiency in the payment or payments already
made may be paid at any time, and as soon as may be after the said alteration,
and the amount or amounts of any excess in the payment or payments already
made by way of deposit under sections 36 and 45 may withdrawn at any time and
as soon as may be after the said alteration.

### 28. Apportionment of compensation and interim payment.

(1)As soon as may be after any amount is deposited under section 36 and 45 in
the office of the Tribunal, the Director of Settlements shall publish the fact
of such deposit in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now, the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.] with particulars of the amount so deposited, the date of
deposit and the inam estate to which it relates.(2)As soon as may be after
such publication is made, the Tribunal shall publish on its notice board, both
in English and Tamil, a copy of the notification as published in the [Fort St.
George Gazette.] [Now, the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.](3)The fact of
deposit shall also be published on the notice board of the taluk office of the
taluk, in which the inam estate is situated and also in the headquarters
village of the inam estate by affixing a copy of the notice in the village
chavadi or in some other conspicuous place in the village and also by beat of
tomtom.(4)If there are persons, whose claims to any amount deposited
previously in respect of the same inam estate, have been recognised by the
Tribunal, it shall give notice to all such persons, and the expenses for issue
of such notice shall be distributed among all the claimants who are before the
Tribunal, within the time specified in section 37.(5)The Tribunal shall pass
no orders regarding the apportionment of any amount so deposited with it until
after the expiry of one month from the date of publication of the notification
in respect of the deposit on its notice board.(6)No claim shall be allowed by
the Tribunal except a claim petition made to it.(7)The claimants and other
persons interested may appear before the Tribunal in person or through
pleaders duly authorised by them in this behalf.(8)In the case of an inam
estate, not being an impartible inam estate governed by section 40, the value
of the respective interests in the inam estate, of the principal landholder
and the other persons mentioned in section 39(1) shall be ascertained in
accordance with the following provisions.(9)In the case of any such mam
estate, in which there are darmila inams, the Tribunal shall first determine
the compensation payable to each darmila inam-dar on the one hand and the
principal landholder or landholders in the inam estate of the other and then
proceed in accordance with sub-rule (11) in respect of the compensation
payable to the principal landholders.(10)Sub-rules (11) and (12) as applicable
to partible inam estates shall mutatis mutandis apply to the compensation
payable in respect of each darmila inamdar.(11)(a)In the case of a partible
inam estate, which immediately before the notified date, was the property of a
joint Hindu family, the Tribunal shall determine the aggregate compensation
payable to all the following persons considered as a single group:-(i)the
members of the joint Hindu family who, immediately before the notified date
were entitled to a share in the inam estate (who are hereinafter called
"sharers"); and(ii)other persons who, immediately before the notified date
were entitled to maintenance out of the inam estate and its income either
under the Hindu law or under any decree or order of a Court, award or other
instrument in writing or contract or family arrangement, which is binding on
the principal landholder (who are hereinafter called "maintenance
holders"):Provided that no such maintenance holder shall be entitled to any
portion of the aggregate compensation aforesaid if, before the notified date,
his claim for maintenance, or the claim of his branch of family for
maintenance had been settled or discharged in full.(b)The Tribunal shall next
determine which creditors, if any, are lawfully entitled to have their debts
paid from and out of the assets of the inam estate and the amount, to which
each of them is entitled; and only the remainder of the aggregate compensation
shall be divisible among the shares and maintenance-holders as hereinafter
provided.(c)(i)The Tribunal shall, in determining the amount of the
compensation payable to the maintenance-holders and apportioning the same
among them, have regard, as far as possible, to the following considerations,
namely:-(1)the compensation payable in respect of the inam estate;(2)the
number of persons to be maintained out of the inam estate;(3)the nearness of
relationship of the person claiming to be maintained;(4)the other sources of
income of the claimant;(5)the circumstance of the family of the
claimant.(ii)For the purpose of securing that the amount of compensation
payable to the maintenance-holders is apportioned among them on an equitable
basis, the Tribunal shall have power, wherever necessary, to re-open any
arrangement already made in respect of maintenance whether by a decree or
order of a Court, award or other instrument in writing or contract or family
arrangement.(d)The balance of the aggregate compensation shall, subject to the
provisions of section 41, be divided among the shares, as if they owned such
balance as a joint Hindu family, and a partition thereof had been effected
among them on the notified date.(12)(a)In the case of a partible inam estate
other than that specified in sub-rule (11) or an impartible inam estate not
governed by section 40, the Tribunal shall determine the aggregate
compensation payable to all the following persons considered as a single
group, namely:-(i)the persons who, immediately before the notified date, owned
the inam estate (who are hereinafter in this rule called "owners").(ii)other
persons who, immediately before the notified date, were entitled to
maintenance out of the estate and its income either under the law governing
the parties or under any decree or order of a Court, award or other instrument
in writing or contract or family arrangement, which is binding on the owners
(such other persons being hereinafter in this rule called "maintenance-
holders"):Provided that no such maintenance-holder shall be entitled to any
portion of the aggregate compensation aforesaid, if, before the notified date,
his claim for maintenance, or the claim of his branch of the family for
maintenance had been settled or discharged in full.(b)The Tribunal shall next
determine which creditors, if any, are lawfully entitled to have the debts
paid from and out of the assets of the inam estate and the amount, to which
each of them is so entitled; and only the remainder of the aggregate
compensation shall be divisible among the owners and maintenance-holders as
hereinafter provided.(c)(i)The Tribunal shall, in determining the amount of
compensation payable to the maintenance-holders and apportioning the same
among them, have regard, as far as possible, to the following considerations,
namely:-(1)the compensation payable in respect of the inam estate;(2)the
number of persons to be maintained out of the inam estate;(3)the nearness of
relationship of the person claiming to be maintained;(4)the other sources of
income of the claimant;(5)the circumstances of the family of the
claimant.(ii)For the purpose of securing that the amount of compensation
payable to the maintenance-holders, is apportioned among them on an equitable
basis, the Tribunal shall have power, wherever necessary, to re-open any
arrangement already made in respect of maintenance, whether by a decree or
order of a Court, award or other instrument in writing or contract or family
arrangement.(d)The balance of the aggregate compensation shall, subject to the
provisions of section 41, be divided among the owners in proportion to the
respective interests in the inam estate immediately before the notified
date.(13)(a)In the case of an impartible inam estate governed by section 40,
in which there are darmila inams, the value of the respective interests in the
inam estate of the principal landholder and each of the darmila inamdars shall
be ascertained in accordance with the following provisions, namely:-(b)The
Tribunal shall first determine the amount of compensation payable to each
darmila inamdar on the one hand and principal landholder of the inam estate on
the other, the proprietor of the inam estate being treated as the principal
landholder thereof.(c)After the amount of compensation payable to each darmila
inamdar and the principal landholder has been determined under sub-clause (b)
above, the Tribunal shall-(i)in respect of the compensation payable to the
principal landholder, apply the provisions contained in sections 40 to 42;
and(ii)in respect of the compensation payable to each darmila inamdar apply
the rules prescribed for partible inam estates.

### 29. Payment of tasdik allowance or interim amounts.

\- The amount payable to any religious, educational or charitable institution
under section 32 or 49 of the Act shall be paid to the trustee, manager or
other person in charge of the institution already on the records. Before
making the payment, the Collector may, if he thinks it necessary, and shall,
if the claim for the management of the institution or the right to receive
payment of the amount on behalf of the institution is in dispute, obtain an
indemnity bond from the payee, the disputants being asked to establish their
claim in a competent Court of law.

### 30. Proposals for additional compensation to institutions to be submitted
to Government.

(1)The Director of Settlements shall submit to the Government proposals for
payment to be made under sub-section (2) of section 32 for making good the
deficiency referred to in that section to any religious, educational or
charitable institution in respect of an inam estate or part thereof, that was
held by it immediately before the notified date.(2)The trustee, manager or
other person in charge of every religious, educational or charitable
institution, which held an inam estate or part thereof immediately before the
notified date shall, within 90 days from the notified date or such further
time as the manager of the inam estate may, in his discretion allow, furnish
to the manager of the inam estate a settlement showing the particulars or
ryoti lands in the occupation of ryots in the inam estate, for each of the
five fasli years referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 32 in
Form No. 11. He shall also furnish the following particulars for each of the
five fasli years, namely:-(i)Miscellaneous items of revenue-(a)Source of
revenue;(b)Amount collected under each source.(ii)Jodi or like amount, if any,
payable to a landholder or some other inam estate.(iii)Jodi or like amounts,
if any, payable to the Government.(3)The manager of the inam estate shall
check the particulars including those in Form No. 11 furnished under sub-rule
(2) and furnish to the Director of Settlements with the correct data, on the
basis of which the latter shall work out the compensation payable under sub-
section (2) of section 32. He shall also submit at the same time the
particulars and the statement in Form No. 11 received by him under sub-rule
(2) to the Director of Settlements.(4)For purposes of calculating the
compensation amount, the difference between the average net annual income
derived by the institution from alL sources in the inam estate or part thereof
referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 32 and the income,
which the institution may be expected to receive from the lands, in respect of
which it is entitled to a ryotwari patta referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (2) of section 32, shall be taken to be the difference between the
following items of income and expenditure in the inam estate or part thereof
in the relevant faslis:-

Income | Expenditure  
---|---  
(1) Rent on ryoti lands in the occupation ofryots. | (1) Administrative charges.  
(2) Miscellaneous terms of revenue |  (2) Cess payable for the whole inam estates orpart thereof, as the case may be, by landholder.  
|  (3) Jodi or like amounts, if any, payable to thelandholder of some other
inam estate.  
|  (4) Jodi or like amounts, if any, payable to theGovernment.  
  
(5)For the purpose of sub-rule (4), the administrative charges shall be taken
as ten per cent of the income referred to in that sub-rule.(6)When the
trustee, manager or other person in charge of the institution does not furnish
the particulars in accordance with sub-rule (2), the Director of Settlements
shall work out the compensation payable to the institution, after causing such
local enquiry and scrutiny of records as he may deem fit, through the manager
of the inam estate, who shall furnish the information required for this
purpose when called for.

### 31. Poruppu, etc., payable to darmila inamdar to be taken into account in
the calculation of basic annual sum.

\- In the calculation of the basic annual sum under section 24, of an inam
estate or part thereof falling under section 32, the poruppu or other amount,
if any, of a like nature (excluding local cesses and taxes), payable annually
by any darmila inamdar to the institution immediately before the notified date
shall be added to the sums specified in section 25 for the institution and
deducted under section 28 in determining the compensationpayable to the
darmila grantee:Provided that the amount deducted shall, in no case, exceed
one half of the aggregate of the net amount computed in accordance with
section 26 in respect of the darmila portion.

### 32. Manner of payment.

(1)Any sum payable to a religious, educational or charitable institution under
sub-section (1) of section 32 as a tasdik allowance, or under sub-section (2)
of section 32 to make good the deficiency referred to in that section in
respect of any fasli year commencing from the fasli year in which the basic
annual sum referred to in sub-section (1) of section 32 is finally determined,
shall be paid by deduction from the beriz of the village concerned and in so
far as it cannot be so paid, shall be paid in cash to the institution from the
sub-treasury of the taluk in which the village is situated.(2)The payments
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be, subject to adjustment, as provided in
sub-section (2) of section 49 and shall be made before the end of the fasli
year, to which they relate.

### 33. Investing money received by a religious institution in securities.

\- Any sum received by a religious institution under sub-section (5) of
section 33 shall be invested by the institution in any one of the securities
specified in the Appendix to Chapter IV of Part II of the Civil Rules of
Practice and Circular Orders (Volume I).

### 34. Procedure in regard to service inams.

\- If any service-holder entitled to a ryotwari patta under section 9 in
respect of any land desires either to continue to render the service or to get
himself discharged from his liability to render the service, he shall exercise
his option referred to in sub-section (8) of section 33 in Form No. 12 not
later than the expiry of a period of six months from the date on which he was
granted ryotwari patta.

### 35. Procedure for determining fair rent.

(1)In determining fair rent for the purpose of sub-section (9) of section 33,
the manager of the inam estate or, if the manager is below the rank of a
Tahsildar, the Tahsildar of the taluk in which the inam estate is situated,
may call upon the landholder or the occupant to furnish the following
particulars and such other particulars, as he may consider
necessary:-(a)Extent of lands of each class such as wet, dry, garden, topes,
orchards and those used for non-agricultural purposes;(b)Rates of rent or
lease amount, as the case may be, levied on each class of land, immediately
before the fasli year, in which the inam estate is notified;(c)Particulars of
cultivation with details of extent, crop-yield and nature of occupation, as
the case may be.(2)The Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be, may also
call upon the landholder to produce his accounts containing the particulars
specified in sub-rule (1).(3)In the case of lands referred to in paragraph 1
of Schedule II to the Act, the Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be,
shall, for the purpose of determining fair rent, ascertain the lease amount
for a similar land, similarly situated and possessing similar advantages in
the neighbourhood.(4)Subject to the provisions contained in paragraph 2 of
Schedule II to the Act, the Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be,
shall, for determining the normal gross produce in respect of any land for any
specified crop, ascertain the quantity of the produce which would be obtained,
if such crop were grown in a year, in which the rainfall and the seasons were
of a normal character, on a land of the same class, as the land in question,
similarly situated and possessing similar advantages. For the purposes of such
determination, the Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be, may take into
consideration-(a)the soil classification of the land and the normal or
standard out turn of paddy in the case of wet land and of the dry or irrigated
crop in the case of dry unirrigated or irrigated land for the different
classes and sorts of soil;(b)the Government records containing the season and
crop reports and rainfall accounts;(c)the accounts of the landholders and
occupants, wherever available, for similar lands enjoying similar advantages;
and(d)the oral or documentary evidence adduced by any of the interested
parties and decrees of Civil Courts.(5)Before determining the fair rent in the
case of lands referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule II to the Act, the
Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be, shall issue notice in Form No.
13 to the service-holder or occupant, and the landholder concerned to make
representations, if any, which they desire to be considered in fixing the fair
rent.(6)After considering the representations and with reference to other
material before him, the Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be, shall
determine the fair rent in respect of the land concerned.(7)In computing the
fair rent in terms of cash, the Manager or the Tahsildar as the case may be,
shall fix the cash value of the crop in such manner as he may deem fair and
reasonable taking into consideration the Government records containing the
season and crop and price reports and also consulting the Director of
Statistics, if considered necessary:Provided that where the average market
price of any crop has been published by the Collector of the district in the
District Gazette under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of
1956) and such price is in force on the notified date, the Manager or the
Tahsildar, as the case may be, shall adopt such price in computing the fair
rent in terms of cash,(8)(a)A person aggrieved by any of the orders of the
Manager or the Tahsildar, as the case may be, may prefer a revision petition
to the District Collector in whose jurisdiction the inam estate is
situated.(b)Any such petition shall be preferred within thirty days from the
date of communication of the order of the Manager or the Tahsildar, as the
case may be:Provided that the District Collector may admit a petition after
the period aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient
cause for not preferring the petition within the said period.

### 36. Enquiry under section 33(11).

(1)Enquiry under sub-section (11) of section 33 shall be either suo motu or on
application from the institution concerned or from other interested persons
and shall be conducted by the Revenue Divisional Officer of the division
concerned.(2)The Revenue Divisional Officer shall issue regarding the date,
time, and place of enquiry in Form No. 14 to the service-holder concerned, the
applicant and the institution, if the institution is not the applicant and
shall also publish the notice.(3)The enquiry shall be summary. The Revenue
Divisional Officer shall, after hearing the service-holder, the institution
and other persons interested and after giving reasonable opportunity to the
parties for adducing evidence, give his decision in writing. The decision
shall be communicated to the parties concerned.(4)If the decision is that
there has been failure to render the service by the service-holder, the
Revenue Divisional Officer shall notify such failure in Form No. 15 and
publish it.(5)After the publication of the notification referred to in sub-
rule (4), the Revenue Divisional Officer shall give the declaration referred
to in sub-section (11) of section 33 in Form No. 16. It shall be published and
copies thereof shall be served on the service-holder and on the institution.

### 37. Communication of orders determining basic annual sum and total
compensation.

\- The Director of Settlements shall communicate every order passed under sub-
section (1) of sections 34 to every landholder concerned and also to every
applicant under sub-section (2) of section 34 in the manner specified
below:-(a)By sending the order by registered post acknowledgment due; or(b)By
getting the order served through the Tahsildar or the Manager of inam estate
concerned;(c)In cases where the order is to be served on any landholder or any
applicant, the Director of Settlements shall send the order in duplicate to
the Tahsildar of the taluk or the Manager of inam estate concerned, who shall
arrange to serve one copy on the person concerned, obtain his acknowledgment
on the duplicate and return the duplicate copy to the Director of Settlements
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of the order.

### 38. Appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Every appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be in Form No. 17 and
shall be signed by the appellant or his advocate and presented, by such
appellant, advocate or the registered clerk of the advocate at the office of
the Registrar, High Court, Madras, during working hours.(2)It shall set forth
briefly the grounds of objection to the decision appealed against.(3)It shall
be accompanied by a vakalatnama duly executed if the appellant appears by
advocate, by a certified copy of the order appealed against and by as many
authenticated copies thereof as there are respondents together with the
prescribed process fee:Provided that in the case of a memorandum of appeal
presented under sub-rule (4), the process fee shall be paid within three days
after the delay is condoned under sub-rule (5).(4)Where an appeal is presented
after the period of limitation prescribed therefor in sub-section (1) of
section 46, it shall be accompanied by a petition for condoning the delay. The
petition shall be supported by an affidavit setting forth the facts on which
the appellant relies to satisfy the Court that he had sufficient cause for not
preferring the appeal within such period.(5)The petition shall, then, be
posted for orders before the Judge nominated for the purpose under sub-section
(1) of section 46.(6)As soon as the appeal is numbered, it shall be placed
before the Registrar for orders as to issue of notice and preparation of the
record for the hearing of the appeal.(7)The record of the case for the use of
the Special Appellate Tribunal shall consist of all material papers on which
either party proposes to rely at the hearing of the appeal.(8)Unless otherwise
ordered by the Judge or the Registrar at the instance of a party, the record
shall be translated, if need be, and typed at the office of the Registrar and
the charges therefor shall be calculated at the rates prescribed in the rules
of the High Court, Appellate Side.(9)In case the record is to be prepared at
the office of the Registrar, the appellant shall, within two weeks after the
receipt of an office memorandum to that effect, pay into the Registrar's
office such charges, as may be specified in the said office memorandum.(10)The
respondent shall, within three weeks from the date of service of the notice of
appeal on him, obtain the direction of the Registrar, as to the preparation of
the record and shall pay the charges therefor within such time, as may be
fixed by the Registrar.

### 39. Deposit in District Court of unclaimed and undisbursed amounts
deposited with the Tribunal.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 36, sub-sections (5) and (7) of section 45 or subsection (2) of
section 57 and remaining unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been
made within the time specified in sub-section (1) of section 37 or sub-section
(4) of section 57, as the case may be, or no application for payment has been
made within the time specified in section 50; and(b)all amounts deposited as
aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months from
the date of disposal of the application under section 50 shall be withdrawn by
the Tribunal and deposited in The District Court having jurisdiction over the
inam estate.(2)As soon as any amount is withdrawn by the Tribunal from its
personal deposit or other account and deposited in the District Court having
jurisdiction under sub-section (1) of section 51, the Tribunal shall publish
the fact of such deposit in the District Gazette concerned in Form No. 18. The
Tribunal shall also cause a copy of the notification in Form No. 18 to be
affixed to the notice board of its office and shall send copies of the
notification to the Director of Settlements and the District Judge, the
District Collector and the Tahsildar concerned, who shall cause them to be
affixed on the notice boards of their respective offices and send certificates
of such publication to the Tribunal.(3)On the transfer of the amount from the
personal deposit or other account of the Tribunal to the account of the
District Court, it shall be charged off as expenditure in the account of the
Tribunal.

### 40. Form in which claim should be made.

\- Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against, any amount held in
deposit by the District Court shall apply in Form No. 19.

### 41. Levy of process fees, award of costs, etc.

\- In respect of levy of process fees, award of costs including costs by way
of compensation for frivolous or vexatious claims or defence, pleader's fee
and witness batta, the District Court shall follow the rules, as applicable to
the Tribunal.

### 42. Procedure for dealing with amounts transferred to deposit of the
District Court.

\- The amount transferred to the deposit of the District Court shall be
finally dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rules 51 to
60 in Chapter III of Part I of the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders
(Volume II).

### 43. Investing in securities money due to a person under disability.

\- In cases where the Tribunal does not order the payment of compensation or
any other money to any person on behalf of another under disability or to a
guardian on behalf of a minor, the Tribunal shall invest the money in any one
of the securities specified in the Appendix to Chapter IV of Part II of the
Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders (Volume I).

### 44. Procedure for payment of arrears of rent of landholder.

\- The Manager of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of rent
has been determined before the notified date under the Tamil Nadu Estates Land
(Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1947) shall, from time to
time and in accordance with the instructions issued by the [Board of Revenue],
submit proposals to the Collector of the district in which the existing inam
estate or the major portion thereof lies, for the payment to the landholder of
the amount due to him from out of the collections made under sub-section (1)
of section 56.

### 45. Part-payment of arrears of rent to landholder of an existing inam
estate by the Collector or Personal Assistant to the Collector.

\- The Collector or the Personal Assistant to the Collector may, at any time
in a fasli year, pay to the landholder of an existing inam estate in respect
of which the rate of rent has been determined before the notified date under
the Tamil Nadu Estate Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX
of 1947) an amount not exceeding one-half of what remains of the arrears of
rent collected up to that time, after deducting there from the aggregate of
the following items, namely:-(i)collection charges,(ii)the amount already paid
to the landholder by the Collector, the Personal Assistant to the Collector or
the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu
Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980) Now,
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] in the fasli year, and(iii)such portion of the arrears
of quit-rent, jodi or other amount, if any, of a like nature due from the
landholder to the State Government as is proportionate to the total
collections made up to the time of payment by the Collector or the Personal
Assistant to the Collector. The Collector or the Personal Assistant to the
Collector may do this, as often as he thinks fit in the falsi year.

### 46. Further payments of arrears of rent to the landholder of an existing
inam estate.

\- The Collector may submit to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue
was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1980) Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.], from time to time, proposals
for further payments to be made to the landholder of an existing inam estate
in respect of which the rate of rent has been determined before the notified
date under the Tamil Nadu Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXX of 1947). On receipt of the proposals, the [Board of Revenue]
[The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue
Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980) Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] shall determine the amount that should be paid to the landholder out of
the collections made and shall authorise the Collector to pay it. The amount
so ordered to be paid shall not exceed the balance of the collections after
deducting therefrom -(a)ten per cent, thereof on account of collection
charges,(b)such portion of the arrears of quit-rent or other amount, if any,
of a like nature including cess due from the landholder to the State
Government, as is proportionate to the total collections so far made,
and(c)any amounts already paid.

### 47. Final payment of arrears of rent to landholder.

\- If all the amounts due from the ryot in an inam estate in respect of which
the rate or rent has been determined before the notified date under the Tamil
Nadu Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1947)
had been collected, the Board of Revenue1 shall determine the amount payable
to the landholder under subsection (1) of section 56 in full settlement of
accounts, and the Collector shall arrange to pay the amount so determined,
less any payments already made, in accordance with its instructions.

### 48. Drawal of emoluments by person employed in the administration of inam
estate.

\- The persons employed in the administration of an inam estate shall be
entitled to receive the same emoluments which they would have drawn, if the
inam estate had not been notified until such time, as the Government may frame
rules in this regard.

### 49. Decision of questions regarding forest.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall determine questions regarding forests under
section 66 either suo motu or on application.(2)Any person requiring a
decision under section 66 shall apply to the Settlement Officer in Form No.
20.(3)Except where the application is on behalf of the Government, it shall be
signed and verified by the applicant.(4)Every such application shall be
restricted to the lands in a single village.(5)Every such application shall be
presented in person or sent by registered post.(6)As many copies of the
application as there are respondents with one additional copy for the Manager
of the inam estate in which the land is situated, shall be filed with the
application.(7)On receipt of the application, the Settlement Officer shall fix
a date of hearing and issue notice in Form No. 21 to the applicant, the
respondents and the Manager of the inam estate. A copy of the application
shall be sent along with the notice.(8)The Settlement Officer shall make a
summary enquiry into the application and give his decision in writing after
giving the parties a reasonable opportunity for adducing evidence.(9)A copy of
the order shall be served on the petitioner and on each of the respondents. A
copy shall also be sent to the officer immediately superior to the officer
making the enquiry, if the officer making the enquiry is an Assistant
Settlement Officer, to the Director of Settlements and to the Manager of the
inam estate concerned.

### 50. Appeal to Director of Settlements.

(1)Every appeal against an order of the Settlement Officer under section 66
shall be preferred to the Director of Settlements within thirty days from the
date of communication of the order.(2)On receipt of the appeal, the Director
of Settlements shall fix a date of hearing and issue notices in Form No. 22 to
the parties concerned. He shall give them a reasonable opportunity of being
heard before passing orders.

### 51. Award of costs.

(1)No costs, by way of process fee, pleader's fee and witness battas shall be
allowed in proceedings before the Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal,
in cases where the claim is uncontested or is decreed on admission or
compromised.(2)Where a claim is contested before a Tribunal or Special
Appellate Tribunal, but it allowed in whole or in part, costs shall be allowed
to the claimants or appellant in proportion to his success against contest and
the contesting party or respondent shall pay such costs to the claimant or
appellant.(3)In the event of any claim before a Tribunal or Special Appellate
Tribunal being dismissed, wholly or in part, costs shall be allowed to the
contesting party by respondent, in proportion to his success.(4)In case of
frivolous or vexatious claims or defences, costs shall be allowed also by way
of compensation, as laid down in section 35-A of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908).(5)Where costs are awarded by a Tribunal, or
Special Appellate Tribunal, the order for costs shall be executable by a Civil
Court having jurisdiction over the area with reference to which the Tribunal
or the Special Appellate Tribunal gave its decision as if it were a decree
passed by such Court.

### 52. Procedure to be adopted in the case of proceedings before the Judge of
High Court.

\- The provisions of Rule 50 and 51 shall, so far as may be, apply to the
proceedings before a Judge of the High Court hearing a case under sub-section
(2) of section 46.

### 53. Mode of entertaining appeal or revision petition, enquiry thereof and
grant of stay.

(1)Every appeal or revision petition under the Act or these Rules shall be
accompanied by a duly authenticated copy of the order appealed against or
sought to be revised.(2)In respect of any order passed under the Act, which is
subject to appeal or revision, the appellate or revisional authority, as the
case maybe, may suspend the execution of the order, pending its decision on
the appeal or in revision.(3)Notice of hearing of any appeal or revision, as
the case may be, shall be given to the appellant or revision petitioner and
the respondent or respondents and to the other persons interest, if
any.(4)Before passing orders on every appeal or revision petition, the parties
concerned shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)A copy of
the final order in appeal or revision shall be communicated to the appellant
or revision petitioner and the respondent or respondents and other persons
interested, if any, or the counsel concerned, if any of them is represented by
counsel, by registered post, and also to the Manager of the inam estate, and
the Assistant Settlement Officer.Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule,
"person interested" means the landholder of the inam estate or part thereof in
which the land is situated and includes any other person claiming an interest
in the compensation payable for the inam estate or part thereof.

### 54. Time barred application, appeal or revision petition to be dismissed.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Rules, every application
made and every appeal and revision petition presented to the authorities or
officers having jurisdiction under the Act and these Rules, after the period
of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these Rules, shall be
dismissed although limitation has not been set up as a defence.(2)No such
application made or appeal and revision petition filed shall be admitted after
the period of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these Rules on the
ground that the applicant or appellant or petitioner had sufficient cause for
not preferring the application or appeal of petition within such period.

### 55. Extent or boundaries of land covered by orders of any authority under
Act.

\- The extent or boundaries of the land covered by any order passed by any
authority or officer in any proceedings under the provisions of this Act shall
be, subject to any changes, consequent on the determination of the area and
map plotting by the survey authorities.

### 56. Transfer of proceedings.

(1)The proceedings pending before any Tribunal, authority or office may be
transferred to any other Tribunal, authority or officer, as the case may be,
by the authority, to whom appeals or revision petitions like against the
decisions of such Tribunal, authority or officer, or where there is no
appellate or revisional authority, by the Government.(2)Where a Tribunal is
constituted in the place of an existing Tribunal with the same jurisdiction,
all the proceedings pending before the existing Tribunal shall stand
transferred to the Tribunal so constituted.

### 57. Power to issue summons.

\- Every Settlement Officer, Assistant Settlement Officer, Settlement
Tahsildar, Manager and Assistant Manager of an inam estate, Taluk Officer and
Assistant Taluk Officer working under a Manager of an inam estate and officer
working under the Settlement Officer or the Assistant Settlement Officer, of
and above the rank of Deputy Tahsildar, shall have power to issue summons to
any person either for appearance or for production of documents in connection
with the enquiries into questions pending before such officer under the Act
and such person shall be bound to obey such summons. The form of summons shall
be that used by Revenue Courts.

### 58. Manner of service and publication of notices and orders under the Act
or the rules.

(1)Any notice or order issued or made under the Act or under these Rules shall
be served on the person concerned in the following manner, namely:-(a)by
delivering or tendering the notice or order to the person concerned or his
counsel or authorised agent or some adult member of his family; or(b)by
sending the notice or order to the person concerned by registered post
acknowledgment due; or(c)if none of the aforesaid modes of service is
practicable, by affixing the notice or order in some conspicuous part of the
last known place of residence or business of the person concerned.(2)Any
notice or order, which is intended for publication for general information
shall, in addition to the special modes of publication prescribed in these
rules, also be published by affixture in the village chavadi of the village in
which the inam estate, is situated and, if there is no village chavadi, in any
conspicuous public place in the village, and by announcing the fact of such
publication by beat of tom-tom in the village. The village officer shall
certify to the place and date of publication and the said date shall be deemed
to be the date of communication of the notice or order, as the case may be, to
the parties concerned.

### 59. Court-fees and process fees.

(1)The Court-fee payable in respect of the document specified in column (2) of
the Table below, under the section in column (1) of the said Table shall be
amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) thereof:-

Section | Description of documents | Court-fee Rs.P  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
7(c) | Revision petition to the Board of Revenue1 | 200  
12 | Application to the Settlement Officer | 075  
| Appeal to the Tribunal | 200  
| Application to the Tribunal | 075  
| Vakalatnama to the Tribunal | 150  
34(6) | Appeal to the Board of Revenue | 200  
46(1) |  Memorandum of appeal to the Special AppellateTribunal--- | 1500  
| (a) If the claim does not exceed Rs. 3,000 |   
|  (b) If the claim exceeds Rs.3,000, but does notexceed Rs.10,000 | 10000  
| (c) If the claim exceeds Rs. 10,000 | 50000  
|  Interlocutory application to the SpecialAppellate Tribunal | 200  
| Vakalatnama to the Special Appellate Tribunal | 300  
51(3) | Application to the District Court --- |   
| (a) if the claim does not exceed Rs. 100 | 500  
| (b) if the claim exceeds Rs. 100 | 1000  
60 | Application to the Settlement Officer | 075  
| Appeal to the Director of Settlements | 100  
| Revision petition to the Board of Revenue | 150  
  
Explanation I. - No Court-fee need be paid in the case of appeals filed on
behalf of the Government.Explanation II. - No Court-fee need be paid by the
ryots in respect of applications, vakalatnamas, appeal petitions or any other
petitions.(2)In proceedings before the Tribunal, process fees shall be paid at
the rates prescribed for the District Court on processes issued at the
instance of parties. In proceedings before the Special Appellate Tribunal,
process fees shall be paid in accordance with the process fees prescribed
under section 80 of the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1955
(Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1955). The rates of process fees leviable for service
of notices and summons on respondents and witness and for production of
records shall be calculated as follows in cases other than those specified in
Rules 41 and 51:-

|  | Rs.P.  
---|---|---  
(1) |  For service of notices of summons on a singleperson | 2.25  
(2) |  For service of notices or summons on everyadditional person residing in the same village if applied for atthe same time [As amended by G. O. Ms. No. 1376,Revenue, datedthe 23rd March 1976.] | 1.15  
  
Explanation. - The ryots are also exempted from the payment of process fees
and publication charges with regard to their applications or appeals
concerning the grant of patta.

### 60. Fees to pleaders.

\- The following principles shall be adopted in fixing the fees to pleaders
for work connected with the proceedings under the Act before the Special
Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal:-(1)Fees payable to pleaders for
appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal. - The Special Appellate
Tribunal shall, for taxation, fix the fees payable to pleaders, for work
connected with the proceedings before it, in the same manner in which the High
Court fixes advocate's fee for taxation in appeals against the orders of lower
Courts, irrespective of the fact whether it allows cost to any of the
contesting parties or not:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected
cases, in which the result is determined by a single case, only one regulation
fee shall be fixed.(2)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance before the
Tribunal. - (a) The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to pleaders for work
connected with the following original proceedings before them so as not to
exceed Rs. 500 in ordinary cases and Rs. 1,000 in important
cases:-(i)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of compensation under
section 39.(ii)Proceedings connected with the apportionment of interim
payments under sub-section (5) of section 45.(iii)Proceedings connected with
the division of the lands in respect of which a ryotwari patta has to be
granted under section 42:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected
cases in which the result is determined by a single case, only one regulation
fee shall be fixed.(b)(i)The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to pleaders
for work connected with proceedings under the other provisions of the Act on
the following basis, namely:-(1)For appearance before the Tribunal and for
preparation of * the case-A fixed fee of Rs. 15 for each case in respect of
appeals under sub-section (2) of section 12.(2)(i)For appearance before the
Tribunal for arguments in respect of appeals under sub-section (2) of section
12- if the time taken does not exceed 3 hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 15 for each
case;if the time taken exceeds 3 hours, but does not exceed 6 hours, a fixed
fee of Rs. 30 for each case;if the time taken exceed 6 hours a fixed fee of
Rs. 50 for each case:Provided that in respect of a batch of connected cases
under sub-section (2) of section 12, in which the result is determined by a
single case, the Tribunal shall fix one regulation fee.(ii)The Tribunal shall
fix fees payable to each of the pleaders, who appear before them in each case,
irrespective of the fact whether they allow any costs to any of the contesting
parties or not.(3)(i)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance before the
Special Appellate Tribunal and for preparation of the case-A fixed fee of Rs.
100 for each case.(ii)Fees payable to pleaders for appearance before the
Special Appellate Tribunal for arguments-if the time taken does not exceed
three hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 25 for each case;if the time taken exceeds
three hours, but does not exceed six hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 50 for each
case;if the time taken exceeds six hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 75 for each case:
Provided that in respect of a batch of connected cases, in which the result is
determined by a single case, the Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix one
regulation fee.(iii)The Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix the fee payable
to the pleaders in each case irrespective of the fact whether it allows costs
or not.AppendixForm No. 1[See rule 5 (3) (a) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Office of the Manager of
Inam EstateDated..........Current No.........ToSri..............residing
at...........village...................taluk.Whereas you are reported to be in
occupation of the land specified in the Schedule hereunder, which vests in the
Government under section 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963), and whereas
you are not personally cultivating the said land and as your occupation is
objectionable, you are hereby given notice that if you so desire, you may
appear before me/on...............[(date)] [The date should be at least seven
days after the date of service of the notice].................at why you
should not be dispossessed of the said land under the proviso to section 3(d)
of the said Act. (As amended by G.O. Ms. No. 1398, Revenue, dated 9-5-1972).

## Schedule

District and Taluk | Name of inam estate | Name of village | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---  
Survey number and sub-division number, ifsurveyed, or local name, if unsurveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number ofsub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North,South, Eastand West | Classification | Name of occupation | Name Of The Occupant  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 2[See rule 5(3)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Proceedings of the Manager of......Inam
Estate.No..............Date.......Whereas the land specified in the Schedule
hereunder has been under the occupation of Sri.............residing
at..................;And Whereas in pursuance of Rule 5(3)(b) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965,
I......... Manager of Inam Estate do hereby find that the said occupant is not
personally cultivating the said land; andWhereas I, ........................
Manager of ..;................. Inam Estate consider that the occupation is
objectionable, the said occupant will be dispossessed of the said land after
the lapse of the time limit in rule 5(3)(c).

## Schedule 2

District and Taluk | Name of inam estate | Name of village | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---  
Survey number andsub-division number, if surveyed, or local name, if unsurveyed |  Entire extent of thesurvey number of sub- division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of landoccupied North,South,East and West | Classification | Name of occupation | Name of The Occupant  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 3[See rule 5(3)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Proceedings of the Manager of :. inam
Estate.No........Date.........Whereas the land specified in the Schedule
hereunder has been ' under the occupation of residing at ;And Whereas in
pursuance of rule 5(4) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965, I........... Manager of...........Inam
Estate do hereby find that the said occupant, namely.........is not personally
cultivating the said land;And Whereas I, Manager of Inam Estate consider that
the occupation is not objectionable, the occupant Sri will be allowed to be in
occupation of the land, subject to the payment of assessment on the land,
until the ryotwari settlement of the land under section 20 or until the land
is required by the Government for any purpose, whichever is
earlier.Explanation. - The payment of the assessment shall not confer on the
occupant any right of occupancy in respect of the land.

## Schedule 3

District and Taluk | Name of inam estate | Name of village | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---  
Survey number and sub-division number, if surveyed, or localname, if unsurveyed | Entire extent of the survey number of sub- division | Occupied extent | Boundaries of land occupied North,South,East and West | Classification | Name of occupation | Assessment | Name of The Occupant  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Rs. P. |  |   
  
Manager.Form No. 4[See rule 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of Application Under Section
12(1)/14.Name of the inam estate:Name of the
landholder/ryot/cultivator/service-holder:Address of the
landholder/ryot/cultivator/ service-holder:(List of lands in respect of which
the landholder/ryot/cultivator/ service-holder claims ryotwari patta)-

### 1\. Serial number:

### 2\. Name of district:

### 3\. Name of taluk:

### 4\. Name of village:

### 5\. Local name, if any, of the land:

### 6\. Survey number and sub-division (if unsurveyed):

### 7\. Extent (in hectares and acres or local measures):

### 8\. Classification, whether wet or dry:

### 9\. Survey numbers of adjacent lands-

North:South-East:West:

### 10\. Provision of law under which the claim is preferred:

### 11\. Summary of the evidence proposed to be adduced:

### 12\. Remarks:

Place:Date:Signature of landholder/ryot/cultivator/service-holder.Note. - A
separate form should be used for each village in the inam estate.Form No.
5[See rule 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given to Sri................
landholder/ryot/cultivator/ service-holder of............... inam estate that
the Settlement Tahsildar/ Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Officer............will hold an enquiry into the nature and history of the
land mentioned in the Schedule below, in respect of which it is proposed to
decide his claim for the grant of ryotwari patta on............. (date)
at............ (time) in............ (place) and on subsequent dates at time
and place that will be intimated. He may produce any record or make any
representation which he may wish to make before the Settlement
Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer / Settlement Officer at the
enquiry.Place:Date:Settlement Tahsildar.Assistant Settlement
Officer.Settlement Officer.

## Schedule 4

Name of the district | :..........................  
---|---  
Name of the taluk | :..........................  
Name of the village | :..........................  
Name of the inam estate | :..........................  
  
Survey number and subdivision | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 14(1) | Name of the claimant |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963 underwhich the claim is to be dealt with  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri.............landholder/ryot/cultivator/service-holder in duplicate
through the Manager of inam estate/the Tahsildar of....................for
causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing obtaining
acknowledgment and returning the original before the date of hearing. [As
amendment by G.O. Ms. No. 1326, Revenue, dated 2-7-1968]Form No. 6[See rule
9(5) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given to all those whom it may concern that in
respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule, it is proposed to decide the
claim for the grant of ryotwari patta to the person under
section.............of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963) specified against each land.
The Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Officer will
hold an enquiry into the nature and history of the lands on ..............
(date) at............ (time) in ........... (place) and on subsequent dates at
time and place that will be intimated.Any person, who has any objection to any
of the proposals to grant ryotwari patta may file before the Settlement
Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer/ Settlement Officer, a statement of his
objections within a week from the date of this notice. The objections should
be supported by a summary of evidence and all available documents.All
interested persons are hereby advised to be present at the enquiry, either in
person or through an authorised representative, and make their
representations.All such objections and representations and other available
records and evidence will be taken into consideration and suitable orders will
be passed by the Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement
Officer.In the absence of any such objection or representation, the Settlement
Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Officer will conduct such
enquiry, as he may deem necessary on the basis of the available records and
evidence. In the event of the absence of any interested person, the enquiry
will be conducted ex parte. The village headmanl and the kamaml will be
present at the enquiry.Place:Date:Settlement Tahsildar.Assistant Settlement
Officer.Settlement Officer.

## Schedule 5

Name of the district | :..........................  
---|---  
Name of the taluk | :..........................  
Name of the village | :..........................  
Name of the inam estate | :..........................  
  
Survey number and subdivision | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 14(1) | Name of the claimant |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963 underwhich the claim is to be dealt with  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri............... names of respondent, if any, (in duplicate) through the
Tahsildar of.............. Manager of...........inam estate, for causing
service at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing, obtaining
acknowledgment and returning the original before the date of hearing.The
Manager............... inam estate/The Tahsildar of............. (in
duplicate) for causing publication in................village at least fifteen
days prior to the date of hearing by affixture in the village chavadi or in
any conspicuous public place in the village, which should be specified and
announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom and for returning the original with the
following certificate. [As amended by G. O. Ms. No. 1263, Revenue, dated the
2nd July 1968].CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing
a copy thereof in the village chavadi...........(or, some conspicuous place to
be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom ..............on
and in token therefor the signatures of the villagers have been
obtained.Place:Date:[Signature of Village Headman] [These posts were abolished
and now they are called Village Administrative Officer.][Signature of the
Karnam] [These posts were abolished and now they are called Village
Administrative Officer.].Form No. 7[See rule 9(8) of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]It is hereby
notified for the information of all concerned that under section 12(1)714(1)
read with sections 9,10 or 11 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement
Officer/Settlement Officer 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)............ has
decided that in Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Officer respect of the
lands mentioned in the Schedule, the person specified against each land in
column (6) of the Schedule is entitled to ryotwari patta. Any person aggrieved
by this decision may appeal to the Tribunal within three months prefer
............... within one month from the date of communication of the
decision.Place:Date:Settlement Tahsildar.Assistant Settlement
OfficerSettlement Officer.

## Schedule 6

Name of the district | :..........................  
---|---  
Name of the taluk | :..........................  
Name of the village | :..........................  
Name of the inam estate | :..........................  
  
Survey number and subdivision | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 14(1) | Name of the claimant |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963 underwhich the claim is to be dealt with  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToThe Manager ................ Inam Estate/The Tahsildar of taluk (in
duplicate) for causing publication by affixture in the village chavadi or in
some conspicuous public place in the village which should be specified, and
announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom and for returning the original with the
following certificate.CertificateCertified that this notice was published by
affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi ....................... (or
some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of
tom-tom on ..................and in token thereof the signatures of the
villagers have been obtained.Place:Date:[Signature of the Village Headman]
[These posts were abolished and now they are called Village Administrative
Officer.].[Signature of the Karnam] [These posts were abolished and now they
are called Village Administrative Officer.].Form No. 8[See rule 10(1) of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965]Notice is hereby given that an appeal from the decision of the Settlement
Officer under section 12(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963) has been
presented ..........by and admitted by this Tribunal and has been posted for
hearing on.............. day of ..........20............. at............
(place).All persons who have preferred claims before the Settlement
Officer/Assistant Settlement Officer/Settlement Tahsildar under section 9, 10
or 11 or filed statements during the enquiry before him are here by called
upon to appear before the Tribunal on the date and at the place specified
above and file their further statements, if any, in the matter.A copy of the
appeal petition is appended hereto.To.............TribunalThe applicant in
duplicate through the Manager, Inam Estate/ Tahsildar of taluk for causing
service at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing, obtaining the
acknowledgment and returning the original before the date of hearing.The
Manager of.......Inam Estate/The Tahsildar............ taluk in duplicate for
causing publication in the village of .............. at least fifteen days
prior to the date of hearing by affixture in the village chavadi or in any
conspicuous public place in the village, which should be specified, announcing
the fact by beat of tom-tom and for returning the original with the following
certificate:-CertificateCertified that the notice was published by affixing a
copy thereof in the village chavadi .........(or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on .........; and in
token thereof signatures of villagers have been obtained.Signature of Village
Headman.Signature of Kamam.Form No. 9[See rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Office of the
Manager of Inam Estate.Place:Date:Toresiding
at................village...........taluk.Whereas it has been decided by the
Settlement Officer/the Tribunal/the Special Appellate Tribunal/the Director of
Settlement/ The [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980)
Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue,
dated the 1st December 1980.] that you are not entitled to a ryotwari patta in
respect of the land in your occupation mentioned in the Schedule hereunder,
you are hereby required to vacate the land within seven days from the date of
service of this notice failing which you will be evicted from the land. Take
notice also that the Revenue Inspector firka is hereby authorised to carry out
the orders of eviction and to take possessions of the land.

## Schedule 7

District and Taluk | Name of inam estate | Name of village | Description of the land  
---|---|---|---  
Survey number and sub-division number, ifsurveyed, or local name, if unsurveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number of sub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North,South,East andWest | Classification | Name of occupation | Name of The Occupant  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Manager.Copy to the Revenue Inspector firka for............eviction and
report.Form No. 10[See rule 20(4)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given that the
undersigned has provisionally fixed, as specified in the order attached, the
appropriate rate of assessment in respect of the lands referred to in that
order under the Explanation to section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)
and the rules framed thereunder.(2)The finalisation of the provisional
assessment will be taken up by the undersigned on............ (date)
at........ (time) in............... (place).(3)Any person interested may file
before the undesigned at the said time and place his representation in regard
to the provisional assessment and adduce oral or documentary evidences.(4)If
any person interested does not appear before the undersigned and adduce
evidence, no further opportunity will be given to him, and the matter will be
disposed of on merits.Place:Date:Assistant Settlement Officer.The Manager
of........... Inam Estate/Tahsildar of ...........taluk (in duplicate) for
causing publication in............. village by affixture in the village
chavadi or in some conspicuous public place in the village, which should be
specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom; and for returning the
original with the following certificate:-CertificateCertified that this notice
was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi............
(or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat
of tom-tom on ............; and in token thereof signatures of villagers have
been obtained.Place:Date:[Signature of the Village Headman] [These posts were
abolished and now they are called Village Administrative Officer.].[Signature
of Karnam] [These posts were abolished and now they are called Village
Administrative Officer.].Form No. 11[See rule 30(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Statement Showing
the Particulars of Ryoti in the Occupation of Ryots in the Inam Estate held
by.......... (Name of Institution) in.......... Taluk in................
District in ............Fasli

Patta number and name of the registered holder | Serial number of paimash number | Extent | Classification | Rate of rent | Amount of rent at the rate in column (5) | Extent, if any, left waste in the fasli |  Remission, if any, the ryot is entitled to get oneach land by virtue of contract or custom  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  | HA. |  |  | HA. |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 12[See rule 34 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of Option to be Exercised by the
Service-Holder under section 33(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963).

### 1\. Name and address of the service-holder.

### 2\. Name and address of the institution.

### 3\. Nature of service attached.

### 4\. (i) Whether willing to continue to render the service; or

(ii)Whether willing to discharge the service on payment of the amount as
required in section 33(9) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963).

### 5\. Particulars of land for which ryotwari patta has been granted under
section 9 to the person specified column (1).

Name of the District | Name of the taluk | Name of the Inam estate | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Remarks | Date of grant of ryotwari patta  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of the service-holder.Form No. 13[See rule 35(5) of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
19651Current No.Office of the Manager
of.........Date.........ToSri............(name of service-
holder),............. village.......... taluk..................... The
Manager.............(name of institution),..............
village,............... taluk.Notice is hereby given that the determination of
fair rent in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule below will be
taken by the undersigned on ..........(date) at ..........(time) in
..............(place).

### 2\. You may file before the undersigned at the said time and place your
representation in regard to the determination of fair rent.

### 3\. If you do not avail yourself of this opportunity, the matter will be
disposed of on merits.

Place:Date:Manager.

## Schedule 8

Name of District | Name of the taluk | Name of the Inam estate | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  | HA. |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 14[See rule 36(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]ToSri..........(name of service-
holder),......... village............ taluk.Whereas you Sri......... are
liable to render service as........ (nature of service) to the .... (name of
the institution) in consideration of the investment and interim payment
payable to you under section 33(7) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963);And
Whereas you have been granted a ryotwari patta under section 9 of the said Act
in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule;And Whereas it has now been
brought to notice that you have failed to render the service to the said
institution with effect from ...........(date), you are hereby given notice
that an enquiry will be conducted by the undersigned ............on (date)
at................, (time) ...in........ (place) and you are hereby required
to appear before me for the aforesaid enquiry and make your representations,
if any.Revenue Divisional Officer.

## Schedule 9

Name of District | Name of the taluk | Name of the Inam estate | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  | HA. | Rs.P  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Copy to the Manager..................(name of the institution)ToThe Manager
of......... Inam Estate/the Tahsildar of taluk (in duplicate) for causing
publication in village by affixture in the village chavadi or in some
conspicuous public place in the village, which should be specified, and
announcing the fact by beat tom-tom; and for returning the original with the
following certificates.CertificateCertified that this notice was published by
affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi (or some conspicuous, place to
be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on...... ; and in
token thereof signatures of villagers have been obtained.Place:Date:[Signature
of the Village Headman] [These posts were abolished and now they are called
Village Administrative Officer.].[Signature of Karnam] [These posts were
abolished and now they are called Village Administrative Officer.].[Form No.
15][See rule 36(4) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]ToSri..............(name of service-holder),
village, taluk.Whereas you Sri are liable to render service as (nature of
service) to the (name of the institution) in consideration of the investment
and interim payment payable to you under section 33(7) of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26
of 1963);And Whereas you have been granted a ryotwari patta under section 9 of
the said Act in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule;And Whereas
after due enquiry, it is found that you have failed to render the service to
the said institution on and from (date), I hereby notify your failure to
render the service as required under section 33(11) of the said Act.Revenue
Divisional Officer.

## Schedule 10

Name of District | Name of the taluk | Name of the Inam estate | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  | HA. | Rs.P  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Copy to the Manager.................(name of the institution)ToThe Manager of
...........Inam Estate/the Tahsildar of ...........taluk (in duplicate) for
causing publication in......village by affixture in the village chavadi or in
some conspicuous public place in the village, which should be specified, and
announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom; and for returning the original with
the following certificate:-CertificateCertified that this notice was published
by affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi (or some conspicuous place
to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom-tom on
............; and in token thereof signatures of villagers have been
obtained.Place:Date:[Signature of the Village Headman] [These posts were
abolished and now they are called Village Administrative Officer.].[Signature
of Karnam] [These posts were abolished and now they are called Village
Administrative Officer.].Form No. 16[See rule 36(5) of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
19651ToSri...........(name of service-holder),........... village,
.............taluk.Whereas you are liable to render service as.............
(nature of service) to the.....(name of the institution) in consideration of
the investment and interim payment payable to you under section 33(7) of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963);And Whereas you have been granted a ryotwari patta
under section 9 of the said Act in respect of the lands mentioned in the
Schedule;And Whereas, after due enquiry, it is found that you have failed to
render the service to the said institution on and from........... (date), I
hereby declare under section 33(11) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963) that the
investment and interim payments payable under section 33(7) of the Act in
respect of the period subsequent to the failure and the lands mentioned in the
Schedule shall be the absolute property of the said institution.Revenue
Divisional Officer.

## Schedule 11

Name of District | Name of the taluk | Name of the Inam estate | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  | HA. | Rs.P  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Copy to the Manager................(name of the institution)ToThe Manager
of........... Inam Estate /the Tahsildar of........... taluk (in duplicate)
for causing publication in village by affixture in............... the village
chavadi or in some conspicuous public place in the village, which should be
specified, and announcing the fact by beat tom-tom; and for returning the
original with the following certificate:-CertificateCertified that this notice
was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi
..............(or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing
the fact by beat of tom-tom on and in token thereof signatures of villagers
have been obtained.Place:Date:[Signature of the Village Headman] [These posts
were abolished and now they are called Village Administrative
Officer.].[Signature of Karnam] [These posts were abolished and now they are
called Village Administrative Officer.].Form No. 17[See rule 38(1) of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965]Before The Special Appellate Tribunal under the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of
1963).Appeal No............of 20..A.B. .. AppellantC.D. and others ..
Respondents.The above named appeals to the Special Appellate Tribunal from the
decision of the Inam Estates Abolition Tribunal No. ............. ,
dated.............. and in Application/Petition No ...........of 20..........
and sets forth the following grounds of objection to the said decision
appealed frem viz. (Here set out the grounds).Form No. 18[See rule 39(2) of
the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965]Particulars of Amounts Deposited in the District Court of ..........by
the Tribunal under Section 51(1) of The Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)

1. |  Name of the inam estate Name of the taluk Nameof the district |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Nature of the amount deposited; whethercompensation or interim payment or rent collections. |   
3. | Amount deposited. | Rs. P.  
4. | Date of original deposit in the Tribunal. |   
5. |  (a) Whether unclaimedor undisbursed.(b) If undisbursed\---(i) number and date of the order, in which the payment wasordered by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal;(ii) Name of the person, in whose favour the order for paymentwas made;(iii) Amount ordered for payment. | Rs. P.  
6. | Remarks. |   
  
Place:Date:Tribunal.Form No. 19[See rule 40 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]

1. | Name of the applicant and full address. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  (a) Name of the InamEstate, to which the claim relates;(b) The number anddate of the Government Order in which it was notified; and(c) The number and date of the notification andthe date and pages of the Fort St. George Gazette in which it hasbeen published. |   
3. |  Name of the taluk and the district, in which theinam estate is situated. |   
4. |  Date and page of the District Gazette in whichthe notification regarding deposit of the amount with theDistrict Court was published. |   
5. |  (a) Nature of the amount in deposit --- whethercompensation or interim payment or rent collections. |   
|  (b) Whether the application is in respect ofunclaimed amount or undisbursed amount. |   
6. |  Nature of interest held (i.e.) as a landholderor sharer or maintenance holder or creditor, etc. |   
7. |  Details of claim and the provision of law, underwhich the applicant is entitled to the amount held in deposit. |   
8. |  The amount claimed out of the total amountdeposited in the District Court by the Tribunal. |   
9. |  Reasons for the delay in preferring theapplication, if any. |   
10. |  In case ofundisbursed amounts, particulars of gorders passed by theTribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in respect of which anapplication for payment under section 51 should have beenpreferred.(a) Number and dateof the order of the Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal.(b) Nature of theamount (compensation or interim payment or rent collections).(c) Amount orderedfor payment.(d) Name of theperson in whose favour an order of payment was passed.(e) Remarks. |   
11. |  Is the original or a certified copy of the orderof the Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal enclosed. |   
12. |  Summary of the evidence proposed to be adducedin support of the claim. |   
13. |  Any other information relevant to thisapplication. |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.Form No. 20[See rule 49(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of
Application Under Section 66 of The Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)

### 1\. Name of the applicant and his address.

### 2\. Name of the inam estate, in which the land or forest in dispute lies.

### 3\. Name of the taluk.

### 4\. Name of the district.

### 5\. Local name, if any, of the land or forest in dispute.

### 6\. Extent.

### 7\. Nature of the dispute and relief sought.

Place:Date:Signature of the applicant.Form No. 21[See rule 49(7) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Before
the Settlement OfficerName and address of applicant......................Name
and address of respondent.....................Application,
dated...........Take notice that the applicant mentioned above has applied to
me for a decision under section 66 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963), in
respect of the land mentioned in the copy of the application, which is sent
herewith. The application is posted for hearing on.... (date) at (time) in
(place). You are hereby required to appear before in person or by pleader, at
the time and place aforesaid, failing which orders are liable to be passed ex
parte.Place:Date:Settlement Officer.Form No. 22[See rule 50(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Before
the Director of SettlementsName and Address of Appellant.Name of the
respondent.Notice is hereby given that an appeal from the decision of the
Settlement Officer under section 66 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963), has been
presented by.................. and admitted by the Director of Settlements and
has been posted for hearing on............. (date) at............... (time)
in........... (place).All persons who have applied to the Settlement Officer
under section 66 of the said Act or filed statements during the enquiry before
him are hereby called upon to appear before the Director of Settlements at the
time and place specified above and file their further statement, if any, in
the matter.Place:Date:Director of Settlements.(Seal)

