## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979

## Act 40 of 1979

  * Published on 11 June 1979 
  * Commenced on 11 June 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 June 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979(Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1979)Statement of Object
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1979). -
By the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1978) permanent
debt relief by way of liquidation or scaling down of debts, as the case may
be, was provided to specific classes of weaker sections of the society
consisting of agriculturists and other indebted persons in this State. During
actual implementation of the Act certain difficulties have been noticed
necessitating the re-examination of the provisions of the Act by the
Government. The Government on such re-examination have decided that permanent
debt relief shall be by way only of scaling down of debts and for that purpose
a new legislation shall be enacted repealing and replacing the Tamil Nadu Debt
Relief Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1978).2\. The Bill seeks to give effect
to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 17th April 1979.Received the assent
of the President on the 11th June 1979, and first published in Part IV-section
2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 13th June
1979.An Act to provide for the relief of certain indebted persons in the State
of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in
the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979.(2)It extends
to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)This Act except sections 32,33 and
34 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 15th day of July 1978 and
sections 32, 33 and 34 of this Act shall [come into force on the date]
[Published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette on the 13.6.1979.] of the
publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles specified in Article 46 of the
Constitution.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,;-(1)"creditor" includes
his heirs, legal representative and assigns;(2)"debt" means any liability in
cash or in kind, whether secured or unsecured and whether decreed or not, but
does not include rent as defined in clause (8);(3)"debtor" means any person
from whom any debt is due:Provided that a person shall not be deemed to be a
debtor, if he(i)has, in both the financial years ending on the 31st March 1977
and the 31st March 1978, been assessed to-(a)income-tax under the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1961) or under the income-tax law in force in any
foreign country; or(b)agricultural income-tax under the [Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1955)] [This Act was
repealed by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Income-tax (Repeal) Act.] or under any
law in force in any other State or Union territory in India; or(ii)has, in
both the financial years ending on the 31st March 1977 and the 31st March
1978, been assessed to sales tax under the [Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as
the Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act... of 2006) which
came into force on the 1st day of January 2007.] or under the Central Sales
Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956); or(iii)has, in all the four half-years
immediately preceding the 1st March 1978, been assessed to property or house-
lax in respect of buildings or lands other than agricultural lands, under the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the [Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958
(Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).], the
[Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924)] [This Act has been repealed
and re-enacted as the Cantonment Act, 2003.] or any law governing municipal or
local bodies in this State or in any other State or Union territory in India,
provided that the aggregate annual rental value of such buildings and lands
whether let out or in the occupation of the owner is not less than rupees one
thousand and two hundred.Explanation. - The annual rental value of any
building or land for the purposes of proviso (iii) shall-(1)where the
assessment is based on the annual rental value, be deemed to be such
value;(2)where the assessment is based on the capital value, be deemed to be
five per cent of the capital value; and(3)in any other case, be deemed to be
the value ascertained in the prescribed manner; or(iv)has, in all the four
half-years immediately preceding the 1st March 1978, been assessed to
profession tax on a half-yearly income of more than one thousand and two
hundred rupees derived from a profession other than agriculture under the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the
Chennai City' Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the
[Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958)] [This Act has
been repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994).], the [Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924)]
[This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Cantonment Act, 2003.] or
any law governing municipal or local bodies in this State or in any other
State or Union territory in India;(4)"Government" means the State
Government;(5)"interest" means any amount or other thing paid or payable in
excess of the principal sum borrowed or pecuniary obligation incurred, or
where anything has been borrowed in kind in excess of what has been so
borrowed, by whatsoever name such amount or thing may be called, and whether
the same is paid or payable entirely in cash or entirely in kind or partly in
cash and partly in kind and whether the same is expressly mentioned or not in
the document or contract, if any;(6)"mortgagee" includes his heirs, legal
representatives and assigns(7)"person" means an individual and includes an
undivided Hindu family, a marumakkattayam or aliyasantana tarward or tavazhi,
but does not include a body corporate, a charitable or religious institution
or an unincorporated company or association or any firm as defined in the
Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (Central Act IX of 1932);(8)"rent" means-(i)the
rent payable in respect of agricultural land by any tenant to the land owner
and includes the fair rent payable to the land owner under the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of
1956) or the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of
Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961), or the rent or
michavaram as defined by the Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of
1930), or quit rent, jodi, kattubadi, poruppu or the like payable to any
person under any law relating to tenancy for the time being in force in this
State; or(ii)the rent payable by any tenant to the owner of any building in
respect of such building or portion thereof occupied by such
tenant.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the expression
"building" shall have the same meaning as in clause (2) of section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of
1960).

### 4. Certain debts and liabilities not to be affected.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the following categories of
debts and liabilities of any debtor, namely:-(a)any amount recoverable as
arrears of land revenue;(b)(i)any revenue, tax or cess payable to the State
government or any other sum due to them, by way of loan or otherwise;(ii)any
revenue, tax or cess payable to the Central Government or any other sum due to
them, by way of loan or otherwise;(iii)any tax or cess payable to any local
authority or any other sum due to them, by way of loan or otherwise;(c)any
liability arising out of breach of trust or any tortious liability;(d)any
liability in respect of wages or remuneration due as salary or otherwise for
services rendered;(e)any liability in respect of maintenance, whether under a
decree of a Court or otherwise;(f)a debt due to-(i)the Central Government or
any State Government;(ii)any local authority;(g)save as otherwise provided in
this Act, any liability in respect of any sum due to-(i)(A)any banking company
to which the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Central Act X of 1949)
applies;(B)the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India
Act, 1955 (Central Act XXII of 1955);(C)any subsidiary bank as defined in
clause (k) of section 2 of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act,
1959 (Central Act 38 of 1959);(D)any corresponding new bank as defined in
clause (d) of section 2 of the Banking Companies Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings Act, 1970 (Central Act 5 of 1970);(E)the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation established under the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Act, 1963 (Central Act 10 of 1963);(F)any Regional
Rural Bank established under the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (Central Act
21 of 1976);(G)the Committee for the Administration of the Amalgamated Tamil
Nadu Shares of the Post War Services Reconstruction Fund and Special Fund for
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Ex-servicemen;(H)any other financial
institution notified in this behalf by the Government in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette;(ii)any Government company within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956);(iii)any company which is declared
to be a Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society under sub-section (1) of section 620-A
of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956);(iv)any corporation owned
or controlled by the Central Government or any State Government;(v)the Life
insurance Corporation of India;(vi)any co-operative society including a land
development bank, registered or deemed to be registered under the [Tamil Nadu
Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961)] [This Act has
been repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act,
1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).] ;(h)any debt which represents the price of
property whether movable or immovable purchased by a debtor or any amount due
under a hire purchase agreement;(i)any amount received by a debtor as advance
for the delivery of goods at a future date;(j)any liability incurred or
arising under any chit, the bye-laws of which have been registered under the
Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961)1;(k)any debt or
debts payable on the 14th day of July 1978 to-(i)a widow; or(ii)a minor child
both of whose parents are dead; or(iii)a minor child whose father is dead;
or(iv)a female person whose marriage has been dissolved by a decree of divorce
or has been declared null and void, or annulled by a decree of
nullity:Provided that,-(a)the value of the property owned by such widow, minor
child or female person on that date, including the principal amount of the
debt or debts so due, did not exceed ten thousand rupees;(b)the right of such
widow, minor child or female person to recover the debt or debts did not arise
by reason of any assignment.This Act was repealed.

### 5. Special provision for undivided Hindu families, etc.

\- Where an undivided Hindu family other than a marumakkattayam or
aliyasantana tarward or tavazhi falls within the purview of the proviso to
section 3(3), no person who was a member of the family on the 1st March 1978
shall be deemed to be a debtor, for the purposes of this Act.

### 6. Heirs of non-debtor Hindu families to be non-debtors.

\- Where in an undivided Hindu family other than a marumakkattayam or
aliyasantana tarward or tavazhi which is a debtor within the meaning of
section 3 (3), any member of the family is not a debtor, then, none of his
heirs shall be deemed to be a debtor for the purposes of sections 7 to 12 and
16 to 28 of this Act.

## Chapter II  
Relief from Indebtedness and Scaling Down of Debts

### 7. Debts payable by debtors to be scaled down.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
or, in any contract or instrument having force by virtue of any such law and
save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all debts payable by any
debtor on the 14th day of July 1978 shall be scaled down in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter:Provided that no debt which was already scaled
down under the provisions of sections 8, 9-A, 10, 11 and 12 of the Tamil Nadu
Agriculturists Relief Act, 1938 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1938), or sections 7, 8,
9, 10 and 11 of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of
1972), shall again be scaled down in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter.(2)No sum in excess of the amount as so scaled down shall be
recoverable from the debtor or from any land or interest in land belonging to
him; nor shall his other property be liable to be attached and sold or
proceeded against in any manner in the execution of any decree against him in
so far as such decree is for an amount in excess of the sum as scaled down
under this Chapter.

### 8. Provision for debts incurred before 14th day of July 1978.

\- Debts incurred before the 14th day of July 1978 shall be scaled down in the
manner mentioned hereunder, namely:-(1)Where any debtor has paid to any
creditor one and a half times the amount of the principal, whether by way of
principal or interest or both, such debt including the principal, shall be
deemed to be wholly discharged.(2)Where the sums repaid byway of principal or
interest or both fall short of one and a half times the amount of the
principal, only so much of the amount as would make up such shortage, shall be
repayable.(3)Subject to the provisions of sections 20 to 23, nothing contained
in clauses (1) and (2) shall be deemed to require the creditor to refund any
sum which has been paid to him or to increase the liability of a debtor to pay
any sum in excess of the amount which would have been payable by him if this
Act had not been passed.Explanation I. - Where the principal was borrowed in
cash with an agreement to repay it in kind, the debtor shall, notwithstanding
such agreement, be entitled to repay the debt in cash after deducting the
value of all payments made by him in kind, at the rate, if any, stipulated in
such agreement, or if there is no such stipulation, at the market rate
prevailing at the time of each payment.Explanation II. - Where a debt has been
renewed or included in a fresh document executed before, on or after the 14th
day of July 1978, whether by the same debtor or by his heirs, legal
representatives or assigns or by any other person acting on his behalf or in
his interest and whether in favour of the same creditor or of any other person
acting on his behalf or in his interest, the principal originally advanced
together with such sums, if any, as have been subsequently advanced as
principal shall alone be treated as the principal sum repayable under this
section.Explanation III. - Where a debt has been split up, whether before, on
or after the 14th day of July 1978, among the heirs, legal representatives or
assigns of a debtor, or of a creditor and fresh documents have been executed
in respect of the different portions of such debt, the provisions of this
section shall continue to apply in respect of each of the different portions.

### 9. Special provision in respect of mortgages.

(1)This section applies to all mortgages executed at any time before the 14th
day of July 1978 and by virtue of which the mortgagee is in possession of the
property mortgaged to him or any portion thereof-(a)where no rate of interest
is stipulated for as due to the mortgagee, or(b)where a rate of interest is
stipulated for as due to the mortgagee in respect of the principal amount
secured by the mortgage or any portion thereof, in addition to the usufruct
from the property or in respect of any other sum payable to the mortgagee by
the mortgagor in his capacity as such.Explanation. - A mortgagee shall be
deemed to be in possession of the property mortgaged to him or any portion
thereof, notwithstanding that he had leased it to the mortgagor or any other
person.(2)The mortgagor shall be entitled to redeem the whole of the property
mortgaged, notwithstanding that the time, if any, fixed in the mortgage deed
for redeeming the mortgage has not arrived.(3)Where the mortgagee has been in
possession of the whole of the property mortgaged to him for an aggregate
period of less than ten years, the mortgagor shall not be entitled to redeem
the mortgage, unless he pays to the mortgagee-(i)the difference between the
principal amount secured by the mortgage and an amount bearing to the
principal amount the same proportion as the period during which the mortgagee
has been in possession bears to ten years;(ii)where any interest on the
principal amount secured by the mortgage or any portion thereof has been
stipulated for, in addition to the usufruct from the property, the arrears of
such interest as scaled down under section 8 read with section 12; and(iii)all
other sums payable to the mortgagee by the mortgagor, in his capacity as such,
together with the interest, if any, due thereon.(4)Where the mortgagee has
been in possession of only a portion of the property mortgaged to him for an
aggregate period of less than ten years, the mortgagor shall not be entitled
to redeem the mortgage, unless he pays to the mortgagee-(i)the difference
between that portion of the principal amount secured by the mortgage which is
attributable to the portion of the property in the possession of the mortgagee
and an amount bearing to that portion of the principal amount the same
proportion as the period during which the mortgagee has been in possession
bears to ten years;(ii)where any interest has been stipulated for, in addition
to the usufruct from the property, the arrears of interest on the portion of
the principal amount referred to in clause (i), such arrears being scaled down
under section 3 read with section 12;(iii)balance of the debt as scaled down
under section 8 read with section 12; and(iv)all other sums payable to the
mortgagee by the mortgagor in his capacity as such, together with interest, if
any, due thereon.(5)(a)Where the mortgagee has been in possession of the whole
of the property mortgaged to him for an aggregate period of ten years or more,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in sections 8 and 12, the mortgage
debt shall be deemed to have been wholly discharged with effect from the
expiry of the period often years or where such period expired before the 14th
day of July 1978, with effect from the said date-(i)if no interest has been
stipulated for on the principal amount secured by the mortgage or any portion
thereof, in addition to the usufruct from the property;(ii)where such interest
has been stipulated for, if no arrears of interest are due from the mortgagor;
and(iii)if no other sums or interest thereon are due to the mortgagee by the
mortgagor in his capacity as such.(b)Where the mortgagee has been in
possession of the whole of the property mortgaged to him for an aggregate
period of ten years or more, then, in cases not governed by clause (a), the
mortgagor shall not be entitled to redeem the mortgage, unless he pays to the
mortgagee-(i)the arrears of interest stipulated for in addition to the
usufruct from the property, as scaled down under section 8 read with section
12; and(ii)all other sums due to the mortgagee by the mortgagor in his
capacity as such and referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) together
with any interest due thereon.(6)Where the mortgagee has been in possession of
only a portion of the property mortgaged to him for an aggregate period of ten
years or more, the mortgagor shall not be entitled to redeem the mortgage,
unless he pays to the mortgagee-(i)where, in addition to the usufruct from the
property, any interest has been stipulated for, the arrears of interest on
that portion of the principal amount secured by the mortgage which is
attributable to the portion of the property in the possession of the
mortgagee, such arrears being scaled down under section 8 read with section
12;(ii)the balance of the debt not attributable to such portion of the
property as scaled down under section 8 read with section 12; and(iii)all
other sums payable to the mortgagee by the mortgagor in his capacity as such,
together with the interest, if any, due thereon.(7)For the purposes of this
section, the portion of the principal amount secured by the mortgage which is
attributable to the portion of the property in the possession of the mortgagee
shall be determined in the manner prescribed by rules made under this
Act.(8)The mortgagor shall not be entitled to redeem a mortgage under sub-
section (2) or obtain possession of the mortgaged property by virtue of sub-
section (5)(a), unless he pays to the mortgagee the cost of the improvements,
if any, effected by him to the mortgaged property.(9)(a)(i)Except in cases
falling under sub-section (5)(a), where the mortgaged property or, as the case
may be, the portion thereof, in the possession of the mortgagee has been
leased back to the mortgagor by the mortgagee, the rent due to the mortgagee
under the lease (after deducting from such rent any revenue, tax or cess paid
or payable by the mortgagee in respect of the property) shall be deemed to be
the interest on the mortgage debt or the portion thereof attributable to the
portion of the property aforesaid and the provisions of section 8 read with
section 12, shall apply to the entire debt.(ii)Nothing contained in sub-
section (3) or sub-section (4) shall apply to any debt falling under sub-
clause (i).(b)In cases falling under sub-section (5)(a), where the property
has been leased back to the mortgagor by the mortgagee, nothing contained in
that subsection shall affect the right of the mortgagee to recover any rents
due to him under the lease for any period before the date on which the
mortgaged debt is deemed to have been wholly discharged by virtue of that sub-
section, if such rents have not become barred by limitation under any law for
the lime being in force.(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section,-(a)where, during the period on and from the 1st March 1972 and before
the 14th day of July 1978, the mortgagee or any of his successors-in-interest
has transferred either wholly or in part the mortgagee's right in the property
bona fide and for valuable consideration, then, the provisions of sub-sections
(1) to (9) shall apply to such mortgage and, for purposes of sub-sections (3)
to (9), the period during which the last transferee was in possession of the
property shall alone be taken into account:Provided that the transferee of a
mortgage shall not be entitled to recover in respect of such mortgage,
anything more than the value of the consideration for the transfer; but
nothing herein contained shall, in cases when the property or portion thereof
has been leased back to the mortgagor, affect the right of the transferee to
recover the rents, if any, due under the lease, if such rents have not become
barred by limitation under any law for the time being in
force;(b)notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a), where the
mortgagee's interest in the property subject to the mortgage or any part of
such interest belonged to, or devolved on, two or more persons and during the
period aforesaid a partition has taken place among such persons, then, nothing
contained in this section, except sub-sections (1) and (2), shall apply to the
whole or such part of the interest, as the case may be.(11)Where the equity of
redemption in the property subject to the mortgage belonged to, or devolved
on, two or more persons and any one of them or any person claiming under any
of them has, during the period referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (10)
redeemed the entire mortgage, nothing contained in this section shall affect
the rights or the reliefs to which the persons redeeming the mortgage might be
entitled to under any other law for the time being in force as against the
other persons aforesaid.

### 10. Exceptions.

\- Nothing contained in section 8 shall affect-(i)any mortgage of the
description referred to in sub-section (1) of section 9, except to the extent
provided for in that section; or(ii)any liability for which a charge is
provided under section 55, clause (4), sub-clause (b) of the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882 (Central Act IV of 1882).

### 10A. [ Payment in instalments of scaled down debts. [Inserted by section
4(1) of the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers and Debt Relief Laws (Amendment Act 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1980).]

(1)Notwithstanding any law, custom, contract, or decree of Court to the
contrary, a debtor shall be entitled to pay within six months from the date of
publication of the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers and Debt Relief Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1980), in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
(hereafter in this section referred to as the said date), one-third of the
amount of the debt as scaled down in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and the balance of the debt in two equal half-yearly instalments on or
before the last day of the twelfth month and eighteenth month immediately
following the said date respectively with the interest due on such instalment
up to that date.(2)Where before the said date, a Court has passed a decree for
the repayment of the debt as scaled down in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, it shall, on application of the judgement-debtor within two months
from the said date, apply the provisions of sub-section (1) to such decree and
amend the decree accordingly.(3)In any suit instituted after the said date,
the Court in decreeing the suit shall provide for the payment of such
instalment or instalments as would have become payable under the provisions of
sub-section (1) and the balance in further instalments as specified
therein.(4)In any suit pending on the said date for the recovery of the amount
of the debt as scaled down in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the
Court shall pass a decree for the payment of such instalment or instalments as
could have become payable under the provisions of sub-section (1) and the
balance in further instalment as specified therein.(5)Nothing contained in
this section shall bar the Court from passing a decree or making an order in
an application for execution of the decree under such term and conditions as
may be more favourable to the debtor than those provided for in this section
either of its own motion or upon a consideration of all the circumstances of
the case or upon an agreement between the parties.(6)Where before the said
date any debtor has paid to the creditor towards the repayment of the debt as
scaled down under this Act, any amount in excess of the amount of instalment
as would have become due under the provisions of sub-section (1),-(i)the
debtor shall be entitled to adjust the excess amount so paid to one or more
future instalments, and(ii)nothing contained in this sub-section shall be
deemed to require the creditor to refund any sum which has been paid to
him.(7)Nothing contained in this section shall apply to any debt secured by
any mortgage of the description referred to in sub-section (1) of section 9.]

### 11. Provision as to costs, etc., in certain cases.

\- Where a debt payable by any debtor includes decreed as cost by any Court,
or sums lawfully expended by a mortgagee or other person in order to preserve
the property mortgaged, such sum or sums shall be recoverable in addition to
the sum recoverable under the provisions of section 8.

### 12. Rate of interest payable by debtors on scaled down debts.

\- All debts which have been scaled down under the provisions of this Act
shall, so far as any sum remains payable thereunder, carry from the date up to
which they have been scaled down, interest on the principal amount due on that
date at the rate previously applicable under law, custom, contract or
otherwise, or at the rate of nine per cent per annum simple interest whichever
is less.

### 13. Separation of share of debt in particular cases.

\- Subject to the provisions of sections 5 and 6, where in a Hindu family,
whether divided or undivided, some of the members liable in respect of a
family debt are not debtors while others are debtors, the creditor shall,
notwithstanding any law to the contrary, be entitled to proceed-(a)against the
non-debtor member or members and his or their share of the family property, to
the extent only of his or their proportionate share of the debt; and(b)against
the debtor-member or members and his or their share of the family property, to
the extent only of his or their proportionate share of the debt which shall be
scaled down in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 14. Certain instruments to be of no effect, etc.

(1)Where any creditor has advanced any amount to a debtor on the basis of a
security, whether movable or immovable offered by the debtor, and where in
respect of such amount so advanced the creditor has obtained from the debtor
any promissory note or other document, it shall be sufficient for the debtor
to discharge the secured debt as scaled down under the provisions of this Act,
and on such discharge, the debt covered by the promissory note or other
document shall be deemed to have been wholly discharged.(2)Where a creditor
had taken from any debtor any note, promise to pay, acknowledgement, power-of-
attorney, bond, security or other document which does not state the actual
amount of the debt, the rate of interest charged and the time, if any, within
which the principal is stipulated to be repaid in full, or which states any of
the particulars incorrectly or in which any entry is left blank for completion
on a later date, such note, promise to pay, acknowledgment, power-of-attorney,
bond, security or other document shall, notwithstanding anything contained in
any law for the time being in force, be void.

### 14A. [ Ban on the sale of movable properties pledged by debtors. [Inserted
by section 4(2) of the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers and Debt Relief Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1980).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force relating to the sale of pledged articles, where any debtor
who is entitled to have the debt scaled down under, section 8 has pledged any
movable property with the creditor, the creditor shall not sell or otherwise
dispose of, in any manner whatsoever, any such movable property during the
period upto and inclusive of the expiry of the last day of the eighteenth
month immediately following the date of publication of the Tamil Nadu
Pawnbrokers and Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of
1980), in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and the period of one week
thereafter.]

## Chapter III  
Procedure and Miscellaneous

### 15. Provision as to costs in certain cases.

(1)Where a decree is passed against any debtor in a suit instituted on or
after the 14th day of July 1978, the Court shall allow only such costs as
would have been allowable if the suit had been filed for the amount of the
debt as scaled down in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and where
in any such case a decree has been passed before the date of the publication
of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, the Court shall, on
application by the judgement-debtor within six months from the date of such
publication, amend the decree accordingly.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall
apply to any suit instituted on or after the 14th day of July 1978 and before
the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
in respect of a claim which would be barred by limitation before the date of
such publication.

### 16. Amendment of certain decrees.

\- Where before the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, a Court has passed a decree for the repayment of a debt,
it shall, on the application of any judgement-debtor who is a debtor within
the meaning of this Act, or in respect of a Hindu joint family debt on the
application of any member of the family whether or not he is the judgement-
debtor or on the application of the decree-holder within six months from the
date of such publication, apply the provisions of this Act to such decree and
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), amend the decree accordingly or enter satisfaction,
as the case may be:Provided that all payments made or amounts recovered,
whether before or after the date of such publication in respect of any such
decree shall first be applied in payment of all costs as originally decreed to
the creditor.

### 17. Application for the determination of the amount of debt due.

(1)Where any debt incurred before the 14th day of July 1978, other than a
decree debt, is due by any person who claims that he was a debtor on that
date, the debtor or the creditor may apply to the Court having jurisdiction
for a declaration of the amount if the debt is due by the debtor on the date
of the application:Provided that no such application shall be presented or be
maintainable if a suit for the recovery of the debt is pending.Explanation. -
The Court having jurisdiction under this section shall be the Court which
would have jurisdiction to entertain a suit for the recovery of the debt as
unsealed.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply also to any person
claiming to be such a debtor, who contends that any such debt due by him has
been discharged.(3)All persons who would have been necessary parties to a suit
for the recovery of the debt shall be impleaded as parties to the application
under sub-section (1) or under that sub-section read with sub-section
(2).(4)(a)When any such application is made, the Court shall first decide
whether the person whom the debt is due was a debtor within the meaning of
section 3(3) or not, and if it finds that he was such a debtor, pass an order
declaring the amount due by him or declaring that the debt has been
discharged, as the case may be.(b)The Court shall dismiss the application if
it finds that such person was not a debtor within the meaning of section
3(3).(5)At any time, after passing an order under clause (a) of sub-section
(4), the Court shall, on payment by the creditor of the Court-fee payable on a
debt for the amount declared due to him, grant a decree to the creditor for
such amount:Provided that the creditor may, on his application, be granted a
decree for an amount less than that declared due to him on paying the
appropriate Court-fee.(6)The Court may order that the Court fee, if any, paid
by the creditor under sub-section (5) shall be paid by the debtor in addition
to the amount decreed.(7)If the debtor pays into the Court, the amount
declared to be due under clause (a) of sub-section (4) or the amount of the
decree granted under sub-section (5) together with the costs, if any, ordered
to be paid under sub-section (6), the Court shall grant to the debtor a
certificate that the debt has been discharged.(8)The procedure laid down in
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) for the trial of
suits shall, as far as may be, apply to applications under this section.(9)No
Court shall entertain a suit by the creditor for the recovery of a debt-(i)if
an application has been made under sub-section (1) in respect of such debt to
a Court having jurisdiction and is pending in such Court; or(ii)if a Court
having jurisdiction has passed an order under clause (a) of sub-section (4) in
respect of such debt.(10)In computing the period of limitation prescribed for
a suit by the creditor for the recovery of a debt, the time, if any, during
which the Court was prevented from entertaining the suit by virtue of the
provision contained in clause (i) of sub-section (9) shall be excluded.

### 18. Stay of execution proceeding.

\- Every Court executing a decree passed against a person entitled to the
benefits of this Act, shall, on application, stay the proceedings until the
Court which passed the decree has passed orders on an application made or to
be made under section 16:Provided that where within sixty days after the
application for stay has been granted, the judgment-debtor does not apply to
the Court which passed the decree for relief under section 16 or where an
application has been so made and is rejected, the decree shall be executed as
it stands, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act to the
contrary.Explanation. - The expression "the Court which passed the decree"
shall have the same meaning as in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908).

### 19. Adjudication in insolvency.

(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the debts payable by any
person who has been adjudicated an insolvent, if prior to the 14th day of July
1978 a dividend has been declared out of his assets.(2)If a dividend has not
been so declared, the Court shall, on application made within six months from
the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
by the insolvent-debtor, the Official Assignee or Official Receiver in whom
the property of such debtor has vested, or any other person interested, apply
the provisions of this Act to the debts payable by the insolvent-debtor if he
would have been a debtor within the meaning of this Act, but for his
adjudication in insolvency.(3)If the application aforesaid is not made by the
Official Assignee or Official Receiver, he shall be impleaded as a party
thereto.

### 20. Special provision in the case of certain sales of movable property.

\- Where in execution of any decree, any movable property of any debtor has
been sold on or after the 14th day of July 1978, any judgement-debtor may,
within six months from the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, apply to the Court for an order that the provisions
of section 8 and of sections 11 and 12 be applied to the decree, and the Court
shall, if satisfied that the applicant is a debtor entitled to the benefits of
those sections, apply the same and order the decree-holder to refund any sum
received by him on or after the said date, in excess of the amount to which he
would have been entitled to if the property had not been sold:Provided that no
such order shall be made without notice to the decree-holder and without
affording him an opportunity to be heard in the matter.

### 21. Sales of immovable property to be set aside in certain cases.

\- Where in execution of any decree, any immovable properly, in which a debtor
entitled to the benefits of this Act had an interest, has been sold or
foreclosed on or after 14th day of July 1978, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963) or in the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) and notwithstanding that the
sale has been confirmed, any judgement-debtor, claiming to be entitled to the
benefits of this Act, may apply to the Court within ninety days from the date
of the publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette to set
aside the sale or foreclosure of the property and the Court shall, if
satisfied that the applicant is a debtor entitled to the benefits of this Act,
order the sale or foreclosure to be set aside and thereupon the sale or
foreclosure shall be deemed not to have taken place at all:Provided that no
such order shall be made without notice to the decree-holder, the auction-
purchaser and other persons interested in such sale or foreclosure and without
affording them an opportunity to be heard in the matter.

### 22. Consequential provision on setting aside of sale.

\- Where a sale is set aside under section 21, a purchaser shall be entitled
to an order for repayment of any purchase money paid by him against the person
to whom or it has been paid:Provided that no poundage shall be payable in
respect of any such sale and where poundage has been collected, the Court
shall direct the same to be refunded.

### 23. Power of Court to reject certain claims.

\- If in any suit or proceeding for the recovery of a debt, the Court is
satisfied that the claim therein is made in evasion of the provisions of this
Act and that the document upon which the claim is based, although purporting
to be executed by a different debtor or in favour of a different creditor, was
in fact in renewal or part renewal of a prior debt to which the provisions of
this Act would have applied, the Court shall disallow the costs:Provided that
where in any such suit or proceeding two or more distinct claims are made, the
provisions of this section shall apply separately in respect of each such
claim.

### 24. Alienations by debtor.

\- All alienations of immovable property made by any debtor on or after the
14th day of July 1978 shall be invalid as against every creditor whose sale in
execution or foreclosure decree has been set aside under section 21 or who
became entitled to rateable distribution of the proceeds of such sale under
section 73 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 25. Appeals.

(1)An appeal shall lie from any of the following orders passed by a Court
under this Act, as if such order related to the execution, discharge or
satisfaction of a decree within the meaning of section 47 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V 1908):-(a)An order under sub-section (1) of
section 15 amending or refusing to amend a decree;(b)An order under section 16
amending or refusing to amend a decree or entering or refusing to enter
satisfaction in respect of a decree;(c)An order under clause (a) of sub-
section (4) of section 17 declaring the amount due to the creditor or
declaring the debt to have been discharged;(d)An order under clause (b) of
sub-section (4) of section 17 dismissing the application on the ground that
the debtor was not a debtor within the meaning of section 3(3);(e)An order
under section 20 directing or refusing to direct the refund of any excess
realised in execution of a decree;(f)An order under section 21 setting aside
or refusing to set aside any sale or foreclosure of immovable property;(g)An
order under section 22 directing or refusing to direct the repayment of any
purchase money realised in execution of a decree.(2)From any order passed on
an appeal presented to it under the provisions of sub-section (1) by a Court
subordinate to the High Court, an appeal shall lie to the High Court on any of
the grounds mentioned in sub-section (1) of section 100 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 26. Revenue officials to furnish information as to certain facts.

\- Any creditor may apply to an officer in the Revenue Department not below
the rank of Tahsildar having jurisdiction over the area where such debtor
ordinarily resides or has his ordinary place of business for information as to
whether such debtor has been or to be assessed to income-tax, agricultural
income-tax or sales tax and such Revenue Officer shall, thereupon, ascertain
such information and grant to such creditor a certificate in the prescribed
form as to whether such debtor has been so assessed to income-tax,
agricultural income-tax or sales tax. Such certificate shall be received as
conclusive proof of the facts stated therein.

### 27. Executive authorities of local bodies to furnish information as to
certain facts.

\- Any creditor may apply to the executive authority of a municipality, a
panchayat, a panchayat union or a township or the Revenue Officer or
Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.] or Madurai for information as
to whether such debtor was or is assessed to the property or house tax or
profession tax in terms of clauses (iii) and (iv) of the proviso to section
3(3) and the executive authority or Revenue Officer or Commissioner shall,
thereupon, grant to such creditor a certificate in the prescribed form as to
whether the debtor named in the application has been so assessed to property
or house tax or profession tax. Such certificate shall be received as
conclusive proof of the facts slated therein.

### 28. Grant of certificate to debtors.

\- Any debtor may apply to the officer or authority specified in section 26 or
27 for a certificate to the effect that he was not assessed to any of the
taxes specified in the proviso to section 3(3) during the relevant period
specified in the said proviso.

### 29. Savings.

(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall affect or shall be deemed to affect, in
any way the operation of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976 (President's Act
31 of 1976).(2)Nothing contained in this Act shall affect any rights or
privileges which a debtor is entitled to under any other law, contract, custom
or usage if such rights or privileges are more favourable to him than those to
which he would be entitled to under this Act.(3)Save as otherwise provided in
sub-sections (1) and (2), the provisions of this Act shall be in addition to,
and not in derogation of, any law for the time being in force.

### 30. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)All
rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day,
shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(3)Every rule
made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is made, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the words 'both the
Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.],
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both
Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any
modification in any such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule should not be made, the rule shall,
thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 31. Repeal.

\- The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1978) except
section 29 thereof (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) is hereby
repealed.

### 32. Pending proceedings to abate, etc.

(1)Section 8 of the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 (Tamil Nadu Act I of
1891) shall not apply to the repeal of the said Act by this Act.(2)Every
proceeding made or taken under the said Act and pending before the date of the
publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette shall abate.(3)No
legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any right, privilege, obligation or
liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the said Act shall be
instituted, continued or enforced under the said Act.

### 33. Removal of doubts.

(1)Any liability incurred or arising under any debt due from a debtor shall be
deemed never to have been discharged under the said Act, as if the said Act
was not passed and every such debt shall be scaled down in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.(2)Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
invalidate any proceeding in which the order passed has been executed or
satisfied in full before the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette.

### 34. Exclusion of time for limitation and dissolution of stay of
proceedings in respect of certain suits and applications.

(1)Where, on or after the 15th day of January 1976, but before the date of the
publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, any suit for the
recovery of any amount towards any liability arising out of the debt due from
a debtor would have been instituted or any application for the execution of a
decree passed in any such suit would have been made but for the fact that the
institution of the suit or the making of the application was barred by the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of
1978), in computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for
such suit or application, the period commencing on and from the 15th day of
January 1976 and ending with the date of the publication of this Act in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, shall be excluded .(2)Where any proceedings in
any of the suits or applications of the nature mentioned in sub-section (1)
were stayed by any of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1978), the stay effected in respect of such proceedings
shall stand dissolved and such suit or application shall be proceeded with
under this Act from the stage which had been reached when further proceedings
in such suit or application were stayed.

