## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of
Street Vending) Rules, 2015

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street
Vending) Rules, 2015

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-STREET-VENDORS-PROTECTION-OF-LIVELIHOOD-AND-REGULATION-OF-
STREET-VENDING-RULES-2015 of 2015

  * Published on 2 November 2015 
  * Commenced on 2 November 2015 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 November 2015.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street
Vending) Rules, 2015Published vide Notification No. SRO-A/19(c-2)/2015,
2.11.2015Last Updated 25th January, 2020No. SRO-A/19(c-2)/2015. - In exercise
of the powers conferred by section 36 of the Street Vendors (Protection of
Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014 (Central Act 7 of
2014), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules,
namely:-Chapter - I Preliminary

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of
Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Rules, 2015.(2)It extends to the
whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-(a)"Act" means the
Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending)
Act, 2014 (Central Act 7 of 2014);(b)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;(c)"Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;(d)"Grievance
Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee" means a committee constituted by
the Government of Tamil Nadu under sub-section (1) of section 20 of the Act
for the redressal of grievances or resolution of disputes;(e)"Scheme" means
the scheme framed by the State Government under section 38;(f)"Town Vending
Committee" means a committee constituted under section 22 of the Act.(2)Words
and expressions used, but not defined in these Rules shall have the same
meaning respectively assigned to them in the Act.Chapter - II Dispute
Redressal Mechanism

### 3. Constitution of Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committees.

(1)The State Government shall constitute a Grievance Redressal and Dispute
Resolution Committee for each local authority, under sub-section (1) of
section 20 of the Act. The said committee shall consist of a Chairperson, who
has been a Civil Judge or a Judicial Magistrate and two other professionals as
members.(2)The Chairperson and members of a Grievance Redressal and Dispute
Resolution Committee shall be appointed by the Government.

### 4. Qualifications and experience for appointment as member in a Grievance
Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee.

\- A person shall be qualified to be appointed as a member of a Grievance
Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee, if he-(i)is above 35 years of age
but is not more than 65 years of age; and(ii)possesses a Bachelor's Degree
from a recognized University; and(iii)(a)is a person of ability, integrity and
standing and has adequate knowledge or experience of, at least, ten years in
social work or in dealing with the problems relating to street vendors or of
public affairs or of municipal or public administration; or is a retired
officer of the Central / State Government from any Group 'A' post.

### 5. Salary and other allowances and terms and conditions of the Chairperson
and members of the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee.

(1)The Chairperson of the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee
shall be appointed on part-time basis and he shall be paid an honorarium of
Rs.2,000/- (Rupees two thousand only) per day of sitting in the above said
committee.(2)A Member of the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee shall be appointed on part time basis and shall be paid an
honorarium of Rs.1,500/- (Rupees one thousand five hundred only) per day of
sitting in the above said committee.(3)The Government may remove the
Chairperson and Members of a Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee from the office, if he-(a)has been adjudged an insolvent;(b)has been
convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Government, involves
moral turpitude;(c)has become physically or mentally incapable of functioning
as Chairperson or member, as the case may be;(d)has acquired financial or
other interests, which are likely to affect pre-judicially his functions as
the Chairperson or a member, as the case may be; or(e)has so abused his
position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to the public
interest:Provided that the Chairperson or member of the said committee shall
not be removed from his office on the grounds specified in clauses (d) and (e)
except on an inquiry held by the Government in accordance with such procedure
as it may specify in this behalf.(4)The terms and conditions of the service of
the Chairperson and members of the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee shall not be varied to their disadvantage during their tenure of
office.

### 6. Form and manner of making application for redressal of grievance or
resolution of dispute.

(1)Every application for redressal of a grievance or resolution of a dispute
under sub-section (2) of section 20 of the Act shall be in Form 'A'.(2)The
application, in writing, shall be signed by the applicant and presented by him
in person or through his authorised representative to the Superintendent of
the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee or such other person
as may be authorised by the Committee in this behalf.(3)The application shall
be submitted in triplicate and shall be accompanied by a fee of Rs.500/-
(Rupees five hundred only).(4)The application shall be accompanied by a copy
of the order or notice, if any, against which the application is made and
other relevant documents.

### 7. Manner of verification of application and enquiry.

(1)Every application for grievance redressal, on receipt, shall be entered and
numbered in seriatum by the Superintendent or the person authorised in this
behalf by the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee in a
register to be kept for this purpose.(2)The Superintendent or the person
authorised in this behalf by the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee, as the case may be, after making an entry in the Register shall put
up the application before the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee.(3)The Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee shall
fix a date for hearing of the application and shall issue notice of the
hearing to the parties or shall cause a notice to be issued.(4)The Grievance
Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee while issuing a notice under sub-
rule (2), shall call upon the respondent to submit a written statement and the
notice shall contain a statement to this effect.(5)On the date so fixed for
the appearance of the parties, the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee may call upon the applicant to rectify the defects, if any, or may
call upon the relevant parties to furnish relevant records or such other
documents or evidence, as it may deem fit and proper, within such period as
may be specified by it.(6)The Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee may also order a field enquiry in connection with the contentions
made by the applicants and respondents and also with reference to the records
submitted before it.(7)The Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution
Committee, after hearing the parties and examining the records of the case
shall decide the application and pass such order as it may deem fit and
proper, within ninety days from the date of receipt of the application.(8)The
Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee may also explore the
possibility of a settlement and upon reaching such settlement, the Committee
shall record the settlement, which shall be signed by the parties or the
authorised representatives and shall dispose of the application in terms of
such settlement.(9)The Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee
shall not entertain an application under rule 6, where-(a)the application is
anonymous or it contains general and vague allegations;(b)the matter is sub-
judice in any court of law, tribunal or a judicial or quasi-judicial
authority;(c)the matter is beyond the purview of the Act; and(d)the applicant
has no locus standi to file the application.Chapter - III Appeals

### 8. Appeal against the order or decision of the Grievance Redressal and
Dispute Resolution Committee.

(1)An appeal against an order or decision of a Grievance Redressal and Dispute
Resolution Committee may be preferred by an aggrieved person to the local
authority concerned, within thirty days from the date of receipt of such order
or decision appealed against:Provided that the local authority may condone the
delay if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause
from preferring the appeal within the prescribed time.(2)The appeal shall be
in Form-'B' and shall be signed by the appellant and presented by him in
person or through his authorised representative to the concerned local
authority. The memorandum of appeal shall be accompanied by original order or
certified copy of the order against which appeal is preferred.(3)The appeal
shall be submitted in triplicate and accompanied by a fee of Rs.500/- (Rupees
five hundred only).(4)No such appeal shall be entertained unless a copy
thereof has been served by the appellant upon the respondents prior to filing
of such appeal and proof of such service shall be filed along with the
appeal.(5)No appeal shall be entertained where the order has been passed by
the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee in terms of the
settlement arrived between the parties.

### 9. Appeal against the decision of Town Vending Committee.

(1)An appeal under section 11 of the act against any decision of a Town
vending Committee with respect to issue of Certificate of Vending or
cancellation or suspension of Certificate of Vending shall be preferred before
the concerned local authority in Form 'C' within thirty days from the date of
receipt of the order or decision appealed against:Provided that the local
authority may condone the delay if it is satisfied that the appellant was
prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal within the prescribed
time.(2)The appeal shall be in Form 'C' and shall be signed by the appellant
and presented by him in person or through his authorised representative. The
memorandum of appeal shall be accompanied by the original or certified copy of
the order or decision against which the appeal is preferred.(3)The appeal
shall be submitted in triplicate and accompanied by a fee of Rs.200/- (Rupees
two hundred only).(4)No appeal shall be entertained unless a copy thereof has
been served by the appellant upon the Town Vending Committee which had made
the order appealed against, prior to filing of such appeal and proof of such
service shall be filed along with the appeal.

### 10. Procedure for disposal of appeals by the Local Authority.

(1)The officer or the person authorised in this behalf by the concerned local
authority shall make an entry of the appeal filed under rules 8 or 9 in
separate registers to be maintained for the purpose by the concerned local
authority, specifying the date on which it was submitted.(2)Every appeal shall
be examined by an Appeal Committee constituted in each local authority, which
shall consist of-(a)in respect of Corporation of Chennai:-

(i) | Chairman | - | Chairman of the zone concerned.  
---|---|---|---  
(ii) | Member | - | One Councilor nominated by the Mayor.  
(iii) | Member Secretary | - | Zonal Assistant Commissioner  
  
(b)in respect of other corporations/municipalities/town panchayats,-

(i) | Chairman | - | Mayor/Chairperson  
---|---|---|---  
(ii) | Member | - | One Councilor nominated by the Mayor / Chairperson  
(iii) | Member Secretary | - | The Executive authority  
  
(3)The appeal shall be put up before the Appeal Committee by the concerned
local authority immediately on its receipt and Appeal Committee shall fix a
date for hearing of the appeal and shall cause a notice of the hearing to be
served upon the parties.(4)The Appeal Committee shall on the basis of
submissions made before it by the parties and the records of the case and on
the basis of field enquiry, if any, ordered to be conducted by it, pass such
order, as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or annulling the order appealed
against within one hundred and eighty days from the date of receipt of the
appeal by the local authority.Chapter - IV Town Vending Committee

### 11. Constitution of the Town Vending Committee.

(1)ln each local authority, one Town Vending Committee shall be constituted by
the Government with the Municipal Commissioner or the Chief Executive Officer
as Chairperson of the Committee:Provided that the Government may, if it
considers necessary, on the request of the concerned Local Authority may
provide for constitution of more than one Town Vending Committees for each
local authority after specifying their jurisdiction.(2)Each Town Vending
Committee shall consist of fifteen members, inclusive of the Chairperson and
its composition shall be as follows:-

(i) | A Medical Officer of the local authority | 1  
---|---|---  
(ii) | Police officers including Police in-charge of Traffic | 2  
(iii) | An Officer from the local authority concerned | 1  
(iv) | Representatives of street vendors | 6  
(v) | Representatives of Traders Associations | 1  
(vi) |  Representatives of Non-Governmental and Community basedorganizations | 2  
(vii) | Representatives of Resident welfare association | 1  
  
(3)The members of the Town Vending Committee, except the members elected from
the street vendors shall be nominated by the Commissioner of Corporation of
Chennai in respect of Corporation of Chennai, the respective Regional
Directors of Municipal Administration in respect of other Corporations and
municipalities and the respective Assistant Directors in respect of Town
Panchayats.

### 12. Election of Street Vendors as the member of Town vending committee.

(1)The local authority shall by a notification express its intention to
conduct election of the members of a Town Vending Committee representing the
street vendors of the area under the jurisdiction of that local
authority.(2)The concerned local authority shall appoint a returning officer
for conducting the election of members of the Town Vending Committee
representing the street vendors of the area under its jurisdiction.

### 13. Manner of election of the member of Town Vending Committee from
amongst the street vendors.

(1)The returning officer appointed under sub-rule 2 of rule 12 shall, conduct
the elections of the members of the Town Vending Committee representing the
street vendors.(2)The local authority concerned shall supervise, direct and
control the conduct of elections of the members of a Town Vending Committee
representing the street vendors in the area of its jurisdiction.(3)As soon as
the notification expressing the intention of the local authority to conduct
elections for members of a Town Vending Committee representing the street
vendors has been issued under sub-rule (1) of rule 12 and a returning officer
has been appointed for conducting the elections under sub-rule (2) of that
rule, the local authority, shall, by a resolution, determine the date, time
and place for conduct of elections.(4)(A)The notice of the resolution of the
local authority shall be circulated among the street vendors engaged in the
vocation of street vending in the area of jurisdiction of the Town Vending
Committee, by any of the following modes, namely:-(a)by public notice to be
published in two prominent daily newspapers in Tamil, English or such other
language as the local authority thinks fit;(b)by local delivery;(c)by post
under certificate of posting or(d)by speed post or courier services, as well
as on the notice board of the returning officer.(B)The notice shall contain
information regarding-(i)the number of members to be elected, including seats
reserved for representatives of Scheduled Castes, Other Backward Classes,
women, persons with disabilities, minorities or any other specified
categories;(ii)the date on which, the place at which and the hours between
which nomination papers shall be filed and such date being not less than seven
clear days before the date fixed for election or if that day happens to be
public holiday, the next succeeding day which is not a public
holiday;Explanation. - The term "public holiday" means any day which is a
public holiday under section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
[Central Act XXVI of 1881] or any day which has been notified by the
Government to be a public holiday for offices under the Government;(iii)the
date and the hour for scrutiny of the nomination papers; and(iv)the date,
place and hours of polling.(5)The local authority shall prepare a list of
street vendors engaged in the vocation of street vending in the area of
jurisdiction of the Town Vending Committee as it stood on thirty days before
the date fixed for inviting the nominations, and publish copies of the said
list by affixing them upon the notice board at the office of the Town Vending
Committee, not less than ten days prior to the date fixed for inviting
nominations. The list shall specify the registration number/ certificate of
vending and the name of the street vendor, the name of the father or husband,
as the case may be, and the address of the street vendor. It shall be the duty
of the Town Vending Committee or the local authority, as the case may be, to
bring up-to-date register of street vendors and such other register as the
returning officer may require and hand over such records or registers to the
returning officer thirty days prior to the date fixed for the purpose of
election. A copy of the list shall be supplied by the Town Vending Committee
or the local authority, or returning officer, as the case may be, to any
street vendor on payment of such fee as specified by the local
authority.(6)The nominations of the candidates for election shall be made in
Form-D which shall be supplied by the returning officer to any street vendor,
free of cost.(7)A Street Vendor shall be disqualified from contesting the
election to a Town Vending Committee, if he is:-(i)convicted of an offence
involving moral turpitude; or(ii)physically or mentally incapable of
discharging his duties as a member of a Town Vending Committee.(8)The
candidate shall make a security deposit of Rs.2000/-(Rupees two thousand only)
in cash or Demand draft or pay order along with the nomination papers. If a
candidate fails to get less than one-sixth of the votes polled, the security
deposit shall be forfeited to the local authority.(9)Every nomination paper
shall be presented in person by the candidate himself or by his proposer or
seconder to the returning officer. The returning officer shall enter on the
nomination paper, its serial number and certify the date and hour at which the
nomination is received by him and shall immediately give a written
acknowledgment for the receipt of the nomination paper which shall bear the
seal of the Town Vending Committee/ returning officer. Any nomination paper
which is not received on or before the date and time fixed for its receipt
shall be rejected.(10)(a)On the day following the date fixed for the receipt
of nomination papers, the returning officer shall take up the scrutiny of the
nomination papers.(b)The returning officer shall examine the nomination papers
and decide objections, which may be made by any person in respect of any
nomination and may, either on such objection, or on his own motion and after
such summary inquiry, if any, as the returning officer thinks necessary,
reject any nomination:Provided that the nomination of a candidate shall not be
rejected merely on the ground of an incorrect description of his name or the
name of his proposer or seconder, or any other particulars relating to the
candidate or his proposer or seconder, as entered in the list of street
vendors referred to in sub-rule (5), if the identity of the candidate, the
proposer or seconder, as the case may be, is established beyond reasonable
doubt.(c)The returning officer shall give all reasonable facilities to the
contesting candidates or the proposer or seconder, as the case may be, to
examine all the nomination papers and to satisfy themselves that the inclusion
of the name of the contesting candidate is valid.(d)The returning officer
shall endorse on each nomination paper his decision, accepting or rejecting
the same, as the case may be. If the nomination paper is rejected, he shall
record in writing, a brief statement of his reasons for such rejection.(e)The
returning officer shall not allow any adjournment of the proceedings except
when such proceedings are interrupted or obstructed by riots or affray or by
causes beyond his control.(11)The list of valid nominations as decided by the
returning officer with names of the candidates arranged in English
alphabetical order with their addresses as given in the nomination papers
shall be displayed or published on the same day on which the scrutiny of the
nomination papers is completed.(12)Any candidate may withdraw his candidature
by notice in writing signed by him and submitted in person to the Returning
officer of the Town Vending Committee at any time after the presentation of
his nomination paper, but before 5. 00 pm on the day following the day on
which the valid nominations are published. A notice of withdrawal of
candidates once given shall be irrevocable.(13)If the number of candidates,
whose nomination papers have been declared valid, does not exceed the number
of members to be elected, the returning officer shall announce the names of
all such candidates and declare them to have been duly elected to the Town
Vending Committee after the closing hour of the day of withdrawal of
candidatures fixed in sub rule (12). If the number of candidates whose
nominations are valid exceeds the number of members to be elected, the
returning officer shall arrange for conducting a poll on the date fixed for
the purpose. The returning officer may appoint one or more polling officers as
may be necessary for conducting the poll. The ballot paper to be used in the
pole shall be in Form-E.(14)The local authority shall provide the returning
officer with ballot boxes, ballot papers, copy of list of street
vendors/voters and such other articles as may be necessary for the conduct of
elections. The ballot box shall be so constructed that ballot papers can be
inserted therein but cannot be taken out therefrom without the boxes being
unlocked. A candidate contesting the election may, by a letter to the
returning officer, appoint an agent to represent him, to identify the voters
during polling and to watch the recording of votes. Such letter shall be in
Form-F and shall contain the consent in writing of the agent
concerned.(15)Canvassing for votes by any person at the place where elections
are to be conducted shall be prohibited.(16)Immediately before the
commencement of the poll, the returning officer shall show the empty ballot
box to such persons as may be present at the time and shall then lock it up
and fix his seal. The candidate or his agent may also affix his own seal, if
he so desires.(17)Every street vendor/voter who desires to exercise his right
to vote shall be supplied with a ballot paper in Form-E containing the names
of contesting candidates arranged in the English Alphabetical order, which
shall be either printed, type written or cyclostyled, according to
convenience. The ballot paper shall also bear the seal of the Town Vending
Committee and the initials of the returning officer. The ballot paper shall
contain a column for the voter to inscribe a mark [x] against the names of
persons to whom he wants to vote.(18)Each polling station and where there is
more than one polling booth at a station, each such booth shall contain a
separate compartment in which the street vendors/voters can record their votes
in secrecy.(19)No ballot paper shall be issued to a street vendor/voter unless
the polling officer is satisfied that the street vendor/voter concerned is the
same person as noted in the list of street vendors. On receipt of such ballot
paper the street vendor/voter shall proceed to the polling compartment set
apart for the purpose and indicate the person or persons in whose favour he
exercises his vote by inscribing a mark [x] against the names of the candidate
or candidates, as the case may be, and put the ballot paper in the ballot box
kept for the purpose with utmost secrecy. If owing to blindness or other
physical infirmity or illiteracy, the street vendor/voter is unable to
inscribe the mark on the ballot paper, the polling officer and where no such
polling officer is appointed, the returning officer shall ascertain from him
the candidate or candidates in whose favour he desired to vote and inscribe
the mark [x] on his behalf on the ballot paper and put the ballot paper in the
ballot box.(20)If at any stage of the polling, the proceedings are interrupted
or obstructed by any riot or affray or if it is not possible to take or
continue the poll for any sufficient cause, the returning officer shall have
the power to stop the poling, recording his reasons for such action in the
minute book of the Town Vending Committee.(21)No street vendor/ voter shall be
admitted after the hours fixed for the poll. But, where a voter entered the
premises of the polling station before the close of the polling hour, he shall
be issued the ballot paper and allowed to vote.(22)The counting of votes shall
take place immediately after closing of the poll. If this is not possible, the
ballot box shall be sealed with the seal of the returning officer and the
contesting candidates or their agents, if they so desire, and shall be
deposited with the local authority for safe custody. The returning officer
shall then announce the next day as the day of counting. The votes shall be
counted by or under the supervision of the returning officer. Each candidate
and his authorised agent shall have a right to be present at the time of
counting. But absence of any candidate or his agent at the time of counting
shall not vitiate counting and announcement of results by the returning
officer. The number of votes secured by each candidate and the result of the
elections shall be announced by the returning officer as soon as the counting
is over.(23)The result of the elections shall also be recorded in the minute
book of the Town Vending Committee and attested by the returning officer and
shall also be notified immediately on the notice board of the Town Vending
Committee.(24)In case of equality of votes, the returning officer shall
declare the election result by tossing coin.(25)The ballot paper shall be
rejected as invalid, during counting, by the returning officer, if(i)it bears
any mark by which the street vendor's vote can be identified;(ii)it does not
bear the seal of the Town Vending Committee or the initials of the returning
officer;(iii)the mark indicating the vote thereon is placed in such a manner
as to make it doubtful to which candidate the vote has been cast;(iv)is so
damaged or mutilated that its identity as a genuine ballot paper cannot be
established.(26)After the result of election has been announced, the result of
the election and a report thereon shall be communicated to the local authority
as well as to the Government by the returning officer within three days after
the declaration of result.(27)After the declaration of the result of the
election, the returning officer shall handover the ballot paper and records
relating to the elections of the members of the Town Vending Committee to the
local authority in a sealed cover. They shall be preserved safely by the local
authority for a period of six months from the date of elections or till such
time a dispute regarding elections, if any, filed is disposed of, whichever is
later and shall thereafter be destroyed by the local authority. A copy of the
handing over and taking over of ballot papers and records relating to
elections shall be sent to the Government as well as the local authority by
the returning officer along with his report of elections.

### 14. Term of Town vending committee.

\- After completion of the above election, the local authority shall notify
the constitution of the Town Vending Committee along with the names of all the
members, in a prominent place in its office.(2)The term of a Town Vending
Committee constituted under section 22 of the Act, unless dissolved earlier
under rule 16, shall be five years from the date of its constitution.

### 15. Removal of a member of Town Vending Committee.

\- If, in the opinion of the authority referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 11,
any member of a Town Vending Committee persistently makes defaults in the
performance of his duties imposed on him by or under the Act and these rules
or exceeds or abuses his powers, then the said Authority may, by order, remove
such member from the committee:Provided that such member shall be given a
reasonable opportunity of hearing before his removal.

### 16. Dissolution of Town Vending Committee.

\- If, in the opinion of the authority referred to in sub-rule(3) of rule 11,
a Town Vending Committee persistently makes defaults in the performance of
duties imposed on it by or under the Act and these rules or exceeds or abuses
its powers, then the said authority may, by order, dissolve such Town Vending
Committee and shall constitute a fresh Town Vending Committee.

### 17. Allowances of the members of Town Vending Committee.

\- The allowances payable to the members of a Town Vending Committee, who do
not hold any office of profit, shall be Rs.1000/- (Rupees one thousand only)
for attending a meeting of the Town Vending Committee. He shall be paid from
the general fund of the local body concerned.

### 18. Meetings of Town Vending Committee.

(1)The meetings of the Town Vending Committee shall be held at least once in
three months and at other shorter intervals as may be necessary to transact
its business:Provided that the first meeting of a Town Vending Committee shall
be convened by the Chairperson within 45 days from the date of its
constitution.(2)The business of the Town Vending Committee shall be conducted
as per the rules applicable for the conduct of business of the Council of the
local authority concerned.(3)The meetings of the Town Vending Committee shall
be held at the Headquarters of the local authority concerned or at such other
place within the jurisdiction of the local authority, as may be decided by the
Chairperson, from time to time.

### 19. Procedure for transaction of business of Town Vending Committee.

(1)The Town Vending Committee may follow such procedure for the transaction of
its business as may be decided by the Chairperson in consultation with the
members.(2)Subject to the provisions of the Act and these rules, the
resolutions of a Town Vending Committee shall be passed by simple majority of
the members present and voting in the meeting.

### 20. Functions to be discharged by Town Vending Committee.

\- Without prejudice to any other provisions of the Act, a Town Vending
Committee shall perform the following functions, namely:-(a)to conduct surveys
within the area of its jurisdiction to identify street vendors in the area and
arrange for their accommodation in accordance with the norms, plan and the
holding capacity within the area of its jurisdiction;(b)to issue Certificate
of Vending to an eligible street vendor after obtaining an undertaking from
him to comply with the terms and conditions subject to which the Certificate
of Vending is issued;(c)to cancel or suspend Certificate of Vending of street
vendors who commit breach of any of the conditions thereof or any other terms
and conditions specified for regulating street vending under the Act or these
rules or the Scheme made under the Act or where the Town Vending Committee is
satisfied that such Certificate of Vending has been secured by the street
vendor through misrepresentation or fraud;(d)to recommend the local authority
to declare an area in its jurisdiction to be a non-vending area;(e)to identify
sites and spaces for vending and hawking;(f)to regulate timings for vending to
ensure non-congestion of public spaces;(g)to ensure enforcement of corrective
mechanism against defiance by street vendors;(h)to follow up cases of disputes
pending before the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committees and
the local authority;(i)to furnish recommendations to the local authority in
relation to the preparation of plans to promote the vocation of street
vendors;(j)to hold its meetings and take appropriate decisions to ensure
efficient discharge of its functions;(k)to associate technical and
professional persons with itself on temporary basis for obtaining assistance
or advice in carrying out any of the provisions of the Act;(l)to publish the
street vendor's charter specifying therein the time within which the
Certificate of Vending shall be issued to the street vendors and time within
which such Certificate of Vending shall be renewed and other activities to be
performed within the time limit specified therein;(m)to maintain up to date
records of registered street vendors and the street vendors to whom
Certificates of Vending have been issued in Form-G.(n)to carry out social
audit of its activities under the Act or these rules or the scheme made
thereunder;(o)to furnish from time to time to the Government and the local
authority, such returns as may be prescribed under the Act and these
rules;(p)to recommend the Government for undertaking promotional measures to
make available credit, insurance and other welfare schemes of social security
for the street vendors;(q)to assist the Government to raise awareness among
the public about the role of the street vendors in the economy; and(r)to
perform such other functions for effective implementation of the Act and these
rules, as may be delegated to the Town Vending Committee by the local
authority and the Government.

### 21. Powers of Town Vending Committee for temporary association of expert
person.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the Act, a Town Vending Committee may
associate any suitable person of repute having adequate knowledge and
experience in the field, as expert to obtain technical or professional advice
on matters relating to the street vendors.(2)The person to be associated as
expert under sub-rule (1) shall be selected in a fair and transparent manner
and by following the procedure for engagement of consultants and experts as
technical or professional experts in Government Departments.(3)The persons
associated as expert under sub-rule (1) shall be paid allowances as determined
by the local authority.

### 22. Employees of Town Vending Committee.

\- The local authority concerned shall with the prior approval of the
Government, when so requested by a Town Vending Committee, make available to
that Committee such employees as the local authority considers necessary for
discharge of the functions conferred or imposed on the Town Vending Committee
under the Act or these Rules.

### 23. Manner of maintenance of records of street vendors by Town Vending
Committee.

\- Every Town Vending Committee shall maintain up to date records as
prescribed in the Scheme framed under sub-section (1) of section 38 of the
Act, in electronic form or manually or in both forms as may be decided by the
local authority.

### 24. Space for functioning of the Town Vending Committee.

(1)The local authority concerned shall provide sufficient office space for the
functioning of the Town Vending Committee and shall also depute its employees
to carry out the ministerial and clerical functions of the Town Vending
Committee.(2)The number of employees deputed for the office of the Town
Vending Committee shall be a minimum of two in number not below the rank of
Record Clerk and shall be increased as per the requirement of the workload
faced by the Town Vending Committee in the opinion of the Chairperson.

### 25. Filing of Returns.

\- Every Town Vending Committee shall periodically submit a return in Form-H
to the authority and the local authority concerned on or before the expiry of
sixty days referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 11 from the date fixed as the
last date for the receipt of application for issue of Certificate of Vending,
by the Town Vending Committee.

### 26. Publication of the Scheme.

\- Every local authority shall cause to publish a summary of the Scheme
notified by the appropriate Government under sub-section (1) of section 38 of
the Act in atleast two local vernacular news papers, within thirty days of
notification of the Scheme.AppendixForm 'A'[see rule 6]Application to the
Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee for the Redressal of
Grievance or Resolution of Dispute of Street
VendorsTo____________________________________________________________

1 | Name and address of the applicant | : |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Registration number/ case number/ ID number | : |  |   
3. |  Place of vending -(give full details of location, zone ward,etc. | : |  |   
4. | Nature of vending (Tick the appropriate) - | : | (a) | {|  
  
|-|| (a) stationary|| (b)| {||-||}|-|| (b) mobile|| (c)| {||-||}|-|| (c) any
other category (if other,please specify the category)||||-| 5.| Date of issue
of Certificate ofVending| :|||-|| (attach a copy of Certificate ofVending, if
issued)| :|||-| 6.| Nature and details of grievance ordispute| :|||-|| (give
full details and attach morepages, if required)| :|||}Signature of
ApplicantDeclarationI, ..................... the applicant, do hereby solemnly
declare that what is stated above is true to the best of my information and
belief.Signature of ApplicantPlace:Date:(Note:- Please attach all the relevant
documents to the application.Form 'B'[see rule 8(2)]Appeal to the Local
Authority Against the Decision of the Grievance Redressal and Dispute
Resolution
CommitteeTo________________________________________________________________________

1 | Name and address of the appellant | : |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Registration number/ case number/ ID number | : |  |   
3. |  Place of vending -(give full details of location, zone ward,etc.) | : |  |   
4. | Nature of vending (Tick the appropriate) - | : | (a) | {|  
  
|-|| (a) stationary||||-|| (b) mobile|| (b)| {||-||}|-|| (c) any other
category (if other,please specify the category)|| (c)| {||-||}|-| 5.| Decision
of the Grievance Redressaland Dispute Resolution Committee (attach the copy of
the decisionof the Grievance Redressal and Dispute Resolution Committee)|
:|||-| 6.| The number and date of the decision| :|||-| 7.| Grounds of appeal
(give fulldetails and attach more pages, if required)| :|||}Signature of
appellantDeclarationI, ....................., the appellant, do hereby
solemnly declare that what is stated above is true to the best of my
information and belief.Place:Date:Signature of appellant(Note:- Please attach
all the relevant documents along with the appeal.)Form 'C'[see rule 9]Appeal
to the Local Authority Against the Decision of the Town Vending
CommitteeTo_______________________________________________________________

1 | Name and address of the appellant | : |  |   
---|---|---|---|---  
2. | Registration number/ case number/ ID number | : |  |   
3. |  Place of vending -(give full details of location, zone ward,etc.) | : |  |   
4. | Nature of vending (Tick the appropriate) - | : | (a) | {|  
  
|-|| (a) stationary||||-|| (b) mobile|| (b)| {||-||}|-|| (c) any other
category (if other,please specify the category)|| (c)| {||-||}|-| 5.| Date of
issue of Certificate ofVending| :|||-|| (attach a copy of Certificate
ofVending, if issued)||||-| 6.| Nature of the order appealedagainst (Tick the
appropriate) -| :| (a)| {||-||}|-|| (a) issuance of Certificate
ofVending;||||-|| (b) cancellation of Certificate ofVending;|| (b)|
{||-||}|-|| (c) suspension of Certificate ofVending;|| (c)| {||-||}|-|| (d)
others. (Specify)|| (d)| {||-||}|-| 7.| Grounds of appeal (give fulldetails
and attach more pages, if required):||||}Signature of appellantDeclarationI,
.................. the appellant, do hereby solemnly declare that what is
stated above is true to the best of my information and
belief.Place:Date:Signature of appellant(Note. - Please attach all the
relevant documents along with the appeal.)Form D[see rule 13(6)]Nomination
form for Election of Members of Town Vending CommitteeToThe Returning
Officer,............................Town Vending
Committee............................Sir,I, ...............................,
wife/son/daughter of .........................., street vendor, vending in the
area of jurisdiction of the Town Vending Committee, (Registration Certificate
of Vending No ................. ) hereby propose the name of Shri/Smt/Ms
................................ wife/son/daughter of
.................................... and a street vendor of the said Town
Vending Committee (Registration Certificate of Vending No ............... ) as
a candidate for the post of Member of the said Committee for the election to
be held on ....................Name and signature of the proposer
............................Registration/Certificate of Vending No
........................I, ...........................,wife/son/daughter of
..................................................... Registration/Certificate
of Vending No .......................... of ................... Town Vending
Committee, hereby second the above proposal.Name and signature of the proposer
............................Registration/Certificate of Vending No
........................Declaration By The CandidateI,
......................., wife/son/daughter of ...........................
Registration/Certificate of Vending No ................... of ...............
Town vending committee, hereby agree to my nomination for the election as
Member of the .................... Town vending committee.I further declare
that-(i)I am not an employee of the said Town Vending Committee.(ii)I am
eligible to vote in the above election.(iii)I do not incur any
disqualification for election as Member of the said Town Vending Committee
under the provisions of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and
Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014 (Central Act 7 of 2014) and the Tamil
Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street
Vending) Rules, 2015 made thereunder.Name and signature of the proposer
............................Registration/Certificate of Vending No
........................(For Office Use Only)Received the nomination form at
.............. a.m./ p.m. on ....... Signature of the Returning Officer
..................Seal:AcknowledgmentReceived the nomination form of
................ presented by Shri/Smt/Ms ...................
candidate/proposer/seconder for election at ......... a.m./p.m. on ..........
Signature of the Returning OfficerSeal:Form - E[see rule 13(13)]Ballot Paper
for Election of Member of a Town Vending CommitteeBallot paper of elections of
Members of a Town Vending Committee representing street vendors, which is to
be conducted under rule 13 of the Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of
Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Rules, 2015.The
.................................. Street Vending
Committee.........................................................................(Address)(Counterfoil)Ballot
paper for the Post of .................Date of Election
.............................Sl. No .........................................
Registration/Certificate of VendingNo
.............................................. Ballot Paper.Please mark [x]
against one of the candidates to whom the votes are to be casted.

Sl. No. | Name of the Candidate | Registration/Certificate of vending No. | Mark for casting vote  
---|---|---|---  
  
Form - FLetter of Nomination of Agent[see rule 13 (14)]I,
........................, son / wife / daughter of
.............................., street vendor vending in the area of
jurisdiction of the Town Vending Committee, (Registration/Certificate of
Vending No ..................... ) contesting for election of Member of the
said Committee, hereby nominate the following person as my election
agent/counting agent in the election of Members of the said Town Vending
Committee to be held on ................................. (specify the
date):-Name and Signature of the CandidateRegistration/Certificate of Vending
No ..................I, ............................... son /wife/ daughter of
......................... address am willing to be the election agent/account
agent.Name and Signature of the AgentForm - G(see rule 20(m))Record of
Registered Street Vendors

(i) | Name of the Street Vendor | : |   
---|---|---|---  
(ii) | Address of the Street Vendor | : |   
(iii) | Sl.No. of Certificate of Vending | : |   
(iv) | Sl.No. of Identity card | : |   
(v) | Vending place and time | : |   
(vi) | Nature of Business | : |   
(vii) | Category of street vending | : |   
(vii) | Any other particulars | : |   
  
Form - H(see rule 25)Return to be Filed by the Town Vending CommitteeThe Town
Vending Committee of ....... Zone ...... of .................. Corporation/
........................... Municipality/ ............ Town Panchayat is
hereby submitting the following return on the Vending Certificate issued to
the Street vendors of the town.

### 1\. Name of the Town / Zone of a Corporation

### 2\. No. of Vending Zones identified

### 3\. No. of applications received

### 4\. No. of Vending Certificate issued

### 5\. Nature of business

(i)(ii)(iii)(iv)(v)6\. Total vending fees realisedThe Chairperson,Town Vending
Committee,Zone-of .......................Corporation/
..................Municipality/ .................Town Panchayat.

