## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MINOR-INAMS-ABOLITION-AND-CONVERSION-INTO-RYOTWARI-
RULES-1965 of 1965

  * Published on 10 February 1965 
  * Commenced on 10 February 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 February 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965Published vide Notification No. G.O. P. No. 345, Revenue, dated 10th
February 1965G.O. P. No. 345. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section
48 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rides : -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);(2)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;(3)"section" means a section of the Act;(4)"Tahsildar" means the
Tahsildar of the taluk having jurisdiction over the area and includes an
Independent Deputy Tahsildar or any other officer of the rank of Tahsildar
specially appointed in this behalf by the District Collector.

### 3. Publication of notification regarding vesting of minor inams, etc., in
Government.

\- As soon as may be after the publication of the notification under sub-
section (4) of section 1 in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.], the Assistant Settlement Officer shall cause to be
published in the village concerned a copy of the notification as so published,
together with the following particulars, namely : -(1)Name of the
district.(2)Name of the taluk.(3)Name of the village.(4)Description of the
minor inam with T.D.N., if any.(5)Survey number, extent and
classification.(6)Name of the inamdar or occupant, if known.

### 4. Procedure for taking possession of minor inam.

(1)The officer authorised by the Government to take possession of; minor inam
on their behalf under clause (d) of section 3, shall take charge of only such
of the accounts, registers, pattas, muchilikas, maps, plans and other
documents relating to the minor inam, if any in his opinion, necessary for the
administration of the minor inam in his opinion. He shall prepare; detailed
inventory of those documents in the presence of the inamdar or, any person
deputed, in writing, by the inamdar in that behalf, and give; copy of such
inventory to the inamdar or his deputy, certified copies of & documents shall
be made and given to the inamdar, if so required by him.(2)Where the officer
referred to in sub-rule (1) has reason to believe that there are other
documents in the possession or custody of the inamdar and is of opinion that
such documents are essential for the administration of the minor inam, he may
summon the inamdar to produce all such documents and the inamdar shall be
bound to produce them.

### 5. Procedure for taking possession of land in a minor inam.

(1)Before taking possession of any land in a minor inam under the proviso to
clause (d) of section 3, the Tahsildar shall examine whether any person
holding the land is prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that
land or not.(2)If the Tahsildar considers that the occupant of a land is prima
facie entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land, he shall tentatively
allow such occupation to continue, subject to the payment of assessment of the
extent occupied, as fixed under section 12 and subject to the condition that
the payment of such assessment shall not confer any right of
occupancy.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, occupation for a part
of fasli year shall be deemed to be occupation for the whole of the fasli
year.(3)If the Tahsildar considers that the occupant of a land on the
appointed day is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that
land and that the occupation is objectionable, he shall cause a notice in Form
No. I to be served on his calling upon him to show cause why he should not be
disposed of the land.(4)The Tahsildar shall examine the representation, if
any, made on the date fixed for the enquiry and after such further enquiry as
he may consider necessary shall pass orders either holding that the occupant
prima facie is or in not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land. If
the Tahsildar considers that the occupant is prima facie not entitled to
ryotwari patta and that the occupation is objectionable, he shall cause a
notice in Form No. 2 to be served on the occupant.(5)On the expiry of the time
allowed for filing appeal or revision petition or, if an appeal or revision
petition has been filed, after the disposal of such appeal or revision
petition and if the decision in the appeal or revision is that the occupant is
prima facie not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land, an officer
not lower in rank than a Revenue Inspector duly authorised in this behalf, may
formally enter upon the land in question and take possession of it and record
certificates of the Village Officers and of at least one ryot of the village
that the land has been taken possession of by the Government.(6)If the
decision is that the occupant of land on the appointed day is prima facie not
entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land, but that occupation is not
objectionable, the occupation may be allowed, subject to the payment by the
occupant, of the assessment on the land under section 12, until the ryotwari
settlement of the land is effected under section 15 or until the land is
required by the Government for any purpose, whichever is earlier. The payment
of such assessment shall not confer on the occupant any occupancy right. Every
decision in this regard shall be communicated to the occupant concerned in
Form No. 3.

### 6. Period within which appeal against an order under the proviso to
section 3(d) can be filed.

\- Every appeal against an order under the proviso to clause (d) of section 3,
deciding the question whether a person is prima facie entitled to a ryotwari
patta in respect of a land or not, shall be preferred within thirty days from
the date of such order or within such further time, as the appellate authority
may, in its discretion, allow.

### 7. Revision petition to the Settlement Officer.

\- Every petition under sub-section (2) of section 5 for revision of the
order, act or proceeding of an Assistant Settlement Officer shall be preferred
to the Settlement Officer within thirty days from the date of communication of
the order, or of the date of the Act complained of:Provided that the
Settlement Officer may admit a petition preferred after the period aforesaid
if he is satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient cause for not preferring
the petition within the said period.

### 8. Revision petition to the [Board of Revenue.] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G.O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.]

\- Every petition under clause (c) of section 6 for revision of the order, act
or proceeding of the Settlement Officer shall be preferred to the Board of
Revenue within sixty days from the date of communication of the order or of
the date of the act complained of:Provided that the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G.O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.]
may admit a petition preferred after the expiry of the period aforesaid, if it
is satisfied that the petitioner had sufficient reason for not preferring the
petition within the said period.

### 9. Enquiry into claims for ryotwari patta under section 8 or 9.

(1)Every application for grant of ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
section 8 or 9 shall be in Form No. 4 and shall be either presented in person
or sent by registered post, to the Assistant Settlement Officer, within six
months from the appointed day.(2)Every such application shall be signed and
verified by the applicant and restricted to lands in a single village.(3)If,
in respect of any land, no person has applied under sub-rule (1), the
Assistant Settlement Officer shall proceed to enquire into the nature and
history of the land suo motu and determine, if any, person is prima facie
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land.(4)The Assistant
Settlement Officer shall fix a date for the enquiry and shall cause a notice
in Form No. 5 to be served on the person, who has applied for ryotwari patta
or who, in the opinion of the Assistant Settlement Officer, is prima facie
entitled to a ryotwari patta, to produce any record or make any
representation, which he may wish to make at the enquiry. A copy of the notice
shall also be sent to the Tahsildar.(5)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall
also publish a notice in Form No. 6 requiring any person, who has any
objection to any of the proposals to grant ryotwari patta, to file before by
him a settlement of his objections, within a week from the date of the notice
and also requesting all interested persons to be present at the enquiry either
in person or through an authorised representative and make their
representations. A copy of the notice shall be affixed on the notice board of
the office of the Assistant Settlement Officer.(6)The date of the enquiry
shall not be earlier than fifteen days from the date of publication of the
notice referred to in sub-rule (5).(7)The enquiry shall be summary. The
Assistant Settlement Officer shall hear the parties and afford them a
reasonable opportunity for adducing any oral or documentary evidence.(8)Before
giving a decision in respect of claims falling under sub-clause (b) of sub-
section (2) of section 8, the Assistant Settlement Officer shall give a notice
in Form No. 7 calling upon the claimant to state, in writing, whether he is
willing to pay twenty times the difference between the fair rent in respect of
the land-determined in accordance with the provisions in the Schedule to the
Act and the land revenue due on it:Provided that no such notice shall be
necessary where the claim for ryotwari patta is not established.(9)If the
claimant referred to in sub-rule (8) fails to give his consent as required in
the notice, the claim shall be rejected. If he gives his consent and thereupon
the Assistant Settlement Officer is satisfied that the claimant is entitled to
a ryotwari patta, the Assistant Settlement Officer shall issue an order
declaring him entitled to ryotwari patta on payment of the consideration due
to the Government, and shall also make a reference to the Tahsildar to fix the
fair rent and to determine the quantum of consideration.(10)The decision of
the Assistant Settlement Officer shall be published in Form No. 8. A copy of
the decision shall be given to the party concerned in person or sent to him by
registered post. A copy of the decision shall also be sent to the Tahsildar.

### 10. Appeal to the Tribunal.

(1)On receipt of an appeal preferred under subsection (3) of section 11, the
Tribunal shall cause a notice in Form No. 9 to be published requiring all
persons, who have applied to the Assistant Settlement Officer under section 8
or 9 or filed statement before the Assistant Settlement Officer in the course
of the enquiry under sub-section, to appear before it.(2)A copy of the notice
shall be served on the applicant, the Tahsildar and every other person
affected by the appeal, by sending the notice to the individual concerned by
registered post.(3)A copy of the final order of the Tribunal shall be
communicated to the appellant, the respondent and the Tahsildar.

### 11. Eviction of occupant of land not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect
of it consequent on decision under section 11.

\- In cases in which the Assistant Settlement Officer, the Tribunal or the
Special Appellate Tribunal decides that the occupant of an inam land is not
actually entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of it, the Tahsildar shall
serve on the occupant a notice in Form No. 10. The Tahsildar shall also take
such further steps as are necessary to evict the occupant. Any such eviction
shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of sub-rule (5) of rule
5:Provided that if the occupation is unobjectionable and if the occupant
states, in writing that he accepts the decision of the Assistant Settlement
Officer, the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case maybe,
that he is not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the land and that he
will surrender actual possession of it to the Government forthwith if the land
is not assigned to him under the darkhast rules, his petition being treated as
his darkhast application is such cases to continue, subject to the payment of
assessment of the land under section 12, until orders are passed on the
darkhast application or until the land is required by the Government for any
purpose, whichever is earlier.

### 12. Unauthorised occupant of land to be proceeded against under law.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall be construed as exempting any person
unauthorisedly occupying land from liability to be proceeded against, under
any law for the time being in force.

### 13. Eviction of occupants of buildings vesting in other persons.

\- The provisions of rule 11 shall apply muratis mutanuis to cases of eviction
of the occupant of any building which vests under section 13 in other persons.

### 14. Authority to fix land revenue under section 12(1).

\- The land revenue payable under sub-section (1) of section 12 shall be fixed
by the Tahsildar.

### 15. Computation of net miscellaneous revenue.

\- For the purpose of determining the net annual miscellaneous revenue
referred to in section 19, ten per cent of the gross annual miscellaneous
revenue shall be deducted.

### 16. Procedure in regard to service inams.

\- The option referred to in sub-section (3) of section 21 shall be in Form
No. 11. It shall be exercised within six months from the date on which he was
granted ryotwari patta.

### 17. Procedure in respect of payments to institutions.

\- The amounts payable to any religious, educational or charitable institution
under sub-section (4) of section 8 and sub-section (4) of section 20 shall be
paid to the trustee or manager or other person in charge of the institution
already on the records by the District Collector. Before making the payment,
the District Collector, may, if he thinks it necessary, and shall, if the
claim for the management of the institution on or the right to receive payment
of the amount on behalf of the institution is in dispute, obtain an indemnity
bond from the payee the disputants being asked to establish their claim in a
competent Court of law.

### 18. Mode of payment.

(1)Any sum payable to a religious, educational or charitable institution under
sub-section (4) of section 8 and sub-section (4) of section 20 shall be paid
in cash from the sub-treasury of the taluk in which minor inam is
situated.(2)The payments referred to in sub-rule (4) shall be subject to
adjustment as provided in sub-sections (4), (5) and (6) of section 33 and
shall be made before the end of the fasli year to which they relate.

### 19. Enquiry under sections 21(6)(b) and 21(7)(b).

(1)The enquiry under clause (b) of sub-section (6) of section 21 and clause
(b) of sub-section (7) of section 21 shall be either suo motu or on
application from the institution concerned or from other persons interested
and shall be conducted by the Revenue Divisional Officer of the division
concerned.(2)Notice recording the date, time and place of enquiry shall be in
Form No. 12 in respect of the enquiry under clause (b) of sub-section (6) of
section 21 and in Form No. 13 in respect of the enquiry under clause (b) of
sub-section (7) of section 21 shall be served on the service-holder concerned.
A copy of the notice shall also be served on the applicant and on the
institutions, if the institution is not the applicant.(3)The Revenue
Divisional Officer shall make a summary enquiry into the matter. He shall hear
the service-holder, the institution and other person interested, if any, and
give his decision after giving them a reasonable opportunity for adducing
evidence.(4)If the decision aforesaid is that there has been failure to render
the service by the service-holder, the Revenue Divisional Officer shall notify
such failure in Form No. 14 in respect of cases falling under clause (b) of
sub-section (6) of section 21 and in Form No. 15 in respect of cases, falling
under clause (b) of subsection (7) of section 21 and shall publish such
failure.(5)The decision of the Revenue Divisional Officer shall be
communicated to the parties concerned.(6)The declaration referred to in clause
(b) of sub-section (6) of section 21 and in clause (b) of sub-section (7) of
section 21 shall be made immediately after the publication of the notification
referred to in sub-rule (4) and shall be in Form No. 16 or 17, as the case may
be. Copies of the declaration shall be served on the service-holder and on the
institution.

### 20. Application for a copy of the date when to be made.

\- An application for a copy of the date on the basis of which the Settlement
Officer proposes to determine the tasdik allowance or the compensation shall
be made by the inamdar or other person interested, within two months, from
such date as may be notified by the Settlement Officer in this behalf.

### 21. Communication of orders.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall communicate every order passed under sub-
section (1) of section 22 to every inamdar concerned and also to every
applicant under sub-section (2) of section 22 in the manner specified below :
-(a)by sending the order by registered post; or(b)by getting the order served
through the Tahsildar.(2)In cases where the order is to be served on any
inamdar or any applicant, the Settlement Officer shall send the order in
duplicate to the Tahsildar, who shall arrange to serve one copy on the person
concerned, obtain his acknowledgment on the duplicate and return the duplicate
copy to the Settlement Officer, within fifteen days from the date of receipt
of the order.

### 22. Apportionment of compensation and interim payment.

(1)As soon as may be after any amount is deposited under sections 24 and 29 in
the office of the Tribunal, the Settlement Officer shall publish the fact of
such deposit in the Fort St. George Gazette, with particulars of the amounts
so deposited, the date of deposit and the minor inam to which it relates.(2)As
soon as may be after such publication is made, the Tribunal shall publish on
its notice-board, both in English and Tamil, a copy of the notification as
published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.].(3)The fact of deposit shall also be published on the notice board
of the taluk office of the taluk in which the minor inam is situated and also
in the headquarters village of the minor inam by affixing a copy of the notice
in the village chavadi or in some other conspicuous place in the village and
also by beat of tom tom.(4)If there are persons, whose claims to any amount
deposited previously in respect of the same minor inam have been recognised by
the Tribunal, it shall give notice to all such persons, and the expenses for
issue of such notice shall be distributed among all the claimants, who are
before the Tribunal within the time specified in section 25.(5)The Tribunal
shall pass no orders regarding the apportionment of any amount so deposited
with it until after the expiry of one month from the date of publication of
the notification in respect of the deposit on its notice board.(6)No claim
shall be allowed by the Tribunal except on a claim petition made to it.(7)The
claimants and another person interested may appear before the Tribunal in
person or through pleaders authorised by them in this behalf.(8)When the
compensation payable has to be apportioned by the Tribunal among the inamdar
and any other persons interested, the Tribunal shall first determine which
creditors, if any, are lawfully entitled to have their debts paid from and out
of the assets of the minor inam and the amount, to which each of them is
entitled; and only the remainder of the aggregate compensation shall be
divisible among the inamdar and other persons.(9)For the purpose of securing
that the amount of compensation payable to the inamdar and any other person is
apportioned among them on an equitable basis, the Tribunal shall have power,
wherever necessary, to reopen any arrangement already made, whether by a
decree or order of a Court, award or other instruments in writing or contract
or family arrangements.(10)The balance of the aggregate compensation shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 27, be divided among
the inamdar and any other persons interested, in proportion to their
respective interests in the minor inam, immediately before the appointed day.

### 23. Appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Every appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be in Form No. 18 and
shall be signed by the appellant or his advocate and presented by such
appellant, advocate or the registered clerk of the advocate at the office of
the Registrar, High Court, during working hours.(2)It shall set forth briefly
the grounds of objection to the decision appealed against.(3)It shall be
accompanied by a vakalatnama duly executed, if the appellant appears by
advocate, by a certified copy of the order appealed against by as many
authenticated copies thereof as there are respondents, together with the
prescribed process fee:Provided that in the case of an appeal filed under sub-
rule (4), the process fee shall be paid within three days, after the delay is
condoned under sub-rule (5).(4)Whereas appeal is filed after the period of
limitation prescribed therefor in sub-section (1) of section 30, it shall be
accompanied by a petition for condoning the delay. The petition shall be
supported by an affidavit setting forth the facts, on which the appellant
relies to satisfy the Court that he had sufficient reason for not preferring
the appeal within such period.(5)The petition shall, then, be posted for
orders before the judges nominated for the purpose under sub-section (1) of
section 30.(6)As soon as the appeal is numbered, it shall be placed before the
Registrar for orders as to issue of notice and preparation of the record for
the hearing of the appeal.(7)The record of the case for the use of the Special
Appellate Tribunal shall consist of all material papers on which either party
proposes to rely at the hearing of the appeal.(8)Unless otherwise ordered by
the Judge or the Registrar at the instance of a party the record shall be
translated, if need be, and typed at the office of the Registrar and the
charges therefor shall be calculated at the rates prescribed in the rules of
the High Court, Appellate Side.(9)In case the record is to be prepared at the
office of the Registrar, the appellant shall, within two weeks after the
receipt of an office memorandum to the effect, pay into the Registrar's office
such charges, as maybe specified, in the said office memorandum.(10)The
respondent shall, within three weeks from the date of service of the notice of
appeal on him, obtain the direction of the Registrar as to the preparation of
the record and shall pay the charges therefor within such time as may be fixed
by the Registrar.

### 24. Award of costs.

(1)No costs, by way of process fee, pleader's fee and witness batta, shall be
allowed in proceedings before a Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal in
case where the claim is uncontested or is decreed on admission or
compromised.(2)Where a claim is contested before a Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal, but is allowed in whole or in part, costs shall be allowed
to the claimant or appellant in proportion to his success against contest and
the contesting party or respondent shall pay such costs to the claimant or
appellant.(3)In the event of any claim before a Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal being dismissed wholly or in part, costs shall be allowed
to the contesting party or respondent in proportion to his success.(4)In cases
of frivolous or vexatious claims or defences, costs shall be allowed also by
way of compensation as laid down in section 35-A of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).(5)Where costs are awarded by a
Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, the order for costs shall be
executable by a Civil Court having jurisdiction over the area with reference
to which the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal gave its decision, as
if it were a decree passed by such Court.

### 25. Procedure to be adopted in the case of proceedings before a Judge of
High Court.

\- The provisions of rules 25 and 26 shall apply to the proceedings before a
Judge of the High Court hearing a case under sub-section (2) of section 30, as
they apply in relation to the proceedings before the Special Appellate
Tribunal.

### 26. Mode of entertaining appeal or revision petition, enquiry thereon and
grant of interim stay.

(1)Every Appeal or revision petition under the Act or these rules, shall be
accompanied by a duly authenticated copy of the order appealed against or
sought to be revised.(2)In respect of any order passed under the Act which is
subject to appeal or revision, the appellate or revisional authority, as the
case may be, may suspend the execution of the order pending its decision on
the appeal or in revision.(3)Notice of hearing of any appeal or revision, as
the case may be, shall be given to the appellant or the revision petitioner
and the respondent or respondents and to the other persons interested, if
any.(4)Before passing orders on every appeal or revision petition, the parties
concerned shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)A copy of
the final order in any appeal or revision shall be communicated by the
appellant or revision petitioner and the respondent or respondents and other
persons interested, if any, or the counsel concerned, if any of them is
represented by counsel by registered post, and also the Tahsildar, the
Assistant Settlement Officer.Explanation. - For this purpose of this rule,
"persons interested" means the inamdar and includes any other person claiming
an interest in the compensation payable for the minor inam or part thereof.

### 27. Time barred application, appeal or revision petition to be dismissed.

\- Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963) shall not
apply to the applications, appeals or revision petitions coming under the
purview of these rules. Subject to the provisions of the Act and these rules,
every application made and every appeal and revision petition filed to the
authorities or officers having jurisdiction under the Act and these rules,
after the period of limitation prescribed therefor in the Act and these rules,
shall be dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defence.

### 28. Deposit in District Court of unclaimed and undisbursed amounts
deposited with the Tribunals.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 24 and sub-sections (4) and (7) of section 29 and remaining
unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been made within the time
specified in sub-section (1) of section 25 or no application for payment has
been made within the time specified in section 34; and(b)all amounts deposited
as aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of disposal of the application under section 34 shall be
withdrawn by the Tribunal and deposited in the District Court having
jurisdiction over the minor inam.(2)As soon as any amount is withdrawn by the
Tribunal from its personal depositor other account and deposited in the
District Court having jurisdiction under sub-section (1) of section 35, the
Tribunal shall publish the fact of such deposit in the District Gazette
concerned in Form No. 19. The Tribunal shall also cause a copy of the
notification. Form 18 to be affixed to the notice board of its office. It
shall also send copies of the notification to the District Judge, the
Settlement Officer, the District Collector and the Tahsildar, who shall cause
them to be affixed to the notice boards of their respective offices, and send
certificates of such publication to the Tribunal.(3)On the transfer of the
amount from the personal deposit or other account of the Tribunal to the
account of the District Court, it shall be charged off as expenditure in the
account of the Tribunal.

### 29. Form in which claim should be made.

\- Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against, any amount held in
deposit by the District Court shall apply in Form No. 20.

### 30. Levy of process fees, award of costs, etc.

\- In respect of levy of process fees, award of costs, including costs by way
of compensation for frivolous claims or vexatious claims or defence, pleaders
fee and witness batta, the District Court shall follow the rules as applicable
to the Tribunal.

### 31. Procedure for dealing with amounts transferred to deposit of the
District Court.

\- The amount transferred to the deposit of the District Court shall be
finally dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in rules 51 to
60 in Chapter III in Part I of the Civil Rules of Practice and Circular Orders
(Volume II).

### 32. Decision of questions regarding forest.

(1)The Assistant Settlement Officer determine question regarding forest under
section 40 either suo motu or application.(2)Any person requiring a decision
under section 40 shall apply to the Assistant Settlement Officer in Form No.
21.(3)Except where the said application is on behalf of the Government, it
shall be signed and verified by the applicant.(4)Every such application shall
be restricted to lands in each minor inam.(5)Every such application shall be
presented in person or sent by registered post.(6)As many copies of the
application, as there are respondents with one additional copy for the
Tahsildar of the taluk, in which the land is situated be filed with the
application.(7)On receipts of the application, the Assistant Settlement
Officer shall fix a date of hearing and issue notices in Form No. 22 to the
parties, the Tahsildar of the taluk concerned and the respondents. A copy of
the application shall also be sent along with the notice.(8)The Assistant
Settlement Officer shall make a summary enquiry into the application and give
his decision, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity for adducing
evidence.(9)A copy of the order shall be served on the applicant and on each
of the respondents. A copy shall also be sent to the Settlement Officer and
Tahsildar concerned.(10)Every appeal against an order of the Assistant
Settlement Officer under section 40 shall be preferred to the Settlement
Officer within thirty days from the date of communication of the order.(11)On
receipt of the appeal, the Settlement Officer shall fix a date of hearing and
give notices in Form No. 23 to the parties concerned and pass orders after
giving them a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 33. Procedure for determination of fair rent.

(1)In determining the fair rent for a land for the purpose of sub-clause (b)
of clause (b) or clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 8-D or clause (i) of
sub-clause (3) of section 20 or sub-section (4) of section 21, the Tahsildar
may call upon the inamdar or the occupant of the land to furnish the following
particulars and such other particulars as he may consider necessary : -(a)The
extent of land of each class, such as wet, dry, garden, tope, orchard and land
used for non-agricultural purposes.(b)The rates or rent or lease amount, as
the case may be, levied on each class of land immediately before the fasli
year, in which the appointed day falls.(c)The particulars of cultivation with
details of extent, crop yield and nature of occupation, as the case may
be.(2)The Tahsildar may also call upon the inamdar to produce his accounts
containing the particulars specified in sub-rule (1).(3)In the case of the
lands referred to in paragraph (1) of the Schedule to the Act, the Tahsildar,
for the purpose of determining the fair rent, ascertain the lease amount on a
similar land similarly situated and possessing similar advantages, in the
neighbourhood.(4)Subject to the provisions contained in paragraph 2 of the
Schedule to the Act, the Tahsildar shall, for determining the normal gross
produce in respect of any land for any specified crop, ascertain the quantity
of the produce which would be obtained, if such crop were grown in a year in
which the rainfall and the seasons were of a normal character, on a land of
the same class, as the land in question, similarly situated and possessing
similar advantages. For the purposes of such determination, the Tahsildar may
take into consideration : -(a)The soil classification of the land and the
normal or standard out turn of paddy in the case of wet land and of the dry or
irrigated crop in the case of dry unirrigated or irrigated land for the
different classes and sorts of soil;(b)The Government records containing the
season and crop reports and rainfall accounts;(c)The accounts of the inamdars
and occupants, wherever available, for similar lands enjoying similar
advantages;(d)The oral or documentary evidence adduced by any of the
interested parties and decrees of Civil Courts.(5)Before determining the fair
rent in the case of lands referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Schedule to
the Act, the Tahsildar shall issue notice in Form No. 24 to the service holder
or occupant, and the institution concerned to make representations, if any,
which they desire to be considered, in fixing the fair rent.(6)After
considering the pre-presentations and with reference to other materials before
him, the Tahsildar shall determine the fair rent in respect of the land
concerned.(7)In commuting the fair rent in terms of cash, the Tahsildar shall
fix the cash value of the crop in such manner as he may deem fair and
reasonable, taking into consideration the Government records containing the
season and crop and price reports and also consulting the Director of
Statistics, if considered necessary:Provided that where the average market
price of any crop has been published by the Collector of the district in the
District Gazette under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of
1956) and such price is in force on the appointed day, the authorised officer
shall adopt such price in computing the fair rent in terms of cash:Provided
further that if the accounts of the fasli year commencing on the appointed day
are not available, the Tahsildar shall take into account the yield of the
crops in a normal year as the normal Gross produce and apply thereto the
approved price of the relevant crop for determining the fair rent.

### 34. Investing in securities money due to a person under disability.

\- In cases where the Tribunal does not order the payment of compensation or
any other money to any person on behalf of another under disability or to a
guardian, the Tribunal shall invest the money in any one of the securities
specified in the Appendix to Chapter IV, Part II of the Civil Rules of
Practice and Circular Orders (Volume I).

### 35. Extent or boundaries of land covered by orders of any authority under
Act.

\- The extent or boundaries of the land covered by any order passed by any
authority or officer in any proceedings under the provisions of this Act shall
be, subject to any changes consequent on the determination of the area and any
plotting by the survey authorities.

### 36. Transfer of proceedings.

\- The proceedings pending before any Tribunal, authority or officer may be
transferred to any other Tribunal, authority or officer, as the case maybe, by
the authority to whom appeal or revision petition lies against the decision of
such Tribunal, authority or officer, or where there is no such appellate or
revisional authority, by the Government.

### 37. Power to issue summons.

\- Every Assistant Settlement Officer or Settlement Tahsildar shall have power
to issue summons to any person either for appearance or for production of
documents in connection with the enquiries into questions pending before such
officer under the Act and such person shall be bound to obey such summons. The
form of summons shall be that used by Revenue Court.

### 38. Manner of service and publication of notices and orders under the Act
or the rules.

(1)Any notice or order issued or made under the Act or under these rules shall
be served on the person concerned in the following manner, namely : -(a)by
delivering or tendering the notice or order to the person concerned or his
counsel or authorized agent or some adult member of his family; or(b)by
sending the notice or order to the person concerned by registered post
acknowledgment due; or(c)if none of the aforesaid modes of service is
practicable, by affixing the notice or order in some conspicuous part of the
last known place of residence or business of the person concerned.(2)Any
notice or order which is intended for publication for a general information
shall, in addition to the special mode of publication prescribed in these
rules, also be published by affixture in the village chavadi of the village in
which the minor inam situates and, if there is no village chavadi, in any
conspicuous public place in the village and by announcing the fact of such
publication by the place and date of publication and the said date shall be
certify to the place and date of publication and the said date shall be deemed
to be the date of communication of the notice or order, as the case may be, to
the parties concerned.

### 39. Court-fees and process-fees payable.

(1)The Court-fee payable in respect of the documents specified in column (2)
of the Table below under the section specified in column (1) of the said Table
shall be the amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) thereof
: -Table

Section | Description of documents | Court-fee  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
6(c) | Revision to the Board of Revenue | 2.00  
11 | Application to the Assistant Settlement Officer | 0.75  
| Appeal to the Tribunal | 2.00  
| Application to the Tribunal | 0.75  
| Vakalatnama to the Tribunal | 1.50  
22(6) | Appeal to the Board of Revenue | 2.00  
30(1) |  Memo, of appeal to the Special AppellateTribunal -(a) if the claim does not exceed Rs.3,000 | 15.00  
|  (b) if the claim exceeds Rs. 3,000, but is lessthan Rs. 10,000 | 100.00  
| (c) if the claim is Rs. 10,000 or more | 500.00  
|  Interlocutory application to the SpecialAppellate Tribunal | 2.00  
| Vakalatnama to the Special Appellate Tribunal | 3.00  
35(3) |  Application to the District Court - (a) if theclaim does not exceed Rs.100 | 5.00  
| (b) if the claim exceeds Rs.100 | 10.00  
40 | Applicant to the Assistant Settlement Officer | 0.75  
| Appeal to the Settlement Officer | 1.00  
| Revision petition to the Board of Revenue | 1.50  
  
Explanation. - No Court-fee need be paid in the case of appeals filed on
behalf of the Government.(2)In proceedings before the Tribunal, process fees
shall be paid at 6 rates prescribed for the District Court on processes issued
at the instanced parties. In proceedings before the Special Appellate
Tribunal, process fee shall be paid in accordance with the process-fees
prescribed under section 80 of the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits Valuation
Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1955). The rates of process fees payable for
service of notices and summons on respondents and witness and for production
of records in other cases shall be calculated as follows : -

1 |  For service of notices or summons on a singleperson. | 0.50  
---|---|---  
2 |  For service of notices or summons on everyadditional person residing in the same village if applied for atthe same time. | 0.75  
  
### 40. Fees to pleaders.

\- The following principles shall be adopted in fixing the fees to pleaders
for work connected with the proceedings under the Act before the Special
Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal : -(1)Fees payable to pleaders for
appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal shall, for taxation, fix the
fees payable to pleaders for work connected with the proceedings before it in
the same manner in which the High Court fixes advocates fee for taxation in
appeals against the orders of the lower Courts, irrespective of the fact,
whether it allows cost to any of the contesting parties or not:Provided that
in respect of a batch of connected cases, in which the result is determined by
a single case, only one regulation fee shall be fixed.(2)Fees payable to
pleaders for appearance before Tribunal. -(a)The Tribunal shall fix the fee
payable to the pleaders for work connected with the following original
proceeding before them so as not to exceed Rs.500 in ordinary cases and
Rs.1,000 in important cases : -(i)Proceedings connected with the apportionment
of compensation under section 27;(ii)Proceedings connected with the
apportionment of interim payments under section 29:Provided that in respect of
a batch of connected cases in which the result is determined by a single case,
only one regulation fee shall be fixed.(b)(i)The Tribunal shall fix the fee
payable to pleaders for work connected with proceedings under the other
provisions of the Act, on the following basis, namely : -(1)For appearance
before the Tribunals and for preparation of the case. - A fixed fee of Rs.15
for each case in respect of appeals under sub-section (3) of section 11.(2)For
appearance before the Tribunal for arrangements in respect of appeals under
sub-section 3 of section 11, if the time does not exceed 3 hours a fixed fee
of Rs. 15 for each case, if the time taken exceeds 3 hours, but does not
exceed 6 hours, a fixed fee of Rs.30 for each case, if the time taken exceeds
6 hours, a fixed fee of Rs. 50 for each case:Provided that in respect of a
batch of connected cases under, subsection (3) of section 11, in which the
result is determined by a single case, the Tribunal shall fix one regulation
fee.(ii)The Tribunal shall fix the fees payable to each of the pleaders who
appear before them in each case, irrespective of the fact whether they allow
any costs to any of the contesting parties or not.(3)(i)Fees payable to
pleaders for appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal and for
preparation of the case. - A fixed fee of Rs.100 for each case.(ii)Fees
payable to pleaders for appearance before the Special Appellate Tribunal for
arguments, if the time taken does not exceed three hours, a fixed fee of Rs.25
for each case, if the time taken exceeds three hours but does not exceed six
hours, a fixed fee of Rs.50 for each case, if the time taken exceeds six
hours, a fixed fee of Rs.75 for each case:Provided that in respect of a batch
of connected cases, in which the result is determined by a single case, the
Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix one regulation fee under item (ii)
above.(iii)The Special Appellate Tribunal shall fix the fee payable to the
pleaders in each case irrespective of the fact whether it allows costs or
not.AppendixForm No. 1[See rule 5(3) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965]ToSri.......................................................................
residing at
............................................................................village
...........................................................................taluk.Whereas,
you are reported to be in occupation of the land specified in the Schedule
hereunder, which has vested in the Government under section 3(b) of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1963), and whereas there are grounds to believe that you are
not prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of the said land and
that your occupation is objectionable, you are hereby given notice that, if
you so desire, you may appear before me on......[(date)] [The date shall be at
least seven days after the date of service of the notice.] at.....(time)
at.........(place) or show cause, in writing, before that date, why you should
not be disposed of the said land, under the proviso to section 3(d) of the
said Act.

## Schedule

Description of the Land

District and taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor inam with title deed,number, if any |  Survey and subdivision number, if surveyed orlocal name, if un-surveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North, South, Eastand West | Classifications | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 2[See rule 5(4) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Proceedings of the Tahsildar of Taluk

No............................ | Dated .............................  
---|---  
  
Whereas the land specified in the Schedule hereunder has been under the
occupation of Sri..........residing atAnd Whereas in pursuance of rule 5(4) of
the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965,I,...........Tahsildar of taluk, do hereby consider that
Sri............occupant of the said land is prima facie not entitled to
ryotwari patta in respect of the said land;And Whereas I,..................,
Tahsildar of taluk consider that the occupation is objectionable, the
occupant, Sri. will be disposed of the land after lapse of the time-limit
specified in rule 5(5) of the said rules.

## Schedule 2

Description of the Land

District and taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor inam with title deed,number, if any |  Survey and subdivision number, if surveyed orlocal name, if un-surveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North, South, Eastand West | Classifications | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Tahsildar.Form No. 3[See rule 5(6) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rule, 1965]Proceedings of the Tahsildar of Taluk

No............................ | Dated .............................  
---|---  
  
Whereas, the land specified in the Schedule hereunder has been under the
occupation of Sri............residing at ................And Whereas, it has
been decided that the said occupant is prima facie not entitled to ryotwari
patta in respect of the said land;And Whereas, I,............. Tahsildar of
taluk consider that the occupation is objectionable, the occupant, will be
allowed to be in occupation of the said land, subject to the payment of
assessment on the land under section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1963), until the ryotwari settlement of the said land is effected under
section 15 of the said Act or until the said land is required by the
Government for any purpose, whichever is earlier.Explanation. - The payment of
the assessment shall not confer on the occupant any right of occupancy in
respect of the land.

District and taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor inam with title deed,number, if any |  Survey and subdivision number, if surveyed orlocal name, if un-surveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North, South, Eastand West | Classifications | Nature of occupation | Assessment | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Form No. 4[See rule 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of ApplicationName of the
applicant:Address of the applicant:(List of lands in respect of which the
applicant claims ryotwari patta.)

1. | Serial number | :  
---|---|---  
2. | Name of the district | :  
3. | Name of the taluk | :  
4. | Name of the village | :  
5. | Local name, if any, of the land | :  
6. |  Description of the minor inam with title deednumber, if any | :  
7. |  Survey number and sub-division number, ifsurveyed | :  
8. | Extent | :  
9. | Classification-whether wet or dry | :  
10. | Survey numbers of adjacent lands- |   
North | :  
South | :  
East | :  
West | :  
11. |  Provision of law under which the claim ispreferred |   
12. | Summary of evidence proposed to be adduced |   
13. | Remarks |   
  
Place:Date: | Signature of applicant.  
---|---  
  
(Note. - A separate form should be used for each village)Form No. 5[See rule
9(4) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given to Sri ....................that the
Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer.......... will hold an
enquiry into the nature and history of the lands mentioned in the Schedule
below, in respect of which it is proposed to grant ryotwari patta to him on
(date),........at (time) in........(place)........... and on subsequent dates
at time and place that will be intimated. He may produce any record or make
any representation which he may wish to make before the Settlement
Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer at the enquiry.

Place:Date: | Settlement Tahsildar.Assistant Settlement Officer.  
---|---  
  
## Schedule 3

Name of the District:Name of the Taluk:Name of the Village:Description of
minor inam with title deed number, if any:

Survey number and subdivision | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 8 |  Name of person to whom ryotwari patta isproposed to be given |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963 underwhich patta is proposed to be given  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri..........(name of party) in duplicate through the Tahsildar of., for
causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing, obtaining
acknowledgment and returning the original before the date of hearing.The
Tahsildar,..........taluk/Deputy Tahsildar,......sub-taluk, The Commissioner,
Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, Chennai.The Board of Wakfs,
Chennai.The Tahsildar of..........(in duplicate) for causing publication in
the village..........at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by
affixture in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the
village which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom tom
and for returning the original with the following certificate
:-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing a copy
thereof in the village chavadi...........(or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom tom on.........and in
token thereof signatures of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | Signature of the Village Headman[Signature of the Karnam] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
Form No. 6[See rule 9(5) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given to all those whom
it may concern that in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule, it is
proposed to grant ryotwari patta to the person and under the section of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963) specified against each land. The Settlement
Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement Officer withhold an enquiry into the nature and
history of the lands on .......... (date) at .......... (time) in
.........(place) and on subsequent dates at time and a place that will be
intimated.Any person who has any objection to any of the proposals to grant
ryotwari patta may file before the Settlement Tahsildar/Assistant Settlement
Officer, a statement of his objection within a week from the date of this
notice. The objections should be supported by a summary of evidence and all
available documents.All interested persons are hereby advised to be present at
the enquiry either in person or through an authorised representative, and make
their representations.All such objections and representations and other
available records and evidence will be taken into consideration and suitable
orders passed by the Settlement Tahsildar/ Assistant Settlement Officer.In the
absence of any such objection or representation, the Settlement Tahsildar/
Assistant Settlement Officer will conduct such enquiry, as he may deem
necessary, on the basis of the available records and evidence. In the event of
the absence of any interested person, the enquiry will be conducted ex parte.
The village headman and the karnam will be present at the enquiry.

Place:Date: | Settlement TahsildarAssistant Settlement Officer  
---|---  
  
## Schedule 4

Name of the DistrictName of the TalukName of the VillageDescription of minor
inam with title deed number, if any:

Survey number and subdivision | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 8 |  Name of person to whom ryotwari patta isproposed to be given |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963 underwhich patta is proposed to be given  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri...........(name of party) in duplicate through the Tahsildar
of.........for causing service at least fifteen days prior to the date of
hearing, obtaining acknowledgment and returning the original before the date
of hearing.The Tahsildar,..................taluk/Deputy
Tahsildar,.............sub-taluk, The Commissioner, Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments, Chennai.The Board of Wakfs, Chennai.The Tahsildar
of............(in duplicate) for causing publication in the
village..........at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing by
affixture in the village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the
village which should be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom tom
and for returning the original with the following certificate :
-CertificateCertified that this notice was published by affixing a copy
thereof in the village chavadi..........(or some conspicuous place to be
mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of tom tom on..........and in
token thereof signatures of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | Signature of the Village Headman[Signature of the Karnam] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
FORM No. 7[See rule 9(8) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Whereas you have made a claim in respect
of the lands mentioned in the schedule below, which entails a liability on you
for the payment of a consideration for the issue of ryotwari patta in respect
of the lands as provided in section 8(2)(i)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1963), you are hereby required to state in writing whether you are willing to
pay the consideration being twenty times the difference between the fair rent
to be determined by the Tahsildar and the land revenue due on the lands.You
may appear before me on......... (date) at.............(time) in......(place)
and give your consent in writing in person.If you fail to do so, no further
opportunity will be given to you and the matter will be decided on
merits.Assistant Settlement OfficerSettlement Tahsildar.

## Schedule 5

Name of the District:Name of the Taluk:Name of the Village:

Description of the Minor Inam with title deednumber, if any | Survey number and sub-division | Classification | Area | Boundaries | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri...............(Name of the claimant/occupant).Form No. 8[See rule 9(10)
of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules,
1965]Decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer/settlement Tahsildar Under
Section 11 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)It is hereby notified for the
information of all concerned that under section 11 of the Tamil Nadu Minor
Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1963), the Assistant Settlement Officer/ Settlement Tahsildar.......... has
decided that in respect of the lands specified in Schedule I, the persons
specified against each land in column (7) of that Schedule are entitled to
ryotwari patta and subject to the conditions specified in Schedule II below.
Any person aggrieved by this decision may prefer an appeal to the Tribunal
within three months from the date of this decision.

Place:Date: | Settlement TahsildarAssistant Settlement Officer  
---|---  
  
## I

Name of the District:Name of the Taluk:Name of the Village:

Description of the Minor Inam with title deednumber, if any | Survey number and sub-division | Classification | Extent | Boundaries |  Description of service tenure grant in casesfalling under section 8 |  Name of person to whom ryotwari patta isproposed be given |  Section of Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963 underwhich patta is proposed to be given  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
## II

Conditions(Here set out the conditions)ToThe Tahsildar..................
taluk/Deputy Tahsildar,..............sub-taluk. The village officers of
......... (in duplicate) for causing publication by affixture in the village
chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the village which should be
specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom tom and for returning the
original with the following certificate :-CertificateCertified that this
notice was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village
chavadi...........(or some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by
announcing the fact by beat of tom tom on..............and in token thereof
signatures of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | Signature of the Village Headman[Signature of the Karnam] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
Form No. 9[See rule 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Notice is hereby given that an appeal
from the decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer under section 11 of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963) has been presented by..............and admitted by
this Tribunal and has been posted for hearing on.............(date)
at...........(time) in.........(place).All persons, who have preferred claims
before the Assistant Settlement Officer/ Settlement Tahsildar under section 8
or 9 or filed statements during the enquiry before him are hereby called upon
to appear before this Tribunal on the date and at the place specified above
and file their further statements, if any, in the matter.A copy of the appeal
petition is appended hereto.Tribunal.ToSri..........(name of applicant) (in
duplicate) through the Tahsildar of..........for causing service at least
fifteen days prior to the date of hearing, obtaining the acknowledgment and
returning the original before the date of hearing.The Tahsildar
of...........in duplicate for causing publication in the village
of...........at least fifteen days prior to the date of hearing and for
returning the original with the certificate of publication by affixture in the
village chavadi or in any conspicuous public place in the village which should
be specified and announcing the fact by beat of tom tom and for returning the
original with the following certificate :-CertificateCertified that this
notice was published by affixing a copy thereof in the village chavadi (or
some conspicuous place to be mentioned) and by announcing the fact by beat of
tom on and in token thereof signature of the villagers have been obtained.

Place:Date: | [Signature of the Village Headman] [Now Village Administrative Officer.][Signature of the Kamam] [Now Village Administrative Officer.]  
---|---  
  
Form No. 10[See rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Office of the Tahsildar of.........
talukPlace:Date:ToSri.........................................................................residing
at................................................village,...............................taluk...........................................................................Whereas,
it has been decided by the Assistant Settlement Officer/Tribunal/Special
Appellate Tribunal that you are not entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of
the land in your occupation mentioned in the Schedule hereunder, you are
hereby required to vacate the land within seven days from the date of service
of this notice, failing which, you will be evicted from the said land. Take
notice also that the Revenue Inspector firka, is authorized to carry out the
orders of eviction and to take possession of the land.

## Schedule 8

Description of the Land

District and taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor inam with title deed,number, if any |  Survey and subdivision number, if surveyed orlocal name, if un-surveyed |  Entire extent of the survey number orsub-division | Occupied extent |  Boundaries of land occupied North, South, Eastand West | Classifications | Nature of occupation | Name of the occupant  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Copy to the Revenue Inspector firka, for carrying out the eviction and
report.Form No. 11[See rule 16 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of option to be exercised by the
service holder under section 21(3) of the Tamil NaduMinor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)

### 1\. Name and address of the service holder.

### 2\. Name and address of the institution.

### 3\. Nature of service attached.

### 4\. (i) Whether willing to continue to render the service; or

(ii)Whether willing to discharge the service on payment of the amount as
required in section 21 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963).

### 5\. Particulars of land for which ryotwari patta has been granted under
section 8 to the person specified in column (1).

Name of the district | Name of the taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the Minor Inam with T. D.number if any | Survey number | Classification | Extent  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date: | Place:Signature of the service holder.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 12[See rule 19(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965)Notice Under Section 21(6) of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1963)Whereas, you Sri..........are liable to render service
as.........(nature of service) to the (name of the institution) in
consideration of the tasdik allowance payable to you under section 21(6) of
the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);And Whereas, you have failed to render the service
to the said institution with effect from (date), you are hereby given notice
that an enquiry will be conducted by the undersigned of......... (date)
at...........(time) in............(place), and you are hereby required to
appear before me for the aforesaid enquiry and make your representations, if
any.Revenue Divisional
Officer.ToSri.....................................................................(name
of service holder).Form No. 13[See rule 19(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Notice Under Section
21(7)(B) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion Into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)Whereas, you Sri........ have
been granted a ryotwari patta under section 8 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1963), in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule;And Whereas, you are
liable to render the service as (nature of service) to.........(name of
institution) under section 21(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);And Whereas,
it has been brought to notice that you have failed to render the service to
the said institution with effect from (date);You are hereby given notice that
an enquiry will be conducted by the undersigned on .......(date) at..........
(time) in.......... (place) and you are hereby required to appear before me
for the aforesaid enquiry and make your representations, if any.Revenue
Divisional Officer.

## Schedule 9

Name of the District | Name of taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor inam with T. D.number, if any | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri...............................................................................(name
of service holder).Form No. 14[See rule 19(4) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Whereas, you
Sri.......... are liable to render service as .............(nature of service)
to (name of the institution) in consideration of the tasdik allowance payable
to you under section 21(6) (a) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);And Whereas,
after the enquiry it is found that you have failed to render the service to
the said institution on and from (date).I hereby notify your failure to render
the service, as required under the above section.Revenue Divisional
Officer.ToSri.................................................................(name
of service
holder)........................................................................(name
of the institution)Form No. 15[See rule 19(4) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Whereas, you
Sri.................. (name of service holder) have been granted ryotwari
patta under section 8 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963) in respect of the lands
mentioned in the Schedule;And Whereas, you are liable to render service as
..........(nature of service) to (name of the institution) under section 21(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);And Whereas, after due enquiry, it is found
that you have failed to render the service to the said institution on and
form.......... (date); I hereby notify your failure to render the service as
required under section 21(7)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963).Revenue
Divisional Officer.

## Schedule 10

Name of the District | Name of taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor number inam with T.D. number, if any | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri.....................................................................(name
of service
holder)...........................................................................(name
of the institution)Form No. 16[See rule 19(6) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Whereas, you
Sri.......... are liable to render service as............. (nature of service)
to the (name of the institution) in consideration of the tasdik allowance
payable to you under section 21(6) (a) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1963);And Whereas, after the due enquiry, it is found that you have failed to
render the service to the said institution on and form......... (date); I
hereby declare under section 21 (6)(b) of the of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)
that the tasdik allowance payable to the institution in respect of the period
subsequent to the failure shall be absolute property of the said
institution.Revenue Divisional
Officer.ToSri..........................................................................(name
of service
holder)..............................................................................(name
of the institution)Form No. 17[See rule 19(6) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Whereas, you Sri have
been granted a ryotwari patta under section 8 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)
in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule.And Whereas, you are liable
to render the service as............(nature of service) to .......... (name of
institution) under section 21(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963);And Whereas,
after due enquiry, it is found that you have failed to render the service to
the said institution on and from (date); I hereby declare under section 21
(7)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), that your right to occupy permanently
the lands mentioned in the Schedule shall cease and determine and they shall
be the absolute property of the said institution.Revenue Divisional Office

## Schedule 11

Name of the District | Name of taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor number inam with T.D. number, if any | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
ToSri............................................................................(name
of service
holder)...................................................................................(name
of the institution)Form No. 18[See rule 23 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Before the Special
Appellate Tribunal under the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Act, 1963(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963).Appeal
No.....................................of
20..................................................

(A. B.)....... | Versus | Appellant  
---|---|---  
(C. D. and Others) |  | Respondents  
  
The above named appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal from the decision of
the Tribunal No..........dated........and in application/petition No of
20...... and sets forth the following grounds of objections to the said
decision appealed from, viz.,.........(Here set out the grounds.)Form No.
19[See rule 28(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Particulars of amounts deposited in the District Court
of.......... by the Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section 35 of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1963)

1\. Description of the minor inam and the name of thetaluk and the district wherein it is situated. |   
---|---  
2\. Nature of the amount deposited whether compensationor interim payment. |   
3\. Amount deposited. | Rs. P.  
4\. Date of original deposit with the Tribunal. |   
5\. (1) Whether unclaimed or un-disbursed ? |   
(2) If un-disbursed - |   
(a) Number and date ofthe order, in which the payment was ordered by the Tribunal or theSpecial Appellate Tribunal; |   
(b) Name of the person, in whose favour the orderfor payment was made; and |   
(c) Amount ordered for payment. | Rs. P.  
6\. Remarks. |   
  
Place:Date: | Tribunal  
---|---  
  
Form No. 20[See rule 29 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of application to be made to the
District Court in respect of an amount deposited under sub-section (1) of
section 35 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)

### 1\. Name of the applicant in full address.

### 2\. Description of the minor inam to which the claim relates.

### 3\. Name of the taluk and the district in which the minor inam is
situated.

### 4\. Date and page of the District Gazette, in which the notification
regarding deposit of the amount with the District Court was published.

### 5\.

(1)Nature of the amount in deposit, whether compensation or interim
payment.(2)Whether the application is in respect of unclaimed amount or
undisbursed amount.

### 6\. Nature of interest held, i.e., an as inamdar or sharer or creditor,
etc.

### 7\. Detail of claim and the provision of law under which the applicant is
entitled to the amount held in deposit.

### 8\. The amount claimed out of the total amount deposited in the District
Court by the Tribunal.

### 9\. Reasons for the delay in preferring the application, if any.

### 10\. In the case of undisbursed amounts, particulars of orders passed by
the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in respect of which an
application for payment under section 34 should have been preferred: -

(i)Number and date of the order of Tribunal or Special Appellate
Tribunal;(ii)Nature of the amount (compensation or interim
payment);(iii)Amount ordered for payment;(iv)Name of the person in whose
favour a order of payment was passed;(v)Remarks.

### 11\. Is the original or a certified copy of the order of the Tribunal or
Special Appellant Tribunal enclosed ?

### 12\. Summary of the evidence proposed to be adduced in support of the
claim.

### 13\. Any other information relevant to this application.

Place:Date: | Signature of the applicant  
---|---  
  
Form No. 21[See rule 32(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Form of Application Under Section 40 of
the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1963(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)

### 1\. Name of the applicant and his address.

### 2\. Description of the minor inam with T. D. No., if any, in which the
land or forest in dispute lies.

### 3\. Name of the village and taluk

### 4\. Name of the district

### 5\. Survey Number or Paimash Number or Local Name, if any, of land or
forest in dispute.

### 6\. Extent

### 7\. Nature of the dispute and relief sought.

Place:Date: | Signature of the applicant.  
---|---  
  
Form No. 22[See rule 32(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Name and address of the applicant:Name
and address of the respondent:Application,
dated.................................................Take notice that the
applicant mentioned above has applied to me for a decision under section 40 of
the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), in respect of the land mentioned in the copy of
the application, which is sent herewith.The application is posted for hearing
on ........... (date) at..........(time) at...............(place).You are
hereby required to appear before me in person or by pleader on the date and at
the time and place aforesaid, failing which orders will be passed ex parte.

Place:Date: | Assistant Settlement Officer.(Seal)  
---|---  
  
Form No. 23[See rule 32 (11) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Name of the applicant..............Name
of the respondent.............Notice is hereby given that an appeal from the
decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer under section 40 of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1963), has been presented by Sri........ and admitted by the
Settlement Officer and has been posted forbearing on..........(date)
at........... (time) at...............(place).All persons, who have applied to
the Assistant Settlement Officer under section 40 of the said Act or filed
statements dining the enquiry before him are hereby called upon to appear
before the Settlement Officer at the time and place specified above and file
their further statement, if any, in the matter.

Place:Date: | Settlement Officer.(Seal)  
---|---  
  
Form No. 24[See rule 32(11) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965]Office of the Tahsildar of Taluk

Current No. | Dated: ........................  
---|---  
  
ToSri........................................................................(Service-
holder/
Occupant).....................................................................................(Name
of the institution)Notice is hereby given that the determination of fair rent
in respect of the lands mentioned in the Schedule below will be taken up by
the undersigned on........... (date).........at..........(time) in (place).

### 2\. You may file before the undersigned at the said time and place your
representations in regard to the determination of fair rent.

### 3\. If you do not avail yourself of this opportunity, the matter will be
disposed of on merits.

Place:Date: | Tahsildar.  
---|---  
  
## Schedule 12

Name of the District | Name of taluk | Name of the village |  Description of the minor number inam with T.D. number, if any | Survey number | Classification | Extent | Assessment  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
NotificationsPowers to be exercised by the authorities or officers under the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963(G.O.
P. No. 401, Revenue, dated 15th February 1965)In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 48 of the Tamil Nadu
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
30 of 1963), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby directs that -(1)the powers
specified in column (2) of the Schedule below, which are conferred on the
Government by the sections of the said Act specified in the corresponding
entry in column (1) of the said Schedule, shall be exercisable also by any of
the authorities or officers specified in the corresponding entry in column (3)
thereof, subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in column (3)
and also subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in column (3)
and also subject to the control and revision by the Government, either suo
motu or on application, of the orders of the authorities or officers, by whom
the power the power is exercised:Provided that in the case of appeals against
orders passed under the proviso to clause (d) of section 3, any order passed
in appeal by the Revenue Divisional Officer shall be subject to revision by
the District Collector and any order passed in appeal by the District
Collector shall be subjected to revision by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board
of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the-Commissioner of Land
Administration, Chennai, vide G.O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.].

## Schedule 13

Section | Power |  Authorities or Officers by whom the powersshould be exercised  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
3(d) | To take possession of the minor |  Collector of thedistrict or such one of the following officers as may bespecified by the Collector -Revenue, Divisional Officer of the division,Tahsildar of the taluk. Independent Deputy Tahsildar of thesub-taluk and any other officer of the Government not below therank of Lower Division Clerk.  
3 (d) proviso |  To decide whether any person is prima facieentitled to a ryotwari patta or not. |  Tahsildar of the taluk or the Independent DeputyTahsildar of the sub-taluk. An appeal shall lie to the RevenueDivisional Officer of the division against an order of aTahsildar or Deputy Tahsildar.  
14(2) (a) |  To terminate any right created before the 30thof day of September 1961 for a period exceeding one year. | [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land Administration, Chennai, vide G. b. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].  
14(3) |  To impose reasonable restrictions in theexercise of any right continued under section 14. | [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land Administration, Chennai, vide G. b. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].  
16(ii)(b) |  To consider which settlement notification ismost appropriate in each case. | [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land Administration, Chennai, vide G. b. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].  
24(1) |  To deposit or to withdraw compensation and todeduct the amounts mentioned in the first proviso to section24(1). | Settlement Officer.  
29(1) | To deposit or withdraw interim payment. | Settlement Officer.  
29(6) and (7) |  To ascertain the-aggregate interim payment andto deposit the balance of interim payment with interest. | Settlement Officer.  
  
(2)The powers of the Assistant Settlement Officer specified in column (2) of
the Schedule below under the sections of the said Act specified in the
corresponding entry in-column (1) thereof shall be exercisable also by the
Settlement Tahsildar, subject to revision by the Assistant Settlement Officer,
except in cases where an appeal lies to the Tribunal. Such revision petitions
shall be preferred within thirty days from the date of communication of the
order sought to be revised.

## Schedule 14

Section | Power  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
11 read with section 8 or 9 |  To decide the claim of any person for ryotwaripatta.  
13 |  To decide the claim of any person for groundrent patta.  
  
(3)the powers specified in column (2) of the Schedule below under the sections
of the said Act specified in the corresponding entry on column (1) of the said
Schedule, shall be exercisable also by the officers specified in column (3)
thereof, subject to revision or appeal as provided hereunder : -

## Schedule 15

Section | Power |  Authorities or Officers by whom the powersshould be exercised  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
8(2)(1)(b) |  To determine the quantum of consideration and tofix the instalments for its payment. | Tahsildar  
8 (4) and 20 | To pay the amounts due to the institutions. | Tahsildar.  
12(2) | To fix the land revenue. | Tahsildar.  
21(3) |  To accept the option exercised by theservice holder. | Tahsildar.  
21 (6)(b) and 21 (7)(b) |  To notify the failure of the service holders andto issue a declaration. | Revenue Divisional Officer.  
  
Explanation. - An appeal shall lie to the Collector of the district within
thirty days from the date of communication of order.Any order passed in appeal
by the District Collector shall be subject to revision by the Board of
Revenue, within sixty days from the date of the order.

48 (2)(b) | To determine the fair rent | Tahsildar  
---|---|---  
  
Explanation. - Any appeal shall lie to the Revenue Divisional Officer of the
division, within thirty days from the date of communication of the order.Any
order passed in appeal by the Revenue Divisional Officer shall be subject to
revision by the District Collector within thirty days from the date of order
and any order passed in revision by the District Collector shall be subject to
further revision by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished
by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980). Now Commissioner of Land Administration, Chennai, vide G.O. Ms. No.
2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.], within sixty days from the date
of the order.Reorganisation of the Office of Settlement Officer and all the
Offices of the Assistant Settlement Officers in Certain Districts in Tamil
Nadu[G.O. Ms. No. 539, Revenue (SSI-I), dated the 4th December 2001]No. II
(2)/Rev/891(h)/2001. - The Office of Settlement Officer, Thanjavur along with
the post of Settlement Officer is allotted to the Office of the Commissioner
and Director of Survey and Settlement, Chennai-5 to function under his direct
control. He will perform the following duties :-(1)Review of the work of the
Assistant Settlement Officer (South) and Assistant Settlement Officer (North)
and all administrative procedures.(2)Pass orders after having detailed enquiry
on the appeals against the Settlement Orders of Assistant Settlement Officer
(North) and Assistant Settlement Officer (South) which are passed based on the
statutory enquiries.(3)Conduct enquiry on the appeals under various Abolition
Acts relating to Settlement aspects in the entire Tamil Nadu.(4)To take
further action in the cases in which the settlement could not be introduced
due to stay order from the Courts.(5)Review Revenue Follow up Work in the
Settlement introduced villages and the further development in the settlement
work and further action in issue of patta.(6)To carry out the works relating
to the preparation of parawise remarks/ sending parawise remarks duly attested
and through proper channels in respect of cases filed in the District
Courts/Subordinate Courts/Estate Abolition Tribunal/City Civil Courts and
other Courts.(7)Pass Orders after conducting enquiry on the cases which are
remanded by the Courts.(8)Take steps to implement all the works related to the
Settlement in the entire Tamil Nadu.(9)He will supervise the work, if
settlement is needed to be introduced in certain areas in consultation with
concerned District Revenue Officer/Commissioner of Survey and Settlement.II.
Besides the post of Personal Assistant and Additional Personal Assistant to
Commissioner and Director of Survey and Settlement are changed as Assistant
Settlement Officer (North) and Assistant Settlement Officer (South)
respectively they are entrusted with the work of the existing Assistant
Settlement Officers and the following jurisdictions are formed.

Assistant Settlement Officer (North) PersonalAssistant to Director of Survey and Settlement |  Assistant Settlement Officer (South) andPersonal Assistant to Commissioner and Additional Commissionerand Director of Survey and Settlement  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1\. Chennai | 1\. Namakkal  
2\. Thiruvellore | 2\. Salem  
3\. Kancheepuram | 3.Dharmauri  
4\. Vellore |  4\. The Nilgiris, (Except the lands covered underGudalur Janmam Estate Abolition Act)  
5\. Thiruvanrtamalai | 5\. Coimbatore  
6\. Villupuram | 6\. Erode  
7\. Cuddalore | 7\. Dindigul  
8\. Perambalur | 8\. Thirunelveli  
9\. Karur | 9\. Thoothukkudi  
10\. Ariyalur | 10\. Virudhunagar  
11\. Tiruchirapalli | 11\. Sivagangai  
12\. Nagapattinam | 12\. Theni  
13\. Thiruvarur | 13\. Madurai  
14\. Thanjavur | 14\. Ramanathapuram  
15\. Pudukottai | 15\. Kanyakumari  
  
Besides the above work, Assistant Settlement Officer (North) and Assistant
Settlement Officer (South) will perform the work that they are now attending
as Personal Assistant and Additional Personal Assistant, in addition.In
respect of Assistant Settlement Officers, only the nomenclature and
jurisdiction are changed, the work and responsibility will remain the same.

