## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-ELECTIONS-RULES-1995 of 1995

  * Published on 7 August 1995 
  * Commenced on 7 August 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 August 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995Published vide Notification No.
G.O. Ms. No. 143, Rural Development, Dated The 7th August 1995

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

\- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules,
1995.(2)They shall come into force with immediate effect.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(i)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) as amended, from
time to time;(ii)"ballot box" includes any box, bag or other receptacle used
for the insertion of ballot paper or papers by electors;(iii)"candidate" means
a person who has been or claims to have been nominated as a candidate at any
election under this Act;(iv)"casual vacancy" means a vacancy occurring
otherwise than by efflux of time and "casual election" means an election held
to fill a casual vacancy;(v)"chairperson" means chairman referred to in clause
(3) of section 2 of the Act;(vi)"contesting candidate" means a candidate whose
nomination has been duly accepted under sub-rule (8) of rule 29 and who has
not withdrawn his candidature;(vii)"corrupt practice" means any of the
practices specified in section 260 of the Act;(viii)["cost"] [Substituted by
G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] means
all costs and expenses of, or incidental to, a trial of an election
petition;(ix)"District Election Officer" means the District
Collector;(x)"Election Court" means the Court of the District Judge under
whose jurisdiction the Panchayat fall;(xi)"Elector in relation to a Ward or
Panchayat" means a person whose name is entered in the electoral roll of that
Ward or Panchayat for the time being in force;(xii)"electoral right" means the
right of a person to stand or not to stand as, or to withdraw or not to
withdraw from being a candidate, or to vote or refrain from voting at an
election;(xiii)"electoral roll" means the electoral roll of a Ward of a
Village Panchayat or of a Panchayat Village or a Ward of a Panchayat Union or
of a Territorial Ward of a District Panchayat, as the case may
be;(xiv)"electoral roll number of a person" means and includes -(a)the serial
number of the entry in the electoral roll in respect of that person;(b)the
serial number of the Ward of the Village Panchayat in which such entry
occurs;(c)the name of the Panchayat Village to which the electoral roll
relates; and(d)the serial number of the Ward of the Panchayat Union and the
name of the Panchayat Union in which the Village Panchayat Ward falls or the
serial number of the Ward of the District Panchayat and the name of the
District Panchayat in which the Village Panchayat Ward falls, as the case may
be;(xv)"Form" means a form appended to these rules and includes a translation
thereof in the language or languages in which the electoral roll of the
Village Panchayat is prepared;(xvi)"marked copy of the electoral roll" means a
copy of the electoral roll set apart for the purpose of marking the names of
electors to whom ballot paper or ballot papers are issued at an election or
elections;(xvii)"members of the meeting", for the purposes of Part IX of these
rules, means the Chairmen of all the Panchayat Union Councils in the district
in the case of a District Panchayat and the Presidents of all Village
Panchayats in the Panchayat Union in the case of a Panchayat Union Council and
does not mean and include the Vice-Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council or
Vice-President of a Village Panchayat on whom the functions of the Chairman or
President, as the case may be, stood devolved under section 54 or 47 of the
Act, respectively;(xviii)"ordinary vacancy" means a vacancy occurring by
efflux of time and "ordinary election" means an election held to fill an
ordinary vacancy;(xix)"other elected member" means -(a)in the case of a
District Panchayat, the Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council elected to
represent in the District Panchayat under sub-section (2) of section 25 of the
Act; and(b)in the case of Panchayat Union Council, the President of a Village
Panchayat, elected to represent in the Panchayat Union Council under sub-
section (2) of section 17 of the Act;(xx)"Panchayat Electoral Registration
Officer" means the Panchayat Union Commissioner designated as such by the
Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to prepare and publish electoral rolls
under sub-section (2) of section 30 of the Act;(xxi)"person" does not include
a body of persons;(xxii)"polling Officer" means the officer appointed under
rule 12 of these Rules to assist the Presiding Officer in the performance of
his duties;(xxiii)"polling station" means a place fixed under rule 11 of these
rules, for taking poll at an election or elections;(xxiv)"presiding Officer"
means an officer appointed under rule 12 for taking poll at a polling
station;(xxv)"public holiday" means any day which is a public holiday for
purposes of section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (Central Act
XXVI of 1881);(xxvi)"qualifying date", in relation to the preparation of every
electoral roll under these rules, means the first day of January of the year
in which it is so prepared;(xxvii)"returned candidate" means a candidate whose
name has been published under rules, [69,89,97 or 117] [Substituted by G. O.
Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated 28th August 1997.] as duly
elected;(xxviii)"Returning Officer" means a person appointed under rule 8,
[73] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated 28th
August 1997.], by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission or by the District
Election Officer, if so authorised for this purpose by the Tamil Nadu State
Election Commission;[(xxviii-a) "State Election Commission" means the Tamil
Nadu State Election Commission;] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 299, Rural
Development (C4), dated the 13th November 2000.](xxix)"State Election Officer"
means the officer appointed under sub-rule (1) of rule 6 of these
rules;(xxx)"Ward" means the Ward of a Village Panchayat or of a Panchayat
Union or of a Territorial Ward of a District Panchayat, as divided and
notified under sections 12,21 or 28 of the Act for the purposes of election of
members of the respective Panchayat;(xxxi)"Ward member", -(a)in the case of
election of a Chairman or Vice-Chairman of a District Panchayat, means the
person elected under section 26 of the Act from the Territorial Ward of the
District Panchayat and does not include any other persons enlisted as members
of the District Panchayat under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 25 of the Act;(b)in the case of election of a Chairman or Vice-
Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council, means the person elected under section
19 of the Act from the Ward of the Panchayat Union and does not include any
other persons enlisted as members of the Panchayat Union Council under clauses
(b), (c) and (d) of sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Act; and(c)in the
case of election of Vice-President of a Village Panchayat, means the person
elected under section 10 of the Act from a Ward of the Village
Panchayat.(2)Words and expressions used, but not defined in these rules shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. In the absence of
such meaning, the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1891) shall apply for the interpretation of these rules, as it applies for the
interpretation of a Tamil Nadu Act.

### 3. Conduct of more than one election simultaneously.

\- A notified polling station can be used for the purpose of conducting
elections either for a Member of Village Panchayat or President of a Village
Panchayat or a Member of a Panchayat Union Council or a District Panchayat
either individually or simultaneously. The Presiding Officers, Polling
Officers and such other officers appointed for the purposes of conducting one
election shall be deemed to have been appointed for the purposes of holding
all other elections so held simultaneously at that polling station. Unless
otherwise directed by the State Election Commission, the polling materials
like ballot boxes, rubber stamps, distinguishing marks, etc., as well as
records like marked copy of the electoral roll, covers, etc., used for one
election may also be used for other such elections.

### 4. Signing of an instrument.

\- For the purposes of these rules, a person who is unable to write his name
shall, unless otherwise expressly provided for in these rules, be deemed to
have signed an instrument or other paper if -(i)he has placed a mark on such
instrument or other paper in the presence of the Returning Officer, Presiding
Officer or such other officer as may be specified in this behalf by the State
Election Commission; and(ii)such officer, on being satisfied as to his
identity, has attested the mark as being the mark of that person.

## Part II – Election Machinery

### 5. Powers and functions of the State Election Commission.

(1)The preparation of electoral roll and the conduct of all elections to the
panchayats at all levels shall be held under the superintendence and control
of the State Election Commission and, for this purpose, it shall have power to
give such directions as it may deem necessary to the District Collector or any
officer or servant of the Government/local bodies/Government undertakings/co-
operative institutions, so as to ensure efficient conduct of the
elections.(2)The State Election Commission may, subject to control and
revision, delegate its powers to such officers as it may deem necessary.(3)The
District Election Officer, Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer, Returning
Officer, Assistant Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, Polling Officer and
any other officer appointed under these rules, any police officer designated
for the time being by the State Government for the conduct of any elections,
shall be deemed to be on deputation to the State Election Commission for the
period commencing on and from the date of preparation of electoral rolls till
its completion and from the date of notification calling for such elections
and ending with the date of completion of such elections and such officer
shall, during that period, be subject to the control, superintendence and
discipline of the State Election Commission.(4)It shall be the duty of the
District Election Officer to report the vacancies within a week to the State
Election Commission.

### 6. State Election Officer and District Election Officer.

(1)State Election Officer. - The State Election Commission may appoint the
Director of Rural Development as the State Election Officer. Subject to the
superintendence, direction and control of the State Election Commission. The
State Election Officer shall co-ordinate and supervise the preparation and
publication of Panchayat electoral rolls and also the conduct of elections of
the [offices of members] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development
(PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] of Panchayats at different levels,
Presidents and Vice-Presidents of Village Panchayats, [Chairpersons and Vice-
Chairpersons of Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats] [Substituted
by Notification No. SRO A-88(a)/2000.]. [***] [Omitted by Notification No. SRO
A-51 (b)/1998.] He shall also perform such other functions as may be entrusted
to him by the State Election Commission, from time to time.(2)District
Election Officer. - The District Collector shall be appointed as the District
Election Officer. Subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the
State Election Commission, the District Election Officer shall co-ordinate and
supervise the preparation and publication of Panchayat electoral rolls and
also the conduct of elections to the offices of members of Panchayats at
different levels, Presidents and Vice-Presidents of Village Panchayats,
[Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons of Panchayat Union Councils and District
Panchayats] [Substituted by Notification No. SRO A-88(a)/2000.]. [***]
[Omitted by Notification No. SRO A-51 (b)/1998.]. He shall also perform such
other functions as maybe entrusted to him by the State Election Commission,
from time to time.

### 6A. [ Observers. [Inserted by G. O, Ms. No. 86 RD & PR, dated the 27th
July 2006.]

(1)The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission may nominate an Observer, who
shall be an officer of the Government to watch the conduct of election or
elections to the Panchayats or a part or a group thereof within a Revenue
Division or a part of Revenue Division or a group of Revenue Divisions and to
perform such other functions as may be entrusted to him by the State Election
Commission.(2)The Observer nominated under sub-rule (1) shall have the power
to direct the Returning Officers concerned, to stop the counting of votes at
any time before the declaration of the result or not to declare the result, if
in the opinion of the Observer, booth capturing has taken place at a large
number of polling stations or at places fixed for the poll or counting of
votes or any ballot papers used at a polling station or at a place fixed for
the poll are unlawfully taken out of the custody of the Presiding Officer or
the Returning Officer, or if at any time before the counting of the votes is
completed, ballot papers used at a polling station are unlawfully taken out of
the custody of the Returning Officer or are accidentally or intentionally
destroyed or lost or are damaged or tampered with to such an extent that the
result of the poll at that polling station or place cannot be
ascertained.(3)Where an Observer has directed the Returning Officer under this
rule to stop counting votes or not to declare the result, the Observer shall
forthwith report the matter to the District Election Officer, State Election
Officer and the State Election Commission and, thereupon, the District
Election Officer shall, after taking all material circumstances into account,
issue appropriate directions under rule 57 or rule 62.Explanation. - For the
purposes of sub-rules (2) and (3), "Observer" shall include any officer of the
State Election Commission as has been assigned under this rule the duty of
watching the conduct of election or elections to the Panchayats or a part or a
group thereof within a Revenue Division or a part of Revenue Division or a
group of Revenue Divisions by the State Election Commission.]

### 7. Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer.

\- The Panchayat Union Commissioner shall be the Panchayat Electoral
Registration Officer under sub-section (2) of section 30 of the Act for the
purposes of preparing and publishing Panchayat Electoral Rolls in respect of
the Wards of the Panchayats in his jurisdiction.

### 8. Returning Officer.

(1)Conduct of election of members of District Panchayat. - The State Election
Commissioner or the District Election Officer specifically authorised in this
connection, may appoint an officer of the Government not below the rank of the
Secretary of the District Panchayat to be the Returning Officer for the
conduct of election of Territorial Ward members of the District
Panchayat.(2)Conduct of election of members of Panchayat Union Council. - The
State Election Commissioner or the District Election Officer, if so authorised
by the State Election Commission in this behalf, shall appoint an officer of
the Government not below the rank of the [Assistant Director of Rural
Development] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 282, Rural Development (C4), dated
the 30th October 2000.] to be the Returning Officer for the conduct of
election of Ward members of the Panchayat Union Council.(3)Conduct of election
of member or members and President of Village Panchayat. - The State Election
Commissioner or the District Election Officer, if so authorised by the State
Election Commission in this behalf, shall appoint an officer not below the
rank of a Block Development Officer to be the Returning Officer for the
conduct of the election of President and members of any particular Village
Panchayat or of all Village Panchayats comprising a Panchayat Union.

### 9. General duties of the Returning Officer.

\- Subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the State Election
Commission and under the supervision and guidance of the District Election
Officer, the Returning Officer shall be responsible for the proper conduct of
the elections in the manner provided in the Act, the rules thereunder and any
other orders issued by the State Election Commission, from time to time.

### 10. Assistant Returning Officer.

(1)The State Election Commissioner or the District Election Officer, if so
authorised by the State Election Commission in this behalf, may appoint one or
more persons as Assistant Returning Officers to assist any Returning Officer
in the performance of all or any of his duties and functions:Provided that
every such person shall be an officer of the Government not below the rank of
an Assistant in the Ministerial Service.(2)Every Assistant Returning Officer
shall, subject to the control of the Returning Officer, be competent to
perform all or any of the duties and functions of the Returning Officer as may
be directed by the State Election Commissioner or the District Election
Officer, from time to time.

### 11. [ Provision of Polling Stations. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 151,
Rural Development (C1), dated the 2nd June 2001.]

\- The Returning Officer shall, with the approval of the District Election
Officer, provide sufficient number of Polling Stations for every Panchayat, in
such manner as the State Election Commission may direct and shall, publish at
such place or places and in such manner as the State Election Commission may
direct, a list, in the language or languages in which the electoral roll of
the area is prepared, showing the names of Polling Stations so provided and
the polling area or areas or group of voters for which they have,
respectively, been provided.]

### 12. Appointment of Presiding Officers and Polling Officers.

\- The Returning Officer shall appoint a Presiding Officer and Polling
Officers in accordance with the scale prescribed by the State Election
Commission for each polling station:Provided that [only officers and servants
of the Government,] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE),
dated the 28th August 1997.] Local Authorities, Co-operative Institutions or
undertakings owned by the State or Central Government or aided schools may be
appointed for this purpose.

### 13. General duties of the Presiding Officer and Polling Officers.

(1)Subject to the provisions of these rules, it shall be the general duty of
the Presiding Officer at a Polling Station to keep order thereat, and to
ensure that the poll is freely and fairly taken. It shall be the duty of the
Polling Officers to assist the Presiding Officer in the performance of his
functions.(2)If the Presiding Officer, owing to illness or other unavoidable
causes, is obliged to absent himself from the Polling Station, his duties and
functions shall be performed by such Polling Officer as has been specifically
authorised by the Returning Officer.

## Part III – Preparation and Publication of Panchayat Electoral Roll

### 14. Preparation of Panchayat Electoral Roll.

(1)The Electoral Roll of a Panchayat (hereinafter referred to as "the roll")
shall be prepared by reference to the qualifying date, by the Panchayat
Electoral Registration Officer, by integrating the particulars in the various
entries available in such part or portion thereof [of] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] the current
electoral roll of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and the various
amendments issued to it, from time to time, as they relate to the Ward of the
Village Panchayat or a portion thereof.(2)The roll shall be divided into
convenient parts which shall be numbered consecutively.(3)There shall be a
separate part or parts of the rolls for each Ward of a Village
Panchayat.(4)The number of electors included in any part of the roll shall not
ordinarily exceed one thousand five hundred and in case, where it exceeds one
thousand five hundred, it shall be prepared in more than one part in a
convenient manner in accordance with the directions issued by the State
Election Commission, from time to time.(5)[ The electoral roll shall be
prepared before every ordinary or casual election.[Provided that, in case of
casual election to fill the vacancy, in a ward of a District Panchayat or
Panchayat Union and President of the Village Panchayat, the State Election
Commission may, for special reasons, direct that the roll need not be prepared
and the latest roll shall be adopted.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 282, Rural
Development (C4), dated the 30th October 2000.](b)before each ordinary
election to fill the vacancy in the office of the member or members of a ward
or of the President of a Village Panchayat:Provided that, in special cases,
the State Election Commission may direct the preparation of electoral roll in
a Village Panchayat before an election to fill the casual vacancy either in
the office of the member or members of a ward or of the President of the
Village Panchayat.]

### 15. Electoral roll of a Village Panchayat.

\- For the purpose of election of President of Village Panchayat, the rolls of
all Wards in the Panchayat Village prepared under rule 14 and put together
shall form the electoral roll of that Panchayat Village.

### 16. Electoral roll of a Ward of a Panchayat Union.

\- For the purpose of election of member of a Panchayat Union Council, the
rolls of the Wards of Panchayat Villages comprising the Ward of the Panchayat
Union, prepared under rule 14 and put together shall form the electoral roll
of that Ward of the Panchayat Union.

### 17. Electoral roll of a Ward of a District Panchayat.

\- For the purpose of election of member of a District Panchayat, the rolls of
all wards of Panchayat Village comprising the Ward of the District Panchayat
prepared under rule 14 and put together shall form the roll of that Ward of
the District Panchayat.Explanation. - The electoral rolls for a Panchayat
Village or Ward of a Panchayat Union or of a Ward of a District Panchayat, as
the case may be, need not be prepared or amended separately when once the
electoral rolls of all the constituent Wards of Panchayat Villages have been
prepared or amended in accordance with these rules.

### 18. Form and language of the roll.

(1)The roll shall be prepared in the format adopted in the roll of the Tamil
Nadu Legislative Assembly Constituency. The title and other particulars shall
be in accordance with the directions of the State Election Commission issued,
from time to time.(2)The roll shall be prepared in such language or languages
in which the roll of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Constituency within
which the Ward of the Panchayat Village is situated, is prepared.

### 19. Order of names.

(1)The names of electors in each part of the roll shall be arranged according
to house numbers.(2)The names of electors in each part of the roll shall be
numbered consecutively with separate serial numbers beginning with number one.

### 20. Publication of copies of rolls.

(1)As soon as the roll is prepared in accordance with rules 14 to 19, the
Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer shall make arrangements to print or
cyclostyle or write in manuscript as many copies of the roll as may be
directed by the State Election Commission, from time to time. He shall then
publish the roll along with a notice in Form 1 appended to these rules by
making copies thereof available for inspection by public and political
parties:-

(a) | at his office. |  One copy of all parts of the roll relating tothe Wards of Village Panchayats falling within his jurisdiction.  
---|---|---  
(b) |  at the office of the Village Panchayatconcerned. |  One copy of all parts of the roll relating toall the Wards of the Village Panchayat, arranged VillagePanchayat Ward-wise.  
(c) | at the office of the Panchayat Union concerned. |  One copy of all parts of the roll relating toall Wards of the Village Panchayats comprising the DistrictPanchayat Union arranged District Panchayat Ward-wise.  
(d) | at the office of the District Panchayat. |  One copy of all parts of the roll relating toall Wards of the Village Panchayats comprising the DistrictPanchayat arranged District Panchayat Ward-wise.  
  
(2)The Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer shall also give further
publicity to the roll so published as he may consider necessary.(3)[ He shall
supply, free of cost, if so directed by the State Election Commission, two
copies of the roll to the recognised political parties as notified by the
State Election Commission, from time to time.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
151, Rural Development (Cl), dated the 2nd June 2001.](4)Upon such publication
under this rule, the roll shall be the electoral roll of the Ward of the
Village Panchayat or the Village or Ward of the Panchayat Union or the Ward of
the District Panchayat, as the case may be, and shall remain in force till a
fresh electoral roll is prepared and published.

### 21. Procedure for lodging claims and objections.

\- All omissions of names in any part of the roll or objections to any entry
in the roll, at any point of time after its publication under rule 20 shall be
settled by first getting amended suitably the relevant portion of the
electoral roll of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Constituency based on
which the Panchayat roll was prepared. Anybody wishing to raise a claim for
inclusion of any name in the roll or any objection in respect of any entry in
the roll so published, shall submit a proper claim or objection under the
provisions of the Registration of Electors Rules, 1960 to the Electoral
Registration Officer of the concerned Legislative Assembly Constituency.
Subject to the provisions in section 30 of the Act and based on the orders of
the Electoral Registration Officer of the Assembly Constituency on such claims
and objections, the Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer shall amend the
relevant portion of the Panchayat Electoral Roll, incorporating the changes by
issuing an amendment to the relevant part of the Panchayat Electoral Roll. In
case of any clerical or printing error or both and when the entries deviate
from the particulars of Assembly Roll, the Panchayat Electoral Registration
Officer may cause such errors, omissions and commissions rectified so as to
bring it in conformity with the particulars of the Assembly Roll concerned. In
other words, the Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer will not resort to
suo motu revision of the rolls byway of deletions or additions or
modifications.

### 22. Special provision for preparation of rolls on changes in jurisdiction
and on consequential re-delimitation of Wards.

(1)If there is any change in the jurisdiction of a Panchayat and/or if the
Ward of the Panchayat is delimited as new in accordance with law and if it is
necessary to prepare the rolls urgently, the State Election Commission may
direct that the rolls shall be prepared -(a)by putting together the rolls of
the existing Wards comprising the new wards so formed; and(b)by making
appropriate alteration in the arrangements, serial numbering and headings of
the rolls so compiled.(2)The roll so prepared shall be published in the manner
specified in rule 20 and, on such publication, it shall be the roll for the
newly created Panchayat or delimited Ward.

### 23. Sale of Electoral Rolls and custody of Rolls.

(1)Copies of the Rolls, including the updated Rolls may be sold to the public
at the prices determined by the State Election Commission, from time to time,
and the proceeds thereof shall be remitted to State Funds.(2)One copy of the
roll relating to all Wards of the Panchayat Villages arranged Panchayat Union
Ward-wise in respect of that Panchayat Union duly authenticated by the
Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer shall be kept in his office for a
period of six years from the date of its final publication or till a new roll
is published whichever is earlier.

## Part IV – Notification of Election and Nomination of Candidates

### 24. Notification of programme of election.

(1)For the purposes of filling up of ordinary and casual vacancies in the
offices of Ward members of Panchayats or Presidents of Village Panchayats, as
the case may be, the State Election Commission, in pursuance of, and in
consonance with, the constitutional provisions in this behalf, shall in
consultation with the Government, by one or more notifications published in
the manner prescribed, call upon the electors of such Wards and Panchayats to
elect Ward members of the respective Panchayats, and/or Presidents of Village
Panchayats, as the case may be, on such date or dates as may be specified
therein.(2)The notifications referred to in sub-rule (1) shall specify-(i)the
date on which the public notice of election shall be published;(ii)the last
date for making nominations, which shall be the seventh day after the
publication of the public notice referred to in clause (i) or if that day is a
public holiday, the next succeeding day which is not a public holiday, the
hours between which the nomination can be made being [10.00 a.m. and 5.00
p.m.] [Substituted for '11.00 a.m. and 3.00 p.m.' by G.O. Ms. No. 88, dated
25.7.2016.] on each day;(iii)the time and date for taking up the scrutiny of
nominations, which shall be [10.00 a.m.] [Substituted for '11.00 a.m.' by G.O.
Ms. No. 88, dated 25.7.2016.] of the date immediately following the last date
for making nominations or, if that date is a public holiday, the next
succeeding day which is not a public holiday;(iv)the hour and date up to which
the withdrawal of candidatures can be made, which shall be 3.00 p.m. on the
second day after the date for the scrutiny of nominations or, if that day is a
public holiday, the next succeeding day which is not a public holiday;(v)the
date or dates on which a poll shall, if necessary, be taken which or the first
of which shall be a date not earlier than the seventh day after the last date
for the withdrawal of candidatures;(vi)the date before which the election
shall be completed; and(vii)the date on which the meeting of the newly elected
Ward members of the Panchayat shall be held for the election of Vice-President
or Chairperson or Vice-chairperson, as the case may be.(3)The notifications
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be published, -(i)in the case of both
ordinary and casual election of members of District Panchayats, in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and in the respective District Gazettes;(ii)in the
case both ordinary and casual election of members of the Panchayat Union
Councils, in the respective District Gazettes; and(iii)in the case of both
ordinary and casual elections of the Presidents of Village Panchayats and/or
members of Village Panchayats, in the concerned District Gazette.(4)the State
Election Commission may also arrange to publish the notifications at such
other places as it deems fit, to give further publicity to the notification.

### 25. Notice of election.

(1)Election of member or members of District Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Councils. - In pursuance of the notifications of the State Election Commission
under rule 24, the Returning Officer shall cause to be published on the
appointed date, a notice of election in Tamil in Form 2-A and also in any
other language or languages in which the electoral roll is published, by
affixing it at his office and also at the offices of the District Panchayat,
Panchayat Unions, Village Panchayats and such other place or places as decided
by the State Election Commission.Such notice of election shall contain the
following particulars, namely: -(i)the Ward or Wards for which elections are
to be held;(ii)whether the Ward is reserved or not; if reserved, whether it is
reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or [***] [Omitted by G.O.
Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1997.] for women;(iii)the
dates on which, the place or places at which and the hours between which
nomination papers shall be presented;(iv)the person or persons by whom the
nomination papers will be received;(v)the date on which and hours at which and
the place at which the nomination papers will be taken up for scrutiny;(vi)the
last date on which and the hours up to which the nomination papers can be
withdrawn;(vii)the date on which and the place or places at which the votes of
the electors will be taken at the poll, should there be a poll, and the hours
during which the poll will be open, being not less than ten hours between 7.00
a.m. and 5.30p.m.(viii)the date on which and the place or places and hour at
which the Returning Officer will commence the counting of votes;(ix)the date
before which the election shall be completed; and(x)the date on which the
meeting of the newly elected Ward members shall be held for the election of
Chairman/or Vice-Chairman.(2)Election of President of Village Panchayat. - (a)
In pursuance of the notification of the State Election Commission under rule
24, the Returning Officer shall prepare and publish on the appointed date, a
notice in Form 2-B in Tamil and also in any other language or languages in
which the electoral roll of the Panchayat is published stating -(i)whether the
office of the President of the Village Panchayat is reserved or not and, if
reserved, whether it is reserved for person belonging to Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated
the 7th August 1997.] or for woman;(ii)the date or, dates on which, the place
at which and the hours between which the nomination papers shall be
presented;(iii)the person or persons by whom the nomination papers will be
received;(iv)the date on which, the hours at which and the place at which the
nomination papers shall be taken up for scrutiny;(v)the date on which and the
hours up to which the nomination papers shall be withdrawn;(vi)the date on
which and the place or places at which the votes of the electors will be taken
at the poll, should there be a poll; and the hours during which the poll will
be open, being not less than ten hours between 7.00 a.m. and 5.30p.m.;(vii)the
date on which, and the place and hour at which the Returning Officer will
commence the counting of the votes;(viii)the date before which the election
shall be completed; and(ix)the date on which the meeting of the newly elected
members shall be held for the election of Vice-President.(b)The notice shall
be published by affixing it at the office of the Village Panchayat concerned
and such other place or places 'as directed by the State Election Commission.
It shall also be announced by beat of tom-tom in the Panchayat Village
area.(3)Election of Member or Members of Village Panchayat. - (a) In pursuance
of the notification of the State Election Commission under rule 24, the
Returning Officer shall prepare and publish a notice in Form 2-B in Tamil and
also in any other language or languages in which the electoral roll is
published stating -(i)the Ward or wards for which elections are to be
held;(ii)the number of persons to be elected in each Ward;(iii)the number of
seats, if any, reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes or [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development,
dated the 7th August 1997.] for woman in each Ward;(iv)the date or dates on
which, the place at which and the hours between which nomination papers shall
be presented;(v)the person or persons by whom the nomination papers will be
received;(vi)the date on which and the hours at which the nomination papers
shall be taken up for scrutiny;(vii)the date on which and the hours up to
which the nomination papers shall be withdrawn;(viii)the date on which and the
place or places at which the votes of the electors will be taken at the poll,
should there be a poll, and the hours during which the poll will be open,
being not less than ten hours between 7.00 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.;(ix)the date on
which and the place and hour at which the Returning Officer will commence the
counting of the votes;(x)the date before which the election shall be
completed; and(xi)the date on which the meeting of the newly elected members
shall be held for the election of the Vice-President.(b)The notice shall be
published by affixing it at the office of the Village Panchayat concerned and
such other place or places as directed by the State Election Commission. It
shall also be announced by beat of tom-tom in the Ward or Wards of the Village
Panchayat.

### 26. Presentation of nomination paper.

(1)The nomination of every candidate shall be made by means of a nomination
paper in Form 3. Copies of the Form can be had from the offices specified in
the notice of election on any working day.(2)On the date or dates specified in
the election notice for the presentation of nomination papers, each candidate
qualified to contest the election as per section 33 of the Act shall, either
in person or by his proposer, deliver to the Returning Officer at the place
and during the hours specified in that behalf, a nomination paper completed in
Form 3 and signed by the candidate and by a proposer who shall be an elector
-(a)in the respective Ward of Village Panchayat in the election of member or
members of Village Panchayat;(b)in the Village Panchayat in the election of
President;(c)in the Ward of the Panchayat Union in the election of member of
the Panchayat Union; and(d)in the Ward of the District Panchayat in the
election of member of District Panchayat:Provided that no nomination paper for
election shall be delivered to the Returning Officer on a day which is a
public holiday.(3)If the seat is reserved for Scheduled Caste or Scheduled
Tribe, [***][Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th
August 1997.] a candidate shall furnish a declaration, in the nomination form
made by him specifying the particular caste or tribe of which he is a member
and the area in relation to which the caste or tribe is notified as a
Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural
Development, dated the 7th August 1997.] of the State.(4)On the presentation
of a nomination paper, the Returning Officer shall satisfy himself that the
names and electoral roll numbers of the candidate and his proposer as entered
in the nomination paper are the same as those entered in the electoral
roll:Provided that the Returning Officer shall permit any misnomer or
inaccurate description or clerical or printing error in the nomination paper
in regard to the said names or numbers to be corrected or to bring them in
conformity with the corresponding entries in the electoral roll and, wherever
necessary, direct that any clerical or printing error in the said entries
shall be overlooked.(5)Nothing contained in this rule shall prevent any
candidate from being nominated by more than one nomination paper for any one
election:Provided that not more than four nomination papers shall be presented
by or on behalf of any candidate for any one election.(6)An elector who wishes
to stand as a candidate for an election, excepting for the election of a
member in a multi-member Ward of Village Panchayats, shall not sign any
nomination paper as a proposer for that election.(7)In the case of election of
members of a Panchayat or President of a Village Panchayat, an elector can
sign as many nomination papers as there are vacancies to be filled, but no
more. An elector who wishes to stand as a candidate in an election to a single
member Ward of a Village Panchayat, or a member of a Panchayat Union Council
or of a District Panchayat or President of a Village Panchayat, shall not sign
any nomination as proposer. An elector who wishes to stand as a candidate in a
multi-member Ward of a Village Panchayat, may propose other candidates,
provided, the maximum number of nomination papers signed by him as proposer
shall be one less than number of members to be elected to that Ward.(8)[ If a
person presents nomination papers in violation of sub-rule (1) of rule 30, the
Returning Officer shall pending scrutiny and orders and also subject to the
provisions contained in sub-rule (3) of rule 30 shall receive them.] [ Added
by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.]

### 27. Deposits.

(1)A candidate shall not be deemed to be duly nominated for election unless at
the time of delivery of nomination paper he deposits or causes to be deposited
with the Returning Officer in cash, or enclosed with the nomination paper a
receipt showing that the said sum has been deposited by him or on his behalf
in the respective Panchayat -

(a) [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] | for election of member of Village Panchayat | Rs. 200.00  
---|---|---  
(b) | for election of President of Village Panchayat | Rs. 600.00  
(c) | for election of Member of a Panchayat Union | Rs. 600.00  
(d) | for election of Member of a District Panchayat | Rs. 1,000.00  
Where the candidate is member of a ScheduledCaste or Scheduled Tribe  
(a) | for election of Member of Village Panchayat | Rs. 100.00  
(b) | for election of President of Village Panchayat | Rs. 300.00  
(c) | for election of Member of a Panchayat Union | Rs. 300.00  
(d) | for election of Member of a District Panchayat | Rs. 500.00]:  
  
Provided that where a candidate has been nominated by more than one nomination
paper for a seat, or office not more than one deposit shall be required of him
under this sub-rule.(2)(a)The deposit made under sub-rule (1) shall, unless
forfeited under sub-rule (3) or (4), be returned as soon as practicable after
the result of the election is declared:Provided that where a candidate is not
shown in the list of contesting candidates or dies before the commencement of
the poll, the deposit shall be returned as soon as practicable after the
publication of the list or after his death, as the case may be.(b)The deposit
shall be returned to the candidate, his legal representative, or a person
authorised by him on his behalf.(3)If a candidate is not elected and the
number of valid votes polled by him does not exceed one-sixth of the total
number of valid votes polled by all the candidates in the Ward or Panchayat
divided by the number of persons to be elected from that Ward or Panchayat,
the deposit made by him or on his behalf, shall be forfeited to the
Government.(4)The Returning Officer shall maintain, in such form as may be
laid down by the State Election Commission, an account of the deposits made.

### 28. Notice of nominations and the time and place for their scrutiny.

(1)The Returning Officer shall, on receiving a nomination paper under these
rules, inform the person delivering the same, of the date, time and place
fixed for the scrutiny of nominations and shall enter on the nomination paper
its serial number and shall sign thereon a certificate stating the date on
which and the hour at which the nomination papers have been delivered to
him.(2)As soon as may be, after the close of the time fixed for receiving
nomination papers on each day, the Returning Officer shall cause to be affixed
in some conspicuous place in his office a notice in Form 4 of all the
nomination papers delivered to him on that day.(3)On the last day, after the
expiry of the hour fixed for receipt of Nomination papers, the Returning
Officer shall cause to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office a
consolidated notice in Form 5 of all the nomination papers delivered to him
within the time furnishing the date, time and place fixed for the scrutiny of
nominations.(4)If a candidate considers that his name is incorrectly spelt or
is otherwise incorrectly shown in his nomination paper or is different from
the name by which he is popularly known, he may, at any time before the list
of contesting candidates is prepared, furnish in writing to the Returning
Officer, the proper form and spelling of his name and the Returning Officer
shall, on being satisfied as to the genuineness of the request, make necessary
correction or alteration in the list in Form 5 and adopt that form and
spelling in the list of contesting candidates.

### 29. Scrutiny of nomination.

(1)On the date and hour notified, the Returning Officer shall take up the
scrutiny of nominations at such place fixed for scrutiny. The candidate, one
of his proposers and one other person duly authorised by him, but no other
person, may attend the scrutiny. The Returning Officer shall give them all
reasonable facilities for examining the nomination papers of all the
candidates which have been specified in the list in Form 5.(2)If any person
objects to any nomination, he shall do so either orally or in writing.(3)The
Returning Officer shall, then, examine the nomination papers and decide one by
one and Ward by Ward, all objections which may be raised to any nomination
paper and may either on such objection or on his own motion after such summary
inquiry, as he thinks necessary, reject any nomination on any of the following
grounds-(a)that on the last date for filing of nomination papers, the
candidate either was not qualified or was disqualified for being elected to
fill the vacancy under any of the provisions of the Act; or(b)that there has
been a failure to comply with any of the provisions in rule 26 or 27;
or(c)that the signature of the candidate or the proposer on the nomination
paper is not genuine; or(d)that, where election is solely for a seat or seats
reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms.
No. 163, Rural Development (PE), dated the 7th August 1996.] or women,
candidate does not belong to such category.(4)Nothing contained in clause (b)
or (c) of sub-rule (3) shall be deemed to authorise the rejection of the
nomination of any candidate on the ground of any defect in respect of a
nomination paper, if the candidate has been duly nominated by means of another
nomination paper in respect of which no defect has been noticed.(5)The
Returning Officer shall not reject any nomination paper on the ground of any
defect which is not of a substantial character.Explanation. - For the purpose
of this sub-rule, failure to complete or any defect in completing the
declaration as to symbols in a nomination paper relating to election of
Presidents of Village Panchayats or members of Panchayat Union Councils or of
District Panchayats shall not be a defect of a substantial character.(5-A) If
a person files nomination papers in violation of sub-rule (3) of rule the
Returning Officer shall scrutinise the nomination papers and accept the
nominations, if they are otherwise in order, subject to the provisions of sub-
rule (3) of rule 30.(6)Where a person has signed as proposer for more
nomination papers than there are vacancies to be filled up, such of the
nomination papers so signed which have been first received up to the number of
vacancies to be filled, shall be accepted if they are otherwise valid and the
others rejected.(7)The Returning Officer shall hold the scrutiny on the date
and time notified in this behalf in the election notice and shall not allow
any adjournment of the proceedings except when such proceedings are
interrupted or obstructed by riot or open violence or by causes beyond his
control:Provided that if an objection is raised by the Returning Officer or is
made by any other persons, the candidate concerned may be allowed time to
rebut it not later than [10.00 a.m.] [Substituted for '11.00 a.m.' by G.O. Ms.
No. 88, dated 25.7.2016.] on the next day, but one following date fixed for
scrutiny. The Returning Officer shall give his decision on that nomination on
the adjourned date.(8)The Returning Officer shall endorse on each nomination
paper his decision accepting or rejecting the same. If the nomination paper is
rejected, he shall record in writing, a brief statement of his reasons for
such rejection. A copy of the same may be furnished to the candidate
concerned, if any application in this behalf has been made to
him.(9)Immediately after all the nomination papers have been scrutinised and
decisions accepting or rejecting the same have been recorded, the Returning
Officer shall prepare a list of validly nominated candidates in Form 6 and
publish a copy thereof at the place notified for receipt of nominations. The
list of candidates should be drawn up in the order of Tamil alphabet.

### 30. Prohibition on contesting more than one seat and withdrawal of
candidature.

(1)(a)Under section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994), no person shall be eligible to be elected as a member of more
than one Village Panchayat.(b)No member of a Village Panchayat or no person
who stands for election as a member of a Village Panchayat shall be eligible
to stand for election as a President of a Village Panchayat, or a member of a
Panchayat Union Council or a member of a District Panchayat.(c)No member of a
Panchayat Union Council or no person who stands for election as a member of a
Panchayat Union Council shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of
a Village Panchayat, or President of a Village Panchayat or a member of a
District Panchayat.(d)No member of a District Panchayat or no person who
stands for election as a member of a District Panchayat shall be eligible to
stand for election as a member of a Village Panchayat, or President of a
Village Panchayat or a member of a Panchayat Union Council.(e)No President or
no person who stands for election [as a President of a Village Panchayat]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th
August 1997.] shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of a Village
Panchayat, or member of a Panchayat Union Council or a member of a District
Panchayat.(2)(a)Any candidate may withdraw his candidature by a notice i n
Form 7 and subscribed by him and delivered to the Returning Officer before the
time fixed for the purpose. The notice may be delivered either by such
candidate in person or by his proposer, who has been authorised in this behalf
in writing, by such candidate.(b)On receipt of such notice, the Returning
Officer shall note thereon the date and time at which it was delivered to
him.(c)No person who has given notice of withdrawal of his candidature shall
be allowed to cancel the notice.(d)The Returning Officer shall, on being
satisfied as to the genuineness of the notice of withdrawal and the identity
of the person delivering it, cause a notice showing the list of candidates who
have withdrawn their candidature in Form 8 to be affixed in the notice board
of his office.(3)[ If a person who has filed nomination in violation of sub-
rule (1) fails or refuses to withdraw nomination for all other elections filed
in violation before the time fixed for withdrawal of candidature, the
Returning Officer shall, immediately after the expiry of such time determine
by to drawn in the presence of the available candidates, the election to which
such person shall contest. The Returning Officer shall include the name of
such persons in the list of contesting candidates for the election determined
by lot and his nominations shall be deemed to have been withdrawn in respect
of other elections.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE),
dated the 28th August 1997.]

### 31. Preparation of list of contesting candidates.

(1)Immediately after the expiry of the period within which candidature may be
withdrawn under sub-rule (2) of rule 30, the Returning Officer shall prepare
in Form 9, a list of contesting candidates, that is to say, candidates who
were included in the list of validly nominated candidates and who have not
withdrawn their candidature within the said period [and whose nominations were
not deemed to have been withdrawn under sub-rule (3) of rule 30 of these
rules] [Added by G.O.Ms.No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August
1997.].(2)The said list shall contain the names in the order of Tamil alphabet
and the addresses of the contesting candidates as given in the nomination
papers as got corrected under the proviso to sub-rule (4) of rule 28 of these
rules together with other particulars set out in the said form.

### 32. Procedure in contested and un-contested election.

\- The Returning Officer shall, immediately after the preparation of the list
of contesting candidates referred to in rule 31 of these rules, adopt the
procedure specified hereunder and determine the seat or seats in respect of
which a poll is necessary and the candidate among whom the said seat or seats
have to be filled.(1)In the case of election of member of District Panchayat
or Panchayat Union Council or of the President of Village Panchayat -(a)if
there is only one contesting candidate, the Returning Officer shall cause a
copy of the list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in the
notice board in his office and after such affixation declare such candidate to
be duly elected;(b)if the number of contesting candidates exceeds one, a poll
shall be taken; and(c)if there is no contesting candidate, a report shall be
sent to the State Election Commission and the District Election Officer, for
starting the election proceedings afresh in all respects as if for a new
election to fill up the seat.(2)In the case of election of member of a Village
Panchayat Ward where only one member is to be returned from that Ward -(a)if
there is only one contesting candidate, the Returning Officer shall cause a
copy of the list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in his
office and after such affixation, declare such candidate to be duly elected
from such Ward;(b)if the number of contesting candidates exceeds one, a poll
shall be taken; and(c)if there is no contesting candidate, a report shall be
sent to the State Election Commission and the District Election Officer for
starting the election proceedings afresh in all respects as if for a new
election to fill-up the seat.(3)In the case of election of members of a
Village Panchayat Ward where two or more members are to be returned and where
there are no reservation of seats -(a)if the number of contesting candidates
is equal to the number of seats to be filled, the Returning Officer shall
cause a copy of the list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in
his office and after such affixation, declare all such candidates to be [duly
elected] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the
28th August 1997.] to fill-up those seats;(b)if the number of such candidates
is less than the number of seats to be filled, the Returning Officer shall,
after the date and time fixed for withdrawal of candidature is over, cause a
copy of the list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in his
office and after such affixation declare all such candidates to be duly
elected. The Returning Officer shall send a report to the State Election
Commission and the District Election Officer for starting the election
proceedings afresh in all respects in respect of the remaining seat or
seats;(c)If the number of such candidates is more than the number of seats to
be filled, a poll shall be taken.(4)In the case of election of members of
Village Panchayats from Wards where two or more members are to be returned and
where reservation of seats have been made, the Returning Officer shall
consider the position separately in respect of such reserved seats which have
to be filled in the election -(a)in respect of reserved seats, if the number
of contesting candidates qualified to be chosen to fill them is not larger
than the number of vacancies, the Returning Officer shall cause a copy of the
list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in some conspicuous
place in his office and shall, then, declare the candidate or all such
candidates, as the case may be, duly elected;(b)if the number of contesting
candidates qualified to be chosen for the reserved seats exceeds the number of
seats reserved, while the total number of all contesting candidates for
election in the said Ward is less than or equal to the total number of seats
to be filled at the election, the Returning Officer shall, after notice to the
candidates concerned, decide by drawing lots, which of the candidates so
qualified to fill the reserved seats shall be declared elected to the reserved
seats and which of them to the non-reserved seats. Thereafter, he shall cause
a copy of the list of contesting candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in his
office and shall, then, declare all such candidates duly elected;(c)if all the
vacancies in the reserved seats to be filled at the election have been filled
under clause (a) or (b) and if the number of contesting candidates remaining
after the exclusion of the candidates so declared elected under the said sub-
rule is not larger than the number of non-reserved seats to be filled at the
election, the Returning Officer shall cause a copy of the list of contesting
candidates in Form 9 to be affixed in his office and after such affixation
shall declare them duly elected to the non-reserved seats;(d)in respect of
vacancies not filled under clauses (a), (b) and (c) or where the number of
contesting candidates is more than the number of seats to be filled, a poll
shall be held for election from among the candidates remaining after excluding
those declared elected under the said sub-rules;(e)if there are any seats
remaining to be filled after following the procedure prescribed in clause (a),
(b), (c) and (d), the Returning Officer shall send a report to the State
Election Commission and the District Election Officer for starting election
procedure afresh in all respects.

### 33. Recognition of political parties.

\- Every political party recognised by the Election Commission of India as a
National party or as a State party in the State of Tamil Nadu under Election
Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 shall be a recognised
political party for the purpose of election to Panchayat Bodies.

### 34. Publication of a list of recognised parties and symbols.

\- For the purpose of these rules, the State Election Commission shall
publish, by notification, a list of recognised political parties and their
symbols and a list of free symbols.

### 35. Assignment of symbols and publication of list of contesting
candidates.

(1)After the expiry of the period within which candidature may be withdrawn,
if a poll is found to be necessary, the Returning Officer shall, subject to
such directions as may be issued by the State Election Commission in that
behalf, assign a distinctive symbol to each contesting candidate within a
reasonable time. Every candidate or his proposer may, thereafter, be informed
of the symbol allotted to the candidate in such manner as the State Election
Commission may direct and also be supplied with a specimen thereof.(2)The
allotment by the Returning Officer of any symbol to a candidate shall be final
except where it is inconsistent with any direction issued by State Election
Commission under sub-rule (1). In such cases, the State Election Commission
may, after examining all the facts, revise the allotment in such manner as it
thinks fit.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the State
Election Commission may, by order, rescind, revoke, amend or vary the
direction issued under the said sub-rule for the assignment of symbols to the
contesting candidates, at any stage before the date fixed for receipt of
nominations.(4)The Returning Officer shall, then, complete the list of
contesting candidates in Form 9 and publish -(i)in the case of election of
members of District Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council at the offices of the
Returning Officer, and the District Panchayat or the Panchayat Union and two
or more conspicuous places which the Returning Officer considers necessary;
and(ii)in the case of election of President and members of Village Panchayat,
on the [Notice Board of the Village Panchayat] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.].(5)[ The list shall
contain the names of the contesting candidates arranged and written in the
order of Tamil alphabet in the case of election of members of District
Panchayats or Panchayat Union Councils and in the order in which the symbols
appear in the lists issued by the State Election Commission under sub-rule (1)
of this rule in the case of election of Presidents and members of the Village
Panchayat.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated
the 28th August 1997.]

### 36. [ Death of candidate before poll. [Substituted by G O. Ms. No. 151,
Rural Development (Cl), dated the 2nd June 2001.]

\- If a candidate, set up by a recognised political party -(a)dies at any time
after [10.00 a.m.] on the last date for making nominations and his nomination
is found valid on scrutiny under rule 29; or(b)whose nomination has been found
valid on scrutiny under sub-rule (8) of rule 29, and who has not withdrawn his
candidature under rule 30, dies and, in either case, a report of his death is
received at any time before the publication of the list of contesting
candidates under sub-rule (4) of rule 35; or(c)dies as a contesting candidate
and a report of his death is received before the commencement of the poll,the
Returning Officer shall, upon being satisfied about the fact of the death of
the candidate, by order, adjourn the poll and report the fact to the State
Election Commission, State Election Officer and District Election Officer and
all proceedings with reference to the election shall be commenced afresh in
all respects, by the State Election Commission as if for a new
election:Provided that no order for the adjourning the poll shall be made in a
case referred to in clause (a) except after the scrutiny of all nominations
including the nomination of the deceased candidates:Provided further that all
candidates who have filed nominations including those who have withdrawn their
nominations before the adjournment of the Poll shall be eligible to file a
nomination in the fresh election:Provided also that no fresh nomination shall
be necessary in case of a person who was a contesting candidate at the time of
the adjournment of the poll.]

## Part V – Poll

### 37. Polling personnel to be appointed before poll.

(1)If a poll has to be taken, the Returning Officer shall appoint, for each
polling station, one Presiding Officer, as many Polling Officers as may be
authorised by the State Election Commission and such other persons to assist
the Presiding Officers.(2)The Presiding Officer shall ensure that votes are
recorded at the polling station with absolute secrecy and he shall regulate
the number of electors to be admitted at one time and shall exclude all other
persons except -(a)the contesting candidates, their election agents and one
polling agent at a time for each contesting candidate;(b)a child in arms
accompanying an elector;(c)a person accompanying a blind or infirm elector who
cannot move without help;(d)such other persons as the Returning Officer or the
Presiding Officer may admit for the purpose of helping in the identification
of the electors or in searching women electors or assisting him otherwise in
taking the poll;(e)public servants on duty in connection with elections;
and(f)such other persons as may be authorised by the State Election Commission
or the District Election Officer.

### 38. Appointment of election agents.

\- A candidate at an election may appoint any one person to be his election
agent. Such an appointment may be made by the candidate by giving notice in
Form 10 by forwarding the same in duplicate to the Returning Officer, who
shall return one copy thereof after affixing thereon his seal and signature in
token of his approval of the appointment.

### 39. Functions of election agent.

\- An election agent may perform such functions in connection with the
election as are authorised by or under these rules to be performed by an
election agent.

### 40. Appointment of polling agents.

(1)Each contesting candidate or his election agent may appoint one polling
agent and one or two relief polling agents as may be specified by the State
Election Commission, from time to time, to act as the polling agent of such
candidate at each polling station.(2)Every such appointment shall be made in
Form 11 and shall be handed over to the polling agent for production at the
polling station.(3)At every election where a poll is taken, each contesting
candidate at such election, his election agent or his polling agent shall have
a right to be present at the polling station provided for taking the
poll.(4)Where any act or thing is required or authorised by this rule to be
done in the presence of the polling agent, the non-attendance of any such
agent at the time and place appointed for the purpose shall not invalidate the
act or thing done, if the act or thing is otherwise done fully.

### 41. Arrangements at polling station.

(1)At each polling station, there shall be set up one or more voting
compartments as the State Election Commission may direct, from time to time,
in which electors can record their votes screened from observation.(2)The
Returning Officer shall provide at each polling station sufficient number of
ballot boxes, copies of the relevant part of the electoral roll, ballot
papers, instruments for stamping the distinguishing mark on ballot papers and
instruments necessary for electors to mark the ballot papers.(3)Every ballot
box shall be so constructed that ballot papers can be inserted therein, but
cannot be withdrawn there from without the box being unlocked or opened.(4)At
the entrance to each polling station, there shall be displayed prominently
-(a)a notice showing the number and names of the contesting candidates as
published in Form 9 and the distinctive symbol assigned to each candidate in
respect of each of the elections for which poll is taken in that polling
station; and(b)a notice showing the polling area and the groups of electors
who are entitled to vote at that polling station.

### 42. Preparation of ballot boxes for poll.

(1)Where a paper seal is used in an election for securing a ballot box, the
Presiding Officer shall affix his own signature on the reverse side of the
paper seal and obtain thereon the signatures of such of the polling agents
present as are desirous of affixing the same.(2)The Presiding Officer shall,
thereafter, fix the paper seal so signed in the space meant therefor in the
ballot box and shall secure the sealing such a manner that the slit for the
insertion of the ballot papers there into remains open. An account for the
paper seals used shall also be maintained by the Presiding Officer as directed
by the State Election Commission. The Presiding Officer may also permit the
polling agents to note down the serial numbers of the paper seals used.(3)The
paper seal used for securing a ballot box shall be affixed in such manner that
after the box has been closed it is not possible to open it without breaking
the seal.(4)Where it is not necessary to use paper seal for securing the
ballot boxes, the Presiding Officer shall secure and seal the ballot box in
such manner that the slit for insertion of ballot papers remains open and
allow the polling agents present to affix their seals, if they so
desire.(5)Every ballot box used at a polling station shall bear labels and
addressed tags both inside and outside marked with -(a)name of the election or
elections;(b)the name of the District Panchayat, Panchayat Union, Village
Pancha-yat and number of the Ward or Wards;(c)the serial number and name of
the polling station;(d)the serial number of the ballot box (to be filled in,
at the end of the poll on the label and addressed tag outside the ballot box
only); and(e)the date of poll.(6)The Presiding Officer shall, immediately
before the commencement of the poll, show ballot box empty to such contesting
candidates, election agents, polling Agents and other authorised persons as
are present and shall, then, lock it up and place his seal upon it. The ballot
box shall, then, be closed, sealed and secured and placed in full view of the
Presiding Officer and the polling agents. The Presiding Officer shall also
sign the declaration in Form 12 and also obtain the signatures of such of the
polling agents who are present and are willing to affix their signatures. He
shall repeat this process as and when another ballot box is prepared for use.
At the end of the poll, a further declaration in Part II of Form 12 shall be
recorded in the same manner.

### 43. Marked copy of electoral roll.

(1)There shall be as many marked copies of electoral rolls as may be
prescribed by the State Election Commission for a polling
station.(2)Immediately before the commencement of the poll, the Presiding
Officer shall demonstrate to the polling agents and others present that the
marked copy of the electoral roll or rolls to be used during the poll does not
contain any entry other than those made in pursuance of these rules and other
authorised corrections made by the Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer.

### 44. Facilities for women electors.

(1)Where a polling station is for both men and women electors, the Presiding
Officer may direct that they shall be admitted into the polling station
alternately in separate batches.(2)The Returning Officer or the Presiding
Officer may appoint a woman to serve as an attendant at any polling station to
assist women electors and also to assist the Presiding Officer, in taking the
poll in respect of women electors generally and in particular to help in
searching any woman elector in case it becomes necessary.

### 45. Challenging of identity.

(1)Any polling agent may challenge the identity of a person claiming to be a
particular elector by first depositing a sum of two rupees in cash with the
Presiding Officer for each such challenge.(2)On such deposit being made, the
Presiding Officer shall -(a)warn the person challenged of the penalty for
personation;(b)read the relevant entry in the electoral roll in full and ask
him whether he is the person referred to in that entry;(c)enter his name and
address in the list of challenged votes in Form 13; and(d)require him to sign
in the said list.(3)The Presiding Officer shall, thereafter, hold a summary
inquiry into the challenge and may, for that purpose, -(a)require the
challenger to adduce evidence in proof of the challenge and the person
challenged to adduce evidence in proof of his identity;(b)put to person
challenged any question necessary for the purpose of establishing his identity
and require him to answer them on oath; and(c)administer an oath to the person
challenged and any other person offering to give evidence.(4)If, after the
inquiry, the Presiding Officer considers that the challenge has not been
established, he shall allow the person challenged to vote and if he considers
that the challenge has been established, he shall debar the person challenged
from voting, besides taking appropriate action against him.(5)If the Presiding
Officer is of the opinion that the challenge is frivolous or has not been made
in good faith, he shall direct that the deposit made under sub-rule (1) be
forfeited to Government and, in any other case, he shall return it to the
challenger at the conclusion of the inquiry.

### 46. Identification of electors.

(1)The Presiding Officer may employ at the polling station such persons as he
thinks fit to help in the identification of the electors or to assist him
otherwise in taking the poll.(2)As each elector enters the polling station,
the Presiding Officer or the Polling Officer authorised by him in this behalf,
shall check the elector's name and other particulars with the relevant entry
in the electoral roll and, then, call out the serial number, name and other
particulars of the elector.(3)In deciding the right of a person to obtain a
ballot paper or ballot papers, the Presiding Officer or the Polling Officer,
as the case may be, shall overlook mere clerical or printing errors if any in
the electoral roll, if he is satisfied that such person is identical with the
elector to whom that entry relates.

### 47. Safeguards against personation.

(1)Every elector shall, before receiving the ballot paper or ballot papers,
allow -(a)the inspection of his left forefinger by the Presiding Officer or
Polling Officer; and(b)an indelible ink mark to be put on the back of left
forefinger immediately above the root of the nail or skin or in such manner as
the State Election Commission may direct in special circumstances.(2)If any
such elector -(a)refuses to allow such inspection of his left forefinger by
the Presiding Officer or Polling Officer, as the case may be; or(b)refuses to
allow an indelible ink mark to be put on left forefinger; or(c)persists in
doing any act with a view to removing any such mark after it has been put, he
shall not be entitled to be supplied with any ballot paper or ballot papers or
to record his votes at the election.(3)No person who has already such mark on
the left forefinger shall be supplied with a ballot paper.(4)Any reference in
these rules to the left forefinger of an elector shall, in the case where the
elector has his left forefinger missing, be construed as a reference to any
other finger or fingers on his left hand, and shall in case where all the
fingers of his left hand are missing, be construed as a reference to the
forefinger or any other finger or fingers of his right hand, and shall in the
case where all his fingers of both the hands are missing, be construed as a
reference to such extremity of his left or right arm as he possesses.

### 48. Right to vote.

(1)No person whose name is not entered in the electoral roll of any Ward shall
be entitled to vote.(2)No person shall vote at an election if he is subject to
any of the disqualifications referred to in section 16 of the Representation
of the Peoples Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950) or section 35 or 36 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).(3)No person shall
vote in more than one Ward in a Panchayat notwithstanding the fact that his
name may have been registered in the electoral roll of more than one Ward of
the Panchayat and if a person votes in more than one Ward, his votes in all
such Wards shall be void.(4)No person shall, at any election, vote in the same
Ward more than once, notwithstanding the fact that his name may have been
registered in the electoral roll for that Ward more than once and if he does
vote more than once, all his votes in the Ward shall be void.(5)No person
shall vote at any election if he is confined in a prison whether under a
sentence of imprisonment or otherwise:Provided that nothing in this sub-rule
shall apply to a person subject to preventive detention under any law for the
time being in force.

### 48A. [ Special procedure for preventing personation of electors. [Inserted
by G.O. Ms. No. 151, Rural Development (Cl), dated the 2nd June 2001.]

\- With a view to prevent personation of electors and facilitating their
identification at the time of poll, every elector shall produce documentary
evidence establishing his identity as may be specified and in the manner
directed by the State Election Commission in this behalf, from time to time.]

### 49. Ballot papers.

(1)Ballot paper for election of [***][Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural
Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] members of Panchayat Union
Councils and District Panchayats. - Every ballot paper for election of [***]
[Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August
1997.] members of Panchayat Union Councils and of District Panchayats shall be
in Form 14-A with a counter-foil attached to it. The names of the contesting
candidates with their respective distinctive symbols shall be printed on the
ballot papers in the same order in which the names appear in Form 9. The size
of the ballot paper and other matters relating thereto shall be decided by the
State Election Commission, from time to time.(2)Ballot papers for election of
[President of Village Panchayat and Members of Village Panchayats] [Inserted
by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.]. -
Every ballot paper for election of [President of Village Panchayats and]
[Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August
1997.] members of Village Panchayats shall be in Form 14-B with a counter-foil
attached to it if so directed by the State Election Commission. Symbols alone
shall be printed on the ballot papers. The size of the ballot paper and other
matters relating thereto shall be decided by the State Election Commission,
from time to time.(3)Numbering of ballot papers. - The ballot papers and the
counter-foils, if any, shall be serially numbered and shall be stamped on
their reverse by such distinguishing mark or marks and in such manner as may
be directed by the State Election Commission, from time to time.

### 50. Manner of voting.

\- At every election where a poll is taken, votes shall be given by ballot and
all voters voting at an election shall do so in person at the polling station
and no votes shall be received by proxy.

### 51. Issue of ballot papers and voting procedure.

(1)Before any ballot paper is delivered to an elector, the Presiding Officer
shall sign his name in full on the back of each ballot paper and affix the
distinguishing mark of the polling station, the serial number and other
particulars of the elector shall be noted in the counter-foil, if any, and the
elector shall be required to sign it. The entry relating to the elector in the
marked copy of the electoral roll shall be underlined. No person in the
polling station shall note down the serial numbers of the ballot papers issued
to a particular elector.(2)Each elector shall be given only one ballot paper
for each election. The elector, on receiving the ballot paper, shall forthwith
proceed lo one of the voting compartments which is vacant, and there, with the
aid of the instrument supplied for the purpose, make a mark on the ballot
paper against the name or symbol of the candidate or candidates for whom he
intends to vote. The mark may be made anywhere in the compartment within which
the name and symbol, as the case may be, of such candidate is printed on the
ballot paper. In cases, where more than one candidate have to be elected, the
elector may make as many marks on the ballot paper in favour of as many
candidates as are to be elected. He shall, then, fold the ballot paper so as
to conceal his vote and after showing to the Polling Officer the
distinguishing mark stamped on its back, insert the folded ballot paper into
the ballot box kept for the purpose.(3)Every elector shall vote without undue
delay and shall quit the polling station as soon as he had voted. He shall not
place anything except ballot paper in the ballot box. Anything other than
ballot papers found in the box at the time of counting of votes, shall be
forfeited.(4)No elector shall be allowed to enter a voting compartment when
another elector is inside it.

### 52. Voting procedure for electors on election duty.

(1)When an elector entitled to vote at an election is duly appointed for
election duty at a polling station at which he is not ordinarily entitled to
record his vote, or is drafted for other election duty and is unable to vote,
he may send a request in Form 15 to the Returning Officer so as to reach him
at least seven days, or such shorter period as the Returning Officer may
allow, before the date of the poll. If the Returning Officer is satisfied that
the applicant is so entitled to vote, he shall forward to the applicant an
election duty certificate in Form 16 along [with a ballot paper beginning from
the last of the serial number from out of] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175,
Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] those meant for the
polling station where the applicant is ordinarily entitled to record his vote.
The Returning Officer shall stamp on the back of the ballot paper and the
counter-foil the words [E.D.C.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural
Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.]. He shall, before forwarding
such ballot paper, underline the entry relating to that elector in the marked
copy of the electoral roll relating to the polling station at which the
elector is entitled to [record his vote and write the letters E.D.C. against
such entry denoting that the] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural
Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.] elector has been issued with a
ballot paper.(2)On receiving the ballot paper, the elector on election duty
shall record his vote by making a tick mark on the ballot paper against the
name/s or symbol/s of the candidate/s to whom he intends to vote. The mark may
be made anywhere in the compartment within which the symbol or name of such
candidate is printed on the ballot paper. The elector shall sign a declaration
in Form 17. He shall, then, enclose the ballot paper in an envelope provided
for the purpose and stick the envelope and secure it by seal or otherwise. He
shall, then, enclose the envelope containing the marked ballot paper in an
outer cover provided for this purpose, as well as the election duty
certificate and the declaration aforesaid and send it to the Returning Officer
by post or by messenger so as to reach him or the person authorised by him
before 5.00 p.m. on the day before the poll.

### 53. Recording the votes of blind and infirm electors.

(1)If the Presiding Officer is satisfied that owing to old age or blindness or
other physical infirmity, an elector is unable to recognise the symbols on the
ballot paper or to read the names of the candidates or to make mark or marks
thereon without assistance, the Presiding Officer shall permit the elector to
take with him a companion of not less than eighteen years of age to the voting
compartment for recording his vote on the ballot paper or ballot papers on his
behalf and in accordance with his wishes and, if necessary, for folding the
ballot papers so as to conceal the vote and inserting it into the ballot
box:Provided that no person shall be permitted to act as the companion of more
than one elector at any polling station on the same day:Provided further that,
before any person is permitted to act as the companion of an elector on any
day under these rules, the companion shall be required to declare that he
shall keep the secrecy of the vote recorded by him on behalf of the elector,
and that he has not already acted as the companion of any elector at any
polling station on that day.(2)The Presiding Officer shall keep a record in
Form 18 of all such cases under this rule.

### 54. Spoilt and returned ballot papers.

(1)An elector who has inadvertently dealt with his ballot paper in such manner
that it cannot be conveniently used as ballot paper may return it to the
Presiding Officer, who is satisfied of the inadvertence, may issue another
ballot paper and the ballot paper so returned shall be marked "Spoilt-can-
celled" by the Presiding Officer.(2)If an elector, after obtaining a ballot
paper, decides not to use it, he shall return it to the Presiding Officer and
the ballot paper so returned shall be marked "Returned-cancelled", by the
Presiding Officer.(3)If an elector to whom a ballot paper has been issued,
refuses, after warning given by the Presiding Officer, to observe the
procedure as laid down in rule 51, the ballot paper or ballot papers issued to
him shall, whether he has recorded his vote thereon or not, be taken back from
him by the Presiding Officer or a Polling Officer under the direction of the
Presiding Officer. After the ballot paper or ballot papers have been taken
back, the Presiding Officer shall record on its back the words "Cancelled-
voting procedure violated".(4)All such ballot papers under sub-rules (1), (2)
and (3) shall be signed by the Presiding Officer below those words and kept in
separate covers and put into the packet referred to in rule 58.

### 55. Tendered votes.

(1)If a person representing himself to be a particular elector applies for a
ballot paper after another person has already voted as such elector, he shall,
on satisfactorily answering such questions relating to his identity as the
Presiding Officer may ask, be entitled, subject to the following provisions of
this rule, to mark a ballot paper (hereinafter referred to in these rules as a
"tendered ballot paper") in the same manner as any other elector.(2)Every such
person shall, before being supplied with a tendered ballot paper, sign his
name against the entry relating to him in a list in Form 19 and in the
counter-foil of the ballot paper.(3)A tendered ballot paper shall be the same
as the other ballot papers used at the polling except that -(a)such tendered
ballot paper shall be serially the last in the bundle of ballot papers issued
for use at the polling station; and(b)such tendered ballot paper and its
counter-foil shall be endorsed on the back with the words "Tendered ballot
paper" by the Presiding Officer in his own hand and signed by him.(4)The
elector, after marking a tendered ballot paper in the voting compartment and
folding it, shall, instead of putting it into the ballot box, give it to the
Presiding Officer, who shall place it in a cover specially kept for the
purpose.

### 56. [ Adjournment of poll in emergencies. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
151, Rural Development (CI), dated the 2nd June 2001.]

(1)If at a poll, the proceedings at any polling station are interrupted or
obstructed by any riot or open violence, or if an election is not possible to
take the poll at any polling station on account of any natural calamity or any
other sufficient cause, the Presiding Officer for such polling station shall
stop the poll, inform through the Returning Officer to the District Election
Officer, the State Election Officer and the State Election Commission. The
fact that the poll has been so stopped shall be immediately announced by the
Presiding Officer to the persons present at the polling station.(2)Where a
Presiding Officer stops the poll under sub-rule (1), he shall observe the
procedure laid down in rule 58 and make a full report of the circumstances to
the Returning Officer who shall report the matter to the District Election
Officer, the State Election Officer and the State Election Commission. The
ballot boxes and packets referred to in rule 58 shall also be sent to the
Returning Officer, as soon as practicable.(3)The District Election Officer
shall, thereupon, order -(a)that the poll be adjourned and held at such
polling station for the number of hours for which it was not held on the
previous occasion; or(b)that the poll be adjourned and held at such polling
station for the number of hours. An order passed by the District Election
Officer under this sub-rule shall be final.(c)When an order under clause (a)
or (b) of sub-rule (3) is passed, the Returning Officer shall not count the
votes cast at such election until such adjourned poll has been
completed.(4)(a)An order passed under clause (a) or (b) of sub-rule (1) shall
state -(i)the date on which and the hours between which such adjourned poll,
shall be held; and(ii)the date on which and the place and hour at which the
Returning Officer shall commence the counting of the votes.(b)On receipt of
orders passed under sub-rules (3) and (4) (a), the Returning Officer shall
inform the contesting candidates or their election agents, of the date, time
and place fixed for such adjourned poll and affix a notice on the notice board
of the District Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council and of the office of the
Village Panchayat or in a conspicuous place in the Ward notifying the date and
hours so fixed. He shall also announce by beat of tom-tom in the polling area
concerned the place, date and hours so fixed.(5)(a)Where an order is passed
under these rules for the adjournment of the poll, for the number of hours for
which it was not held on previous occasion, the Returning Officer shall
proceed further as stipulated under sub-rule (1) of rule 37 and return to the
Presiding Officer appointed under the said sub-rule, all the packets received
by him under sub-rule (2).(b)The Presiding Officer shall open the packets just
before the commencement of such adjourned poll in the presence of such persons
who may be present at the polling station and commence such adjourned poll
precisely at the hour fixed therefor.(c)At such adjourned poll, the Presiding
Officer shall allow only such electors to vote who have not cast their vote on
the previous occasion.(6)Where an order is passed under clause (b) of sub-rule
(3) for the adjournment of poll for the full number of hours, the Returning
Officer shall proceed afresh under sub-rule (1) of rule 37 and such adjourned
poll shall be held at the polling station concerned in accordance with the
provisions of these rules in all respects, as if it were being held at such
polling station for the first time:Provided that there shall be no fresh
nomination in the cases falling under this sub-rule.(7)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this rule, if a contesting candidate sponsored by a
recognised political party in the election of [***] a Member or Members of a
District Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council or any contesting candidate
in the election of Member of a Village Panchayat dies at any time before
orders are passed by the District Election Officer under sub-rule (3) or at
any time after passing of such orders, but before the commencement of such
adjourned poll, the Returning Officer shall, upon being satisfied of the fact
of the death of the contesting candidate, stop all further proceedings in
connection with the election and inform the District Election Officer, the
State Election Officer and the State Election Commission. The State Election
Commission shall, thereupon, start election proceedings afresh in all respects
as if it were a new election:Provided that for the election proceedings so
started, no fresh nomination shall be necessary in the case of the remaining
contesting candidates.]

### 57. Fresh poll in the case of destruction, etc., of ballot boxes.

(1)If, at any election, -(a)any ballot box used at a polling station or at a
place appointed for counting of votes is unlawfully taken out of the custody
of the Presiding Officer or the Returning Officer, or is accidentally or
intentionally destroyed, or lost, or is damaged or tampered with to such an
extent that the result of the poll at that polling station cannot be
ascertained; or(b)any such error or irregularity in procedure as is likely to
vitiate the poll is committed at the polling station, the Returning Officer
shall forthwith report the matter to District Election Officer and the State
Election Commission.(2)Thereupon, the District Election Officer shall, after
taking all material circumstances into account, either -(a)declare the poll at
the polling station to be void, appoint a day and fix the hours for taking a
fresh poll at that polling station and direct that the day so appointed and
the hours so fixed be published in the manner laid down in clause (b) of sub-
rule (4) of rule 56, besides intimating the contesting candidates or their
election agents; or(b)if satisfied that the result of a fresh poll at the
polling station will not in any way affect the result of the election or that
the error or irregularity in procedure is not material, issue such direction
to the Returning Officer as he may deem proper for the further conduct and
completion of election.(3)The provisions of these rules or orders made
thereunder shall apply to every such fresh poll as they apply to the original
poll.

### 58. Closing of poll.

(1)(a)The Presiding Officer shall close the polling station at the hour fixed
in that behalf under these rules and shall not, thereafter, admit any elector
in the polling station:Provided that, unless the poll is closed under sub-rule
(1) of rule 56, all electors present at the polling station before it is
closed shall be allowed to cast their votes.(b)If any question arises whether
an elector was present at the polling station before it was closed, it shall
be decided by the Presiding Officer whose decision shall be final.(2)(a)The
Presiding Officer of each polling station, as soon as practicable after the
close of the poll, shall close the slit of the ballot box or boxes and where
the box does not contain any mechanical device for closing slit, he shall seal
up the slit and also allow any candidate or polling agent present to affix his
seal. The ballot box shall, thereafter, be sealed and secured.(b)Where it
becomes necessary to use second ballot box by reason of the first ballot box
getting full, the first ballot box shall be closed and sealed as provided in
clause (a) before another ballot box is put into use.(3)The Presiding Officer
shall, then, make up the following into separate packets and seal them with
the seal and allow the candidates or agents to affix their own seals, if they
so desire, -(i)the marked copy of the electoral roll or rolls;(ii)the unused
ballot papers and the spoilt, returned, tendered and cancelled ballot papers;
and(iii)any other papers as directed by the State Election Commission:Provided
that the State Election Commission may direct that a common packet for all the
elections can be made for the different items referred to above.(4)(a)The
Presiding Officer shall, at the close of the poll, prepare a ballot paper
account for each election in Form 20 for transmission to the Returning
Officer. It may be enclosed in separate cover with the words, "Ballot Paper
Account" superscribed thereon. When two or more elections are held
simultaneously, the ballot paper account shall be enclosed in separate covers
or in a common cover as the State Election Commission may direct, from time to
time.(b)The Presiding Officer shall furnish to every polling agent present at
the close of the poll, a true copy of the entries made in the ballot paper
account or accounts attested by him after obtaining a receipt from the said
polling agent therefor.

### 59. Transmission of ballot boxes, etc., to the Returning Officer.

\- The Presiding Officer shall, then, deliver or cause to be delivered to the
Returning Officer at such place as the Returning Officer may direct -(a)the
ballot boxes (used and unused);(b)the ballot paper account or
accounts;(c)paper seal account;(d)the sealed packets referred to in rule 58;
and(e)all other papers and marking or stamping articles used at the poll.

## Part VI – Counting of Votes

### 60. Admission to the place fixed for counting.

\- The counting of votes shall take place on the day at the place and hour
appointed in that behalf. The votes shall be counted by or under the
supervision and direction of the Returning Officer. Each contesting candidate,
his election agent and such number of his counting agents as may be specified
by the State Election Commission, shall have a right to be present at the time
of counting. The counting agent shall be appointed [in writing by the
candidate or his election agent in Form 21] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175,
Rural Development (PE), dated the 28th August 1997.]. No other person shall be
allowed to be present, except -(i)such person hereinafter referred to as the
"Counting Supervisors and Counting Assistants" whom the Returning Officer may
appoint to assist him in counting the votes;(ii)public servants on duty in
connection with the elections; and(iii)such persons as may be authorised by
the State Election Commission.No person who has been employed by, or on behalf
of, any candidate for any purpose whatsoever connected with the election shall
be appointed to assist in counting the votes.

### 61. Counting of postal ballot papers and scrutiny and opening of ballot
boxes.

(1)The Returning Officer shall first deal with the postal ballot papers
forwarded to him under rule 52 as specified below: -(a)No cover referred to in
rule 52 received by the Returning Officer, after the expiry of the time fixed
in that behalf, shall be opened and no vote contained in any such cover shall
be counted.(b)The outer covers shall be opened one after another and the
election duty certificates and declaration under rule 52 contained therein
shall be collected together, counted and sealed in a separate packet.(c)The
inner covers containing the marked ballot papers shall, then, be opened one
after another and the votes counted. If the declaration is not found or has
not been duly signed or is otherwise substantially defective, that inner cover
shall not be opened and after making an appropriate endorsement thereon, the
Returning Officer shall reject the ballot paper contained therein.(2)The
ballot boxes relating to each of the polling stations shall, then, be taken up
for counting. The Returning Officer may, in his discretion, have the ballot
boxes used at more than one polling station opened and their contents counted
simultaneously.(3)Before any ballot box is opened at a counting table, the
counting agents present at the table shall be allowed to inspect the paper
seal and other seals on the ballot box and satisfy themselves that they are in
tact.(4)The Returning Officer shall satisfy himself that none of the ballot
boxes has, in fact, been tampered with.(5)If the Returning Officer is
satisfied that any ballot box has, in fact, been tampered with, shall not
count the ballot papers contained in that box and shall follow the procedure
laid down in rule 57 in respect of that polling station.(6)(a)If a fresh poll
is held under rule 57, the Returning Officer shall, after completion of that
poll, recommence the counting of votes on the date, at the time and place
which have been fixed by the District Election Officer in that behalf and of
which notice has been previously given to the contesting candidates and their
election agents.(b)The provision of this part shall apply, so far as may be,
to such further counting.(7)The Returning Officer shall allow the candidates
and their agents reasonable opportunities to inspect, without handling, all
ballot papers which in his opinion are liable to be rejected under rule 63. He
shall endorse on every ballot paper which he rejects, the letter "R" and the
ground of rejection in abbreviated form either in his own handwriting or by
means of a rubber stamp and shall initial such endorsement.(8)He shall verify
the ballot paper account submitted by the Presiding Officer under sub-rule (4)
(a) of rule 58.

### 62. Destruction or loss of ballot papers at the time of counting.

(1)If at any time before the counting of votes is completed, ballot papers
used at a polling station are unlawfully taken out of the custody of the
Returning Officer or accidentally or intentionally destroyed or lost or
damaged or tampered with to such an extent that the result of the poll of that
polling station cannot be ascertained, the Returning Officer shall forthwith
report the matter to the [District Election Officer, State Election Officer
and the State Election Commission ] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 151, Rural
Development (CI), dated the 2nd June 2001.].(2)Thereupon, the District
Election Officer shall, after taking all material circumstances into account,
either, -(a)[ direct that the counting of votes shall be stopped, declare the
poll at that polling station to be void, appoint the date and fix the hour for
taking the fresh poll at that polling station and notify the date so appointed
and hour so fixed in such a manner as he may deem fit; or] [Substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 151, Rural Development (CI), dated the 2nd June 2001.](b)[if
satisfied that the outcome of a poll at that polling station will not in any
way affect the result of the election,] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 151,
Rural Development (CI), dated the 2nd June 2001.] the District Election
Officer shall issue such direction to the Returning Officer as he may deem
proper for resumption and completion of the counting and for the further
conduct and completion of the election to which the votes have been
counted.(3)Provision of these rules shall apply to every such fresh poll as
they apply to the original poll.

### 63. Rejection of ballot papers.

(1)A ballot paper shall be rejected -(a)if it bears any mark or writing by
which the elector can be identified, or(b)if no vote is recorded thereon,
or(c)if votes are given on it in favour of more candidates than the number of
candidates to be elected, or(d)if the mark indicating the votes thereon is
placed in such manner as to make it doubtful to which candidate the vote has
been given, or(e)if it is a spurious ballot paper, or(f)if it is so damaged or
mutilated that its identity as a genuine ballot paper cannot be established,
or(g)if it bears a serial number, or is of a design, different from the serial
numbers or design, as the case may be, of the ballot papers authorised for use
at the particular polling station, or(h)if it does not bear both the
distinguishing mark and/or the signature of the Presiding Officer which it
should have borne under the provision of sub-rule (1) of rule 51 or the words
[E.D.C.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the
28th August 1997.] under the sub-rule (1) of rule 52, or(i)if it is not the
relevant ballot paper:Provided that where the Returning Officer is satisfied
that any such defect as is mentioned in clause (g) or clause (h) has been
caused by any mistake or failure on the part of a Presiding Officer, the
ballot paper shall not be rejected merely on the ground of such
defect:Provided further that a ballot paper shall not be rejected merely on
the ground that the mark indicating the vote is not distinct or made more than
once, if the intention that the vote shall be for a particular candidate
clearly appears from the way the paper is marked.(2)All ballot papers rejected
under this rule shall be made into a separate bundle.(3)The decision of the
Returning Officer under this rule shall be final, subject only to the decision
of the competent Court on an election petition.

### 64. Counting of valid votes.

(1)The vote recorded in every ballot paper which is not rejected under rule 63
shall be counted.(2)After the counting of the votes recorded in all ballot
papers contained in all ballot boxes has been completed, the Returning Officer
shall have the result of such counting entered in Part II of Form 20 and it
shall be signed by the Counting Supervisor and the Returning Officer. The
Returning Officer shall, then, make the entries relating thereto in a result
sheet in Form 22.(3)The valid ballot papers found in all the ballot boxes as
well as the valid votes referred to in clause (c) of sub-rule (2) shall,
thereafter, be bundled together and kept along with the bundle of rejected
ballot papers in a separate packet which shall be sealed and on which shall be
recorded the following particulars, namely: -(a)name of election;(b)the number
of the Ward and the name of Panchayat; and(c)the date of counting.

### 65. Counting to be continuous.

\- The Returning Officer shall, as far as practicable, proceed continuously
with the counting and shall during any interval when the counting has to be
suspended, keep the ballot papers, packets and all other papers relating to
elections sealed with his own seal and the seals of such candidates or
election agents as may desire to affix their seals and take sufficient
precaution for their safe custody during such interval.

### 66. Re-count of votes.

(1)After the completion of the counting and recording in Form 22, the total
number of votes polled by each candidate under sub-rule (2) of rule 64, the
Returning Officer shall announce the same. After such announcement and before
the declaration of the result of the election, a contesting candidate or, in
his absence, his election agent, may apply in writing to the Returning Officer
for a re-count of all or any of the votes already counted stating the grounds
on which he demands such re-count.(2)On such application being made, the
Returning Officer shall decide the matter and may allow the application in
whole or in part, or may reject it in toto if it appears to him to be
frivolous or unreasonable.(3)Every decision of the Returning Officer under
sub-rule (2) shall be in writing and contain the reasons therefor.(4)If the
Returning Officer decides under sub-rule (2) to allow an application, either
in whole or in part, he shall -(a)count the votes again in accordance with his
decision;(b)amend the result sheet in Form 22 to the extent necessary after
such re-count; and(c)announce the amendments so made by him.(5)After the total
number of votes polled by each candidate has been announced under sub-rule (1)
or under sub-rule (4) of this rule, the Returning Officer shall complete and
sign the result sheet in Form 22 and no application for a re-count shall be
entertained thereafter:Provided that no step under this sub-rule shall be
taken on the completion of the counting until the candidates or the election
agents present at the completion thereof have been given a reasonable
opportunity to exercise the right conferred by sub-rule (1).

### 67. Declaration of result of election.

(1)(a)In the case of election of members of District Panchayat or Panchayat
Union Council, after the Returning Officer has completed the scrutiny and
counting of votes, he shall declare the contesting candidate to whom the
largest number of valid votes have been given as elected and complete and
certify the return in Form 23 and send the signed copy thereof to the District
Election Officer and the State Election Commission.(b)The Returning Officer
shall also forthwith cause to be affixed a copy of the declaration referred to
in clause (a) in his office and in the office of the District Panchayat, or
the Panchayat Union, as the case may be.(c)If there is an equality of votes
between two or more contesting candidates, and the addition of one vote will
entitle any of these candidates to be declared elected, the Returning Officer
shall decide between these candidates by lot and the candidate on whom the lot
falls shall be deemed to have received an additional vote. The Returning
Officer shall, then, declare the result accordingly.(d)Any contesting
candidate or his election agent or his counting agent, on application, be
permitted to take a copy or an extract from the statement in Form 22.(2)(a)In
the case of election of President of Village Panchayat, after the Returning
Officer has completed the scrutiny and counting of votes, he shall declare the
contesting candidate to whom the largest number of valid votes have been given
and complete and certify the return in Form 23 and send the signed copy
thereof to the District Election Officer and the State Election
Commission.(b)The Returning Officer shall also forthwith cause the said Form
to be affixed in his office, and in the office of the Village Panchayat and
one or more conspicuous places in the Village Panchayat.(c)If there is an
equality of votes between two or more contesting candidates, the Returning
Officer should follow the procedure laid down in clause (c) of sub-rule
(1).(d)Any contesting candidates or his election agent or his counting Agent,
on application be permitted to take a copy or an extract from the statement in
Form 22.(3)(a)In the case of election of member of Village Panchayats, after
the Returning Officer has completed the scrutiny and counting of votes, he
shall declare elected the contesting candidate or candidates, as the case may
be, to whom the largest number of valid votes have been given and complete and
certify the return in Form 24 and send the signed copy thereof to the District
Election Officer and the State Election Commission:Provided that if one or
more seats are reserved for members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes, [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th
August 1996.] the Returning Officer shall first declare elected the
candidate/candidates who are eligible to be elected to such seats and to whom
the largest number of valid votes have been given to the seats so reserved
and, then, declare elected the contesting candidate or candidates who among
the remaining contesting candidates have obtained the largest number of votes
to the non-reserved seats in such Ward.Illustration. - In an election in a
Ward to fill four seats of which two are reserved, there are six contesting
candidates, A, B, C, D, E and F and they secure votes in descending order. A
securing the largest number, B, C and D are qualified to be chosen to fill the
reserved seats, while A, E and F are not so qualified. The Returning Officer
will first declare B and C duly elected to fill the two reserved seats, and
then declare A and D (Not A and E) to fill the remaining two seats:Provided
further that if a seat is reserved for woman in any Ward, the Returning
Officer shall first declare the woman candidate, who is eligible to be elected
to such seat and to whom the largest number of valid votes have been given to
be elected to the seat so reserved, and, then, declare the contesting
candidate or candidates who are the remaining contesting candidates have
obtained the largest number of votes to be elected to the non-reserved seats
in such Ward:Provided also that if one or more seats are reserved for members
of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes [***][Omitted by G. O. Ms. No.
163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] or for woman in any Ward,
the Returning Officer shall first declare the woman candidate to whom the
largest number of valid votes have been given to be elected to the seat
reserved for woman and adopt the procedure laid down in the first proviso in
respect of declaration of candidates for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
[***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August
1996.] or other non-reserved seats.(b)The Returning Officer shall also cause
to be affixed in his office, a copy of the declaration referred to in clause
(a) above, and in the notice board of the office of Village Panchayat or in a
conspicuous place in the Panchayat.(c)If there is an equality of votes between
two or more contesting candidates and the addition of one vote will entitle
any of these candidates to be declared elected, the Returning Officer shall
decide between these candidates by lot and the candidate on whom the lot falls
shall be deemed to have received an additional vote. The Returning Officer
shall, then, declare the result accordingly.(d)Any contesting candidate or his
election agent or his counting agent, on application, be permitted to take a
copy or an extract from the statement in Form 22.

### 68. Disposal of ballot papers.

(1)The Returning Officer shall, after declaring the results, retain in his
custody or cause to be deposited in the custody of the officer as may be
specified by the State Election Commission, the packets of ballot papers,
whether counted, rejected, cancelled or unused, the sealed packets containing
the declarations under sub-rule (2) of rule 52 and the marked copy of the
electoral roll. These packets shall not be opened and their contents shall not
be inspected or produced except under the orders of an election or other
competent Court.(2)The Returning Officer or the officer specified by the State
Election Commission under sub-rule (1), shall retain the packets and the
marked copies of the electoral roll for six months and shall, thereafter,
unless otherwise directed by an election or other competent Court, cause them
to be destroyed.

### 69. Publication of the names of successful candidates.

(1)In the case of election of members of District Panchayats, the name of the
candidate duly elected shall be forwarded without delay in Form 25 by the
Returning Officer to the State Election Commission and a copy thereof shall be
forwarded to the District Election Officer, who shall arrange to publish the
same in the District Gazette and shall also arrange to publish on the notice
board of the office of the District Panchayat in a consolidated form. The
State Election Commission shall arrange to publish the names of the candidates
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette in a consolidated form.(2)In the case of
election of members of Panchayat Union Council, the names of the candidates
duly elected shall be forwarded without delay in Form 25 by the Returning
Officer to the State Election Commission and a copy thereof shall be forwarded
to the District Election Officer, who shall arrange the same, to be published
in the District Gazette and on the notice board of the Panchayat Union in a
consolidated form.(3)In the case of election of President of Village
Panchayat, the name of the candidate duly elected shall be forwarded in Form
25 by the Returning Officer to the District Election Officer and State
Election Commission and the District Election Officer shall cause the same to
be published in the District Gazette and shall also be published on the notice
boards of the offices of the concerned Village Panchayat and the Panchayat
Union.(4)In the case of election of members of Village Panchayats, as soon as
the result of the election has been declared, the Returning Officer shall
cause to be published in Form 26 the name or names of the candidate or
candidates duly elected to the Village Panchayat, on the notice board of his
office, as well as of the Village Panchayat concerned and in any conspicuous
place in the Panchayat village.

### 70. Fixing other dates of election for special reason.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, the State
Election Commission may, for special reasons, empower the District Election
Officer to fix dates and periods other than those notified earlier under these
rules, for all or any of the stages of any election under the Act.

### 70A. [ Oath or Affirmation by the President/Member. [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 241, Rural Development (PE), dated the 24th September 2001.]

(1)In the first meeting of the Panchayat after an ordinary election or after a
casual election, -(a)the President of Village Panchayat shall make and
subscribe an oath or affirmation before the Returning Officer or Assistant
Returning Officer;(b)the members of the Village Panchayat shall make and
subscribe an oath or affirmation in the presence of the President of the
Village Panchayat;(c)the senior member of Panchayat Union Council or the
District Panchayat, as the case may be, nominated by the respective Returning
Officers, shall make and subscribe an oath or affirmation before such
Returning Officers; and(d)the other members of the Panchayat Union Council or
the District Panchayat, as the case may be, shall make and subscribe an oath
or affirmation in the presence of the senior member, so nominated, of the
Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat, as the case may be.(2)The
President of Village Panchayat and members of the Panchayats shall make and
subscribe an oath or affirmation in the following form, namely: -"I, A.B.,
having been elected a member/having become a member of this Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat do swear in the name of
God/solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of India as by law established, that I will uphold the
sovereignty and integrity of India and that I will faithfully discharge the
duty upon which I am about to enter".]

## Part VII – Election of Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen of District Panchayat and
Panchayat Union Councils

### 71. Place of election of Chairmen of District Panchayats and Panchayat
Union Councils.

\- Elections of Chairmen of the District Panchayats or the Panchayat Union
Councils shall be held at a meeting convened by the Returning Officer in the
manner prescribed in these rules in the offices of the respective Panchayats.

### 72. Electors.

\- Members elected to the Territorial Wards of the District Panchayat or Wards
of a Panchayat Union Council shall be voters for electing the Chairman of the
District Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be.

### 73. Convening of the meeting for election.

(1)In respect of a District Panchayat, the District Collector shall be the
Returning Officer and in respect of Panchayat Union Council, the Assistant
Director of Rural Development or any other officer equivalent in rank,
nominated by the State Election Commission shall be the Returning
Officer.(2)[Immediately after the declaration of the results of Election under
rule 67] [Omitted and substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 235, Rural Development (PE),
dated the 24th October 1996: SRO A-109(a)/1996.], the Returning Officer shall
convene a meeting of Ward members on such dates as may be notified by the
State Election Commission for the purpose of election of Chairman. In respect
of a casual vacancy, such meeting shall be convened on a date fixed by the
State Election Commission within [sixty days] [Substituted for the expressions
'thirty days' by G.O. Ms. 164, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 27th October
2004.] of the occurrence of such casual vacancy.(3)The Returning Officer shall
give at least seven clear days notice to all Ward members for the
meeting.(4)The Returning Officer shall not start the process of election
unless there be present a majority of the Ward members of the District
Panchayat or the Pan-chayat Union Council, as the case may be.

### 74. Qualification of candidates for election of Chairman.

(1)Where the office of the Chairman of a District Panchayat or a Panchayat
Union Council is reserved for persons belonging to Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated
the 7th August 1996.] or for women, under section 57 of the Act, only persons
belonging to that category shall be eligible to stand for election for such
office.(2)Where no such reservation has been made, nothing contained in sub-
rule (1) above, shall be deemed to prevent any Ward member belonging to
Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural
Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] or women, of a District Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, from standing for election as
Chairman.

### 75. Presentation of nomination.

(1)Every candidate for election as Chairman must be nominated in Form 27-A in
writing. The nomination paper must be signed by two Ward members present at
the meeting as proposer and seconder and delivered to the Returning Officer.
The nomination shall also contain a declaration in writing expressing the
candidate's willingness to be elected as Chairman and signed by the candidate.
Where the office of the Chairman is reserved under section 57 of the Act to
persons belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, [***][Omitted by
G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] the candidate
shall give in writing a further declaration that he or she belongs to the
Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural
Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] as the case may be. All the
nominations filed and found to be valid under these rules shall be accepted.
All the nominations which are not found valid shall be rejected. The Returning
Officer shall record in writing his orders of such rejection with reasons
therefor.(2)The Returning Officer shall record in the minutes book of the
Panchayat the names of all the validly nominated candidates so proposed and
seconded.

### 76. Reading out the names of candidates.

\- The names of all the candidates who have been proposed and seconded and
whose nominations have been accepted under rule 75 shall be read out by the
Returning Officer to the hearing of the Ward members present at the meeting.

### 77. Declaration of result of election when there is no contest.

(1)If there is only one candidate validly nominated to the office of the
Chairman, there shall be no ballot and the candidate shall be declared to have
been duly elected as the Chairman of the District Panchayat or the Panchayat
Union Council, as the case may be.(2)When no nomination is presented within a
reasonable time after the commencement of the meeting, the Returning Officer
shall take necessary further action for the holding of a fresh meeting for the
election in accordance with these rules. He shall also report the fact to the
District Election Officer and the State Election Commission.

### 78. Procedure of election when there is contest.

\- If the number of candidates is more than one, the votes of the Ward members
present at the meeting shall be taken by ballot in the manner laid down in
these rules.

### 79. Arrangement of voting compartment.

\- The Returning Officer shall provide in the place where the meeting is held,
a voting compartment in which the Ward members present at the meeting can
record their votes screened from observation of all others.

### 80. Ballot box.

\- The Returning Officer shall also place a ballot box for the receipt of
ballot papers in the view of the Ward members present at the meeting. The
ballot box shall be so constructed that the ballot papers can be inserted
therein, but cannot be withdrawn there from without the box being unlocked or
opened.

### 81. Preparation of ballot box.

\- The Returning Officer shall immediately before the votes are taken,
demonstrate to such Ward members as may be present that the ballot box is
empty, lock it up, and place a seal upon it in such a manner as to prevent its
being without breaking the seal.

### 82. Preparation and issue of ballot papers.

(1)Every Ward member present at the meeting wishing to vote shall be supplied
with a ballot paper in Form 28-A. Every ballot paper shall be of identical
colour and size on which the names of all the candidates and the number of the
Ward of the District Panchayat or the Panchayat Union, as the case may be,
from which they are elected shall be legibly written or typewritten in Tamil
in the order of Tamil alphabet.(2)The ballot paper shall be assigned serial
number and signed by the Returning Officer at the appropriate place and also
on the reverse side before being handed over to the Ward members, for voting.

### 83. Voting procedure.

\- The Ward member shall, on receiving the ballot paper, proceed to the voting
compartment for the purpose of recording his vote and put a mark on it with
the help of the instrument provided for this purpose by the Returning Officer
on the ballot paper against the name of the candidate for whom he wishes to
vote. He shall, before quitting the voting compartment, fold up the ballot
paper so as to conceal the mark and put the ballot paper so folded up into the
ballot box in the presence of the Returning Officer.

### 84. Arrangements to ensure secrecy of ballot.

\- The Returning Officer shall cause such arrangements to be made as will
ensure the secrecy of the ballot and prevent the Ward members who have already
voted, from voting for the second time and also from having access to the Ward
members who are yet to vote.

### 85. Recording of votes of illiterate/blind/infirm voters.

(1)If, owing to illiteracy or blindness or other physical infirmity, a Ward
member is unable to read the ballot paper and make a mark thereon and applies
for assistance in doing so, the Returning Officer shall record the vote in the
ballot paper in accordance with the wishes of the Ward member and fold it up
so as to conceal the vote.(2)The Ward member shall, then, himself or with the
assistance of the Returning Officer insert the ballot paper into the ballot
box.(3)While acting under this rule, the Returning Officer shall observe as
much secrecy as is feasible and shall keep a brief record of each instance,
but shall not indicate therein for whom any vote has been given.

### 86. Counting of votes.

\- After the voting by the Ward members is over, the Returning Officer shall
open the ballot box in the presence of the Ward members present, take out the
ballot papers therefrom and record the number of votes obtained by each
candidate in a statement.

### 87. Invalid ballot papers.

\- A ballot paper shall be invalid on which -(a)there is no mark; or(b)a mark
is set opposite to the name of more than one candidate; or is so placed as to
render it doubtful to which candidate it is intended to apply; or(c)some mark
other than the one authorised is set opposite to the name of the same
candidate;(d)any mark is made by which the Ward member may afterwards be
identified; or(e)the mark has been made by any instrument other than one
provided for this purpose under rule 83.

### 88. Declaration of result of election.

(1)If the number of candidates are two, the candidate who obtains the largest
number of votes shall be declared to have been duly elected. In the event of
there being an equality of votes between the two candidates and the addition
of one vote to any one of such candidates will entitle him to be declared duly
elected, the Returning Officer shall draw lot in the presence of the Ward
members and the candidate whose name is drawn shall be deemed to have the
additional vote and shall be declared to have been duly elected.(2)If the
number of candidates are three and if any one of them secures more than one
half of the total number of votes polled, he shall be declared to have been
duly elected. If none of them secures more than one half of the number of
votes polled, the candidate who obtains the smallest number of votes shall be
eliminated and a second ballot taken. In the event of there being an equality
of votes among the three candidates, the Returning Officer shall draw lots in
the presence of the Ward members present and the candidates whose names are
first and second drawn shall be retained and a second ballot taken.(3)If there
is an equality of votes between two candidates and if the third candidate
secures a lesser number of votes he shall be eliminated and a second ballot
taken. If there is an equality of votes between two candidates and if the
third candidate secures a larger number of votes than the two, a lot shall be
drawn between the two candidates who had secured equal number of votes and the
candidate whose name is first drawn shall be retained and second ballot taken
between him and the third candidate.(4)If the number of candidates are more
than three and if any of the candidates secures more than one half of the
number of votes polled, he shall be declared to have been duly elected. If
none of the candidate secures more than one half of the number of votes
polled, the first candidate who secures the largest number of votes and the
second candidate who secures the next larger number of votes shall be retained
and the other candidates eliminated and a second ballot taken.(5)In other
cases, the principle enunciated in sub-rule (2) above shall be adopted till
there remain two candidates in the field.

### 89. Duties of the Returning Officer after completion of voting.

\- Immediately after the meeting, the Returning Officer shall -(a)record the
proceedings of the meeting in the minutes book of the District Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, sign it, attest with his initials
every correction made therein, and also permit Ward members present at the
meeting to affix their signatures to such record, if they express their desire
to do so;(b)send a report of the result of the election to the District
Election Officer, Director of Rural Development, Government and the State
Election Commission and to such other officers or authorities as may be
specified by the State Election Commission; and(c)publish a notice signed by
him stating the name of the person elected as chairman of the District
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, on the notice board
of the District Panchayat Office or the Panchayat Union Office
concerned;(d)the Returning Officer shall forward a copy of the notice referred
to in the sub-rule (c) above, to the Director of Stationery and Printing,
Chennai and the State Election Commission for publication of the name of the
elected candidate, as soon as practicable, in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.

### 90. Packing and sealing of ballot papers.

(1)The Returning Officer shall, then, make up the ballot papers and all other
records into a separate packet, seal up the packet and note thereon a brief
description of its contents, the election to which it relates and the date
thereof.(2)These packets shall not be opened and their contents shall not be
inspected or produced except under the orders of an Election Commission or
other competent Court.(3)These packets shall be retained in safe custody in
the office of the District Panchayat or Panchayat Union, as the case may be,
for a year and shall, then, unless otherwise directed by the competent Court,
be destroyed.

### 91. Election of Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council.

(1)After the declaration of the results of the election of Chairman, the
meeting of the Ward members for the election of Vice-Chairman of District
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, shall be convened on
the notified date and presided over by the officers appointed as Returning
Officer under rule 73 for purposes of conducting the election of Vice-Chairman
of a District Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be.(2)In
the case of a casual vacancy of Vice-Chairman of a District Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, the meeting for the election of
Vice-Chairman shall be conducted on the day fixed by the State Election
Commission which shall be within [sixty days] [Substituted for the expressions
'thirty days' by G.O. Ms. 164, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 27th October
2004.] from the date of occurrence of the vacancy.(3)The meeting for the
election of Vice-Chairman shall be held in the office of the concerned
District Panchayat or Panchayat Union, as the case may be.(4)At least seven
clear days notice shall be given for the meeting for election of Vice-
Chairman.(5)No election of Vice-Chairman shall be conducted at a meeting
convened under this rule, unless, there be present a majority of a Ward
members then on the District Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case
may be:Provided that this sub-rule shall not apply, if election of Vice-
Chairman could not be conducted at three consecutive meetings for want of such
majority.(6)The provisions of rules 75 to 88 and clauses (a) to (c) of rule 89
and rule 90 shall apply to the election of Vice-Chairman as they apply in
relation to the election of Chairman of District Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council.

### 92. Powers to postpone or advance the election.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, the State
Election Commission may, for sufficient reasons, direct, from time to time,
the postponement of the meeting of the election of Chairman, or Vice-Chairman
of a District Panchayat or a Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, the
advancement or further postponement of the date so postponed and the Returning
Officer shall give effect to such direction.

## Part VIII – Election of Vice-President of Village Panchayats

### 93. Holding of the meeting for election.

\- The election of the Vice-President shall be held in the office of the
concerned Village Panchayat at a meeting specially convened for the purpose.

### 94. Convening and presiding over the meeting.

(1)The meeting for election of Vice-President shall be convened, presided over
and conducted by the Returning Officer, or if so authorised by the State
Election Commission, by the Assistant Returning Officer.(2)In the case of an
election to fill an ordinary vacancy, such meeting shall be convened on the
date notified.(3)In the case of an election to fill a casual vacancy, such
meeting shall be convened on the day fixed by the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission which shall be within [sixty days] [Substituted for the expressions
'thirty days' by G.O. Ms. 164, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 27th October
2004.] from the date of occurrence of such vacancy.(4)Seven clear days notice
shall be given for the said meeting.(5)[ No election of Vice-President shall
be conducted at a meeting convened under this rule unless there be present
more than half of the Ward members of the Village Panchayat available in the
Village Panchayat at the time of election:Provided that this sub-rule shall
not apply if at an election conducted at three consecutive meetings no Vice-
President is elected for want of such quorum (requirement).] [Added by G.O.
Ms. No. 48, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 29th February 2000.]

### 95. Election procedure.

\- The provisions of rules 75 to 88 shall apply to the election of Vice-
Presidents as they apply in relation to the election of Chairmen of District
Panchayats or Panchayat Union Councils.

### 96. Declaration of result of election.

\- The candidate who obtains the largest number of votes shall be declared to
have been duly elected. In the event of there being an equality of votes
between any two or more candidates and the addition of one vote to any one of
such candidates will entitle him to be declared duly elected, the Returning
Officer shall draw lot in the presence of the members, and the candidate whose
name is first drawn shall be deemed to have secured an additional vote and
shall be declared to have been duly elected.

### 97. Reporting of the result of the election.

\- Immediately after the meeting, the Returning Officer shall -(a)prepare a
record of the proceedings of the meeting in the minutes book of the Village
Panchayat and sign it attesting with his initials every correction made
therein, and also permit any member present at the meeting to affix his
signature to such record, if he expresses his desire to do so;(b)send a report
of the result of the election to the District Election Officer and to such
other officer or authority as may be specified by the State Election
Commission by general or special order; and(c)publish on the notice board of
the Panchayat a notice signed by him stating the name of the person elected as
Vice-President.

### 98. Packing and sealing of ballot papers and other records.

(1)The Returning Officer shall, then, make up the ballot papers into a packet,
seal up the packet and note thereon a description of its contents, the
election to which it relates and the date thereof.(2)These packets shall not
be opened and their contents shall not be inspected or produced except under
the order of an Election Commission or other competent Court.(3)The packet
shall be retained in safe custody in the office of the Panchayat Union in
which the Panchayat is situated for a year and shall, then, unless otherwise
directed by the orders of an election or other competent Court, be destroyed.

### 99. Power to postpone or advance the date of election.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, the District
Election Officer subject to the control of the State Election Commission, may,
for sufficient reasons, direct, from time to time, the postponement of the
date of the election of Vice-President of a Village Panchayat, the advancement
or further postponement of the date so postponed and the Returning Officer
shall give effect to such direction.

## Part IX – [Rules 100 to 119-Omitted] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 282, Rural
Development (C4), dated the 30th October 2000.]

## Part X – Election Expenses

### 120. Election expenses.

(1)Every candidate at an election shall, either by himself or by his election
agent, keep a separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection
with the election incurred or authorised by him or his election agent between
the date on which he has been nominated and the date of declaration of the
result thereof, both days inclusive.(2)The account of election expenses to be
kept by a candidate or his election agent under sub-rule (1), shall contain
all the particulars specified and in the format prescribed by the State
Election Commission.(3)If so directed by the State Election Commission, every
contesting candidate at an election shall, within thirty days from the date of
declaration of the result of the election, lodge with the District Election
Officer or any other officer not below the rank of a Panchayat Union
Commissioner as specified by the State Election Commission, an account of
election expenses which shall be a true copy of the account kept by him or by
his election agent under sub-rule (1)(4)The District Election Officer or the
Officer specified in sub-rule (3) shall, within two days from the date on
which the accounts of election expenses have been lodged by a candidate under
sub-rule (3), cause a notice to be affixed to the notice board of his office,
specifying -(i)the date on which the account has been lodged;(ii)the name of
the candidate; and(iii)the time and place at which such account can be
inspected.(5)Any person shall, on payment of a fee of five rupees, be entitled
to inspect any such account and, on payment of such fee, as may be fixed, by
the State Election Commission in this behalf be entitled to obtain attested
copies of such account or of any part thereof.(6)As soon as may be after the
expiration of the time specified in sub-rule (3) for the lodging of the
accounts of election expenses at any election, the District Election Officer
or the Officer specified therein, shall report to the State Election
Commission-(a)the name of each contesting candidate;(b)whether such candidate
has lodged his account of election expenses, and if so, the date on which such
account has been lodged; and(c)whether in his opinion, such account has been
lodged within the time and the manner required by these rules and orders
issued thereunder.(7)Where the District Election Officer or the Officer
specified in sub-rule (3) is of the opinion that the account of election
expenses of any candidate has not been lodged in the manner required by these
rules or orders issued thereunder, he shall, with every such report, forward
to the State Election Commission, the account of election expenses of that
candidate and the vouchers lodged along with it.(8)Immediately after the
receipt of the report referred to in sub-rule (6), the District Election
Officer or the officer specified in sub-rule (3) shall publish a copy thereof,
by affixing the same to his Notice Board.(9)As soon as may be after the
receipt of the report referred to in sub-rule (6), the State Election
Commission shall consider the same and decide whether any contesting candidate
has failed to lodge the account of election expenses within the time and in
the manner required by these rules or orders issued thereunder.(10)Where the
State Election Commission decides that a contesting candidate has failed to
lodge his account of election expenses within the time and in the manner
required by these rules or orders issued thereunder, it shall, by notice in
writing, call upon the candidate to show cause why he should not be
disqualified under sub-section (4) of section 37 of the Act for the
failure.(11)The contesting candidate who has been called upon to show cause
under sub-rule (10), may within twenty days of the receipt of such notice,
submit in respect of the matter a representation in writing to the State
Election Commission and shall, at the same time, send to the District Election
Officer or the officer specified in sub-rule (3), a copy of his representation
together with a complete account of his election expenses if he had not
already furnished such an account.(12)The District Election Officer or the
officers specified in sub-rule (3) shall, within five days of the receipt
thereof, forward to the State Election Commission, the copy of the
representation and account, if any, with such comments as he wishes to make
thereon.(13)If, after considering the representation submitted by the
candidate and the comments made by the District Election Officer or the
officer specified in sub-rule (3) and after such inquiry as it thinks fit, the
State Election Commission is satisfied that the candidate has no good reason
or justification for the failure to lodge his account within the time and in
the manner required by these rules or orders issued thereunder, it shall, by
order declare him to be disqualified under sub-section (4) of section 37 of
the Act for being chosen as, and for being a member of President, as the case
may be, for a period of three years from the date of the order and cause the
order to be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 121. Maximum election expenses.

\- [(1) The total of the expenditure of which an account is to be kept under
sub-rule (1) of rule 120 and which is incurred or authorized in connection
with an election shall not exceed the amount mentioned in the Table below: -

SI. No. | Nature of Election | Expenditure Rs.  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1. |  For Election as Ward Member of a DistrictPanchayat | 1,70,000/ -  
2. | For Election as Ward Member of a Panchayat Union | 85,000/ -  
3. | For Election as President of a Village Panchayat | 34,000/ -  
4. |  For Election as Ward Member of a VillagePanchayat | 9,000/ -.]  
  
(2)Any candidate, either by himself or by his election agent, who has exceeded
the amount mentioned above and who has not kept a separate and correct account
of all expenditure in connection with the election incurred as defined in rule
120 of these rules or fails to lodge an account of election expenses with the
authority specified and within the period stipulated in sub-rule (3) of rule
120 of these Rules shall be deemed to have indulged in a corrupt practice
under sub-section (8) of section 260 of the Act.

## Part XI – Adjudication of Election Disputes

### 122. Election petitions.

\- Save as otherwise provided, no election held under the Act shall be called
in question except by an election petition presented in accordance with
section 258 of the Act or the rules, to the District Judge under whose
jurisdiction the Panchayat or the District Planning Committee or other
statutory Committees fall, by any candidate or elector against the candidate
who has been declared to have been duly elected.Explanation. - In this rule
"elector" means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the
election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election, or not.

### 123. Time-limit for presenting election petitions.

(1)An election petition shall be presented within [forty-five days]
[Substituted by Notification No. SRO A. 25/2004.] from the date of publication
of the result of the election under the Act.Explanation. - If the Court of the
District Judge is closed on the last day of the forty-five days aforesaid, the
petition may be presented on the next following day on which the said Court is
open.(2)Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies as
there are respondents mentioned therein with three more additional copies and
every copy including the additional copies should be attested either by the
petitioner under his own signature or by his counsel to be the true copy of
the petition. Any Schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed
either by the petitioner or his counsel and enclosed with each copy of the
petition.

### 124. Grounds for presenting an-election petition.

\- An election petition shall be presented on one or more grounds specified in
section 259 of the Act.

### 125. Contents of an election petition.

\- An election petition shall contain a statement in a concise form, the
material facts on which the petitioner relies. It shall set forth full
particulars of any corrupt practice as specified in section 260 of the Act
which he alleges, and shall, wherever necessary, be divided into paragraphs
and numbered consecutively. The petition as well as its annexures or
appendices, if any, shall be signed by the petitioner or by his counsel and
verified in the manner as laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908) for the verification of pleadings.

### 126. Parties to the petition.

\- A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition -(a)(i)where the
petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or
any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declaration that he
himself or any other candidate has been duly elected, all the contesting
candidates other than the petitioner; and(ii)Where no such further declaration
is claimed, all the returned candidates; and(b)any other candidate against
whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition.

### 127. Relief that may be claimed by the petitioner.

\- A petitioner may, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election
of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claim a further declaration
that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected.

### 128. Security for costs.

(1)At the time of presentation of the petition, the petitioner shall deposit
with the Election Court, rupees two thousand five hundred in cash as security,
for the costs of the same. During the course of the trial of an election
petition, the Election Court may, at any time, call upon the petitioner to
give such further security for costs as it may direct. It may also call upon
the petitioner to execute a bond for such amount and with such securities as
it may require for the payment of any further cost.(2)If the provisions of
rules 122,123,124,125 or sub-rule (1) of this rule are not complied with, the
Election Court shall dismiss the petition.(3)Upon compliance with the
provisions of the foregoing rules, the Election Court shall proceed to inquire
into the petition. Where more election petitions than one are presented in
respect of the same election, they may be tried individually or in one or more
groups as the District Judge deems fit.

### 129. Serving of copies.

\- The District Judge (hereinafter referred to as the Election Court) shall,
as soon as may be cause a copy of the petition be served on such respondents
and on the Secretary or Commissioner or Chief Executive Officer, as the case
maybe, of the Panchayat concerned and the State Election Commission. Any
candidate not already a respondent shall, upon application made by him to the
Election Court within fourteen days from the date of commencement of the trial
and subject to any order as to security for costs which may be made by the
Election Court, be entitled to be joined as a respondent.

### 130. Trial of election petition.

(1)Every election petition shall be inquired into by the Election Court in
accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908) to the trial of suits:Provided that it shall only
be necessary for the Election Court to make a memorandum of the substance of
the evidence of any witness examined by it:Provided further that the Election
Court shall have the discretion to refuse, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, to examine any witness or witnesses, if it is of the opinion that the
evidence of such witnesses is not material for the decision of the petition or
that the party tendering such witness or witnesses is doing so on frivolous
grounds or with a view to delaying the proceedings.(2)The provisions of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act 1 of 1872) shall be deemed to apply in
all respects to the trial of an election petition.(3)Notwithstanding anything
in any enactment to the contrary, no document shall be inadmissible in
evidence at the trial of an election petition on the ground that it is not
duly stamped or registered.(4)No witness or other person shall be required to
state for whom he has voted at an election.(5)The reasonable expenses incurred
by any person in attending to give evidence may be allowed by the Election
Court to such person and shall, unless the said Court otherwise directs, be
deemed to be part of the costs.

### 131. Withdrawal of election petition.

(1)An election petition may be withdrawn only by leave of the Election
Court.(2)If there are more petitioners than one in an election petition, no
application to withdraw the petition shall be made except with the consent of
all the petitioners.(3)When an application for withdrawal is made, notice
thereof fixing a date for the hearing of the application shall be given to all
other parties to the petition.(4)No application for withdrawal shall be
granted, if the Election Court is of opinion that such application has been
induced by any bargain or consideration which it considers ought not to be
allowed.(5)If the application is granted -(a)the petitioner shall be ordered
to pay the cost of the respondents therefor incurred or such portion thereof
as the Election Court may think fit; and(b)such withdrawal shall be
communicated by the Election Court to the Secretary or the Commissioner or the
Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, of the Panchayat concerned and
the State Election Commission.

### 132. Abatement of election petitions.

\- An election petition shall abate only on the death of a sole petitioner or
of the survivor of several petitioners, and such abatement shall be
communicated by the Election Court to the Secretary or the Commissioner or the
Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, of the Panchayat concerned and
the State Election Commission.

### 133. Recrimination when seat claimed.

\- When in an inquiry into an election petition, any candidate other than a
returned candidate, claims the seat for himself, the returned candidate or any
other party to the proceedings may give evidence to prove that the election of
such claimant would have been void if he had been a returned candidate and a
petition had been presented calling in question his election:Provided that the
returned candidate or such other party, as aforesaid, shall not be entitled to
give such evidence unless he had within fourteen days from the date of
commencement of the trial, given notice to the Election Court of his intention
to do so and has also given the security referred to in rule 128.

### 134. Decision of the Election Court.

\- At the conclusion of the trial of an election petition, the Election Court
shall make an order -(a)dismissing the election petition; or(b)declaring the
election of all or any of the returned candidates to be void; or(c)declaring
the election of all or any of the returned candidates to be void and the
petitioner or any other candidate to have been duly elected.

### 135. Other orders to be made by the Election Court.

\- At the time of making an order under rule 134, the Election Court shall
also make an order -(1)where any charge is made in the petition of any corrupt
practice having been committed at the election, recording -(a)a finding,
whether any corrupt practice has or has not been proved to have been committed
at the election and the nature of that corrupt practice; and(b)the names of
all persons, if any, who have been proved at the trial to have been guilty or
any corrupt practice and the nature of that practice; and(2)fixing the total
amount of costs payable and specifying the persons by and to whom the costs
shall be paid:Provided that a person who is not a party to the petition shall
not be named in the order under sub-clause (b) of sub-rule (1) unless -(a)he
has been given notice to appear before the Election Court and to show-cause
why he should not be so named; and(b)if he appears in pursuance of the notice,
he has been given an opportunity -(i)of cross-examining any witness who has
already been examined by the Election Court and has given evidence against
him,(ii)of calling evidence in his defence, and(iii)of being heard.

### 136. Grounds for declaring election to be void.

\- If the Election Court is of opinion -(1)that the existence of all or any of
the grounds specified in section 259 of the Act, has been established,
or(2)that on the date of his election, a returned candidate was not qualified,
or was disqualified, to be chosen to fill the seat under this Act, then, the
Court may declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.

### 137. Grounds on which a candidate other than the returned candidate may be
declared to have been elected.

\- If any person who has lodged a petition has, in addition to calling in
question the election of the returned candidate, claimed a declaration that he
himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the Election Court is
of opinion -(a)that, in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received a
majority of the valid votes; or(b)that but for the votes obtained by the
returned candidate by corrupt practices, the petitioner or such other
candidate would have obtained a majority of the valid votes, the Election
Court shall, after declaring the election of the returned candidate to be
void, declare the petitioner or such other candidate, as the case may be, to
have been duly elected.

### 138. Procedure in case of an equality of votes.

\- In cases, where there is an equality of votes between any candidates at the
election and that the addition of a vote would entitle any of those candidates
to be declared elected, then, that question may be determined by lot and shall
be proceeded as if the one, on whom the lot falls had received an additional
vote.

### 139. Communication of orders of the Election Court.

\- The Election Court shall, as soon as may be after the conclusion of the
trial of an election petition, intimate the substance of the decision to the
Secretary or Commissioner or Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, of
the Panchayat concerned and to the State Election Commission and as soon as
may be thereafter, shall send to the State Election Commission an
authenticated copy of the decision.

### 140. Transmission of order to the appropriate authority, etc., and its
publication.

\- As soon as may be after the receipt of any order made by the Election Court
under rule 134 or 135, the State Election Commission shall forward copies of
the order to the appropriate authority who shall cause the order to be
published in the office of the Panchayat concerned.

### 141. Effect of orders of the Election Court.

(1)Every such order shall take effect as soon as it is pronounced by the
Election Court.(2)Where by an order, the election of a candidate is declared
to be void, acts and proceedings in which that candidate has, before the date
of such order participated, shall not be invalidated by reason of that order,
nor shall such candidate be subjected to any liability or penalty on the
ground of such participation.

## Part XII – Miscellaneous

### 142. Interpretation of these rules by Government.

\- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules, otherwise
than in connection with an inquiry held under the rules for the decision of
disputes as to the validity of an election, the question shall be referred to
the Government who, after consulting the State Election Commission, shall
communicate their decision, which shall be final.

### 143. Removal of difficulties, if any, by State Election Commission.

(1)The State Election Commission may issue such general or special directions
as may, in its opinion be necessary, for the purpose of giving due effect to
these rules, or holding any election under the Act.(2)If any difficulty arises
in giving effect to the provisions of these rules, or in holding any election,
the State Election Commission as occasion may require, may, by order, do
anything which appears to it necessary for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.

### 144. Savings.

\- All orders, directions, etc., issued by the Government, State Election
Commission or District Election Officer, for the preparation of electoral
rolls and for the conduct of elections under these rules shall, unless
repugnant to these rules, be deemed to have been issued or made under these
rules.Form 1Notice of Publication of Electoral Roll[See rule 20(1)]Notice is
hereby given that Panchayat Electoral Roll has been prepared in accordance
with the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995 by adopting the
existing entries in the relevant part of the electoral roll of the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly............Constituency. A copy thereof relating to
the........Ward of the.........Panchayat Village/Panchayat Union/District
Panchayat has been published for inspection at my office and at the offices of
the Panchayat Village, Panchayat Union and District Panchayat.Any person who
wishes to lodge any claim for including his/her name in the roll or any
objection to the inclusion of a name or any objection to the particulars in
any entry in the said roll, shall first get such claim or objection settled
with reference to the corresponding entry in the Assembly Roll by lodging
suitable claim or objection under the provisions of the Representation of the
People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950) and the Registration of Electors
Rules, 1960 before the Electoral Registration Officer of the said Assembly
Constituency.All orders of inclusion, deletion or corrections issued on the
basis of these claims and objections by the Assembly Electoral Registration
Officer till the last date fixed for making nomination for election in the
Wards of the Panchayat will be duly incorporated in the Panchayat Electoral
Rolls.Panchayat Electoral Registration Officer,.....Panchayat.Form 2-ANotice
of Election[See rule 25(1)]Election of Members
of........................Panchayat Union Council/district Panchayat.Notice is
hereby given that -(1)(a)Elections are to be held to elect members of
Ward/Territorial Wards of District Panchayat /Panchayat Union;(b)The number of
members to be elected from each Ward/Territorial Ward and those among them
which are reserved under sections 20/32 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes [***]
[Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.]
or for Women are given below: -

Reserved  
---  
Wards or Territorial Ward number | Un-reserved | for S.C. | for S.T. | [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] | For women belonging to | Total  
S.C. | S.T. | [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] | Open  
Total |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
(2)Nomination papers may be delivered by a candidate or his proposer to the
Returning Officer/Assistant Returning Officer at between [10.00 a.m. and 5.00
p.m.] [Substituted '11.00 a.m. and 3.00 p.m.' by G.O. Ms. No. 88, dated
25.7.2016.] on any day other than a public holiday from...........to
............;(3)Forms of nomination papers will be available in the office of
the District Panchayat and in the office of the Panchayat Union from this date
on all working days;(4)The nomination papers will be taken up for scrutiny at
11.00 a.m. on .........at ............;(5)Notice of withdrawal of Candidature
may be delivered by a candidate or his proposer who has been specifically
authorised in this behalf in writing by the candidate to the Returning
Officer/Assistant Returning Officer up to 3.00 p.m. on..........;(6)In the
event of the election being contested, poll will be taken on.........between
the hours of a.m. and p.m. at the polling stations notified for this
purpose;(7)The counting of votes shall commence at ...........a.m.
on............. ;(8)The election shall be completed before..........;(9)The
meeting of the newly elected Ward Members shall be held on...........
at.......... for the election of the Chairman and/or the Vice-Chairman of the
Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat.

| Returning Officer,  
---|---  
Place:Date: |  ........District Panchayat..........PanchayatUnion Council.  
  
Form 2-BNotice of Election[See rule 25(2)]Election of the president and member
or members of wards of............ village panchayatNotice is hereby given
that -(1)(a)Elections are to be held to elect a President and Member or
Members of Wards of ............. Village Panchayat;(b)The office of the
President of this Village Panchayat is not reserved for any category, is
reserved under section 57 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994), for the persons belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled
Tribes [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th
August 1996.] or women are given below: -(c)The number of Members of the
Panchayat to be elected from each Ward and those among them which are reserved
under section 11 of the aforesaid Act 1994 for persons belonging to Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes or women are given below: -

Reserved  
---  
Office | Total number of seats | for S.C. | for S.T. | [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] | For women belonging to | Un- reserved  
S.C. | S.T. | [***] [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] | Open  
Total | One |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Member-Ward |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Ward 2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Total |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
(2)Nomination papers may be delivered by a candidate or his proposer to the
Returning Officer/Assistant Returning Officer at......between [10.00 a.m. and
5.00 p.m.] [Substituted for '11.00 a.m. and 3.00 p.m.' by G.O. Ms. No. 88,
dated 25.7.2016.] on any day other than a public holiday from.........to
...........;(3)Forms of nomination papers will be available in the office of
the District Panchayat and the Panchayat Union from this date on all working
days and at the office of the Assistant Returning Officer;(4)The nomination
papers will be taken up for scrutiny at 11.00 a.m. on at
.............;(5)Notice of withdrawal of candidature may be delivered by a
candidate or his proposer who has been specifically authorised in this behalf
in writing by the candidate to the Returning Officer/Assistant Returning
Officer up to 3.00 p.m. on ................;(6)In the event of the election
being contested, poll will be taken on. ............. between a.m. and
............... p.m. at the polling stations notified for this purpose;(7)The
counting of votes shall commence at ..........a.m. on ..........;(8)The
election shall be completed before.........(9)The meeting of the newly elected
Ward members shall be held on..........at the office of the ..............
Village Panchayat for the election of the Vice-President.

Place:Date: | Returning Officer,.......... Village Panchayat  
---|---  
  
Form 3Nomination Paper[See rules 26(1), (2) and 30]Member to Ward
No................. of the........... Election of Village Panchayat /Panchayat
Union Council/District Panchayat...............President to
the..........Village Panchayat.(To Be Filled In By The Proposer)I hereby
nominate Thiru/Tmt./Selvi.............as a candidate for the election as a
member from Ward No................of the...............Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat/President of
............... Village Panchayat.His/Her name is entered at serial No. in
Part No.......of the electoral roll for Ward No ............. of .............
Village Panchayat comprised in ...................... Panchayat Union.My name
is entered at serial No .......... in Part No ............ of the electoral
roll for Ward No ........... of ............... Village Panchayat comprised
in....................... Panchayat Union.Place:Date:.........Signature of the
Proposer.(To Be Filled By The Candidate)I,.........the above mentioned
candidate assent to this nomination and hereby declare -(a)that I have
completed...........years of age;(b)**that the symbols I have chosen are in
the following order of preference:
-(i)...........(ii)...........(iii)..........(c)that I am aware of the fact
that under rule 30 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995,1 am
prohibited from contesting more than one seat as below and further that
nomination filed in violation of sub-rule (1) of the above mentioned rule
shall be rejected by the Returning Officer: -(i)No member of a Village
Panchayat or no person who stands for election as a member of a Village
Panchayat shall be eligible to stand for election as a President of a Village
Panchayat, or member of a Panchayat Union Council or a member of a District
Panchayat.(ii)No member of a Panchayat Union Council or no person who stands
for election as a member of a Panchayat Union Council shall be eligible to
stand for election as a member of a Village Panchayat, or President of a
Village Panchayat or a member of a District Panchayat.(iii)No member of a
District Panchayat or no person who stands for election as a member of a
District Panchayat shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of a
Village Panchayat or President of a Village Panchayat or a member of a
Panchayat Union Council.(iv)No President or no person who stands for election
as a President shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of a
Village Panchayat, or member of a Panchayat Union Council or a member of a
District Panchayat.(v)Under section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), no person shall be eligible to be elected as a
member of more than one Village Panchayat;(d)*** that I am a member of the
............ Caste/Tribe which is Scheduled Caste/Tribe [** *] [Omitted by
G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] of the State
of the Tamil Nadu in relation to ......... (area).(e)[ that I am not employed
as Village Administrative Officer or village servant or an officer or servant
of the State or Central Government or of a Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union
Council, District Panchayat, Municipal Council or Municipal Corporation or of
any Industrial Township or of Cantonment or of any body corporate, owned or
controlled by the State or Central Government.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 164,
Rural Development (C-4), dated the 27th October 2004.]Place:Date:Signature of
the candidate.Notes. - *Item (e) added by G. O. Ms. No. 164, Rural Development
(C4), dated 27th October 2004.**Item (b) need not be filled in by candidates
for elections for election of member of a Village Panchayat.*** Item (d) needs
to be made by a SC/ST [** *] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development,
dated the 7th August 1996.] candidates.(To Be Filled In By The Returning
Officer)Serial number of nomination paper:The nomination was delivered to me
at my office at............(hour) on .........(date) by the
candidate/proposer.Place:Date:Returning Officer.Receipt For Nomination Paper
and Notice of Scrutiny(To be handed over to the person presenting the
nomination paper)Serial number of nomination paper:The nomination paper of
............. a candidate for election as President/member from Ward
No........................................... of the Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union/District Panchayat, was delivered to me at my office
at ......(hours) on...........(date) by the candidate/Proposer.All nomination
papers will be taken up for scrutiny at [10-00 a.m.] [Substituted for '11.00
a.m.' by G.O. Ms. No. 88, dated 25.7.2016.] on ..........(date) at.........
(place).Place:Date:Returning Officer/Assistant Returning Officer.Form 4Notice
of Nomination[See rule 28(2)]Election of Member/Members to Ward
No............of the......... Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.Election of President to the..............Village
PanchayatNotice is hereby given that the following nominations in respect of
the above election have been received up to the prescribed hours today: -

SI. No. | Name of | Name of father/ | Age of | Address | Sex | Caste/ Tribe Electoral (in case of roll S.C/S.T. | Electoral roll number of | Name of the | Electoral roll number  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Returning Officer.Form 5List of Nominations Received[See rules
28(3), (4) and 29(1)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development
(PE), dated the 28th August 1997.]........... Village Panchayat/Panchayat
Union Council/District Panchayat.List of nominations received for election of
Member/Members to Ward No of Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat President to Village Panchayat.

SI. No. | Name of candidate | Father's / Husband's name | Community (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe[***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996: SRO A-73(b-2)/96.]or not) | Sex | Address  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - The nomination papers will be taken up for scrutiny at [10.00 a.m.]
[Substituted for '11.00 a.m.' by G.O. Ms. No. 88, dated 25.7.2016.]
on..........at.........(place).Returning Officer/Assistant Returning
Officer.Form 6List of validly Nominated Candidates[See rules 28(3), (4) and
29(9)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the
28th August 1997.]...............Village Pahchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.List of nominations received for election of
Member/Members of Ward No ............of ............ Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat, President of
.................. Village Panchayat.

SI. No. | Name of candidate | Father's / Husband's name | Community (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe[***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.]or not) | Sex | Address  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Returning Officer/ Assistant Returning Officer.Form 7Notice of Withdrawal[See
rule 30]Election of Member/Members to Ward No. ............. of
................. Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat
.......... Election of President to ..........Village Panchayat.ToThe
Returning Officer,I,.........a candidate nominated at the above election, do
hereby give notice that I withdraw my candidature.Place:Date:Signature of
candidate.The notice was delivered to me at my office at.................
(hour)
on.........(date).....by.......the....Place:.........Date:.........Returning
Officer/Assistant Returning Officer.Receipt For Notice of Withdrawal(To be
handed over to the person delivering the notice)The notice of withdrawal of
candidature by..........a candidate at the election of Member/Members to Ward
number ........... of ............... Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat/election of President to .............. Village
Panchayat was delivered to me by the *........... at my office
at..........(hour).........on.......(date).Returning Officer/Assistant
Returning Officer.Note. - *Here insert one of the following alternatives as
may be appropriate: -(1)candidate.(2)candidate's proposer who has been
authorised in writing by the candidate to deliver it.Form 8List Showing
Notices of Withdrawal of Candidature[See rule 30]Election of
Member/President.........Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District
Panchayat.Notice is hereby given that the following candidate/candidates at
the above election has/have withdrawn his/their Candidature.

Name of candidate | Address of candidate | Remarks  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
Place:Date:Returning Officer / Assistant Returning Officer.Form 9List of
Contesting Candidates[See rules 31, 32(1)(a), 2(a), 3(a), 4(a), 4(b), 4(c),
35(4), 41(4)(a) and 49(1)]........... Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District PanchayatList of contesting candidates for election of
Member/Members to Ward No......... of ............. Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat. President
................... to the Village Panchayat.

SI. No. | Name of candidate | Sex |  Whether the candidate belongs to Scheduled Caste,Scheduled Tribe[***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163, Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996 - SRO A-73(b-2)/96.]or not) | Address of candidate | Distinctive symbol assigned to the candidate  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - The poll will be taken on.......between ......... a.m. and ..........
p.m. at the polling stations noticed for the purpose.Place:Date:Returning
Officer/AssistantReturning Officer.Form 10Appointment of Election Agent[See
rule 38]Election of Member/Members to Ward No .......... of the
................. Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District
Panchayat.Election of President to .............. Village Panchayat.ToThe
Returning Officer,I, ............. of ............... a candidate at the above
election do hereby appoint Thiru/Tmt./Selvi. ............. of ...............
as my election agent from this day at the above election.Place:Date:Signature
of candidate.I accept the above appointment.Place:Date:Signature of election
agent.Form 11Appointment of Polling Agent[See rule 40(2)]Election of
Member/Members to Ward No ............ of ............ Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat.President
to...........Village Panchayat.I,........a candidate/election agent of
................ who is candidate in the above election do hereby appoint
Thiru ..........of.........................as polling agent to attend the
polling station No .............. at.........His recent photograph, duly
attested by me is pasted below: -Place:Date:Signature of candidate or election
agent.I agree to act as such polling agent.Place:Date:Signature of polling
agent.Declaration of Polling Agent To Be Signed Before The Presiding OfficerI
hereby declare that at the above election I will not do anything forbidden by
section 58 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994)
which I have read/has been read over to me.Date:Signature of polling
agent.Signed before me.Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.(To Be Handed Over
To The Polling Agent For Production At The Polling Station)Section 58 of The
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994"Every Officer, Clerk, Agent or other person
performing any duty in connection with the recording or counting of votes at
an election who, except for some purpose authorised by law, communicates to
any person any information showing directly or indirectly for which candidate
any voter has voted, and every person, who by improper means procures any such
information, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to six
months or with fine, or with both".Form 12[See rule 42(6)]

## Part I – Declaration by The Presiding Officer Before The Commencement of
Poll

Election of Member/Members to Ward No. ...........
of...................Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District
Panchayat.President to.........Village Panchayat.Number and Name of the
polling station:Date of Poll:I hereby declare -(1)that I have demonstrated to
the polling agents and other persons present that the ballot boxes to be used
for the poll are empty;(2)that on the paper seal used for securing the ballot
box, I have affixed my own signature and obtained thereon, the signatures of
such of the polling agents who are present and desirous of affixing the
same;(3)that I have demonstrated to the Polling Agents and others present that
the marked copy of the electoral roll/rolls to be used during the poll does/do
not contain any marks other than those used for issuing election duty
certificates; and(4)that I have allowed the-polling agents to note the first
and the last of the serial numbers of the ballot papers and also the numbers
on the paper seals which will be used at the polling station.Signature of
Presiding Officer.Signature of Polling Agents: -

### 1\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 2\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 3\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 4\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 5\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 6\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 7\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 8\.

........(of candidate.........)

### 9\.

........(of candidate.........)The following agents declined to affix their
signatures to this declaration: -

### 1\.

........(of candidate............)

### 2\.

........(of candidate............)

### 3\.

........(of candidate............)

### 4\.

........(of candidate............)Signature of Presiding Officer.

## Part II – Declaration At The End of Poll

I have furnished to the polling agents, who were present at the polling
station at the close of the poll and whose signatures are affixed below, an
attested copy each of the entries in the ballot paper account in Form No.
20.Place:Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.Received An Attested Copy of The
Entries Made In The Ballot Paper AccountSignature of Polling Agents: -

### 1\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 2\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 3\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 4\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 5\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 6\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 7\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 8\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 9\.

...........(of candidate............)The following polling agents who were
present at the close of the poll declined to receive an attested copy of the
ballot paper account and to give a receipt therefor and so an attested copy of
the ballot paper account was not supplied to them.

### 1\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 2\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 3\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 5\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 6\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 7\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 8\.

...........(of candidate............)

### 9\.

.......(of candidate................)Place:Date:Signature of Presiding
Officer.Form 13List of Challenged Votes[See rule 45 (2) (c)]Election of
Member/Members to Ward No ......... of the .... Village Panchayat/Panchayat
Union Council/District Panchayat. President to ...........Village
Panchayat.Number and Name of the Polling Station:.........Date of Poll:

SI. No. | Name of elector | SI. No. of part of roll | Elector's Name in that part |  Signature or thumb impression of the personchallenged | Address of the person challenged | Name of identifier, if any | Name of challenger | Order of Presiding Officer |  Signature of challenger on receiving refund ofdeposit  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.Form 14-ABallot Paper[See rule
49(1)]............ District Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/............Ward
No .......... Electoral Roll Part number Ward No................... of Village
Panchayat. SI. No. of the elector.......Signature or Thumb impression of the
elector.

District Panchayat/Panchayat Union | Ward No. |   
---|---|---  
Name |  | Symbol |   
Name |  | Symbol |   
Name |  | Symbol |   
Name |  | Symbol |   
Name |  | Symbol |   
Name |  | Symbol |   
|  |  |   
  
Form 14-BBallot Paper For Election of [President/member of A Village
Panchayat][See rule 49(2)]........Village Panchayat Ward No........Electoral
Roll Part No............SI. No. of the
elector............................Signature or Thumb Impression of the
elector.Election to [President/Member of a Village Panchayat]

| Symbol |   
---|---|---  
| Symbol |   
| Symbol |   
| Symbol |   
| Symbol |   
| Symbol |   
  
Form 15Application By An Elector On Election Duty To Vote[See rule 52(1)]ToThe
Returning Officer,......... Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District
Panchayat.Sir,I have been posted for election duty at the
ensuingMember/Members to Ward No................. of the ............ Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Village Panchayat election of
.......President to .............. Village Panchayat at the polling station
No.......... situated in the ............Village Panchayat in .............
Panchayat Union.I hereby declare that I am an elector of ward number.....of
the.................. Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union/District Panchayat. I
have been enrolled under Serial Number.........of Part number.........in the
electoral roll of the Ward No ..............of...........Village Panchayat.I
request that a certificate in Form 16 with a ballot paper may be sent to me to
the address given below to enable me to cast my vote at the above election.My
address:...................................................Date:Signature of
elector on election duty.Note. - Separate application shall be made for each
election.Form 16Election Duty Certificate[See rule 52(1)]Certified
that........is an elector in a ward.....No...of..... Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union/District Panchayat. His electoral roll particulars
are given below:-Serial No......

## Part No – ........

Ward No........Village Panchayat.......Certified also that by reason of being
on election duty, he is unable to vote at the polling station, where he is
entitled to vote and that he is, therefore, hereby authorised to vote through
postal ballot paper in the manner laid down in rule 52.Place:Date:Signature of
Returning Officer.Form 17Declaration By Elector[See rule 52(2)]Election of
Member/Members to Ward No........of the............Village Panchayat/Panchayat
Union Council/District Panchayat.President to ............Village Panchayat.I
hereby declare that I am the elector to whom the postal ballot paper bearing
Serial Number................has been issued at the above election. I declare
that I have marked my vote myself on the ballot paper.Place:Date:Signature of
elector.Address:..........................................Form 18List of Blind
and Infirm Electors[See rule 53(2)]Election of Member/Members to Ward
No..........of the............Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.President to.........Village PanchayatName of the
Polling Station and Number:...........

Ward number and serial number of elector | Full name of elector | Full name of companion | Address of companion | Signature of companion  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.Form 19List of Tendered Votes[See
rule 55(2)]Election of Member/Members to Ward No ............ of the Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat.President
to........Village PanchayatNumber and name of the Polling
Station.................

Serial number |  Serial number, part number, ward number and nameof elector | Address of elector | Serial number of tendered ballot paper |  Signature or thumb impression of person tenderingvote  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.Form 20[See rules 5 8 (4) (a) and
64(2)]Election of Member/Members to Ward No ........... of the Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council /District Panchayat.President
to...............Village PanchayatPart-I Ballot Paper AccountName of the
District Panchayat Ward No.Name of the Panchayat Union Ward No.Name of the
Village Panchayat Ward No.Number Name .............. of Polling Station.

| Serial Numbers | Total Number  
---|---|---  
| From | To |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1\. Ballot papers received. |  |  |   
Ballot papers unused (i.e. not issued to voters- |  |  |   
(a) with the signature of Presiding Officer |  |  |   
(b) without the signature of Presiding Officer |  |  |   
Total: (a + b) |  |  |   
3\. *Ballot papers used at the polling station (1- 2=3) |  |  |   
4\. *Ballot papers used at the polling station,but Not Inserted Into The Ballot Box - |  |  |   
(a) Ballot papers cancelled for violation ofvoting procedure under Rule 54 |  |  |   
(b) Ballot papers cancelled for other reasons |  |  |   
(c) Ballot papers used as tendered ballot papers |  |  |   
Total: (a + b + c) |  |  |   
5\. *Ballot papers to be found in the ballot box(3 - 4=5) |  |  |   
(*Serial numbers need not be given) |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Signature of Presiding Officer.

## Part II – Result of Initial Counting

### 1\. Total number of ballot papers that should be found in the ballot
box(es) as shown in item 5 of Part I.

### 2\. Total number of ballot papers actually found in the ballot box(es) as
per initial counting.

### 3\. Discrepancy, if any.

Place:Date | Signature of Counting Supervisor.Signature of the Returning Officer.  
---|---  
  
Form 21Appointment of Counting Agents[See rule 60]Election of Member/Members
to Ward No........... of the ............... Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.President to.............. Village Panchayat.ToThe
Returning OfficerI,............. a candidate/the election agent of..........
who is candidate at the above election do hereby appoint the following person
as my counting agent to attend the counting of votes at............Name of the
Counting Agent. Address of the Counting Agent.His recent photograph, duly
attested by me is pasted below -

|  
---|---  
  
Place:Date:Signature of candidate or Election Agent.I agree to act as such
Counting Agent.Place:Date:Signature of Counting Agent.Declaration of Counting
Agent To Be Signed Before The Returning OfficerI hereby declare that at the
above election I will not do anything forbidden by section 58 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) which I have read/has
been read over to me.Date:Signature of Counting Agent.Signed before
me.Date:Signature of the Returning Officer.To Be Handed Over To The Counting
Agent For Production At The Counting CentreSection 58 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994"Every Officer, Clerk, agent or other person performing
any duty in connection with the recording or counting of votes at an election
who, except for some purpose authorised by law, communicates to any person any
information showing directly or indirectly for which candidate any voter has
voted, and every person, who by any improper means procures any such
information, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to six
months or with fine, or with both".Form 22Result Sheet[See rules 64(2), 66(1),
66(4)(b), 66(5), 67(l)(d), 67(2)(d) and 67(3)(d)]Election of Member/Members to
Ward No .........of the ................Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.President to............Village Panchayat.

S.No. | Name of the candidate | Votes secured through postal ballot | Votes secured at the polling stations | Total  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  |  |  |   
2 |  |  |  |   
3 |  |  |  |   
... |  |  |  |   
| Total Number of Valid Votes Polled |  |  |   
| Rejected Votes |  |  |   
| Tendered Votes |  |  |   
| Total |  |  |   
  
Place:Date:Returning Officer.Form 23Return of Election[See rule 67(l)(a),
2(a)]Election of Member/Members to Ward No ............ of the Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat.President to
................. Village Panchayat.

SI.No. | Name of the candidate | Number of valid votes polled  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
|  |   
| Total Number of valid votes polled |   
| Total Number of rejected votes |   
  
I declare that Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi...............has been duly elected as
the President of............Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat
.............Ward of......Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat in......
Returning Officer. in..District.Place:Date:Returning OfficerForm 24Return of
Election[See rule 67(3)(a)]Election of Member/Members to Ward
No..................... of Village Panchayat.

SI. No. | Name of the candidate | Number of valid votes polled  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
... |  |   
| Total Number of Valid Votes Polled |   
| Total Number of Rejected Votes |   
  
I declare that the following candidate has/candidates have been duly elected
to the seat/seats specified against his name or names: -

Name of the elected candidate | Seat to which he is elected  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
|  
  
Place:Date:Returning Officer.Form 25Declaration of The Result of Election[See
[Rule 69] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 175, Rural Development (PE), dated the
28th August 1997.] (1), (2), (3)]Election of Member/Members to Ward No.
........... of the ................ Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat.President to...............Village
Panchayat.DeclarationIn pursuance of the provisions contained in sub-rules
(1), (2), (3) of rule 69 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995,
I declare that
-Thiru/Tmt./Selvi.......................................................................has
been duly elected as member from Ward No. ............
of....................... Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat/President
of ......... Village Panchayat of ............ District.Place:Date:Returning
Officer.Form 26Declaration of The Result of Election[See rule 69(4)]Election
of Member/Members to Ward No........of.......Village Panchayat.DeclarationIn
pursuance of the provisions contained in sub-rule (4) of rule 69 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Elections) Rules, 1995, declare that the following candidate
has/candidates have been duly elected to the seat/ seats specified against his
name/their names: -

Name of the elected candidate | Seat to which he is elected*  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
|  
  
Returning Officer.*Here indicate SC/ST [***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 163,
Rural Development, dated the 7th August 1996.] / Women/Open seat etc.

Place:Date: | SignatureReturning Officer,  
---|---  
  
Form 27-ANomination Form[See rule 75(1)]Election of Chairman/Vice-Chairman of
the............... Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat.Vice-President
of...........Village Panchayat.I, Thiru/Tmt./Selvi. .............member from
Ward No.............. hereby nominate Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi.........as a
candidate for the election of Chairman/Vice-Chairman of the
...................... Panchayat Union Council/District Panchayat /Vice-
President of...........Village Panchayat.Place:Date:Signature of Proposer.I,
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi ............... member from Ward No...................
hereby second the above nomination.Place:Date:Signature of the
Seconder.Declaration of The CandidateI, Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi..............
member from Ward No............... hereby assent to this
nomination.Place:Date:Signature of the candidate.Form 27-BNomination Form[See
rule 104(1)]Election of other elected members of the .............. Panchayat
Union Council / District Panchayat.I,
Thiru/Tmt/Selvi.........President/Chairman of.............Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council, hereby, nominate Thiru/Thirumathi/
Selvi................President/Chairman of.................Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union as a candidate for the election of other elected
member.Place:Date:Signature of Proposer.Declaration of The CandidateI,
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi...............President/Chairman of........ Village
Panchayat/Panchayat Union Council hereby assent to this
nomination.Place:Date:Signature of the candidate.Form 28-ABallot Paper[See
rule 82(1)]Election of Chairman/vice-Chairman/vice-PresidentSerial
Number:......Name:Ward Number:Name:Ward Number:Name:Ward Number:Name:Ward
Number:Returning Officer.Form 28-BBallot Paper[See rule 110(1)]Election of
Other Elected MembersSerial Number:Name:........Village
Panchayat.......Panchayat UnionName:........Village Panchayat........Panchayat
UnionName:........Village Panchayat........Panchayat UnionReturning
Officer.[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 110, dated 19.9.2016.]

