## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Re-Enacting
Act, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Re-Enacting
Act, 1975

## Act 23 of 1975

  * Published on 3 July 1975 
  * Commenced on 3 July 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 July 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Re-Enacting
Act, 1975(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1975)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1975). - For Statement of Object and Reasons, please see
Part IV - Section 1, pages 109-110 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 9th April 1975.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1975). - For Statement of Object and Reasons,
please see Part IV - Section 1, pages 109-110 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 9th April 1975.Received the assent of the
President on the 3rd July 1975 and first published in Part IV - Section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 10th July 1975.An Act
to re-enact the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction)
Act, 1961.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows : -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection
from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 29th day of November 1973.

### 2. Re-enactment of Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1961.

\- The Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1961), as amended, from time to time, and in force
on the 28th November 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), is hereby
re-enacted permanently, subject to the modification that, -(1)in section 1,
-(a)for the heading, the heading "Short title and extent" shall be
substituted;(b)sub-section (3) shall be omitted.(2)in section 4, after sub-
section (2), the following sub-section shall be added, namely : -"(3) If any
person who was occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 28th November 1973 has been
evicted from such kudiyiruppu after such date, but before the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from
Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975 in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, he may,
within a period of six months after the date of such publication, apply to the
authorized officer within whose jurisdiction the kudiyiruppu is situated in
such form as may be prescribed for restoration to him of the possession of the
kudiyiruppu from which he was evicted, and to occupy if subject to the same
terms and conditions, as far as may be, as were applicable to him on the 28th
November 1973.".

### 3. Savings.

\- Anything done or any action taken (including any rule or order made,
notification issued, decision or direction given, proceeding taken and
liability or penalty incurred and punishment awarded or rights enjoyed) under
the provisions of the said Act -(a)as in force immediately before its expiry;
or(b)on or after the 29th November 1973, and before the date of the
publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, on the footing
that the said Act was in force at the relevant time, shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the said Act as
hereby re-enacted:Provided that nothing contained in this section shall render
any person liable to any punishment whatsoever by reason of anything done or
omitted to be done by him contrary to the provisions of the said Act on or
after the 29th day of November 1973, and before the date of the publication of
this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 4. Act not to affect the operation of Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1971.

\- Nothing in this Act or in the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu
(Protection from Eviction) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1961) as re-enacted
by this Act, shall be deemed to affect the operation of the Tamil Nadu
Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Conferment of Ownership) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act
40 of 1971).

