## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994

## Act 21 of 1994

  * Published on 22 April 1994 
  * Commenced on 22 April 1994 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 April 1994.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994)Statement of Objects
and Reasons - The Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992 by which a
new Part IX in the Constitution was added to enshrine therein certain basic
and essential features of the Panchayati Raj Institutions to impart certainly,
continuity and strength to them was brought into force on the 24th day of
April, 1993. Article 243G of the Constitution provides that the Legislature of
a State may, by law, endow the Panchayats with such powers and authority as
may be necessary to enable them to function as Institutions of self-Government
and such law may contain provisions for the devolution of powers and
responsibilities upon Panchayats at the appropriate level with respect to the
preparation of plans for economic development and social justice and the
implementation of schemes for economic development and social justice as may
be entrusted to them including those in relation to the matters listed in the
Eleventh Schedule to the Constitution.2\. The bulk of tribal population live
in Scheduled Areas and Tribal Areas. In so far as the Scheduled and the Tribal
Areas are concerned, sub-clause (b) of clause (4) of Article 243 M of the
Constitution provides that Parliament may, by law, extend the provisions of
Part IX to the Scheduled Areas and Tribal Areas referred to in clause (1) of
that Article subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be specified
in such law and to such law shall be deemed to be an amendment of the
Constitution for the purposes of Article 368.3\. There have been persistent
demands from prominent leaders of the Scheduled Areas for extending the
provisions of Part IX of the Constitution to these Areas so that Panchayati
Raj Institutions maybe established there. Accordingly, it is proposed to
introduce a Bill to provide for the extension of the provisions of Part IX of
the Constitution relating to Panchayats to the Scheduled Areas with certain
modifications providing that, among other things, the State Legislations that
may be made shall be in consonance with the customary law, social and
religious practices and traditional management practices of community
resources; every village shall have a Grama Sabha which shall be competent to
safeguard and preserve the traditions and customs of the people and shall be
vested with the powers to approve the programmes and projects for social and
economic development as also identification of beneficiaries under such
programmes; Panchayats at the appropriate levels shall be endowed with
ownership of minor forest produce; recommendation of the Grama Sabha or the
Panchayat at the appropriate level shall be made mandatory prior to grant of
prospecting licences or mining lease of minor minerals and shall be consulted
before making acquisition of land in the Scheduled Areas for development
projects or for resettlement of project affected members of the Scheduled
Tribes; Panchayats at the appropriate level and the Grama Sabha shall have the
power to prevent alienation of tribal lands and to take appropriate action to
restore any unlawfully alienated lands of Scheduled Tribe, have powers to
regulate money-lending to the members of the Scheduled Tribes, to manage
village markets and to enforce prohibition or to regulate or restrict sale and
consumption of any intoxicant; State Legislations shall endow the Panchayats
at the appropriate levels with specific powers and provide safeguards to
prevent Panchayats at the higher level from assuming the powers and authority
of Panchayats at the lower level or of the Grama Sabha; the offices of the
Chairpersons in the Panchayats at all levels shall be reserved for the
Scheduled Tribes; the reservation of seats at every Panchayat for the
Scheduled Tribes shall not be less than one-half of the total number of
seats.4\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994). -
The proposed Tamil Nadu Panchayats Bill, 1994, seeks to repeal and re-enact
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958) consequent
upon the changes proposed by the Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act,
1992. The Bill seeks to establish a three tier system in this State with
elected bodies at the village, intermediate and district levels for greater
participation of the people and more effective implementation of rural
development programmes. The following are the salient features of the Bill:
-(1) It establishes a new body called Grama Sabha in every panchayat village
comprising all the voters of the panchayat village.(2) It provides for the
creation of a three tier panchayat system in the State, namely, village
panchayat, panchayat union and district panchayat, based on the population as
ascertained at the last preceding census of which the figures have been
published. It envisages elected bodies at all the three levels.(3) It provides
for reservation of seats in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
proportion of their population and for reservation of one-third of the total
number of seats for women at all the three levels of panchayats.(4) It also
provides for reservation of offices of chairpersons at all the three levels,
in favour of Schedules Castes and Scheduled Tribes and also for women.(5) It
also envisages constitution of a State Election Commission to conduct
elections to the panchayats, a Finance Commission to review the financial
position of the panchayats and district planning committee for every district
for consolidating the development plan of a district as a whole.(6) It further
provides for the duration of panchayats as five years and no longer.2\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th April
1994.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 51 of 1994). - Under section 261 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), Special Officers have been
appointed for Village Panchayats and Panchayat Union Councils to exercise the
powers and discharge the functions of the Village Panchayats and the Panchayat
Union Councils for nine months from the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994, i.e., 22nd April 1994 and no longer. The said period of
nine months expires on the 21st January, 1995.2\. In respect of the enactment
of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, various changes have to be made in the
constitution of Panchayats at various levels. The Panchayats at various levels
shall have to be divided into territorial wards for the purpose of election of
members. Apart from this, reservation has to be provided for Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes and women in all the Panchayats both for the seats as
well as for the posts of chairpersons. The above reservation has to be
allotted by rotation in respect of women for seats in Panchayats and for the
office of chairpersons at all the three levels and in respect of Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the office of the chairpersons at all the
three levels of Panchayats. All this has to be done based on the population
figures as per 1991 census. The figures of 1991 census have not yet been
published by the Directorate of Census Operations. Rules have to be issued for
various aspects like division of wards, reservation, conduct of elections,
adjudication of election disputes, etc. It is considered that it will take 3
to 6 months to finalise the above items of work even if attended to on a war
footing. After finalising the above items of work, the State Election
Commission will take necessary action to conduct the elections which will take
a minimum period of six months.3\. According to section 30(1) and section
23(1) and section 14(1) of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, the electoral
rolls of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly shall form the basis for the
electoral rolls of district Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and Village
Panchayats. Based on the direction from the Election Commission of India for
the intensive revision of electoral rolls for all the Assembly Constituencies,
the Government in Public (Election) Department have issued orders in G. O. Ms.
No. 689, dated 10th August 1994 directing that until further order: -(1) no
changes in house numbering in the villages, town and cities should be made;(2)
no change of names or numbers of streets should be made;(3) there should be no
changes in any ward or division, boundaries or in their numbers;(4) there
should be no changes in any administrative units such as bifurcation,
amalgamation or constitution of Panchayats, Town Panchayats or Municipalities,
Taluks, etc.4\. It is evident from the above that no changes should be made in
the structure of the local bodies. Without reconstitution of Panchayat wards
at all the three levels, it is not possible to conduct the elections.
Moreover, revised electoral rolls of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will
have to be awaited for using the same as the electoral rolls of the respective
panchayats. In order to facilitate the conduct of the elections to the
Panchayats at the earliest, the delimitation of wards and reservation of wards
to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and women have to be finalised.5\.
The Government have, therefore, decided to extend the term of office of the
Special Officers of all the Panchayats up to and inclusive of 31st December
1995 and to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, accordingly.6\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section
1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th November
1994.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1995). - Consequent upon the changes made by the
Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992, provisions have been made in
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act for reservation of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes and for Women. According to the Constitution (73rd Amendment) Act,
1992, the State Government may make provision for reservation of seats in any
local body in favour of Backward Classes also. Several representations have
been received by the Government for such reservation for the Backward Classes
in this State also. Recently, several Members of the Legislative Assembly also
requested to make reservation of seats in the local bodies for Backward
Classes including most Backward Classes in addition to reservation for
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and for Women. Accordingly, the
Government have now decided to reserve fifty per cent of the wards and
Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union Councils and
District Panchayats to the persons belonging to Backward Classes of citizens,
including Most Backward Classes. Out of the total number of seats reserved for
them, one third will be reserved for women belonging to Backward Classes and
Most Backward Classes.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above said
objects.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 6th May 1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995). -
Section 171 (1) of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994) provides for the levy of house-tax and vehicle-tax. Section 173 of the
said Act provides guidelines for the collection of vehicle-tax. Consequent on
the announcement made by the Honourable Chief Minister in the Independence Day
Speech to abolish the levy of vehicle-tax in Village Panchayats, the
Government decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994, suitably. To
give effect to the above decision, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Ordinance, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1995) was promulgated by the
Governor on the 20th September 1995 and the same was published in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 20th September, 1995.2\. The
Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part II- Section 1 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 3rd November
1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1995). - Consequent upon the
changes made by the Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992,
provisions have been made in the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) for reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and
for women. According to the Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992,
the State Government may make provisions for reservation of seats in any local
body in favour of Backward Classes also. Several representations have been
received by the Government for such reservation for the Backward Classes in
this State also. Recently, several Members of the Legislative Assembly also
requested to make reservation of seats in the local bodies for Backward
Classes including Most Backward Classes in addition to reservation for
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and for women. Accordingly, the
Government decided to reserve fifty per cent of the wards at each level and of
the offices of Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union
Councils and Chairmen of District Panchayats to the persons belonging to
Backward Classes of Citizens, including Most Backward Classes. Out of the
total number of seats reserved for them, one Third will be reserved for women
belonging to Backward Classes and Most Backward Classes. To give effect to the
above decisions, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 4 of 1995) was promulgated by the Governor on the 21st July
1995 and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 21st July 1995.2\. The State Election Commission
opined that difficulties may arise in providing reservation of fifty per cent
of seats for the Backward Classes of citizens where the population of the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes exceeds fifty pet cent of the total
population of a Village Panchayat. In such cases, reservation for Backward
Classes of citizens, may be made on the basis of population of the Backward
Classes of citizens in that Village Panchayat. Similar, situation may also
arise in respect of Panchayat Unions and District Panchayats. It was,
therefore, decided to make necessary provision in the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
Act, 1994, to overcome such situation as pointed out by the State Election
Commission. It was also decided to prohibit a person from contesting more than
one office, namely, Member of Village Panchayat, President of Village
Panchayat, Member of Panchayat Union Council or Member of District Panchayat
and to amend the said Act suitably. To give effect to the above decisions, the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
5 of 1995) was promulgated by the Governor on the 6th August 1995 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
7th August 1995.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinances.Published in
Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 9th November 1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1995). - The term of office
of the Special Officers of all the Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union
Councils and District Panchayats in the State is due to expire on the 31st
December 1995.The Government had decided to conduct elections to all the
Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats in
December 1995. Accordingly, the State Election Commission was making all
arrangements to conduct the panchayat elections. In the meantime, a batch of
writ petitions have been field in High Court, Madras, challenging, among other
things, the reservation of fifty per cent of wards at each level and of the
offices of presidents of village panchayats, chairman of panchayat union
councils and chairman of district panchayats to the persons belonging to the
Backward Classes of citizens. The said writ petitions are pending in the High
Court, Madras. Therefore, the State Election Commission can conduct Panchayat
Elections only after the disposal of writ petitions pending in the High Court.
Since the present term of office of the Special Officers of all Village
Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats is due to expire
on the 31st December 1995, and as it is not possible to conduct elections to
these local bodies before the 31st December 1995, it has become necessary to
extend the term of office of the Special Officers. The Government have,
therefore, decided to extend the term of office of these Special Officers for
a further period of six months beyond the 31st day of December 1995 and to
amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably
for the said purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 28th December 1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1996). - The Government decided to conduct elections to all the village
panchayats, panchayat union councils and district panchayats in December 1995
and to conduct the election to Town Panchayats, Municipalities and Municipal
Corporations thereafter. Accordingly, the State Election Commission was making
all arrangements to conduct the panchayat elections. In the meantime, a batch
of Writ Petitions were filed in High Court, Madras, against the reservation of
fifty per cent of wards at each level of panchayats and of the offices of the
presidents of village panchayats, chairmen of panchayat union councils and
chairmen of district panchayats, to the persons belonging to the Backward
Classes of citizens.2\. The High Court, Madras, in its judgment, dated the 3rd
April 1996 in W. P. No. 14637 of 1995, etc., has struck down the provisions of
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 1995, providing reservation for Backward Classes of
citizens and all notifications issued under the said Act effect in reservation
in favour of Backward Classes of citizens. Now, the Government have decided to
conduct elections to all local bodies, for the time being without reservation
Backward Classes of citizens. Therefore, it has become necessary to omit the
provisions providing for reservation for Backward Classes of citizens in the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 and to amend the said Act suitably.3\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st May 1996.Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996). - The Government have decided to conduct
elections to all Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District
Panchayats in September 1996. Accordingly, all arrangements are being made to
conduct these elections. In the meantime, it has been suggested that certain
amendments are necessary to the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act. These amendments
are essential and immediately required if elections to Panchayats are not to
be challenged before the Court of Law. The Government also consider that the
elected representatives should actively participate in the day-to-day
functions of the Panchayats. Therefore, the composition of the Panchayat
Unions and District Panchayats will consist of only the elected members. This
will ensure more involvement in their functioning. Government have also
decided that, instead of appointing a Panchayat Secretary to perform powers
and functions of Village Panchayats, an Executive Authority will be notified
by them. Therefore, it has become necessary to amend the said Act suitably.2\.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part II - Section 1
of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 1st August
1996.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1997). - Elections to two Panchayat Unions and
elections to the post of Presidents of twenty-two Village Panchayats could not
be conducted due to administrative and other reasons when elections to other
local bodies were conducted in October 1996. It was proposed to conduct
elections on the 28th December 1996 to the aforesaid local bodies. The
election process were completed on the 31st day of December 1996. However, it
will take some more time for the elected persons to assume office. It is also
likely that certain posts may remain unfilled even after conducting the above
elections. The term of office of Special Officers of these village panchayats
and panchayat union councils specified in the proposed Schedule V was due to
expire on the 31st day of December 1996. The Government, therefore, decided to
extend the term of office of these Special Officers for a further period of
six months up to the 30th day of June 1997 with an enabling provision to
shorten the term if, election to these village panchayats and panchayat union
councils are held earlier.2\. To give effect to the above said decision the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
11 of 1996) was promulgated by the Governor on the 26th December 1996 and the
same has been published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 27th December 1996.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the above said
Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary dated the 28th January 1997.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act
37 of 1997). - The Government have now decided to constitute a District
Planning Committee in every district. With a view to change the composition of
the committee, the number of members, the functions of the committee and the
method prescribed for convening and conducting the meeting of the committee it
has been decided by the Government to make suitable amendments to the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 24th April
1997.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1997). - Consequent on the
formation of three tier Panchayats in Tamil Nadu, Orders were issued
prescribing a new accounting procedure in respect of Village Panchayats.
According to this procedure, Village Panchayats have to maintain three
accounts, namely, Village Panchayat Fund Account, Village Panchayat Earmarked
Grants Account and Village Panchayat Scheme Fund Account and these Accounts
have to be operated jointly by the President and Vice-President of the Village
Panchayat.2\. Several Writ Petitions have been filed challenging the validity
of the above said accounting procedure and the orders issued by the Government
have been stayed by the High Court, Chennai. The stay granted by the High
Court is hampering very much the da. - to-day functioning of the Village
Panchayats. In order to remove this difficulty, it was proposed to amend
suitably section 188 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994) to make provision for maintenance of more than one account in
Panchayats and also for joint operation of accounts by Presidents and Vice-
Presidents of Village Panchayats with retrospective effect, from the date of
issue of Government Order with consequential amendment to section 242 of the
Act and necessary validating provision. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 4 of
1997) was promulgated by the Governor on the 19th June 1997 and the same was
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 19th
June 1997.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part
II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the
15th October 1997.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 55 of 1997). - The term of Office
of the Special Officers of the following six village panchayats, namely: -

### 1.

ThandanoorSalem District

### 2.

S. MalayandipattinamCoimbatore District

### 3.

KeeripattiMadurai District

### 4.

PappapattiMadurai District,

### 5.

MaruthangudiMadurai District

### 6.

KottakatehiyandalVirudhimagar Districtfor which elections were not conducted
so far was to expire on the 30th June 1997. Due to various reasons, it was not
possible to conduct elections to these six Village Panchayats before the 30th
June 1997. Hence, the term of office of Special Officers of the above said six
Village Panchayats were extended for a further period of three months beyond
the 30th June 1997 by promulgating the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth
Amendment) Ordinance, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1997) by the Governor on
the 30th June 1997.2\. In the mean time all preliminary arrangement for
conduct of elections to these six village panchayats are in progress. However,
since the extended term of office of Special Officers of these six villages
panchayats expired on the 30th September 1997, their term was extended for a
further period of six months beyond the 30th September 1997 by promulgating
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Ordinance, 1997 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 9 of 1997), by the Governor on the 28th September 1997.3\. The Bill
seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 15th October
1997.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 62 of 1997). - By the amendment made to
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899) by the Indian Stamp (Tamil
Nadu Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 42 of 1981), the Stamp duty on the
following two categories of instruments (among others) has been increased,
namely: -(i) Release of Benami right in favour of real owner.(ii) Instrument
of settlement other than in favour of a member or members of a family.Section
3 of the Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (Central Act 45 of 1988)
prohibits the transaction of Benami right in favour of real owner except the
person referred to under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the said Central Act
45 of 1988. The Government have now decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably so as to levy surcharge on
stamp duty on the release of Benami right in favour of excepted persons under
sub-section (3) of section 4 of the said Central Act 45 of 1988 of immovable
property and settlement of immovable property other than in favour of a member
or members of a family.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary dated the 15th October 1997.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998). - The
Chief Election Commissioner of India has brought to the notice of the
Government of Tamil Nadu that the general public and even the press are
confused regarding the role and position including the names of "State
Election Commission" and "Election Commission of India". In order to
differentiate "State Election Commission" from that of "Election Commission of
India", the Government have now decided to change the names of "State Election
Commission", and "State Election Commissioner" as "Tamil Nadu Election
Commission" and "Tamil Nadu Election Commissioner", respectively, by amending
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), suitably.2\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 21st
March 1998.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998). - Section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) provides that the Grama
Sabha shall meet thrice in a year and that if the village panchayat fails to
convene the Grama Sabha, the Inspector shall convene the Grama Sabha. Further,
sub-section (5) of section 3 of the said Act provides that the quorum for a
meeting of the Grama Sabha shall be one-third of the total number of the
members of Grama Sabha. Now, the Government consider that it is enough if
Grama Sabha meets twice in a year and that the responsibility of convening the
meeting of the Grama Sabha be vested with the President of the Village
Panchayat and that the quorum of the Grama Sabha meeting be deleted with a
view to incorporate the same in the rules. Further, it has been decided to
give daily allowance, travelling allowance, sitting fees and the fixed monthly
travelling allowance to the representatives of the local bodies and to provide
for the construction of water works, for the supply of water for drinking,
washing and bathing by the Panchayat Union Council.2\. At present, there is no
provision in the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 for motion of no-confidence in
chairman of panchayat union and district panchayat who are also indirectly
elected from among their members. Now, it has bean proposed to bring the
chairman of panchayat union and district panchayat also within the ambit of
removal by a motion of no-confidence by its members. Accordingly, the
Government have decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably
for the said purposes.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisions.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 19th May 1998.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1998). - At present, certain town panchayats which are rural in
character are under the purview of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act,
1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920). In view of this, these town panchayats do not
get any grants either from the Central Government or from the State Government
as in the case of village panchayats. Central as well as State sponsored
poverty alleviation schemes intended to rural areas are also not extended to
these town panchayats since they have been controlled by the law relating to
municipalities. In order to extend these facilities to the areas coming under
town panchayats, which are in rural character basically, the Government have
decided to bring certain town panchayats under the purview of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) by treating them as village
panchayats with the existing elected bodies, so as to enable them to junction
as per the existing provisions of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 till such
date as the Government may fix in this behalf or in case no date is fixed till
the date on which their term of office expires under the Tamil Nadu Act V of
1920. It has also been decided to make provisions in the Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994 for non-representation to the panchayat union council and the district
panchayat from the town panchayats which are converted as village panchayats
till the date on which their term of office expires under the Tamil Nadu Act V
of 1920. Further, it has also been decided to make necessary provisions in the
said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 for continuing the provincialised staff of the
town panchayats converted as village panchayats for a period of three months
after such conversion. At present, there is no provision in the said Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994 for grading the village panchayats. Now, it has been
decided to bring necessary provision in the Act for gradation of village
panchayats. Accordingly, the Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994 suitably for the said purposes.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decisions.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 25th May 1998.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 2000). - Sub-section (1) of section 241 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) empowers the Government to
constitute in every district a District Planning Committee to consolidate the
plans prepared by the rural and urban local bodies in the district and to
prepare a Draft Development Plan for the district as a whole. As per sub-
section (2) of section 241 of the said Act, the Committee shall consist of:
-(a) the Collector of the district;(b) members of the House of the People who
represent the whole or part of the district;(c) members of the Council of
States who are registered as electors in the district;(d) all the members of
the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly whose constituencies lie within the
district;(e) the Mayor of the City Municipal Corporation and all chairmen of
the municipal councils in the district;(f) the chairman of the district
panchayat;(g) as nearly as possible one-fifth of the total number of chairmen
of town panchayats and chairmen of the panchayat union councils in the
district respectively to be notified by the Government by rotation every
year;(h) such number of persons not less than four-fifth of the total number
of members of the Committee as may be specified by the Government elected in
the prescribed manner from amongst the members of the district panchayat, town
panchayats and councillors of the municipal corporations and the municipal
councils in the district in proportion to the ratio between the population of
the rural areas and of the urban areas in the district.2\. Four-fifth of the
total number of members of the Committee as specified in the said clause (h)
will have to be arrived at for the purpose of election from amongst the
members of the district panchayat and urban local bodies in proportion to the
ratio between the population of the rural areas and of the urban areas in the
district after taking into account the number of members specified in the said
clauses (a) to (g) as one fifth. Four-fifth of the total number of members
thus arrived in proportion to the population of the rural areas for the
purpose of election from amongst the members of the district panchayat of a
district comes to more than that of the number of members available in the
said district panchayat of a district thereby rendering the implementation of
the provisions of article 243-ZD of the Constitution very difficult.3\. To get
over the aforesaid difficulty, the Government have decided to amend the said
Act suitably to specify the members of the House of the People who represent
the whole or part of the district members of the Council of States who are
registered as electors in the district members of the Tamil Nadu State
Legislative Assembly whose constituencies lie within the district, all the
chairmen of the panchayat union councils in the district, all the chairmen of
the municipal councils in the district and all the chairmen of the town
panchayats in the district as permanent special invitees so as to enable them
to take part in the proceedings of the meetings of the said Committee.
Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Ordinance, 2000
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 2000) was promulgated by the Governor on the 22nd
September 2000 and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 23rd September 2000.4\. The Bill seeks to replace the
said Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 7th November 2000.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of
2002). - The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission has suggested to amend sub-
section (1) of section 258 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) to enhance the period of fifteen days to forty-five days for
filing an election petition from the date of publication of the result of that
election. The Government have, therefore, decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994 suitably for the said purpose on the lines of the provisions
contained in sub-section (1) of section 81 of the Representation of the People
Act, 1951 (Central Act XLIII of 1951).(2) The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th September 2001.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act
19 of 2001). - The Government have issued orders for the continuous and
concurrent audit in village panchayats, panchayat unions and district
panchayats. Now, the financial position of the three tier panchayats has been
good, consequent on devolution of funds based on the recommendation of the
State Finance Commission, since 1997-98. Hence, the Government have decided to
recover some percentage of audit charges from panchayats towards the
expenditure incurred in the continuous and concurrent audit of the accounts of
the panchayats, by amending the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994), suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 12th September 2001.Statement of Objects and Reasons
- Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
2002). - The President of village panchayat and the chairman of the panchayat
union council and the district Panchayat have to perform all the duties and
exercise all the powers specifically imposed or conferred on them under the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994). By virtue of
their office as such president or chairman, they shall be members of the
council concerned and every committee of such council. In the absence of the
president of the village panchayat, the vice-president has to exercise the
powers and perform the functions of the president. Similarly, in the absence
of the chairman of the panchayat union council and the district panchayat, the
vice-chairman has to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the
chairman. The president and vice-president of the village panchayat and the
chairman and vice-chairman of the panchayat union council and the district
panchayat shall exercise similar powers and discharge similar functions under
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994. If a member of either House of Parliament
or a member of the Legislative Assembly of the State is elected as president
or vice-president of a village panchayat or chairman or vice-chairman of a
panchayat union council or a district panchayat, it will not be possible for
him to discharge his duties and responsibilities more effectively.2\. Certain
Members of the Legislative Assembly of the State and chairman of panchayat
union council have represented to the Government to debar the Member of the
Legislative Assembly of the State and Member of Parliament from contesting for
election to the office of the president and vice-president and chairman and
vice-chairman in the Local Bodies. The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission
has forwarded the above representation for consideration of the Government.3\.
The Government, after careful consideration of the representations and the
provisions contained in the Constitution of India, have decided to disqualify
any Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or Member of either House
of Parliament for being elected as, and for being, a president or vice-
president of a village panchayat or a chairman or vice-chairman of a panchayat
union council or of a district panchayat and to amend the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably for the purpose.4\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 22nd
April 2002.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 2004). - The term of office of the
Special Officers of Kottakatchiyendal, Nattarmangalam, Keeripatti and
Pappapatti village panchayats was due to expire on the 24th April 2004. As the
said village panchayats could not be constituted even after resorting to
election process for holding ordinary election, it became necessary to extend
the term of office of the Special Officers of the said village panchayats
beyond the 24th April 2004. The Government, therefore, decided to extend the
term of office of the Special Officers of the said village panchayats for a
further period of six months beyond the 24th April 2004, and to amend sub-
section (2) of section 9-A and sub-section (2) of section 261 of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) for the purpose.2\.
Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Ordinance, 2004 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 3 of 2004) was promulgated by the Governor on the 23rd April 2004
and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 23rd April 2004.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said
Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 30th November 2004.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
2004). - The term of the Yercaud Panchayat Union Council and certain village
panchayats under that panchayat union was due to expire on the 5th March 2005.
The ordinary election to the said panchayat union council and to the said
village panchayats could not be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and the rules
made thereunder before the expiry of the term, since a proposal for
reservation of seats for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes and for women including the women belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes based on the population as published in 2001
census is under consideration. Hence, it become necessary to appoint a Special
Officer to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the said Panchayat
Union Council and of its Chairman and also to appoint a Special Officer to
exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the said village
panchayats. The Government, therefore, appointed Special Officer to the said
panchayat union council and village panchayats on the 6th March 2005 for a
period of six months or until the day on which the first meeting of the
Panchayat Union Council, or as the case may be, the village panchayat
concerned is held after election whichever is earlier. The Government have
decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 retrospectively for the
purpose and also to validate the action taken by the said Special Officers.2\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published In Part II -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th
April 2005.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second
Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2004). - The Manachanalur Panchayat
Union Council was dissolved on the 12th December 2003 under section 215 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and the said
Panchayat Union Council shall be reconstituted within six months from the date
of dissolution, that is, on or before the 11th June 2004, as required under
the said section 215.2\. It was brought to the notice of the Government that
it was found difficult to conduct the casual election to reconstitute the said
Panchayat Union Council since the election process for the fourteenth Lok
Sabha has concluded recently. Hence, it became necessary to appoint a Special
Officer to the said Panchayat Union Council to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the said council and of its Chairman, beyond the 11th
June 2004. The Government, therefore, decided to appoint Special Officer to
the said Council for a period of six months, by amending the said Act
suitably. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Ordinance,
2004 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 2004) was promulgated by the Governor on the
7th June 2004 and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
Extraordinary; dated the 8th June 2004.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said
Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st November 2004.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 39
of 2004). - Consequent on the cancellation of the notification issued under
section 3-B of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu
Act V of 1920) in respect of 562 Town Panchayats on the 14th June 2004, they
were constituted as village panchayats under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 2.1 of 1994). In order to have separate identity for the
said Village Panchayats, the Government decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994 to classify such Village Panchayats as Special Village
Panchayats and to make provisions for a smooth transition, administrative
accountability, financial stability and maintenance of existing level of civic
services to the citizens in such Special Village Panchayats. To give effect to
the above decision, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Ordinance,
2004 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 9 of 2004) was promulgated by the Governor on the
30th September 2004 and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 1st October 2004.2\. Further, the Government
have also decided to bring within the said class of Special Village
Panchayats, any Village Panchayat constituted under the said Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994 after the 14th June 2004, consequent on the cancellation of the
notification issued under section 3-B of the said Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920 in
respect of a Third Grade Municipality.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said
Ordinance and also to give effect to the aforesaid decision.Published in Part
II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
18th November 2004.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 2004). - The term of office
of the Special Officers appointed under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) in respect of
Kottakatchiyendal and Nattarman-galam Village Panchayats and of the Special
Officers appointed under section 261 of the said Act in respect of Keeripatti
and Pappapatti Village Panchayats were due to expire on the 24th October 2004.
It was brought to the notice of the Government that after resorting to
election process for holding ordinary election to constitute
Kottakatchiyendal, Nattarmangalam, Keeripatti and Pappapatti Village
Panchayats, the said Village Panchayats could not be constituted. Hence, it
became necessary to extend the term of office of the Special Officers of the
said Village Panchayats beyond the 24th October 2004. The Government,
therefore, decided to extend the term of office of the Special Officers of the
aforesaid Village Panchayats for a further period of six months beyond the
24th October 2004, by amending sub-section (2) of section 9-A and sub-section
(2) of section 261 of the said Act, suitably.2\. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Ordinance, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 14 of
2004) was promulgated by the Governor on the 23rd October 2004 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
23rd October 2004.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published
in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 18th November 2004.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 2005). -
According to sub-section (2) of section 239 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner
to be appointed by the Governor under Article 243-K of the Constitution shall
hold office for a term of two years and shall be eligible for reappointment
for two successive terms and no person shall hold the office of the Tamil Nadu
State Election Commissioner for more than six years in the aggregate and shall
retire from office if he completes the age of sixty-two years during the term
of his office. The ordinary elections to the Village Panchayats, Panchayat
Union Councils and District Panchayats are held once in five years and the
Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner may not have an opportunity to conduct
the ordinary election within the two successive terms of two years of
reappointment. Therefore, to enable the Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner
to use his knowledge and experience gained over the period to conduct at least
one ordinary election to the said Panchayats, the Government decided to remove
the restrictions as to the age and as to the maximum period for holding the
office of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner and to amend sub-section
(2) of section 239 of the said Act, suitably for the purpose. Accordingly, the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
2 of 2005) was promulgated by the Governor on the 11th July 2005 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
13th July 2005.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in
Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 23rd September 2005.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2005). - The term
of office of the Special Officers appointed under section 9-A of the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) in respect of
Kottakatchiyendal and Nattarman-galam village panchayats and of the Special
Officers appointed under section 261 of the said Act in respect of Keeripatti
and Pappapatti village panchayats were due to expire on the 24th April
2005.2\. It was brought to the notice of the Government that after resorting
to election process for holding ordinary election, Pappapatti and
Nattarmangalam village panchayats in Madurai District and Kottakatchiyendal
village Panchayat in Virudhunagar District could not be constituted since no
nomination had been field for the office of the President and members of the
said village panchayats.3\. In the case of Keeripatti village panchayat in
Madurai District one Thiru V. Azhagumalai has been elected as President, but
no nomination had been filed for the office of the members of that village
panchayat. As per section 6 of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994, a village
panchayat shall be constituted consisting of elected members. As such, a
village panchayat for Keeripatti panchayat village could not be constituted
under the said Act.4\. The Government, therefore, decided to extent the term
of office of the Special Officers of the aforesaid village panchayats for a
further period of six months beyond the 24th April 2005. Accordingly, orders
were issued in G.O. Ms. No. 54, Rural Development Department, dated the 22nd
April 2005, pending amendment to the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994. To give
effect to the orders issued in the aforesaid Government order, it was decided
to amend sub-section (2) of section 9-A and sub-section (2) of section 261 of
the said Act, suitably and also to validate anything done or any action taken
by such Special Officers on or after the 25th April 2005. Accordingly, the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Ordinance, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
3 of 2005) was promulgated by the Governor on the 11th July 2005 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
13th July 2005.5\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in
Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 23rd September 2005.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 19 of 2005). - The
term of office of the Special Officers appointed under the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) in respect of the Yercaud
panchayat union council and certain village panchayats under that panchayat
union was due to expire on the 5th September 2005. The ordinary election to
the said panchayat union council and to the said village panchayats could not
be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994 and the rules made thereunder before the expiry of the term of office
of the said Special Officers, since the proposal for reservation of seats for
the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and for
women including the women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes based on the population as published in 2001 census was under
consideration. Hence, it became necessary to extend the term of office of the
said Special Officers to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
said panchayat union council and village panchayats. The Government,
therefore, decided to extend the term of office of the said Special Officers
for a period of six moths or until the day on which the first meeting of the
panchayat union council, or as the case may be, the village panchayat
concerned is held after election, whichever is earlier, by amending sub-
section (2) of section 9-B and sub-section (2) of section 18-B of the said
Act, suitably for the purpose in view. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Ordinance, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 7 of 2005) was
promulgated by the Governor on the 2nd September 2005 and the same was
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 2nd
September 2005.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in
Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 23rd September 2005.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 2006). - The term of
office of the Special Officers appointed under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 1994) in respect of Kottakatchiyendal
and Nattarmangalam village panchayats and of the term of the office of the
Special Officers appointed under section 261 of the said Act in respect of
Keeripatti and Pappapatti village panchayats were due to expire on the 24th
October 2005.2\. It has been brought to the notice of the Government that due
to unprecedented rain and flood, the election process for holding ordinary
election to constitute Kottakatchiyendal, Nattarmangalam, Keeripatti and
Pappapatti village panchayats have not been conducted and the said village
panchayats could not also be constituted. Hence, it has become necessary to
extend the term of office of the Special Officers of the said village
panchayats beyond the 24th October 2005.3\. The Government have, therefore,
decided to extend the term of office of the Special Officers of the aforesaid
village panchayats for a further period of six months beyond the 24th October
2005. Accordingly, orders were issued in G.O.Ms. No. 140, Rural Development
Department, dated the 24th October 2005, pending amendment to the said Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994. To give effect to the orders issued in the aforesaid
Government Order, it has been decided to amend sub-section (2) of section 9-A
and sub-section (2) of section 261 of the said Act, suitably and also to
validate anything done or any action taken by such Special Officers on or
after the 25th October 2005.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 23rd January 2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 2006).
- According to sub-section (2) of section 198 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the Finance Commission constituted
under sub-section (1) of that section shall consist of a Chairman and four
other members. The Government have decided to increase the strength of members
of the Finance Commission from four to five so as to include the Director of
Special Village Panchayats as a member and to amend sub-section (2) of section
198 of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 for the purpose in view.2\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decisionPublished in Part II - Section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd January
2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2006). - The term of office of the
Special Officers appointed under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) in respect of Kottakatchiyendal and
Nattarman-galam village panchayats and the Special Officers appointed under
section 261 of the said Act in respect of Keeripatti and Pappapatti village
panchayats were due to expire on 24th April 2006.2\. In view of the General
Elections to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, the election process for
holding ordinary election to constitute Kottakatchiyendal, Nattarmangalam,
Keeripatti and Pappapatti village panchayats had not been resorted to. Flence,
it became necessary to extend the term of office of the Special Officers of
the said village panchayats beyond the 24th April 2006. The Government,
therefore, decided to extend the term of office of the Special Officers of the
aforesaid village panchayats for a further period of six months beyond the
24th April 2006 and to amend sub-section (2) of section 9-A and sub-section
(2) of section 261 of the said Act, suitably, for the purpose. Accordingly,
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Ordinance, 2006 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 1 of 2006) was promulgated by the Governor on the 24th April 2006
and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 24th April 2006. The said Ordinance could not be replaced by an Act
of the Legislative Assembly. Therefore, the provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 9-A and subsection (2) of Section 261 of the said Act as so amended by
the said Ordinance ceased to operate with effect on and from the 29th June
2006. As a result, the Special Officers of the said village panchayats are
functioning without any authority.3\. Now, therefore, the Government have
decided to extend the term of office of the Special Officers appointed under
section 9-A of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 in respect of
Kottakatchiyendal and Nattarmangalam village panchayats and the Special
Officers appointed under section 261 of the said Act in respect of Keeripatti
and Pappapatti village panchayats with effect on and from the 25th day of
April 2006 for a further period of six months by amending the said Act
suitably for the purpose and to validate anything done or any action taken by
the Special Officers of the said village panchayats with effect on and from
the 25th day of April 2006.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 18th August 2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of
2006). - The term of office of the Special Officers appointed under the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) in respect of the
Yercaud panchayat union council and certain village panchayats under the
panchayat union was due to expire on the 5th March 2006. The ordinary election
to the said panchayat union council and to the said village panchayats could
not be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the said Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994 and the rules made thereunder before the expiry of the term of
office of the said Special Officers, since the proposal for reservation of
seats for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes and for women including the women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes based on the population as published in 2001 census is
still under consideration. Hence, it became necessary to extend the term of
office of the said Special Officers to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of the said panchayat union council and village panchayats. The
Government, therefore, decided to extend the term of office of the said
Special Officers of the Yercaud panchayat union council and certain village
panchayats for a period of six months, that is, up to the 5th September 2006
and accordingly, issued orders in G.O. Ms. No. 25, Rural Development
Department, dated the 3rd March 2006, pending amendment to the said Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994.2\. The ordinary election to all panchayats in the State will
have to be conducted before the 24th October 2006. Therefore, the Government
have now decided to extend the term of the said Special Officers for a further
period of two months beyond the 5th September 2006 and in the aggregate for a
period of eight months with effect on and from the 6th March 2006 or until the
day on which the first meeting of the panchayat union council, or as the case
may be, the village panchayat concerned is held after election, whichever is
earlier.3\. To give effect to the orders issued in the aforesaid Government
order, and the above decision, it has been decided to amend sub-section (2) of
section 9-B and sub-section (2) of section 18-B of the said Act, suitably and
also to validate anything done or any action taken by such Special Officers on
or after the 6th March 2006.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 22nd August 2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006).
- As per section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994), the Inspector shall declare every local area with population of not
less than 500 as a panchayat village and any area with population of less than
500 shall be included in any contiguous panchayat village. It has been
reported that sixty six panchayat villages which had population more than 500
as per the 1991 Census are having population below 500 as per the 2001 Census.
However, representations have been received against the merger of these
panchayat villages with contiguous panchayat villages and there are also
apprehensions of law and order problems. Therefore, the Government have
decided to remove the minimum population limit of 500 for the formation of a
panchayat village.2\. The next ordinary elections to the village panchayats,
panchayat unions and district panchayats have to be conducted before 24th
October 2006 as the present term of the said panchayats is due to expire on
24th October 2006. The panchayat village - wise 2001 census figures were
received in May 2006. If fresh delimitation of wards in the three tiers of
panchayats is taken up based on the 2001 census, the panchayat elections
cannot be conducted before 24th October 2006. It was also considered that it
would be appropriate to take up the delimitation of panchayat wards after the
delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies. The Government,
therefore, decided to conduct the ordinary elections to all panchayats to be
held before 24th October 2006 based on the existing territorial area of the
wards of the panchayats, number of wards and number of members to be returned
from such wards.3\. The Government also decided to reconstitute the 561
special village panchayats covered by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) as Town Panchayats under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920.)4\. To give effect to the
above decisions, the Government decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994 suitably.5\. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment)
Ordinance, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 3 of 2006) was promulgated by the
Governor on the 14th July 2006, the same was published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 14th July 2006.6\. The Bill seeks
to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 22nd August 2006.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil
Nadu Act 38 of 2006). - It was brought to the notice of the Government that
after resorting to the election process for holding election during October
2006 to the village panchayats, in respect of certain village panchayats, the
President as well as the ward members have not been elected and in certain
other village panchayats, the president alone has been elected and the ward
members have not been elected or insufficient number of ward members have been
elected. As a result, village panchayats could not be constituted on the 25th
day of October 2006 in certain panchayat villages. The Government have,
therefore, decided to empower the Inspector to appoint Special Officers in
respect of these village panchayats and also to validate anything done or any
action taken by the Special Officer appointed on or after the 25th day of
October 2006. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment)
Ordinance, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 7 of 2006) was promulgated by the
Governor on the 6th November 2006 and the same was published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 7th November 2006.2\. The Bill
seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 7th December
2006.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2007). - As per the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the president, vice-president of the village
panchayats, the chairman, vice-chairman of the panchayat union councils and of
the district panchayats, and members of the said panchayats removed for
irregularities are ineligible for election to the said offices, until the date
on which notice of the next ordinary elections to the respective panchayats is
published or the expiry of one year, from the date specified in the
notification issued for their removal or from the date as postponed by the
Government for their removal, as the case may be, whichever is earlier.2\. The
Government, have now decided to amend the relevant provisions of the said
Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably, so as to enhance the said period of
ineligibility from one year to three years and to disqualify them from
contesting the elections, including the election for filling up of a casual
vacancy in the said offices until the expiry of the said period of three
years.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part II -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th
May 2007.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2007). - Sub-section (4) of section
37 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) empowers
the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to declare a person to be
disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member or president, as the
case may be, if he has failed to lodge an account of election expenses within
the time and in the manner required by or under the said Act and has no good
reason or justification for the failure. Sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
said Act contemplates certain procedure to decide the question of
disqualification of members of panchayats under sections 33, 35, 37, 38 and 40
of the said Act. According to the said sub-section (1) of section 41,
allegation of disqualification against a member should be placed at the next
meeting of the panchayat concerned and if such member does not appeal to the
prescribed judicial authority within two months, he shall become disqualified
from the date of expiry of the said two months. If an appeal is made within
two months, pending decision on such appeal, the member is entitled to act as
if he is qualified. As the provisions in subsection (1) of section 41 appear
to be innocuous yet it limits the absolute power of the Tamil Nadu State
Election Commission under sub-section (4) of section 37, the Government have
decided to amend section 41 of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994, so as to
exclude sub-section (4) of section 37 from the said section 41 in order to
enable the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to exercise its powers under
the said sub-section (4) of section 37 efficaciously.2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th May 2007.Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2007
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2007). - The major sources of assigned revenues to the
Rural Local Bodies are local cess, local cess surcharge, surcharge on stamp
duty, and entertainment tax. It has been observed that there is considerable
delay in adjusting the various assigned revenues by Collectors to the Village
Panchayats and Panchayat Unions. There is also considerable inequity in the
distribution of Government revenues. The Government has been considering the
development of an alternative sharing formula for assigned revenues that
facilitates quick and easy disbursement and is also equitable.2\. On the
recommendation of the Third State Finance Commission, as modified by the
Committee of four Ministers, Government have decided to pool the four main
items of assigned revenues (local cess, local cess surcharge, surcharge on
stamp duty and entertainment tax) at the State level and apportion them among
the three tiers of panchayats by adopting the same formula as done for the
State Finance Commission Grants.3\. In order to achieve the above object, it
has been proposed to amend sections 167,169,175 (3) and (4), 186 (b) and (I),
188 (1) (c)(d) and (m) of, and to insert a new section 175 - A into the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).4\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above objects.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th May 2007.Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu
Act 12 of 2007). - At present, there is no specific provision in the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) to grant paid holidays
on the day of poll, to those who are employed in any business, trade,
industrial undertakings or other establishments and are entitled to vote. In
view of that, during the Panchayat Elections 2006, several instances came to
notice wherein the business, trade, industrial undertakings and other
establishments did not grant a holiday on the day of poll to their employees
who are entitled to vote, which caused untold hardship to the eligible voters.
Therefore, the Government have decided to make a specific provision in the
said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 casting a duty upon the business, trade,
industrial undertakings and other establishments to grant paid holiday on the
day of poll to their employees who are entitled to vote, and also to specify
penalty for contravention thereof, on the lines of the provision contained in
section 135-B of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Central Act 43 of
1951).2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above decision.Published in Part II -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th
May 2007.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 2007). - Section 239 (2) (b) of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 2005)
read as follows: -"The Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner shall hold
office for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-
appointment."Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th May 2007.2\. The High Court of Madras in
its judgment, dated 16th March 2006 in W.P. Nos. 40026 of 2005 and 4323 of
2006 observed that the said provision which gives power to the Government to
re-appoint a State Election Commissioner without any age limit or without any
specific number of terms was totally unreasonable, as it did not accord with
the principles relevant for fixing the age of retirement nor did it serve any
public interest and held that the said amendment was violative of Article 14
of the Constitution.3\. In the light of the Judgment of the High Court of
Madras, the Government have decided to fix the age of retirement of the State
Election Commissioner as 65 years and the term of office of the State Election
Commissioner as two years. He shall be eligible for re-appointment for two
successive terms of two years each so that no person shall hold the office of
State Election Commissioner for more than six years in the aggregate.4\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part II -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th
May 2007.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2007). - As per the provisions of
sub-section (3) of section 188 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the various Village Panchayat Accounts are to be
operated jointly by the President and the Vice-President of the concerned
Village Panchayats. Several instances have come to the notice of the
Government wherein Presidents and Vice-Presidents have issued cheques for
works without the works being measured and bills being passed by the Block
Development Officer concerned. Several other instances of the State Finance
Commission Grant and Central Finance Commission Grant moneys not being used
for payment of dues relating to electricity and water charges, but being
diverted for less important purposes, thereby accumulating huge arrears, have
also come to the notice of the Government.2\. The Government consider that it
is adequate if the President and Vice - President are empowered to operate
only the Village Panchayat Fund Account which caters to the day-to-day as well
as urgent operations of the Village Panchayat. Regarding the operation of
other funds, Government consider that the Village Panchayat President and
another official to be designated by the Government shall sign the cheques
jointly in order to prevent instances of defalcation or diversion of funds of
the kind mentioned above. Accordingly, the Government have decided to amend
the said Act suitably for this purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to
the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th May 2007.Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of
2008). - Of late, a large number of no-confidence motions are being received
against the vice-presidents of the village panchayats and chairmen and vice-
chainnen of the panchayat union councils and District Panchayats. Such large
number of no-confidence motions are unprecedented in the long history of the
local bodies administration of this State. This may be due to better awareness
of the provisions of the statutes on this issue or may be due to the growing
intolerance among the elected representatives of the panchayats, out of
political or personal reasons. However, it may also be attributed to unethical
practices. This trend tends to divert the focus and attention of the
panchayats and administration from the real issues concerning the welfare of
the people such as basic civic needs, infrastructural facilities and other
development oriented initiatives and activities. As a result, smooth and
cordial atmosphere of the panchayats are disturbed and also the conduct of the
meetings of the said panchayats, is affected. This also tends to affect the
administration of the panchayats. Though moving and passing of no-confidence
motions are considered to be democratic rights, frequent use and misuse of the
same will affect the very same democracy.2\. The Government, therefore,
decided to curb the above undesirable trend and accordingly decided to make
the provisions relating to moving and passing of no-confidence motions more
stringent by amending the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994). The Government also decided to abate all motions made expressing
want of confidence and pending before any officer, authority or the
Government, immediately before the 13th December 2007. Accordingly, the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Ordinance, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 9 of
2007) was promulgated by the Governor on the 12th December 2007 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
13th December 2007.3\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published
in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 29th January 2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 2008). - Clause
(b) of section 169 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994) enables the Government to make rules for fixing the proportions in
which the proceeds of local cess, local cess surcharge and surcharge on the
duty on transfers of property shall be distributed among village panchayats,
panchayat union councils and district panchayats. Now, the Government have
decided to distribute the major part of the proceeds of local cess, local cess
surcharge and surcharge on the duty on transfers of property among the said
three tiers of panchayats by adopting the formula applied for apportionment of
the State Finance Commission Grant, and the remaining part of the said
proceeds for the execution of specific schemes, projects, programme or plan in
any village panchayat, panchayat union council or district panchayat. The
Government have also decided to amend section 169 of the said Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994 suitably for the purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 29th January 2008.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 40
of 2008). - As per section 167 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994), local cess is levied at the rate of one rupee on every
rupee of land revenue payable to Government. Similarly, under section 168 of
the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994, every panchayat union council may levy
local cess surcharge which shall not be less than five rupees and more than
ten rupees on every rupee of land revenue.2\. The Second State Finance
Commission has recommended for the enhancement of the rate of local cess from
one rupee to two rupees and the minimum amount of local cess surcharge from
five rupees to seven rupees. Accepting the said recommendation of the State
Finance Commission, the Government have decided to amend sections 167 and 168
of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably for the purpose.3\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th March
2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2008). - According to section 165
of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), district
panchayats have to prepare their annual reports and forward the same to the
Government to be placed on the Table of the Legislative Assembly, together
with their comments thereon. The district panchayats have only got a planning
and advisory role under the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994. The core functions
of actual implementation and execution of schemes are done by the panchayat
unions, and village panchayats and not by the district panchayats. The reports
presently placed on the Table of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly are only
partial as these are pertaining to the district panchayats alone which form
only one of the three tiers of the Panchayat Raj Institutions. These reports
do not give an over all view of the release of funds conduct of elections and
the functioning of all the three tiers of the panchayats in the State and
hence are not substantial enough to be placed before the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly.2\. The Government have, therefore, decided that instead
of laying the reports of the individual district panchayats on the Table of
the Legislative Assembly, a comprehensive annual report on the State of the
Panchayats in Tamil Nadu as a whole, shall be placed on the Table of the
Legislative Assembly. The Government have also decided to amend the said Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably for the purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect
to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th March 2008.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment Act, 2008 (Tamil
Nadu Act 41 of 2008). - At present, the village panchayats are implementing
various centrally sponsored schemes and State funded schemes besides
undertaking works out of the general funds of village panchayats. But, there
is no specific provision in the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) to entrust such schemes to the village panchayats and to
require the president of the village panchayats to execute or implement the
schemes entrusted to the village panchayats. The Government have, therefore,
decided to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 so as to make it mandatory
for the president of village panchayat to execute or implement the schemes
entrusted to the village panchayat.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th March 2008.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 42
of 2008). - Sub-section (1) of section 245 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) provides for the imposition of penalties as
specified in Schedule II to the said Act on any person who contravenes any of
the provisions of the said Act specified in that Schedule and sub-section (2)
of the said section 245 provides for imposition of penalties on any person for
continuing breaches specified in Schedule III to the said Act.2\. The penalty
amounts, which were prescribed during the year 1994, have not been revised
since then and have lost the deterrent effect. The Government have, therefore,
decided to revise the penalties provided in these Schedules by amending the
said Schedules suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 6th May 2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008). -
The 73rd Constitution Amendment Act, 1992 has given constitutional status to
the Local Bodies and also provided for disqualification of elected members of
Panchayat Raj Institution under Article 243-F of Constitution of India.2\. The
Government have decided to incorporate suitable provisions in the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) regarding disqualification
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of a panchayat, similar to the
provisions contained in the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Central
Act 43 of 1951) for disqualification of a member of either House of the State.
The Government have also decided to empower the Government to decide the
question of disqualification for being chosen as, and for being, a member of a
panchayat in consultation with the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission,
similar to those powers vested with the President under the said Central Act
43 of 1951 and also to vest with the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission
powers in connection with enquiries as to disqualification of members of the
panchayats. To give effect to the above decisions, the Government have decided
to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 14th May 2008.Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Eighth Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 2008). - As per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and the rules framed
thereunder, the executive authority of the village panchayat is empowered to
grant licence for erecting hoardings in the local areas of the panchayat and
the panchayat is empowered to fix the licence fee which shall not exceed the
maximum prescribed by the Government. Regarding determination of the rates of
tax on advertisements on such hoardings, the village panchayat is empowered to
determine the same having regard to the location, size, reach and nature of
the advertisement and subject to the rates fixed by the Government in this
behalf. In order to improve the monitoring and regulation of all hoardings and
to ensure effective implementation of the licensing of hoarding, the
Government decided to empower the District Collectors to grant licence, to
determine the advertisement tax and to regulate the advertisement in the
village panchayat and to fix the licensing fee in respect of all licences
required to be obtained under the said Act except in respect of licence for
erecting hoardings for which the fees shall be fixed by the Government, by
amending the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably. Accordingly, the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Eighth Amendment) Ordinance, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 10 of
2008) was promulgated by the Governor on the 28th October 2008 and the same
was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
29th October 2008.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published
in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 11th November 2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Ninth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 59 of 2008). - Clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 96 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) provides for constitution of an Appointments
Committee for every panchayat union, which shall consist of the chairman of
the panchayat union council, the commissioner and one member elected annually
by the panchayat union council. The annual elections to elect a member of
Appointments Committee from among the panchayat union council members are not
being held under the supervision of any independent authority. Further, these
elections lead to disputes resulting in delays in the constitution of
Appointments Committee and are not conducive for the smooth functioning of the
Panchayat Union administration.The vice-chairman of the panchayat union
council is elected from among the panchayat union council members in the
indirect elections conducted by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission which
is an independent Constitutional Body. The Government considers that it would
be appropriate to make the Vice-Chairman of the panchayat union council as the
member of Appointments Committee in the place of the member required to be
elected every year by the panchayat union council members, in order to provide
continuity and stability to the Appointments Committee and avoid changing the
composition every year with a new member. The Government have, therefore,
decided to amend the said section 96 of the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994
suitably for the purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary dated the 13th November 2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 2009). -
According to clause (g) of section 110 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), it shall be the duty of village panchayats to
make reasonable provision for carrying out the sinking and repairing of wells,
the excavation, repair and maintenance of ponds or tanks and the construction
and maintenance of water works for the supply of water for drinking, washing
and bathing purposes. Similarly, clause (aa) of section 112 of the said Act,
envisages the duty of a Panchayat Union Council to provide for the
construction of water works for the supply of water for drinking, washing and
bathing purposes. But in practice, village ponds alone are maintained by the
village panchayats and the tanks are maintained by the Panchayat Unions.
Therefore in order to vest the duty of maintenance of ponds alone with village
panchayats and to empower the Panchayat Unions to maintain the tanks, the
Government have decided to amend section 110 (g) and section 112 (aa) of the
said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to
the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1, page 63 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th June 2009.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2009
(Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 2009). - The National Commission for Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes in its Seventh Report has recommended the following: -"In
case of elective offices such as Parliament/Legislative Assembly/Municipal
Corporation/Panchayat, the false caste certificate holder should be
immediately sacked from the post/chair and must be debarred from contesting
election for at least 6 years, besides the punishment provided under law."2\.
The Government of India have requested the State Government to take suitable
action, on the above said recommendation. Therefore, the Government have
decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994), so as to give effect to the said recommendation of the National
Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.3\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1, page 66 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th June
2009.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 2009). - Under the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of the 1994) panchayat unions and
district panchayats are divided into territorial constituencies or "Wards",
with each ward represented by only one member is the case with the urban local
bodies such as municipal corporations, municipalities and town panchayats.
However, in the case of village panchayats, section 12 of the said Act
provides for election of multi-members from a single ward of a village
panchayat. This system of multi-member wards is in existence in village
panchayats only and it has posed several difficulties.2\. The Third High Level
Committee headed by the Hon'ble Minister for Rural Development and Local
Administration observed that the village panchayat wards are very small both
in terms of area and population and hence the multi-member ward system is not
sound, and has recommended that the present system of multi-member village
panchayat wards should be abolished and replaced with single-member wards. The
Government have accepted the recommendation of the said committee and decided
to amend section 12 of the said Act so as to elect only one member from each
ward of village panchayat and to make a provision to enable the existing
elected members in each ward of the village panchayats to continue as members
till the expiry of their current term of office fill up the casual vacancies
in the office of such members in accordance with the provisions of the said
Act and the rules made thereunder.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part II - Section 1, page 68 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th June 2009.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2009
(Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009). - In the Budget speech for the year 2009-2010 it
has been announced as follows: -"Under the existing system of land revenue
collection, which has been in vogue for a long period, Local Cess, Local Cess
Surcharge and Water Cess are being collected along with the land revenue. As
this tax serves as proof of possession of farmers over their land holdings,
hereafter only a nominal sum shall be levied as 'Land Revenue'. By simplifying
the present cumbersome system, land revenue of Rs. 21 per acre of dry land as
against an average levy of Rs. 15 per acre at present and Rs. 5 per acre of
wet land as against an average levy of Rs. 50 per acre at present, shall be
levied from the coming fasli year. Farmers shall not be burdened with any
other levy such as Local Cess and Local Cess Surcharge. About 50 lakhs farmers
will benefit from this measure".2\. To give effect to the above announcement,
the Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) so as to do away with the levy of local cess and
local cess surcharge.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part II - Section 1, page 91 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th July 2009.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2012. - An
announcement was made on the floor of the Legislative Assembly by the Hon'ble
Minister (Municipal Administration and Rural Development) that the Government
will sanction monthly honorarium to the Presidents of Village Panchayats.
Accordingly, the Government have decided to make necessary provision in the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) by amending
section 82 of the said Act suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above said decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 2012. - In Tamil Nadu, 3% of the population are
differently-abled. Among the differently-abled, there are many people with
high educational qualification and capability of communication skills.
However, deaf-mute category of people are disqualified to contest the
elections under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994), which is not justifiable. Therefore, the Government have decided to
amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994 by omitting the expression "or a
deaf-mute" in clause (a) of sub-section (3) of sections 37 and 38 of the said
Act.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2012. - It
has been brought to the notice of the Government that unfortunate death of a
school student has occurred due to lack of safety measures in construction and
maintenance of swimming pools. The Government therefore, consider that there
is an imperative need to evolve meaningful and comprehensive measures to
ensure the safety and security of the users of the swimming pools,
particularly in educational institutions. Accordingly, to effectively regulate
the construction, maintenance and monitoring of swimming pools, the Government
have decided to suitably amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994).2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment)
Act, 2014. - Fatal accidents and death of small children have occurred due to
the careless attitude of the owners of bore wells, tube wells and open wells
and the agencies carrying on the business of sinking such wells. Hence, in
order to regulate the sinking of bore wells, tube wells and open wells, the
Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment)
Act, 2016. - The Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994)
provides for reservation of one third of total number of the seats and offices
for women in Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District
Panchayats. The Government have considered it necessary to increase the
percentage of reservation for women from one third of the total number of
seats and offices to fifty per cent so as to promote women empowerment and
facilitate the participation of women in rural development. Accordingly, the
Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably for the said purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2016. - According to the provisions of
Section 8,19,26,27 and 28 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994), the number of elected members to be returned to the village
panchayats, Panchayat union councils and District Panchayats and the
territorial wards and its extent, shall be determined based on the 2011
population census figures. Following the enhancement of reservation for women
in rural local bodies from one-third to fifty per cent of the total seats and
offices, the District Collectors who are the Inspectors of Panchayats have
taken up the work of revising the reservation of seats and offices for women
in the village panchayats, Panchayat unions and district panchayats based on
2011 population census figure for conduct of ordinary elections to rural local
bodies in the year 2016. Similarly, as per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Reservation of seats and rotation of reserved seats) Rules, 1995
rotation in reservation of seats and offices for village panchayats, panchayat
unions and district panchayats have to be followed in the ordinary elections
to rural local bodies in the year 2016. Due to such huge exercises at the
grassroots level, a fresh delimitation and rotation in reservation of seats
and offices of all the village panchayats, panchayat unions and district
panchayats, based on 2011 population census figures cannot be completed before
the next ordinary elections to the rural local bodies, which is scheduled to
be conducted before 24th October 2016. The Government have, therefore, decided
to conduct the said ordinary election to the rural local bodies, based on the
existing territorial area of wards of the panchayats, number of wards, the
number of members to be returned from such wards and to amend the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994, (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) suitably, for the said
purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Received the
assent of the Governor on the 22nd April 1994 and published in Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Part IV, section 2, Issue No. 214, dated
the 22nd April 1994.An Act to repeal and re-enact the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
Act, 1958.Whereas it is expedient to repeal and re-enact the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1958, for establishing a three-tier Panchayat Raj system in
the State to the elected bodies at the village, intermediate and district
level in keeping with the Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992,
relating to Panchayats for greater participation of the people so as to make
them Institutions of self-government and for more effective implementation of
rural development programmes;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-fifth year of the Republic of India as
follows: -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1\. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994.(2)It extends to
the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu except, -(i)the City of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(ii)the City of Madurai constituted
under the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1971);(iii)the City of Coimbatore constituted under the Coimbatore City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981);(iv)the
Municipalities, Town Panchayats and Industrial Townships constituted under the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920);
and(v)the Cantonments constituted under the Cantonments Act, 1924 [(Central
Act II of 1924)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Cantonment
Act, 2003.].(3)It shall come into force on such [date] [Came into force on
22.4.1994 vide G.O. Ms. No. 84, R.D. (Cl), dated 22.4.1994.] as the Government
may, by notification, appoint.

### 2\. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)[ "Backward Classes
of Citizens" shall have the same meaning as defined in clause (a) of section 3
of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
(Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts
in the Services under the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994);]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995.](1-A) "building" includes a house,
out-house, tent, stable, latrine, shed, hut, wall (other than a boundary wall
not exceeding 2.5 metres in height) and any other such structure, whether of
masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or any other material whatsoever;(2)"casual
vacancy" means a vacancy occurring otherwise than by efflux of time and
"casual election" means an election held to fill a casual
vacancy;(3)"Chairman" means the Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council or a
District Panchayat, as the case may be;(4)[***] [The words 'Chief Executive
Officer means the Chief Executive Officer of a District Panchayat' omitted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1998).](5)"Collector" means the Collector of a revenue
district;(6)"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of a Panchayat
Union;(7)"Company" means a company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956
(Central Act 1 of 1956) and includes a foreign company within the meaning of
section 591 of that Act;(8)"District" means a revenue district;(9)"District
Panchayat" means the District Panchayat constituted under sub-section (1) of
section 24;(10)"Drain" means a rain or storm water drain and water tables,
chutes and the side drain exclusively meant to drain away the rain water
falling on the surface of any street, bridge or causeway, but does not include
a drain or sewer within the meaning of the [Chennai] [For the word 'Madras'
was substituted by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996.]
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1978);(11)[ "Executive Authority" means a person notified as such by the
Government under section 83;] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996).](12)"Government" means the
State Government of Tamil Nadu;(13)"Grama Sabha" means a body consisting of
persons registered in the electoral rolls relating to a Panchayat Village
comprised within the area of Village Panchayat concerned;(14)"House" means a
building fit for human occupation, whether as a residence or otherwise, having
a separate principal entrance from the common way and includes any shop,
workshop or warehouse or any building used for garaging or parking buses or as
a bus-stand;(15)"Hut" means any building which is constructed principally of
wood, mud, leaves, grass or thatch and includes any temporary structure of
whatever size or any small building of whatever material made, which the
Panchayat may declare to be a hut for the purposes of this Act;(16)"Inspector"
means any officer not below the rank of a Collector appointed by the
Government to exercise or perform any of the powers or duties of the Inspector
under this Act;(17)"Latrine" includes privy, water-closet and
urinal;(18)"Member" means a member of the Village Panchayat, the Panchayat
Union Council or the District Panchayat, as the case may be;(19)"Ordinary
vacancy" means a vacancy occurring by efflux of time and "ordinary election"
means an election held to fill an ordinary vacancy;(20)"Owner" includes-(a)the
person for the time being receiving or entitled to receive whether on his own
account or on behalf of another person as agent, trustee, guardian, manager or
receiver or for any religious or charitable purpose, the rents or profits of
the property in connection with which the word is used; and(b)the person for
the time being in charge of the animal or vehicle in connection with which the
word is used;(21)"Panchayat" means a Village Panchayat, a Panchayat Union
Council or a District Panchayat constituted under this Act;(22)"Panchayat
Development Block" means the area declared by the Government, from time to
time, to be a Panchayat Development Block for the purpose of this
Act;(23)"Panchayat Union" means any local area which is declared to be a
Panchayat Union under this Act;(24)"Panchayat Union Council" means the body
constituted for the administration of a Panchayat Union under this
Act;(25)"Panchayat Village" means any local area over which a Village
Panchayat has jurisdiction;(26)"President" means the President of a Village
Panchayat;(27)"Private road" means any street, road, square, court, alley,
passage, cart-track, foot-path or riding-path which is not a 'public road',
but does not include a path-way made by the owner of premises on his own land
to secure, access to, or the convenient use of, such premises;(28)"Public
road" means any street, road, square, court, alley, passage, cart-track, foot-
path or riding-path, over which the public have a right of way, whether a
thoroughfare or not, and includes-(a)the roadway over any public bridge or
causeway;(b)the footway attached to any such road, public bridge or causeway;
and(c)the drains attached to any such road, public bridge or causeway, and the
land, whether covered or not by any pavement, veranda, or other structure,
which lies on either side of the roadway up to the boundaries of the adjacent
property, whether that property is private property or property belonging to
the State or Central Government;(29)a person is deemed to have his residence
or to reside in any house if he sometimes uses any portion thereof as a
sleeping apartment, and a person is not deemed to cease to reside in any such
house merely because he is absent from it or has elsewhere another dwelling in
which he resides, if he is at liberty to return to such house at any time and
has not abandoned his intention of returning;(30)"Revenue district" means any
local area which, for the purposes of revenue administration, is under the
charge of a Collector, after excluding therefrom all areas included in-(a)the
City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).];(b)the City of
Madurai constituted under the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971);(c)the City of Coimbatore constituted under the
Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of
1981);(d)the Municipalities, Town Panchayats and Industrial Townships
constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu
Act V of 1920); and(e)the Cantonments constituted under the [Cantonments Act,
1924 (Central Act II of 1924)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as
the Cantonments Act, 2006 (Central Act 41 of 2003).];(31)"Scheduled Castes"
shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;(32)"Scheduled Tribes"
shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;[(32-a) "Secretary" means
the Secretary of a District Panchayat;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).][***] [[Clause (32-b)
omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006 w.e.f. 14-7-2006.Before omission it was
read as: 'Special Village Panchayat' means the Special Village Panchayat
referred to in sub-section (4) of section 6;]](33)["Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission"] [Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] means the
[Tamil Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the words 'State
Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] referred to in section 239;(34)["Tamil Nadu State
Election Commissioner"] [Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission'
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).]
means the 7[Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner] referred to in section
239;(35)"Unreserved forest" means a forest not notified under section 4 of the
Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1882 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1882) and includes unreserved
land at the disposal of the Government;(36)"Village" means any local area
which is declared to be a Panchayat Village under sub-section (1) of section
4, and 'revenue village' means any local area which is recognized as a village
in the revenue accounts of Government after excluding therefrom the areas, if
any, included in-(a)the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).];(b)the City of Madurai constituted under the Madurai City Municipal
Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971);(c)the City of Coimbatore
constituted under the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 25 of 1981);(d)the Municipalities, Town Panchayats and Industrial
Townships constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920
(Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920); and(e)the Cantonments constituted under the
Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924)1;(37)"Village Panchayat" means
a Panchayat constituted as Village Pancha-yat under sub-section (1) of section
6; [***] [The words 'and includes a Special Village Panchayat' were added by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2004)
and omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu
Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14.7.2006.](38)"Water-course" includes any river,
stream or channel, whether natural or artificial;(39)"Year" means the
financial year.

## Chapter II  
Grama Sabha

### 3\. Grama Sabha.

(1)There shall be a Grama Sabha for every Village Panchayat consisting of
persons registered in the electoral roll relating to the Panchayat Village,
comprised within the area of the said Village Panchayat.(2)[ Subject to the
general orders of the Government, the Grama Sabha shall meet at least twice in
a year, but six months shall not intervene between any two meetings.(2-A)
Every meeting of the Grama Sabha shall be convened by the President of the
Village Panchayat. If the President fails to convene the meeting of the Grama
Sabha, the Inspector shall convene the meeting.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).](3)(a)The
Grama Sabha shall, -(i)approve the village plan;(ii)approve the village budget
for the year; [***] [The word 'and' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).][(ii-a) approve the
audit report on the Village Panchayat accounts of the previous year; and]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).](iii)review the progress of the implementation of all schemes
entrusted to the Village Panchayat.(b)The Government may, by notification,
entrust to the Grama Sabha such other functions as may be specified.(4)The
Village Panchayat shall give due consideration to the recommendations and
suggestions of the Grama Sabha.(5)The quorum for a meeting [***] [The words
'of the Grama Sabha shall be one-third of the total number of the members of
the Grama Sabha' were omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act,
1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and the procedure for convening and
conducting such meetings of the Grama Sabha shall be such as may be
prescribed.(6)Every meeting of the Grama Sabha shall be presided over by the
President and in his absence, by the Vice-President and in the absence of both
the President and Vice-President, by a member chosen by the members present at
the meeting.

## Chapter III  
Formation and Constitution of Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and
District Panchayats

### 4\. Formation of Panchayat Villages.

(1)The Inspector, -(a)shall, by notification, classify and declare every local
area comprising a revenue village or villages or any portion of a revenue
village or contiguous portions of two or more revenue villages [***] [The
words 'with a population estimated at not less than five hundred' were omitted
by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of
2006) with effect from 14.7.2006.] as a Panchayat Village for the purposes of
this Act; and(b)shall, by notification, specify the name of such Panchayat
Village.(2)(a)The Inspector may, by [notification,] [See Rules issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 147, Rural Development (C4), dated 21st July, 1999 at page 575 and
published in Part III, section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 23rd July, 1999.] exclude from a Panchayat Village any
area comprised therein [***] [The words 'provided that the population of the
Panchayat Village after such exclusion, is not less than five hundred' were
omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act
17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14.7.2006.].(b)[ In regard to any area excluded under
clause (a), the Inspector may, by notification under sub-section (1), declare
it to be a Panchayat Village or include it in any contiguous Panchayat Village
under clause (c)(i).] [Clause (b) substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14.7.2006.](c)The
Inspector may, by notification, -(i)include in a Panchayat Village any local
area contiguous thereto; or(ii)cancel or modify a notification issued under
sub-section (1); or(iii)alter the name of any Panchayat Village specified
under sub-section (1).(d)Before issuing a notification under clause (a) or
under clause (b) read with sub-section (1) or under clause (c), the Inspector
shall give the Village Panchayat or Village Panchayats which will be affected
by the issue of such notification, a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the proposal and shall consider the explanations and objections, if
any, of such Village Panchayat or Village Panchayats.(3)Any rate-payer or
inhabitant of such area or any Village Panchayat concerned, may, if he or it
objects to any notification under sub-section (1) or subsection (2), appeal to
the Government within such period [as may be prescribed.] [See Rules issued in
G. O. Ms. No. 203, Rural Development (C4), dated 28th September 1999 at page
663 and published in Part III, section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated 8th October 1999.](4)The Inspector may pass such
orders as he may deem fit -(a)as to the disposal of the property vested in a
Village Panchayat which has ceased to exist and the discharge of its
liabilities;(b)as to the disposal of any part of the property vested in a
Village Panchayat which has ceased to exercise jurisdiction over any local
area, and the discharge of the liabilities of the Village Panchayat relating
to such property or arising from such local area.(5)An order made under sub-
section (4) may contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential
provisions as the Inspector may deem necessary, and, in particular, may direct
-(i)that any tax, fee or other sum due to the Village Panchayat or where a
Village Panchayat has ceased to exercise jurisdiction over any local area,
such tax, fee or other sum due to the Village Panchayat as relates to that
area shall be payable to such authorities as may be specified in the
order;(ii)that appeals, petitions, or other applications with reference to any
such tax, fee or sum which are pending on the date on which the Village
Panchayat ceased to exist or, as the case may be, on the date on which the
Village Panchayat cease to exercise jurisdiction over the local area, shall be
disposed of by such authorities as may be specified in the order.

### 4A. [ Special provisions relating to Town Panchayat constituted as Village
Panchayat. [Section 4-A was inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1998).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, -(a)the Chairman and
members of a Town Panchayat holding office as such immediately before the date
of constitution of such Town Panchayat as Village Panchayat under this Act
consequent on the cancellation or modification of the notification declaring
it as Town Panchayat under section 3-B of the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), shall be deemed to be the
elected President and members of such Village Panchayat under this Act and
such President and members shall continue to hold office up to such date as
the Government may, by notification, fix in this behalf or in case no such
date is fixed, up to the date on which their term of office would expire under
the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920),
if they had been elected as Chairman or members of the Town Panchayat and such
President and members shall exercise all powers and perform all duties
conferred on the President and members by or under the provisions of this
Act:Provided that such Village Panchayat shall have no representation in the
Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat, as the case may be, till
such President and members of the Village Panchayat continue to hold office as
such President and members under this sub-section;(b)all the employees, other
than the provincialised employees, of the Town Panchayat immediately before
its constitution as Village Panchayat shall be the employees of such Village
Panchayat under this Act. The provincialised employees shall continue to serve
under the Village Panchayat and they shall be transferred by the Director of
Town Panchayats within three months from the date on which such Village
Panchayat is constituted under this Act.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-
section (1), the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder shall
apply to the Village Panchayat referred to in sub-section (1).]

### 5\. Extension of provisions of Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act,
1920 or of any Rules made thereunder.

(1)The Inspector may, whether at the request of the Village Panchayat or
otherwise, by notification, declare that any of the provisions of the Tamil
Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) or of any
Rules made thereunder, shall be extended to, and be in force in, the Panchayat
Village or any specified area therein.(2)The provisions so notified shall be
construed with such alterations (not affecting the substance) as may be
necessary or proper for the purpose of adapting them to the Panchayat Village
or specified area therein.(3)Without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing provision, all references in the provisions so notified to a
Municipal Council or the Chairman or the Executive Authority thereof shall be
construed as references to the Village Panchayat or the President or the
Executive Authority of the Village Panchayat and all references to any officer
or servant of a Municipal Council as references to the corresponding officer
or servant of the Village Panchayat, and all references to the municipal
limits as references to the limits of the Panchayat Village or specified area
therein, as the case may be.

### 6\. Constitution of Village Panchayats and their incorporation.

(1)A Village Panchayat shall be constituted for each Panchayat Village
consisting of such number of elected members, with effect from such date as
may be specified in the notification issued in that behalf by the
Inspector.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the administration of the
Panchayat Village shall vest in the Village Panchayat, but the Village
Panchayat shall not be entitled to exercise functions expressly assigned by or
under this Act or any other law to its President or to any Panchayat Union
Council or the District Panchayat or other authority.(3)Every Village
Panchayat shall be a body corporate by the name of the Panchayat Village
specified in the notification issued under section 4, shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal, and subject to any restriction or qualification
imposed by or under this Act or any other law, shall be vested with the
capacity of suing or being sued in its corporate name, of acquiring, holding
and transferring property, movable or immovable, of entering into contracts,
and of doing all things necessary, proper or expedient for the purposes for
which it is constituted.[[(4)] [Sub-sections (4) and (5) were substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of
2004).]...](5)The Government may, by notification, classify the [***] [In sub-
section (5) the expression 'Special Village Panchayats referred to in sub-
section (4) and' - Omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act,
2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14-7-2006.] Village Panchayats into
various grades for the purpose of effective administration of the said Village
Panchayats in accordance with such norms as may be prescribed.

### 7\. Alteration of classification of Panchayat Villages.

(1)The Government may alter any classification notified under sub-section (1)
of section 4 [***] [The words 'if in their opinion the Panchayat Village
satisfies or ceases to satisfy the, conditions referred to in that sub-
section' were omitted by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006
(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14-7-2006.].(2)Any decision made by the
Government under this section shall not be questioned in a Court of law.

### 8\. Strength of a Village Panchayat.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 12 or any other provisions of
this Act, the total number of members of a Village Panchayat (exclusive of its
President) shall be notified by the Inspector in accordance with such scale as
may be prescribed with reference to population of the Panchayat Village
concerned, [as ascertained at the last preceding] [See Rules issued in GO. Ms.
No. 149, Rural Development (C4), dated 21st July 1999 at page 381 and
published in Part III, section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 23rd July, 1999.] census of which the relevant figures
have been published.(2)The Inspector may, from time to time, by notification,
alter the total number of members of a Village Panchayat notified under sub-
section (1).(3)The number notified under sub-section (1) or the number as
altered by notification under sub-section (2) shall not be less than five or
more than [fifteen] [Substituted for the expression 'twenty-one' vide Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f.
14-7-2006.].

### 9\. Duration of Village Panchayats.

(1)Every Village Panchayat unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for five
years from the date appointed for its first meeting after each ordinary
election and no longer.(2)Where a Village Panchayat is dissolved before the
expiration of the said period of five years, election to constitute such
Village Panchayat shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of
section 214 as soon as may be, and in any case before the expiration of a
period of six months from the date of such dissolution:Provided that where a
Village Panchayat is dissolved within six months before the expiration of the
said period of five years, it shall not be necessary to hold any election to
such Village Panchayat.

### 9A. [ Appointment of Special Officer in certain circumstances. [Section
9-A inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 3
of 2002) w.e.f. 25-10-2001.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, in respect of Village Panchayats specified in Schedule-
VI, which [could not be constituted] even after resorting to election process,
the Government may, by notification, appoint Special Officers to exercise the
powers and discharge the functions of the Village Panchayats, until the day on
which the first meeting of the Village Panchayats are held after elections to
the said Village Panchayats.(2)The Special Officer appointed under sub-section
(1) shall hold office only [up to the 24th day of April, 2004] [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 2003)
w.e.f. 17-10-2003.], [24th day of October, 2004] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 2004) w.e.f.
23-10-2004.], [24th day of April 2005] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Act, 2004 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 2004) w.e.f. 23-10-2004.],
[24th day of October 2005] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2005) w.e.f. 25-4-2005.], [24th day
of April 2006] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2006
(Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 2006) w.e.f. 25-10-2005.], [24th day of October 2006]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu
Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f. 14-7-2006.] or for such shorter period as the
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.]

### 9B. [ Appointment of Special Officer to certain Village Panchayats. [Added
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 2005)
w.e.f. 6-3-2005.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by notification, appoint a Special
Officer to the Village Panchayats specified in Schedule VII, which could not
be reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act on the 6th day
of March 2005, to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the said
Village Panchayats.(2)The Special Officer appointed under sub-section (1)
shall hold office for a period of [one year and eight months] or until the
date on which the first meeting of the re-constituted Village Panchayats are
held after election to the said Village Panchayats, whichever is earlier.]

### 9C. [ Appointment of Special Officer in certain circumstances. [Inserted
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of
2006).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, in respect of Village Panchayat, which could not be
constituted on the 25th day of October 2006, even after resorting to election
process, the Inspector may, by notification, appoint a Special Officer, to
exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the said Village Panchayat,
until the day on which the first meeting of the said Village Panchayat is held
after election to the said Village Panchayat.]

### 10\. Election of members of Village Panchayat.

\- The members of the Village Panchayat shall be elected in such manner as may
be prescribed:[Provided that no person shall be eligible to be elected as a
member of more than one ward in the same Village Panchayat or as a member of
more than one Village Panchayat:] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996).][Provided further that a
person who stands for election as a member of a Village Panchayat shall not be
eligible to stand for election as President of a Village Panchayat, a member
of a Panchayat Union Council or a Member of a District Panchayat:Provided also
that no member of a Village Panchayat shall be eligible to stand for election
as President of a Village Panchayat, a member of a Panchayat Union Council or
a District Panchayat.] [Added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act,
1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995).]

### 11\. Reservation of seats.

(1)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes in every Village Panchayat and the number of seats so
reserved shall bear as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total
number of seats to be filled by direct election in that Village Panchayat as
the population of the Scheduled Castes in that Village Panchayat area or of
the Scheduled Tribes in that Village Panchayat area bears to the total
population of that area:Provided that, for the first election for the Village
Panchayat to be held immediately after the commencement of this Act, the
provisional population figures of the Panchayat Village as published in
relation to 1991 census shall be deemed to be the population of the Panchayat
Village.(2)Seats shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes from among the seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which shall not be
less than [fifty per cent] [Substituted for 'one- third' by Act No. 5 of 2016,
dated 27.2.2016.] of the total number of seats reserved for the persons
belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.[***] [Sub-sections (2-A)
and (2-B) omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1996.](3)Seats shall be reserved for
women in the Village Panchayat and the number of seats reserved for women
shall be, as nearly as may be, [fifty per cent] [Substituted for 'one-third'
by Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 27.2.2016.] [including the number of seats
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 15 of 1996).] of the total number of seats in the Village
Panchayat:Provided that such seats reserved for women shall be allotted by
rotation to different wards in such a manner as the Inspector may, by
notification, direct.(4)The reservation of seats under sub-sections (1) and
(2) shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in
Article 334 of the Constitution.

### 12\. [ Division of Panchayat Village into wards. [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 2009).]

(1)For the purpose of election of members to a village panchayat, the
Inspector may, after consulting the village panchayat, by notification, divide
the panchayat village into wards in accordance with such scale as may be
prescribed.(2)Only one member shall be elected from each ward.]

### 13\. Term of office of members.

(1)The term of office of the members of every Village Panchayat who are
elected at ordinary elections, shall, save as otherwise expressly provided, be
five years from the date appointed for the first meeting of such Village
Panchayat after ordinary election.(2)Ordinary vacancies in the office of an
elected member of the Village Panchayat shall be filled at ordinary elections
which shall be fixed by the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner]
[Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] to take place on
such day or days within six months before the occurrence of the ordinary
vacancies, as he thinks fit.(3)The member of a Village Panchayat elected in a
casual vacancy shall enter upon office forthwith, but shall hold office only
so long as the member in whose place he is elected would have been entitled to
hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.

### 14\. Electoral roll for Village Panchayats.

(1)Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the electoral roll of the
Panchayat Union Council for the time being in force in a Panchayat Village
shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for such Village Panchayat.(2)No
amendment, transposition or deletion of any entry in the electoral roll of the
Panchayat Union Council made after the last date of making nominations for an
election in any Village Panchayat ward and before the notification of the
result of such election, shall form part of the electoral roll for such
election for the purpose of this section.(3)The Executive Authority of the
Village Panchayat shall maintain in the prescribed manner, an electoral roll
for each ward of the Panchayat Village.Panchayat Union Councils

### 15\. Formation of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)The Government may, from time to time, publish a notification of their
intention, -(a)to declare any local area forming a development block for the
purposes of the National Extension Service Scheme or Community Development, to
be a Panchayat Development Block; and(b)to constitute for every such Panchayat
Development Block a Panchayat Union.(2)Any inhabitant of a local area in
respect of which any such notification has been published may submit his
objection in writing to anything contained in the notification to the
Government within six weeks from the publication of the notification and the
Government shall take all such objections into consideration.(3)After the
expiry of six weeks from the publication of the notification and after
considering the objections, if any, which have been submitted, the Government
may, by notification -(a)declare the local area to be a Panchayat Development
Block;(b)declare the said Panchayat Development Block to be a Panchayat Union;
and(c)specify the name of the Panchayat Union.(4)The Government may, by
notification, -(i)exclude from a Panchayat Development Block any area or
Village comprised therein, or(ii)include in a Panchayat Development Block any
area contiguous to it, or(iii)cancel or modify a notification issued under
sub-section (3), or(iv)alter the name of a Panchayat Union.(5)Before issuing a
notification under sub-section (4), the Government shall consult the District
Panchayat concerned and give the Panchayat Union Council or Panchayat Union
Councils and the Village Panchayat or Village Panchayats which will be
affected by the issue of such notification, a reasonable opportunity for
showing cause against the proposal and shall consider their explanations and
objections, if any.(6)The Government may pass such orders as they may deem fit
-(a)for the disposal of the assets of, or institutions belonging to, the
Panchayat Union Council which has ceased to exist and for the discharge of the
liabilities, if any, of such Panchayat Union Council relating to such assets
or institutions, or(b)for the disposal of any part of the assets of, or
institutions belonging to, a Panchayat Union Council which has ceased to
exercise jurisdiction over any Panchayat Development Block and for the
discharge of the liabilities, if any, of the Panchayat Union Council relating
to such assets or institutions.(7)An order made under sub-section (6) may
contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions as the
Government may deem necessary, and, in particular, may direct -(i)that any
tax, fee or other sum due to the Panchayat Union Council or where a Panchayat
Union Council has ceased to exercise jurisdiction over any Panchayat
Development Block, such tax, fee or other sum due to the Panchayat Union
Council as relates to that block shall be payable to such authorities as may
be specified in the order;(ii)that appeals, petitions or other applications
with reference to any such tax, fee or sum which are pending on the date on
which the Panchayat Union Council ceased to exist, or as the case may be, on
the date on which the Panchayat Union Council ceased to exercise jurisdiction
over the Panchayat Development Block, shall be disposed of by such authorities
as may be specified in the order.

### 16\. Constitution of Panchayat Union Councils and their incorporation.

(1)A Panchayat Union Council shall be constituted for each Panchayat Union
with effect from such date as may be specified in the notification issued in
that behalf by the Government.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
administration of the Panchayat Union shall vest in the Panchayat Union
Council, but the Panchayat Union Council shall not be entitled to exercise
functions expressly assigned by or under this Act or any other law to its
Chairman or the Commissioner or to the Village Panchayat or District Panchayat
or any other authority:Provided that if and so long as there is no Village
Panchayat in any part of a Panchayat Union, the Panchayat Union Council shall
exercise all the powers including the power of taxation, discharge the duties,
perform the functions and be credited with the receipts and debited with the
charges of the Village Panchayat, and the Chairman and the Commissioner of the
Panchayat Union Council shall exercise the powers, discharge the duties and
perform the function of the President and the Executive Authority,
respectively, in such part of the Panchayat Development Block.(3)Every
Panchayat Union Council shall be a body corporate by the name of the Panchayat
Union specified in the notification issued under section 15, shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal, and subject to any restriction or
qualification imposed by or under this Act or any other law, shall be vested
with the capacity of suing or being sued in its corporate name, of acquiring,
holding and transferring property, movable or immovable, of entering into
contracts, and of doing all things necessary, proper or expedient for the
purposes for which it is constituted.

### 17\. [ Strength of a Panchayat Union Council. [Section 17 was substituted
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1996).]

\- A Panchayat Union Council constituted for any Panchayat Union shall consist
of the elected members as notified under section 19.]

### 18\. Duration of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)Every Panchayat Union Council unless sooner dissolved shall continue for
five years from the date appointed for its first meeting after each ordinary
election and no longer.(2)Where a Panchayat Union Council is dissolved before
the expiration of the said period of five years, election to re-constitute
such Panchayat Union Council shall be completed in accordance with the
provisions of section 215 as soon as may be, and, in any case, before the
expiration of a period of six months from the date of such
dissolution:Provided that where a Panchayat Union Council is dissolved within
six months before the expiration of the said period of five years, it shall
not be necessary to hold any election to such Panchayat Union Council.

### 18A. [ Appointment of Special Officer to Panchayat Union Council in
certain circumstances. [Section 18-A inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, in respect of Manachanallur Panchayat Union Council,
which cannot be re-constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act
on or before the 11th day of June 2004, the Government may, by notification,
appoint a Special Officer to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of
the said Panchayat Union Council and of its Chairman until the day on which
the first meeting of the re-constituted Panchayat Union Council is held after
election to the said Panchayat Union Council.(2)The Special Officer appointed
under sub-section (1) shall hold office for six months or for such shorter
period as the Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.]

### 18B. [ Appointment of Special Officer to Yercaud Panchayat Union Council.
[Section 18-B inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil
Nadu Act 6 of 2005) with effect from 6-3-2005.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by notification, appoint a Special
Officer to the Yercaud Panchayat Union Council, which could not be
reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act on the 6th day of
March 2005, to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the said
Panchayat Union Council and of its Chairman.(2)The Special Officer appointed
under sub-section (1) shall hold office for a period of [one year and eight
months] or until the date on which the first meeting of the re-constituted
Panchayat Union Council is held after election to the said Panchayat Union
Council, whichever is earlier.]

### 19\. [ Election of members of Panchayat Union Council. [Section 19 was
substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1996).]

\- Every Panchayat Union Council shall consist of persons elected from the
wards in the Panchayat Union, as may be notified from time to time by the
Government [at the rate of one member for such population as may be
prescribed] of the Panchayat Union area as ascertained in the last preceding
census of which the relevant figures have been published. Such a ward of the
Panchayat Union area may either comprise a full ward or one or more wards of
the Village Panchayats:Provided that no person shall be eligible to be elected
as a member of more than one ward in the same Panchayat Union or as a member
of more than one Panchayat Union Council under this Act:Provided further that
a person who stands for election as a member of a Panchayat Union Council
shall not be eligible to stand for election as a member of a Village
Panchayat, President of a Village Panchayat or a member of a District
Panchayat:Provided also that no member of a Panchayat Union Council shall be
eligible to stand for election as a member of a Village Panchayat, President
of a Village Panchayat or a member of a District Panchayat.]

### 20\. Reservation of seats.

(1)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes in every Panchayat Union Council and the number of
seats so reserved shall bear as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the
total number of seats to be filled by the direct election in that Panchayat
Union Council as the population of the Scheduled Castes in that Panchayat
Union area or of the Scheduled Tribes in that Panchayat Union area bears to
the total population of that area:Provided that, for the first election for
the Panchayat Union Council to be held immediately after the commencement of
this Act, the provisional population figures of the Panchayat Union as
published in relation to 1991 census shall be deemed to be the population of
that Panchayat Union.(2)Seats shall be reserved for women belonging to the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes from among the seats reserved for
the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which
shall not be less than [fifty per cent] [Substituted for 'one-third' by Act
No. 5 of 2016, dated 27.2.2016.] of the total number of seats reserved for the
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.[***] [The
sub-sections (2-A) and (2-B) omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1996).](3)Seats
shall be reserved for women in the Panchayat Union Council and the number of
seats reserved for women shall not be less than [fifty per cent] [Substituted
for 'one-third' by Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 27.2.2016.] (including the number
of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes of the total number of seats in the Panchayat Union Council:Provided
that such seats reserved for women shall be allotted by rotation to different
wards in such manner as the Inspector may, by notification, direct.(4)The
reservation of seats under sub-sections (1) and (2) shall cease to have effect
on the expiration of the period specified in Article 334 of the Constitution.

### 21\. Division of Panchayat Union into wards.

(1)For the purpose of election of members to the Panchayat Union Council, the
Inspector shall, after consulting the Panchayat Union Council, by
notification, divide the Panchayat Union area into wards, and determine the
number of members to be elected in accordance with such scale as may be
prescribed.(2)Only one member shall be elected from each ward.

### 22\. Term of office of members.

(1)Except as otherwise provided in this Act, members of the Panchayat Union
Council elected at an ordinary election shall hold office for a term of five
years.

### 23\. Electoral roll for Panchayat Union Council.

(1)Subject to the provision of sub-section (2), the electoral roll of the
District Panchayat for the time being in force for such part of the Panchayat
Union shall be deemed to be the electoral roll for such Panchayat Union
Council.(2)No amendment, transposition or deletion of any entry in the
electoral roll of the District Panchayat made after last date for making
nominations for an election in any Panchayat Union Council ward and before the
notification of the result of such election, shall form part of the electoral
roll for such election, for the purpose of this section.(3)The Commissioner of
Panchayat Union Council shall maintain in the prescribed manner, electoral
roll for each ward in the Panchayat Union.District Panchayats

### 24\. Formation and incorporation of District Panchayat.

(1)The Government may, by notification, constitute for each district with
effect from such date as may be prescribed in the said notification, a
District Panchayat having jurisdiction over the entire district excluding such
portions of the district as are included in a Municipality or Town Panchayat
or Industrial Township or under the authority of a Municipal Corporation or a
Cantonment.(2)Every District Panchayat shall be a body corporate by the name
of the district, shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and subject
to such restrictions as are imposed by or under this or any other enactment,
shall be vested with the capacity of suing or being sued in its corporate
name, of acquiring, holding and transferring property, movable or immovable,
whether without or within the limits of the area over which it has authority,
of entering into contracts and of doing all things necessary, proper or
expedient for the purpose for which it is constituted.

### 25\. [ Constitution of District Panchayat. [Section 25 substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1996).]

(1)Every District Panchayat shall consist of -(a)all the elected members as
determined under section 27;(b)the members of the House of People and the
members of the State Legislative Assembly representing a part or whole of the
district whose constituencies lie within the district;(c)the member of the
Council of States who is registered as elector within the district.(2)Members
of the House of People, the State Legislative Assembly and the Council of
States referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1), shall be
entitled to take part in the proceedings, [and vote at the meetings of the
District Panchayat].]

### 26\. Election of members.

\- The number of elected members of a District Panchayat shall consist of
persons elected from the wards in the District Panchayat, as may be notified,
from time to time, by the Government based on the population of the district
as ascertained at the last preceding census:[Provided that no person shall be
eligible to be elected as a member of more than one ward in the same District
Panchayat or as a member of more than one District Panchayat:] [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1996).][Provided further that a person who stands for election as a member of
a District Panchayat shall not be eligible to stand for election as a member
of a Village Panchayat, President of a Village Panchayat or a member of a
Panchayat Union Council:Provided also that no member of a District Panchayat
shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of a Village Panchayat,
President of a Village Panchayat or a member of a Panchayat Union Council.]
[Added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act
30 of 1995).]

### 27\. Determination of elected members after census.

\- Upon the publication of the figures for each census, the number of elected
members of a District Panchayat shall be determined in accordance with such
scale as may be prescribed on the basis of the population of the district as
ascertained at the last preceding census:Provided that the determination of
the members as aforesaid, shall not affect the then composition of the
District Panchayat until the expiry of the term of office of the elected
members then in office:Provided further that, for the first election to the
District Panchayat to be held immediately after the commencement of this Act,
the provisional population figures of the District Panchayat as published in
relation to 1991 census, shall be deemed to be the population of the District
Panchayat as ascertained in that census.

### 28\. Delimitation of territorial wards.

\- The Government shall, by [notification] [See Notification issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 156, Rural Development (C11), dated 9th August 1995 at page 539.
Delegation of power to District Collector for dividing the District Panchayat
Area into Territorial Wards for reservation of seats.], -(a)divide the area,
within the jurisdiction of every District Panchayat, for the purpose of
election to such District Panchayat into as many single member territorial
wards as the number of members required to be elected under section
26;(b)determine the extent of each territorial ward which shall be a Panchayat
Village or Panchayat Union or part of a Panchayat Village or Panchayat Union;
and(c)determine the territorial ward or wards in which seats are reserved for
the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes [***] [The words 'persons belonging to
the Backward Glasses of citizens' was inserted by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995) and omitted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995).] and
women.

### 28A. [ Special provision relating to election. [Section 28-A inserted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006)
w.e.f. 14-7-2006.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Rules made or orders
issued under this Act, for the first election for the Village Panchayats,
Panchayat Union Councils and district panchayats to be held immediately after
the 14th day of July 2006, the territorial area of wards, the number of wards
in every Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union and District Panchayat and the
number of members to be returned by each such wards shall be the same as they
exist on the 14th day of July 2006.]

### 28AAA. [ Special provision relating to election. [Inserted by Act No. 10
of 2016, dated 29.06.2016, published dated 30.06.2016.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules made or orders
issued under this Act, for the first election for the village panchayats,
panchayat union councils and district panchayats to be held immediately after
the date of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act,
2016, the territorial area of wards, the number of wards in every village
panchayat, panchayat union and district panchayat and the number of members to
be returned by each such wards shall be the same as they exist on the date of
commencement of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2016.]

### 29\. Term of office of members.

(1)Except as otherwise provided in this Act, members of a District Panchayat
elected at an ordinary election shall hold office for a term of five
years.(2)The term of office of the members elected at an ordinary election
shall commence on the date appointed for the first meeting of the District
Panchayat after ordinary election.(3)The member of a District Panchayat
elected in a casual vacancy shall enter upon the office forthwith, but shall
hold office only so long as the member in whose place he is elected would have
been entitled to hold office, if the vacancy had not occurred.

### 30\. Electoral roll for District Panchayat.

(1)The electoral roll of a District Panchayat shall be the same as the
electoral roll of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly prepared and revised in
accordance with the provisions of the law for the time being in force in the
district and as revised, modified, up-dated and published in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (2).(2)Subject to the superintendence, direction
and control of the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the
words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).], the electoral roll shall be revised,
modified, updated and published by such officer as may be designated by the
[Tamil Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the words 'State
Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] in this behalf in the prescribed manner.(3)No amendment,
transposition or deletion of any entry in the electoral roll of the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly made after the last date for making nomination for
election in any District Panchayat territorial ward and before the
notification of the result of such election, shall form part of the electoral
roll for such election, for thepurpose of this section.

### 31\. Duration of District Panchayat.

(1)Every District Panchayat constituted under this Act, unless sooner
dissolved, shall continue for five years from the date appointed for its first
meeting after each ordinary election and no longer.(2)Where a District
Panchayat is dissolved before the expiration of the said period of five years,
election to reconstitute such District Panchayat shall be completed as soon as
may be, and in any case, before the expiration of a period of six months from
the date of such dissolution:Provided that where a District Panchayat is
dissolved within six months before the expiration of the said period of five
years, it shall not be necessary to hold any election to such District
Panchayat.

### 32\. Reservation of seats.

(1)Seats shall be reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and the Scheduled Tribes in every District Panchayat and the number of seats
so reserved shall bear as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total
number of seats to be filled by direct election in that District Panchayat as
the population of the Scheduled Castes in that District Panchayat area or of
the Scheduled Tribes in that District Panchayat area bears to the total
population of that area:Provided that, for the first election for the District
Panchayat to be held immediately after the commencement of this Act, the
provisional population figures of the District Panchayat area as published in
relation to 1991 census, shall be deemed to be the population of that District
Panchayat area.(2)Seats shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes from among the seats reserved for the persons
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which shall not be less
than [fifty per cent] [Substituted for 'one-third' by Act No. 5 of 2016, dated
27.2.2016.] of the total number of seats reserved for the persons belonging to
the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.[***] [The sub-sections (2-A)
and (2-B) omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1996.](3)Seats shall be reserved for
women in the District Panchayat and number of seats reserved for women shall
not be less than [fifty per cent] [Substituted for 'one-third' by Act No. 5 of
2016, dated 27.2.2016.] [including the number of seats reserved for women
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes] [Substituted for the
words '(including the number of seats reserved for women belonging to the
Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the backward classes of citizens)'
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1996).] of the total number of seats in the District Panchayat:Provided that
such seats reserved for women shall be allotted by rotation to different
territorial wards in such manner as the Government may, by notification,
direct.(4)The reservation of seats under sub-sections (1) and (2) shall cease
to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in Article 334 of the
Constitution.(5)Reservation of seats under this section, section 11 and
section 20, shall be made by the Government or by any officer authorised by
the Government in this behalf.(6)While determining the number of seats in
Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats under
this section, section 11, and section 20 for the purpose of reservation, any
fraction thereof shall be disregarded.Qualification, Disqualification, Etc.,
of Members

### 33\. Qualification of Candidates.

\- No person shall be qualified for election as a Member or President [***]
[The words 'or Chairman' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996).] of a Panchayat
unless-(i)his name appears on the electoral roll of the concerned Panchayat;
and(ii)he has completed his twenty-first year of age.

### 34\. Disqualification of officers and servants of Government and local
bodies, etc.

(1)No Village Administrative Officer, or village servant and no other officer
or servant of the State or Central Government or of a Village Panchayat,
Panchayat Union Council, District Panchayat, Municipal Council or the
Municipal Corporation of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], or of
Madurai or of Coimbatore or of any other Municipal Corporation that may be
constituted under any law for the time being in force or of any Industrial
Township or of Cantonment or of any body Corporate, owned or controlled by the
State or Central Government, shall be qualified for election as a member or
for holding office, as a member.(2)[ A person who having held an office under
the Government of India or under the Government of any State has been
dismissed for corruption, or for disloyalty to the State shall be disqualified
for election as a member or for holding office as a member for a period of
five years from the date of such dismissal.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).]

### 35\. Disqualification of persons convicted of election offences.

\- Every person convicted of an offence punishable under sections 58 to 71 of
this Act or under Chapter IX-A of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860), or is so disqualified by or under any law for the time being in force
for the purposes of election to the Legislative Assembly of the State or is
disqualified by or under any law for the time being in force, shall be
disqualified from voting or from being elected in any election to which this
Act applies or from holding the office of President or Member of a Village
Panchayat or of the office of Chairman or member of a Panchayat Union Council
or a District Panchayat, for a period of [six years] [Substituted for the
words 'five years' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).] from the date of his conviction.

### 36\. Disqualification of voters.

\- No person who is of unsound mind and declared so by a competent Court and
no person who is disqualified under section 35 shall be qualified to vote so
long as the disqualification subsists.

### 37\. Disqualification of Candidates.

\- [(1) A person convicted of an offence punishable under -(a)section 153-A
(offence of promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion,
race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to
maintenance of harmony) or section 171-E (offence of bribery) or section 171-F
(offence of undue influence or personation at an election) or sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) of section 376 or section 376-A or section 376-B or section
376-C or section 376-D or section 498-A (offence of cruelty towards a woman by
husband or relative of a husband) or sub-section (2) or subsection (3) of
section 505 (offence of making statement creating or promoting enmity, hatred
or ill-will between classes or offence relating to such statement in any place
of worship or in any assembly engaged in the performance of religious worship
or religious ceremonies) of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860);
or(b)the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 (Central Act XXII of 1955) which
provides for punishment for the preaching and practice of "untouchability",
and for the enforcement of any disability arising therefrom; or(c)section 11
(offence of importing or exporting prohibited goods) of the Customs Act, 1962
(Central Act 52 of 1962); or(d)sections 10 to 12 (offence of being a member of
an association declared unlawful, offence relating to dealing with funds of an
unlawful association or offence relating to contravention of an order made in
respect of a notified place) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967
(Central Act 37 of 1967); or(e)the Foreign Exchange (Regulation) Act, 1973
(Central Act 46 of 1973); or the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999
(Central Act 42 of 1999); or(f)the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, 1985 (Central Act 61 of 1985); or(g)section 7 (offence of contravention
of the provisions of sections 3 to 6) of the Religious Institutions
(Prevention of Misuse) Act, 1988 (Central Act 41 of 1988); or(h)section 125
(offence of promoting enmity between classes in connection with the election)
or section 135 (offence of removal of ballot-papers from polling stations) or
section 135.-A (offence of booth capturing) or clause (a) of sub-section (2)
of section 136 (offence of fraudulently defacing or fraudulently destroying
any nomination paper) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Central
Act 43 of 1951); or(i)section 6 (offence of conversion of a place of worship)
of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 (Central Act 42 of
1991); or(j)section 2 (offence of insulting the Indian National Flag or the
Constitution of India) or section 3 (offence of preventing singing of National
Anthem) of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 (Central Act
69 of 1971); or (k) the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (Central Act 49 of
1988); or (1) Any law providing for the prevention of hoarding or
profiteering; or(m)any law relating to the adulteration of food or drugs; or
(n) any provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 (Central Act 28 of
1961)shall be disqualified for election as a member, where the convicted
person is sentenced to-(i)only fine, for a period of six years from the date
of such conviction;(ii)imprisonment, from the date of such conviction and
shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his
release.Explanation. - In this sub-section, -(a)"law providing for the
prevention of hoarding or profiteering" means any law, or any order, rule or
notification having the force of law, providing for-(i)the regulation of
production or manufacture of any essential commodity;(ii)the control of price
at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold;(iii)the regulation of
acquisition, possession, storage, transport, distribution, disposal, use or
consumption of any essential commodity;(iv)the prohibition of the withholding
from sale of any essential commodity ordinarily kept for sale;(b)"drug" has
the meaning assigned to it in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Central Act
23 of 1940);(c)"essential commodity" has the meaning assigned to it in the
Essential Commodity Act, 1955 (Central Act 10 of 1955);(d)"food" has the
meaning assigned to it in the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954
(Central Act XXXVII of 1954).](2)[ A person convicted of any offence and
sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years other than any offence
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be disqualified for election as a member
from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a
further period of six years since his release.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008)][(2-A) A
person disqualified for being a member under clause (e) of sub-section (3) of
section 38 shall be disqualified for election as a member for a period of six
years from the date of such disqualification.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 2009).](3)A
person shall be disqualified for election as a member if, at the last date for
filing of nomination or at the date of election he is-(a)[ of unsound mind;]
[Substituted for '(a) of unsound mind, or a deaf-mute' by Act No. 44 of 2012,
dated 15.11.2012.](b)an applicant to be adjudicated as an insolvent or an
undischarged insolvent;(c)interested in a subsisting contract made with or any
work being done for, any Panchayat except as a shareholder (other than a
director) in a Company;(dd)[ found that he does hot belong to Scheduled Caste
or Scheduled Tribe for contesting any seat reserved for Scheduled Caste or
Scheduled Tribe in a Panchayat;] [Sub-section (dd) inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1999).](e)already a
member of a Panchayat, whose term of office will not expire before his fresh
election can take effect or has already been elected as a member of a
Panchayat whose term of office has not yet commenced; or(f)in arrears of any
kind due by him (otherwise than in fiduciary capacity) to a Panchayat up to
and inclusive of the previous year.(4)[ If the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission is satisfied that a person, -(a)has failed to lodge an account of
election expenses within the time and in the manner required by or under this
Act, and(b)has no good reason or justification for the failure, the Tamil
Nadu; State Election Commission shall, by order published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, declare him to be disqualified for being chosen as, and
for being, a member or President, as the case may be, and any such person
shall be disqualified for a period of three years from the date of the order.]

### 38\. [ Disqualification of members. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 39 of
2008.]

(1)A member convicted of an offence as described under sub-section (1) of
section 37 shall be disqualified, where the convicted member is sentenced to
-(i)only fine, for a period of six years from the date of such
conviction;(ii)imprisonment, from the date of such conviction and shall
continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his
release.(2)A member convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for
not less than two years other than any offence referred to in sub-section (1)
of section 37 shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall
continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his
release.(3)Subject to the provisions of section 41, a member shall cease to
hold office as such, if he -(a)[ becomes of unsound mind;](b)applies to be
adjudicated, or is adjudicated, as an insolvent;(c)acquires any interest in
any subsisting contract made with or any work being done for, any panchayat
except as a shareholder (other than a director) in a Company or except as
permitted by rules made under this Act.(d)is employed as paid legal
practitioner on behalf of the panchayat or as legal practitioner against any
panchayat;(e)is found that he does not belong to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled
Tribe, but has been elected from the seat reserved for Scheduled Caste or
Scheduled Tribe;(f)is appointed as an officer or servant under this
Act;(g)ceases to reside in the village, panchayat union or the district, as
the case may be;(h)fails to pay arrears of any kind due by him, (otherwise
than in fiduciary capacity) to a panchayat within three months after such
arrears became due; or(i)absents himself from the meetings of the panchayat
for a period of three consecutive months reckoned from the date of the
commencement of his term of office, or of the last meeting which he attended,
or of his restoration to office as member under sub-section (1) of section 39,
as the case may be, or if within the said period, less than three meetings
have been held, absents himself in the three consecutive meetings held after
the said date:Provided that no meeting from which a member absented himself
shall be counted against him under this clause if -(i)due notice of that
meeting was not given to him; or(ii)the meeting was held after giving shorter
notice than that prescribed for an ordinary meeting; or(iii)the meeting was
held on a requisition of members.]

### 38A. [ Disqualification for President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-
Chairman and Member. [Section 38-A inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second
Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 2002).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no person shall be
qualified for being elected as, and for being, a President, Vice-President or
member of a Village Panchayat or a Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member of a
Panchayat Union Council or of a District Panchayat, if he is a Member of the
Legislative Assembly of the State or a Member of either House of Parliament.]
[Sub-section (4) inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1998).]

### 39\. Restoration of members to office.

(1)Where a person ceases to be a member under section 35 or [sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) of section 38] [Substituted for the words 'clause (a) or
clause (b) of section 38' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act,
2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).], such person shall be restored to office
for such portion of the period for which such person was elected, as may
remain unexpired at the date of such restoration, if and when the conviction
or sentence is annulled on appeal or revision; and any person elected to fill
the vacancy in the interim, shall on such restoration, vacate office.(2)Where
a person ceases to be a member [under clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section
38] [Substituted for the words 'under clause (i) of section 38' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).], the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for
the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second
Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 2002).], as the case may be, shall,
at once intimate the fact in writing to such person and report the same to the
Panchayat concerned at its next meeting. If such person applies for
restoration suo motu to the Panchayat concerned on or before the date of its
next meeting or within fifteen days of the receipt by him of such intimation,
such Panchayat may at the meeting next after the receipt of such application
restore him to his office of member:Provided that a member shall not be
restored more than twice during his term of office.

### 40. Oath or affirmation to be made by members.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Oaths Act, 1969 (Central Act X of
1969), every person who is elected to be a member or who becomes a member
shall, before taking his seat, make, at a meeting of the Panchayat an oath or
affirmation in the following form, namely: -"I, A.B, having been elected a
member/having become a member of this Village Panchayat/Panchayat Union
Council/District Panchayat do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India and
that I will faithfully discharge the duty upon which I am about to
enter".(2)Any person who, having been elected to be a member or who, having
become a member, fails to make within three months of the date on which his
term of office commences or at one of the first three meetings held after the
said date, whichever is later, the oath or affirmation laid down in sub-
section (1), shall cease to hold his office and his seat shall be deemed to
have become vacant.(3)Any person who has been elected to be a member or who
has become a member shall not take his seat at a meeting of the Panchayat or
do any act as such member unless he has made the oath or affirmation as laid
down in subsection (1).(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(3), the President or the Chairman of a Panchayat or the member of a Committee
constituted under this Act, who has not made the oath or affirmation as a
member, shall be entitled to act as such President, Chairman or member
provided he makes the oath or affirmation and takes his seat at the first
meeting of the Panchayat which he attends within two months after he is
elected or appointed as, or becomes entitled to exercise the functions of the
President, Chairman or member, as the case may be.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section -(i)"President" includes a Vice-President exercising
the functions of the President under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of
section 47 and the temporary President appointed under sub-section (3) of that
section; and(ii)"Chairman" includes Vice-Chairman exercising the functions of
the Chairman under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) of section 54 or a
Revenue Divisional Officer who is ex officio Chairman under sub-section (2) of
that section.

### 41. [ Authority to decide Questions of disqualification or cessation of
members. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).]

(1)If any question arises as to whether any person who has been elected as a
member of a panchayat or who becomes a member of a panchayat is not qualified
or has become disqualified under section 33 or section 34 or section 35 or
sub-section (3) of section 38 or 38-A or cessation under section 40, the
question shall be referred by the Inspector to the Government whose decision
shall be final.(2)Before taking any such decision on such question, the
Government shall obtain the opinion of the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission and shall act according to such opinion.] [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Act 39 of 2008.]

### 41A. [ Powers of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission. [Inserted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of
2008).]

(1)Where in connection with the tendering of any opinion to the Government
under section 41, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, considers it
necessary or proper to make an inquiry, and the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission is satisfied that on the basis of the affidavits filed and the
documents produced in such inquiry by the parties concerned of their own
accord, it cannot come to a decisive opinion on the matter which is being
inquired into, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission shall have, for the
purposes of such inquiry, the powers of a civil court, while trying a suit
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), in respect of
the following matters, namely: -(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of
any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery and.
production of any document or other material object producible as
evidence;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public
record or a copy thereof from any court or office;(e)issuing commissions for
the examination of witnesses or documents.(2)The Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission shall also have the power to require any person, subject to any
privilege which may be claimed by that person under any law for the time being
in force, to furnish information on such points or matters as in the opinion
of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission may be useful for, or relevant to,
the subject-matter of the inquiry.(3)The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission
shall be deemed to be a civil court and when any such offence as is described
in section 175, section 178, section 179, section 180 or section 228 of the
Indian Penal Code (Central Act XL V of 1860), is committed in the view or
presence of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, the Tamil Nadu State
Election Commission may after recording the facts constituting the offence and
the statement of the accused as provided for in the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), forward the case to a Magistrate
having jurisdiction to try the same and the Magistrate to whom any such case
is forwarded shall proceed to hear the complaint against the accursed as if
the case had been forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974).(4)Any proceeding before the Tamil
Nadu State Election Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).]

### 41B. [ Statements made by person to the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).]

\- No statement made by a person in the course of giving evidence before the
Tamil Nadu State Election Commission shall subject him to, or be used against
him in, any civil or criminal proceeding except a prosecution for giving false
evidence by such statement:Provided that the statement -(a)is made in reply to
a question which he is required by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to
answer, or(b)is relevant to the subject-matter of the inquiry.]

### 41C. [ Procedure to be followed by the Tamil Nadu State Election
Commission. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).]

\- The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission shall have the power to regulate
its own procedure (including the fixing of places and times of its sittings
arid deciding whether to sit in public or in private).]

### 41D. [ Protection of action taken in good faith. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2008).]

\- No suit, prosecution or other, legal proceeding shall lie against the Tamil
Nadu State Election Commission or any person acting under the direction of the
Tamil Nadu State Election Commission in respect of anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of the foregoing provisions of
sections 41-A.to 41-C or of any order made thereunder in respect of the
tendering of any opinion by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to the
Government or in respect of the publication, by or under the authority of the
Tamil Nadu State Election Commission of any such opinion, paper or
proceedings.]President and Vice-President of Village Panchayat

### 42. President and Vice-President of Village Panchayat.

\- There shall be a President and a Vice-President for every Village
Panchayat.

### 43. Election of President.

(1)(a)The President shall be elected by the persons whose names appear in the
electoral roll for the Village Panchayat from among themselves in accordance
with such procedure as may be prescribed.(b)If at an ordinary or casual
election, no President is elected, a fresh election shall be held:[Provided
that a person who stands for election as President shall not be eligible to
stand for election as a member of a Village Panchayat, a member of a Panchayat
Union Council or a member of a District Panchayat:Provided further that no
President shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of a Village
Panchayat, a member of a Panchayat Union Council or a member of a District
Panchayat.] [Proviso substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment)
Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995).](2)The election of the President may be
held ordinarily at the same times and in the same places as the ordinary
elections of the members of the Village Panchayat.(3)The term of office of the
President who is elected at an ordinary election shall, save as otherwise
expressly provided in, be five years beginning at noon on the day on which the
ordinary vacancy occurs.(4)Any casual vacancy in the office of the President
shall be filled by a fresh election and a person elected as President in any
such vacancy shall enter upon office forthwith and hold office only so long as
the person in whose place he is elected would have been entitled to hold
office, if the vacancy had not occurred.(5)Unless the [Tamil Nadu State
Election Commissioner] [Substituted for the words 'State Election
Commissioner' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4
of 1998).] otherwise directs, no casual vacancy in the office of the President
shall be filled within six months before the date on which the ordinary
election of the President under sub-section (1) is due.(6)The provisions of
sections 34 to 41 (both inclusive) shall, as far as maybe, apply in relation
to the office of the President as they apply in relation to the office of an
elected member of the Panchayat.(7)The President shall be an ex-officio member
of the Village Panchayat and shall have all the rights and privileges of an
elected member of the Village Panchayat.

### 44. Election of Vice-President.

(1)The Vice-President shall be elected by the Village Panchayat from among its
elected members in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.(2)If
at an election held under sub-section (1), no Vice-President is elected, a
fresh election shall be held for electing a Vice-President.

### 45. Cessation of office as President and Vice-President.

\- The President or Vice-President shall cease to hold office as such -(a)in
the case of the President, on his becoming disqualified for holding the office
or on his removal from office or on the expiry of his term of office or on his
otherwise ceasing to be a President;(b)in the case of the Vice-President, [on
his becoming disqualified for holding the office or on his removal from office
or] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1999).] on the expiry of his term of office as a member or on his
otherwise ceasing to be a member.

### 46. Functions of the President.

(1)The President shall,-(a)[ convene the meetings of the Village Panchayat and
of the Grama Sabha;] [Substituted for the words '(a) convene the meetings of
the Village Panchayats'; by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).](b)have full access to the records of the Village
Panchayat;(c)discharge ail the duties specifically imposed and exercise all
the powers conferred on the President by this Act.(d)[ execute or implement
all schemes, programmes or activities as may be entrusted to village panchayat
from time to time.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act,
2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of 2008).](2)No official correspondence between the
Village Panchayat and the Government shall be conducted except through the
President. The President shall be bound to transmit communications addressed
through him by the Executive Authority to the Government or by the Government
to the Executive Authority.

### 47. Devolution [***] [The words 'and delegation' was omitted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] of
President's functions and filling up of vacancies in the office of President.

(1)When the office of President is vacant, the Vice-President shall exercise
the functions of the President until a new President is declared elected and
assumes office.(2)If the President has been continuously absent from
jurisdiction for more than thirty days or is incapacitated, his functions
during such absence or incapacity shall, except in such circumstances [as may
be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G O. Ms. No. 178, Rural Development (C4),
dated 30th August 1999 at page 617 and published in Part III, S. 1(a), of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 1st September 1999.],
devolve on the Vice-President.(3)When the office of President is vacant or the
President has been continuously absent from jurisdiction for more than thirty
days or is incapacitated and there is either a vacancy in the office of Vice-
President or the Vice-President has been continuously absent from jurisdiction
for more than thirty days or is incapacitated, the functions of the President
shall devolve on a member of the Village Panchayat appointed by the Inspector
in this behalf, and if no member of the Village Panchayat is available for
such appointment, on such person as may be appointed by the Inspector in this
behalf.The member of the Village Panchayat or the person so appointed (who
shall be called as the temporary President) shall perform the functions of the
President subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed,
until a new President or Vice-President is declared elected and assumes
office, or either the President or the Vice-President returns to jurisdiction
or recovers from his incapacity, as the case may be.(4)Any vacancy in the
office of President shall be reported to the [Tamil Nadu State Election
Commissioner] [Substituted for the words 'State Election Commissioner' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] by
such person and within such time as may be prescribed and the [Tamil Nadu
State Election Commissioner] [Substituted for the words 'State Election
Commissioner' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4
of 1998).] shall arrange for the election of the President.(5)The President
shall have power to control and revise the exercise or discharge of any
functions devolving on the Vice-President under sub-section (2).

### 48. Delegation of functions of President.

\- Subject to such restrictions and control [as may be prescribed,] [See Rules
issued in G.O. Ms. No. 178, Rural Development (C4), dated 30th August 1999 at
page 617 and published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated 1st 1999.] the President may, by an order in
writing, delegate any of his functions as such to the Vice-President and, in
the absence of the Vice-President to any other member, provided that the
exercise or discharge of any functions so delegated shall be subject to such
further restrictions and conditions as may be laid down by the President and
shall also be subject to his control and revision:Provided that he shall not
delegate any functions which the Village Panchayat expressly prohibits him to
delegate.Chairman and Vice-Chairman

### 49. Chairman and Vice-Chairman of Panchayat Union Council.

\- There shall be a Chairman and Vice-Chairman for every Panchayat Union
Council.

### 50. Election of Chairman of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)The Chairman shall be elected by the Panchayat Union Council from among its
elected members in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.(2)If
at an election held under sub-section (1), no Chairman is elected, a fresh
election shall be held for electing a Chairman.

### 51. Election of Vice-Chairman of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)The Vice-Chairman shall be elected by the Panchayat Union Council from
among its elected members in accordance with such procedure as may be
prescribed.(2)If at an election held under sub-section (1), no Vice-Chairman
is elected, a fresh election shall be held for electing a Vice-Chairman.

### 52. Functions of the Chairman.

(1)The Chairman shall -(a)convene the meetings of the Panchayat Union Council,
and(b)discharge all the duties specifically imposed and exercise all the
powers conferred on the Chairman by this Act and the Rules made
thereunder.(2)The Chairman shall have full access to all the records of the
Panchayat Union Council and no official correspondence between the council and
the Government shall be conducted except through the Chairman. The Chairman
shall be bound to transmit communications addressed through him by the
Commissioner to the Government or by the Government to the Commissioner.

### 53. Cessation of office of Chairman and Vice-Chairman of a Panchayat Union
Council.

\- The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall cease to hold office as such -(a)in
the case of the Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council on his becoming
disqualified for holding the office or on his removal from office or on the
expiry of his term of office or on his otherwise ceasing to be Chairman or
member of the Panchayat Union Council;(b)in the case of the Vice-Chairman, [on
his becoming disqualified for holding the office or on his removal from office
or] [These words were inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act,
1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] on the expiry of his term of office as a
member of the Panchayat Union Council or on his otherwise ceasing to be a
member of the Panchayat Union Council.

### 54. Devolution and delegation of Chairman's functions and filling up of
vacancies in the office of Chairman.

(1)When the office of Chairman is vacant, the Vice-Chairman shall exercise the
functions of the Chairman until a new Chairman assumes office.(2)When the
office of Chairman is vacant and there is either a vacancy in the office of
Vice-Chairman, or the Vice-Chairman has been continuously absent from
jurisdiction for more than thirty days or is incapacitated and until a new
Chairman or Vice-Chairman is elected and assumes office, or the Vice-Chairman
returns to jurisdiction or recovers from his incapacity, as the case may be,
the Revenue Divisional Officer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in
the Act, or in the Rules or notifications issued thereunder, be ex officio
member and Chairman of the Panchayat Union Council.(3)An out-going Chairman or
Vice-Chairman is eligible for re-election.(4)The Chairman may, by an order in
writing, delegate any of his functions to the Vice-Chairman:Provided that he
shall not delegate any functions which the Panchayat Union Council expressly
forbids him to delegate.(5)If the Chairman has been continuously absent from
jurisdiction for more than thirty days or is incapacitated, his functions
during [such absence or incapacity shall] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No.
140, Rural Development (C4), dated 21st July 1999 at page 561 and published in
Part III - Section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated 23rd July 1999.], except in such circumstances as may be prescribed,
devolve on the Vice-Chairman.(6)If the Vice-Chairman also has been
continuously absent from jurisdiction for more than thirty days or is
incapacitated or if the office of Vice-Chairman is vacant, the Chairman may,
by an order in writing, delegate any of his functions to any member of the
Panchayat Union Council who shall be called "Chairman Delegate" during the
period of delegation:Provided that -(i)when an order of delegation made under
this sub-section is in force, no further orders of delegation of any function
shall be made in favour of any member other than the member in whose favour
the order in force was made;(ii)no delegation under this sub-section shall be
made for any period exceeding in the aggregate ninety days in any year without
the special sanction of the Panchayat Union Council; and(iii)every order made
under this sub-section shall be communicated to the Panchayat Union Council at
its next meeting.(7)The exercise or discharge of any functions delegated under
this section shall be, subject to such restrictions, limitations and
conditions as may be laid down by the Chairman.

### 55. Chairman and Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat.

\- There shall be a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman for every District Panchayat.

### 56. Election of Chairman and Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat.

(1)The elected members of the District Panchayat shall, as soon as may be,
elect two members from among themselves, to be respectively the Chairman and
Vice-Chairman.(2)The provisions of [sub-section (2) of section 50, sub-section
(2) of section 51 and sections 52,53 and 54] [Substituted for the expression
'sections 52,53 and 54' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to
the office of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat, as they
apply in relation to the office of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of Panchayat
Union Council and any reference to Panchayat Union Council or Commissioner in
the said sections shall be deemed to be a reference to the District Panchayat
or [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], as
the case may be, in so far as it applies to the office of Chairman and Vice-
Chairman of District Panchayat.

### 57. Reservation of seats in the office of President, Chairman, etc.

(1)Office of the Presidents of Village Panchayats, chairmen of Panchayat Union
Councils and chairmen of District Panchayats, shall be reserved for the
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the number
of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to
the total number of offices in the State as the population of the Scheduled
Castes in the State or the Scheduled Tribes in the State bear to the total
population of the State:[***] [[The following provisos were omitted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995):
-'Provided that not less than one third of the total number of office of the
Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of the Panchayat Union Councils and
the Chairmen of the District Panchayats in the State, shall be reserved for
women :Provided further that the offices reserved under this section, shall be
allotted by rotation to different Panchayats at each level in such manner as
may be prescribed.]][(1-A) Offices of the Presidents of the Village
Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of District
Panchayats shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes from among the offices reserved for the persons belonging to
the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which shall not be less than [fifty
per cent] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1995
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995).] of the total number of offices reserved for the
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.][***]
[[The following Sub-sections were inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second
Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995) and subsequently omitted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1996).'(1-B) Offices of Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of District Panchayat shall be reserved
for persons belonging to the backward classes of citizens and the number of
offices so reserved shall be, as nearly as may be, fifty per cent of the total
number of offices of the Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of District Panchayats in the
State.(1-C) Offices of the Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils, and Chairmen of District Panchayats shall be
reserved for women belonging to the backward classes of citizens from among
the offices reserved for the persons belonging to the backward classes of
citizens which shall not be less than one third of the total number of offices
reserved for the persons belonging to the backward classes of
citizens.]][(1-D) Offices of the Presidents of Village Panchayats, Chairmen of
Panchayat Union Councils and Chairman of District Panchayats in the State
shall be reserved for woman which shall not be less than [fifty per cent]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1995.] [including the number of offices
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes]
[Substituted for the following words '(including the number of offices
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and
the Backward Classes of Citizens)' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1996).] of the total number of such offices in
the State:Provided that the offices reserved under this section shall be
allotted by rotation to different panchayats at each level in such manner, as
may be prescribed.](2)Reservation of the offices of the Presidents of Village
Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of the District
Panchayats shall be made by the Government or by any officer authorised by the
Government in this behalf.(3)The reservation of the offices of Presidents of
the Village Panchayats, Chairmen of the Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen
of the District Panchayats made under sub-section (1) in respect of the
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall cease
to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in Article 334 of the
Constitution.(4)While determining the number of offices of Presidents of
Village Panchayats, Chairmen of Panchayat Union Councils and Chairmen of
District Panchayats, under sub-section (1) for the purpose of reservation,
[any fraction which is less than half shall be disregarded and half and more
than half shall be regarded as one] [Substituted for the words 'any fraction
thereof shall be disregarded' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act,
1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).].

## Chapter IV  
Offences Relating To Elections

### 58. Infringement of secrecy of election.

\- Every officer, clerk, agent or other person performing any duty in
connection with the recording or counting of votes at an election who, except
for some purpose authorised by law, communicates to any person any information
showing directly or indirectly for which candidate any voter has voted, and
every person who, by any improper means, procures any such information, shall
be punished with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine, or
with both.

### 59. Minimum penalty for personation at an election.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 171-F of the Indian Penal
Code (Central Act XLV of I860), any person who, in connection with an election
under this Act, commits an offence of personation punishable under that
section shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be
less than six months and not more than two years and with fine.

### 60. Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election.

\- Any person who, in connection with an election under this Act, promotes or
attempts to promote on grounds of religion, race, caste, community or
language, feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of the
citizens of India shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years or with fine, or with both.

### 61. Prohibition of public meetings on the day preceding the election day
and on the election day.

(1)No person shall convene, hold or attend any public meeting in any local
area comprised in a Panchayat within forty-eight hours before the date of
termination of the poll or on the date or dates on which a poll is taken for
an election in that Panchayat.(2)Any person who contravenes the provisions of
sub-section (1) shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred
and fifty rupees.

### 62. Disturbances at election meeting.

(1)Any person who, at a public meeting to which this section applies, acts or
incites others to act, in a disorderly manner for the purpose of preventing
the transaction of the business for which the meeting was called shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees.(2)This
section applies to any public meeting of a political character held in any
local area comprised in a Panchayat between the earliest date for making
nomination of candidates for an election and the date in which such election
is held.(3)If any Police Officer reasonably suspects any person of committing
an offence under sub-section (1), he may, if requested so to do by the
Chairman of the meeting, require that person to declare to him immediately his
name and address and, if that person refuses or fails so to declare his name
and address, or if the Police Officer reasonably suspects him of giving a
false name or address, the Police Officer may arrest him without warrant.

### 63. Restriction on printing of pamphlets, posters, etc.

(1)No person shall print or publish or cause to be printed or published, any
election pamphlet or poster which does not bear on its face the names and
address of the printer and the publisher thereof.(2)No person shall print or
cause to be printed any election pamphlet or poster -(a)unless a declaration
as to the identity of the publisher thereof signed by him and attested by two
persons to whom he is personally known, is delivered by him to the printer in
duplicate; and(b)unless, within a reasonable time, after the printing of the
document, one copy of the declaration is sent by the printer together with one
copy of the document to the Executive Authority or Commissioner or the
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 2002).], as the
case may be.(3)For the purposes of this section -(a)any process for
multiplying copies of a document, other than copying it by hand, shall be
deemed to be printing and the expression "printer" shall be construed
accordingly; and(b)"election pamphlet or poster" means any printed pamphlet,
hand-bill or other document distributed for the purposes of promoting or
prejudicing the election of a candidate or group of candidates or any placard
or poster having reference to an election, but does not include any hand-bill,
placard or poster merely announcing the date, time, place and other
particulars of an election meeting or routine instructions to election agents
or workers.(4)Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand
rupees, or with both.

### 64. Officers, etc., at elections not to act for candidates or to influence
voting.

(1)No person who is a Returning Officer, or an Assistant Returning Officer or
a Presiding or Polling Officer at an election, or an officer or clerk
appointed by the Returning Officer or the Presiding Officer to perform any
duty in connection with an election shall, in the conduct or the management of
the election, do any act (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance
of the prospects of the election of a candidate.(2)No such person as aforesaid
and no member of the police force, shall endeavour -(a)to persuade any person
to give his vote at an election, or(b)to dissuade any person from giving his
vote at an election, or(c)to influence the voting of any person at an election
in any manner.(3)Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months or with fine, or with both.

### 65. Prohibition of canvassing in or near polling stations.

(1)No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any
polling station, commit any of the following acts within the polling station
or in any public or private place within a distance of one hundred metres of
the polling station, namely: -(a)canvassing for votes; or(b)soliciting the
vote of any elector; or(c)persuading any elector not to vote for any
particular candidate; or(d)persuading any elector not to vote at the election;
or(e)exhibiting any notice or sign (other than an official notice) relating to
the election.(2)Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1)
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty
rupees.(3)An offence punishable under this section shall be cognizable.

### 66. Penalty for disorderly conduct in or near polling stations.

(1)No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any
polling station-(a)use or operate within or at the entrance of the polling
station, or in any public or private place in the neighbourhood thereof, any
apparatus for amplifying or reproducing the human voice, such as a megaphone
or a loudspeaker, or(b)shout, or otherwise act in a disorderly manner within
or at the entrance of the polling station or in any public or private place in
the neighbourhood thereof, so as to cause annoyance to any person visiting the
polling station for the poll, or so as to interfere with the work of the
officers and other persons on duty at the polling station.(2)Any person who
contravenes, or willfully aids or abets the contravention of the provisions of
sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three months or with fine, or with both.(3)If the Polling Officer of
a polling station has reason to believe that any person is committing or has
committed an offence punishable under this section, he may direct any Police
Officer to arrest such person and thereupon the Police Officer shall arrest
him.(4)Any Police Officer may take such steps and use such force, as may be
reasonably necessary for preventing any contravention of the provisions of
sub-section (1) and may seize any apparatus used for such
contravention.Explanation. - In this section, the expression "Polling Officer"
means the Polling Officer of a polling station or if there is a Presiding
Officer at the polling station, such Presiding Officer.

### 67. Penalty for misconduct at the polling station.

(1)Any person who during the hours fixed for the poll at any polling station
misconducts himself or fails to obey the lawful directions of the Polling
Officer may be removed from the polling station by the Polling Officer or by
any Police Officer on duty or by any person authorised in this behalf by such
Polling Officer.(2)The powers conferred by sub-section (1) shall not be
exercised so as to prevent any elector who is otherwise entitled to vote at a
polling station from having opportunity of voting at that polling
station.(3)If any person who has been so removed from a polling station re-
enters the polling station without the permission of the Polling Officer, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months or with fine, or with both.(4)An offence punishable under sub-section
(3) shall be cognizable.Explanation. - In this section, the expression
"Polling Officer" has the same meaning as in section 66.

### 68. Penalty for illegal hiring or procuring of conveyance at elections.

(1)No candidate or his agent or any other person with the consent of a
candidate or his agent shall hire or procure whether on payment or otherwise
any vehicle or vessel for the conveyance of any elector (other than the
candidate himself, the members of his family or his agent) to or from any
polling station:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to
-(a)the hiring of a vehicle or vessel by an elector or several electors at
their joint cost for the purpose of conveying him or them to or from the
polling station, if the vehicle or vessel so hired is a vehicle or vessel not
propelled by mechanical power; and(b)the use of any public transport vehicle
or vessel or any railway carriage by any elector at his own cost for the
purpose of going to or coming from the polling station.Explanation. - In this
sub-section, the expression "vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of
being used for the purpose of road transport whether propelled by mechanical
power or otherwise and whether used for drawing other vehicles or
otherwise.(2)Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) at
or in connection with an election shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to two hundred and fifty rupees.

### 69. Breaches of official duty in connection with election.

(1)If any person to whom this section applies is without reasonable cause
guilty of any act or omission in breach of his official duty, he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.(2)No suit or
other legal proceedings shall lie against any such person for damages in
respect of any such act or omission as aforesaid.(3)The persons to whom this
section applies are the Returning Officers, Assistant Returning Officers,
Presiding Officers, Polling Officers and any other person appointed to perform
any duty in connection with the receipt of nominations or withdrawal of
candidatures, or the recording or counting of votes at an election; and the
expression "official duty" shall, for the purposes of this section, be
construed accordingly, but shall not include duties imposed otherwise than by
or under this Act.

### 70. Removal of ballot papers from polling station to be an offence.

(1)Any person who at any election fraudulently takes, or attempts to take, a
ballot paper out of the polling station, or willfully aids or abets the doing
of any such act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or
with both.(2)If the Presiding Officer of a polling station has reason to
believe that any person is committing or has committed an offence punishable
under sub-section (1), such officer may, before such person leaves the polling
station, arrest or direct a Police Officer to arrest such person and may
search such person or cause him to be searched by a Police Officer:Provided
that when it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched, the search shall be
made by another woman with strict regard to decency.(3)Any ballot paper found
upon the person arrested on search shall be made over for safe custody to a
Police Officer by the Presiding Officer or when the search is made by a Police
Officer, shall be kept by such officer in safe custody.(4)An offence
punishable under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.

### 71. Other offences and penalties therefor.

(1)No person at an election shall -(a)fraudulently deface or fraudulently
destroy any nomination paper; or(b)fraudulently deface, destroy or remove any
list, notice or other document affixed by or under the authority of a
Returning Officer; or(c)fraudulently deface or fraudulently destroy any ballot
paper or the official mark on any ballot paper; or(d)without due authority
supply any ballot paper to any person or receive any ballot paper from any
person or be in possession of any ballot paper; or(e)fraudulently put into any
ballot box anything other than the ballot paper which he is authorised by law
to put in; or(f)without due authority destroy, take, open or otherwise
interfere with any ballot box or ballot paper then in use for the purpose of
the election; or(g)fraudulently or without due authority, as the case may be,
attempt to do any of the foregoing acts or willfully aid or abet the doing of
any such acts.(2)Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1)
shall -(a)if he is a Returning Officer or an Assistant Returning Officer or a
Presiding Officer at a polling station or any other officer or clerk employed
on official duty in connection with the election, be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine, or with
both;(b)if he is any other person, be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months or with fine, or with both.(3)For the purposes
of this section, a person shall be deemed to be on official duty if his duty
is to take part in the conduct of an election or part of an election including
the counting of votes or to be responsible after an election for the used
ballot papers and other documents in connection with such election, but the
expression "official duty" shall not include any duty imposed otherwise than
by or under this Act.(4)An offence punishable under clause (b) of sub-section
(2) shall be cognizable.

### 72. Cognizance of certain election offences.

\- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under section 64
or under section 69 or under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 71
except on complaint in writing made by order of, or under authority from, the
Government.Requisitioning of property for election purposes

### 73. Requisitioning of premises, vehicles, etc., for election purposes.

(1)If it appears to the Government, that in connection with an election under
this Act -(a)any premises other than residential buildings actually occupied
are needed or likely to be needed for the purpose of being used as a polling
station or for the storage of ballot boxes after a poll has been taken,
or(b)any vehicle, vessel or animal is needed or is likely to be needed for the
purpose of transport of ballot boxes to or from any polling station, or
transport of members of the police force for maintaining order during the
conduct of such election or transport of any officer or other person for
performance of any duty in connection with such election, the Government may,
by order in writing, requisition such premises, or such vehicle, vessel or
animal, as the case may be, and may make such further orders as may appear to
them to be necessary or expedient in connection with the
requisitioning:Provided that no vehicle, vessel or animal which is being
lawfully used by a candidate or his agent for any purpose connected with the
election of such Candidate shall be requisitioned under this sub-section until
the completion of the poll at such election.(2)The requisition shall be
effected by an order in writing addressed to the person deemed by the
Government to be the owner or person in possession of the property and such
order shall be served on the person to whom it is addressed.(3)Whenever any
property is requisitioned under sub-section (1), the period of such
requisition shall not extend beyond the period for which such property is
required for any of the purposes mentioned in that sub-section.(4)In this
section -(a)"premises" means any land, building or part of a building and
includes a hut, shed or other structure or any part thereof;(b)"vehicle" means
any vehicle used or capable of being used for the purpose of road transport,
whether propelled by mechanical power or otherwise.

### 74. Payment of amount.

(1)Whenever in pursuance of section 73, the Government requisitions any
premises, the persons interested, shall be paid by the Government, an amount
which shall be determined by the Government by taking into consideration the
following, namely: -(i)the rent payable in respect of the premises or if no
rent is so payable, the rent payable for similar premises in the
locality:Provided that the rent payable in respect of the premises to which
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1960) apply shall be the fair rent payable for the
premises under that Act.(ii)If in consequence of the requisition of the
premises, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place
of business, the reasonable expenses, if any, incidental to such
change:Provided that where any person interested, being aggrieved by the
amount so determined makes an application to the Government within one month
from the date of service of the order determining the amount, for referring
the matter to an Arbitrator, the amount to be paid shall be such as the
Arbitrator appointed by the Government may determine:Provided further that
where there is any dispute as to the title to receive the amount or as to the
apportionment of the amount, it shall be referred by the Government to an
Arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the Government for determination and
shall be determined in accordance with the decision of such
Arbitrator.Explanation. - In this sub-section, the expression "person
interested" means the person who was in actual possession of the premises
requisitioned under section 73 immediately before the requisition, or where no
person was in such actual possession, the owner of such premises.(2)Whenever
in pursuance of section 73, the Government requisition any vehicle, vessel or
animal, there shall be paid by the Government to the owner thereof an amount
which shall be determined by the Government on the basis of the fares or rates
prevailing in the locality for the hire of such vehicle, vessel, or
animal:Provided that where the owner of such vehicle, vessel or animal being
aggrieved by the amount so determined makes an application to the Government
within one month from the date of service of the order determining the amount
for referring the matter to an Arbitrator, the amount to be paid shall be such
sum as the Arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the Government may
determine:Provided further that where immediately before the requisitioning,
the vehicle or vessel was by virtue of a hire purchase agreement in the
possession of a person other than the owner, the total amount determined under
this sub-section payable in respect of the requisition shall be apportioned
between that person and the owner in such manner as they may agree upon, and
in default of agreement, in such manner as an Arbitrator appointed by the
Government in this behalf may decide.

### 75. Power to obtain information.

\- The Government may, with a view to requisitioning any property under
section 73 or determining the amount payable under section 74, by order,
require any person to furnish to such authority as may be specified in the
order such information in his possession relating to such property as may be
so specified.

### 76. Power of entry into, and inspection of, premises, etc.

(1)Any person authorised in this behalf by the Government may enter into any
premises and inspect such premises and any vehicle, vessel or animal therein
for the purpose of determining whether and if so in what manner, an order
under section 73 should be made in relation to such premises, vehicle, vessel
or animal or with a view to securing compliance with any order made under that
section.(2)In this section, the expressions "premises" and "vehicle" shall
have the same meaning as in section 73.

### 77. Eviction from requisitioned premises.

(1)Any person remaining in possession of any requisitioned premises in
contravention of any order made under section 73 may be summarily evicted from
the premises by any officer empowered by the Government in this behalf.(2)Any
officer so empowered may, after giving to any woman not appearing in public,
reasonable warning and facility to withdraw, remove or open any lock or bolt
or break open any door of any building or do any other act necessary for
effecting such eviction.

### 78. Release of premises from requisition.

(1)When any premises requisitioned under section 73 are to be released from
requisition, the possession thereof shall be delivered to the person from whom
possession was taken at the time when the premises were requisitioned, or if
there were no such person, to the person deemed by the Government to be the
owner of such premises and such delivery of possession shall be a full
discharge of the Government from all liabilities in respect of such delivery,
but shall not prejudice any rights in respect of the premises which any other
person may be entitled by due process of law to enforce against the person to
whom possession of the premises is so delivered.(2)Where the person to whom
possession of any premises requisitioned under section 73 is to be given under
sub-section (1) cannot be found or is not readily ascertainable or has no
agent or any other person empowered to accept delivery on his behalf, the
Government shall cause a notice declaring that such premises are released
from, requisition to be affixed on some conspicuous part of such premises and
publish the notice in the District Gazette concerned.(3)When a notice referred
to in sub-section (2) is published in the District Gazette, the premises
specified in such notice shall cease to be subject to requisition on and from
the date of such publication and be deemed to have been delivered to the
person entitled to possession thereof and the Government shall not be liable
for any claim in respect of such premises for any period after the said date.

### 79. Delegation of function of the Government with regard to
requisitioning.

\- The Government may, by notification, direct that any power conferred or any
duty imposed on the Government by any of the provisions of sections 73 to 78
shall, under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be
exercised or discharged by such officer or class of officers as may be so
specified.

### 80. Penalty for contravention of any order of requisitioning.

\- If any person contravenes any order made under section 73 or section 75, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year
or with fine, or with both.

### 80A. [ Grant of paid holiday to employees on the day of poll. [Section 8-A
inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act
12 of 2007) w.e.f 31-5-2007.]

(1)Every person employed in any business, trade, industrial undertaking or any
other establishment and entitled to vote at election to any Panchayat shall,
on the day of poll, be granted a holiday.(2)No deduction or abatement of the
wages of any such person shall be made on account of a holiday having been
granted in accordance with sub-section (1) and if such person is employed on
the basis that he would not ordinarily receive wages for such a day, he shall
nonetheless be paid for such day the wages he would have drawn had not a
holiday been granted to him on that day.(3)If an employer contravenes the
provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), then, such employer shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.(4)This section
shall not apply to any elector whose absence may cause danger or substantial
loss in respect of the employment in which he is engaged.]Members

### 81. Rights of individual member.

(1)Any member may call the attention of the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).], as the case may be, to any neglect in the execution of
panchayat work, to any waste of panchayat property or to the wants of any
locality, and may suggest any improvement which may appear desirable.(2)Every
member shall have the right to move resolutions and to interpellate the
President or Chairman on matters connected with the administration of the
Panchayat, subject to such Rules as may be prescribed.(3)Every member shall
have access during office hours to the records of the Panchayat after giving
due notice to the Executive Authority or Commissioner or the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], provided that the
Executive Authority or Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the
words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] may, for reasons recorded in writing,
forbid such access.

### 82. No President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member to
receive remuneration.

\- No President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member shall
receive or be paid, from the funds at the disposal of or under the control of
the Panchayat, [any salary or other remuneration, except travelling allowance,
fixed monthly travelling allowance, daily allowance and sitting fees as may be
fixed by the Government, from time to time] [Substituted for the words 'any
salary or other remuneration' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act,
1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], for services rendered by him whether in
his capacity as such or in any other capacity:[Provided that the president may
be paid a monthly honorarium, as may be fixed by the Government from time to
time.] [Inserted by Act No. 15 of 2012, dated 31.5.2012, w.e.f. 25.10.2011.]

### 82A. [ President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or member to
obtain permission to undertake trip to foreign country. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act 52 of 2002.]

\- No person holding the office of President, Vice-President or Member of a
Village Panchayat or Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member of a Panchayat Union
Council or of a District Panchayat shall undertake any trip to any foreign
country in his official capacity as such, except with the permission in
writing of the Government.]

## Chapter V  
Powers and Duties of The Executive Authority

### 83. [Executive Authority of Village Panchayat] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1996).].

\- The Government may, by notification, appoint any person, who shall, subject
to such rules as may be prescribed, exercise the powers and perform the
functions of the Executive Authority of a Village Panchayat [***] [The words
'and different persons may be appointed to different classes of Village
Panchayats' were added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2004
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2004) w.e.f 14-6-2004 and omitted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f
14-7-2006.].

### 84. Functions of Executive Authority.

\- The Executive Authority shall, -(a)carry into effect the resolutions of the
Village Panchayat Provided that where the [Executive Authority] [Substituted
for the word 'President' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil
Nadu Act 2 of 1999).] considers that a resolution has not been legally passed
or is in excess of the powers conferred by this Act or that, if carried out,
it is likely to endanger human life or health or the public safety, the
Executive Authority shall refer the matter to the Government for orders and
their decision shall be final;(b)control all the officers and servants of the
Village Panchayat;(c)discharge all the duties specifically imposed and
exercise all the powers conferred on the Executive Authority and subject to
all restrictions and conditions imposed, by or under this Act, exercise the
executive power for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act and
be directly responsible for the due fulfillment of the purposes thereof.The
Commissioner

### 85. Commissioner.

(1)A Commissioner shall be appointed by the Government in the case of each
Panchayat Union Council. Such Commissioner shall ordinarily be the Development
Officer appointed in pursuance of the National Extension Service Scheme of
Community Development for the Panchayat Development Block.(2)No recovery shall
be made from the Panchayat Union Council towards the salary and allowances
paid to any Commissioner or towards his leave allowances, pension and
Provident Fund.(3)The Government shall have power to regulate the method of
recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline and
conduct of the Commissioner appointed under sub-section (1).(4)The
Commissioner shall -(a)have the right to attend the meetings of the Panchayat
Union Council or of any committee thereof and take part in the discussions
thereat, but without the right to move any resolution or to vote;(b)attend any
meeting of the Panchayat Union Council or of any Committee thereof if required
to do so by the Chairman;(c)carry into effect the resolutions of the Panchayat
Union Council;(d)furnish to the Panchayat Union Council such periodical
reports regarding the progress made in carrying out the resolutions of that
body and in the collection of taxes as the council may direct;(e)control all
the officers and servants of the Panchayat Union Council;(f)perform all the
duties specifically imposed and exercise all the powers conferred on the
Commissioner by this Act and subject, whenever it is hereinafter expressly so
provided, to the sanction of the Panchayat Union Council and subject also to
all other restrictions, limitations and conditions hereinafter imposed,
exercise the executive power for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act and be directly responsible for the due fulfillment of the purposes
of this Act.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of
section 16 and subject to all other provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder, the Panchayat Union Council shall have power to issue such
specific directions as it may think fit regarding the performance by the
Commissioner of any of the functions assigned to him under this Act:Provided
that where such directions relate to any National Extension Service Scheme of
Community Development or any other scheme specially entrusted by the
Government to the Panchayat Union Council, the directions issued by the
council shall be in conformity with the terms and conditions of such
entrustment.(6)Subject to any directions given or restrictions imposed by the
Government or the Panchayat Union Council, the Commissioner may, by an order
in writing, delegate any of his functions to any officer or servant of the
Panchayat Union Council or to any servant of the Government. The exercise or
discharge of any functions so delegated shall be, subject to such
restrictions, limitations and conditions as may be laid down by the
Commissioner and shall also be subject to his control and revision.

### 86. Emergency powers of Executive Authority and Commissioner.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner may, in cases of emergency,
direct the execution of any work or the doing of any act which requires the
sanction of the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council, as the case
may be, and the immediate execution or doing of which is, in his opinion,
necessary for the health or safety of the public, and may direct that the
expenses of executing such work or doing such act shall be paid from the
Village Panchayat Fund or the Panchayat Union Fund, as the case may
be:Provided that -(a)he shall not act under this section in contravention of
any order of the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council prohibiting
the execution of any particular work or the doing of any particular act;
and(b)he shall report the action taken under this section and the reason
therefor to the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council at its next
meeting.

### 87. [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1998).].

(1)The Government shall appoint an officer not below the rank of [Divisional
Development Officer in the Tamil Nadu Panchayat Development Service]
[Substituted for the words 'Joint Director of Rural Development' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] as
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] of the
District Panchayat.(2)The Government shall have power to regulate the method
of recruitment and conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline
and conduct of the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] appointed under sub-section (1).

### 88. Functions, powers and duties of [Secretary] [Substituted for the words
'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).].

(1)The [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1998).] shall -(a)exercise all the powers specially imposed or conferred upon
him by or under this Act or under any other law for the time being in
force;(b)supervise and control the execution of all works of the District
Panchayat, and have the right to attend meetings of the District Panchayat or
any committee thereof and take part in the discussions thereat, but without
the right to move any resolution or to vote;(c)attend any meeting of the
District Panchayat or any Committee thereof, if required to do so by the
Chairman;(d)carry out the resolutions of the District Panchayat;(e)furnish to
the District Panchayat such periodical reports regarding the progress made in
carrying out the resolutions of that body and in the collection of taxes as
the council may direct;(f)control the officers and servants of the District
Panchayat;(g)exercise such other powers and discharge such other functions as
may be prescribed.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
the District Panchayat shall have power to issue such specific direction as it
may think fit regarding the performance by the [Secretary] [Substituted for
the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] of any of the functions assigned to
him under this Act.(3)Subject to any directions given or restrictions imposed
by the Government or the District Panchayat, the [Secretary] [Substituted for
the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] may, by an order in writing, delegate
any of his functions to any officer or servant of the District Panchayat or to
any servant of the Government. The exercise or discharge of any function so
delegated shall be subject to such restrictions, limitations and conditions as
may be laid down by the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief
Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and shall also be subject to his control and
revision.(4)The [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] shall, within fifteen days from the date of the meeting of the
District Panchayat or of any of its committee, submit to the Government every
resolution of the District Panchayat or any of its committee which in his
opinion is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other law and
it shall not implement such resolution otherwise than as decided by the
Government.

## Chapter VI  
Procedure

### 89. Presidency at meetings of Panchayat.

(1)Every meeting of a Panchayat shall be presided over by the President or the
Chairman, as the case may be, and, in his absence, by the Vice-President or
Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, and in the absence of the President,
Chairman, Vice-President and Vice-Chairman, by a member chosen by the members
present at the meeting to preside for the occasion.(2)The President or the
Chairman, as the case may be, shall preserve order and decide all points of
order arising at or in connection with the meetings. There shall be no
discussion on any point of order and the decision of the President or
Chairman, as the case may be, on any point of order shall be final.(3)A Vice-
President, a Vice-Chairman or member presiding for the occasion shall, for
that meeting and during the period he presides over it, have all the powers of
the President or Chairman, as the case may be.

### 90. Meetings of Panchayat.

\- Every Panchayat shall meet at such times and places and shall, subject to
the provisions of section 89, observe such rules of procedure in regard to
transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at meetings) [as
may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 167, Rural Development
(C4), dated 9th August, 1999 at page 595 of this book and in GO. Ms. No. 260,
Rural Development (C4), dated 17th December, 1999 at page 815.]:Provided that
not more than sixty days shall elapse between any two meetings of the
Panchayat.

### 91. Members when to abstain from taking part in discussion and voting.

(1)No member shall vote on, or take part in the discussion of, any question
coming up for consideration at a meeting of the Panchayat or any Committee if
the question is one in which, apart from its general application to the
public, he has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest by himself or his
partner.(2)The President or Chairman, as the case may be, may prohibit any
member from voting or taking part in the discussion of any matter in which he
believes such member to have such interest, or he may require such member to
absent himself during the discussion.(3)Such member may challenge the decision
of the President or Chairman, who shall, thereupon, put the question to the
meeting. The decision of the meeting shall be final.(4)If the President or
Chairman is believed by any member present at the meeting to have any such
pecuniary interest in any matter under discussion, he may, if a motion to that
effect is carried, be required to absent himself from the meeting during such
discussion.(5)The member concerned shall not be entitled to vote on the
question referred to in sub-section (3) and the President or Chairman
concerned shall not be entitled to vote on the motion referred to in sub-
section (4).Explanation. - The terms "President" and "Chairman" in this
section include a Vice-President, Vice-Chairman or member presiding for the
occasion.

### 92. Minutes of proceedings.

\- A copy of the minutes of the proceedings of every meeting of a Panchayat as
well as all minutes of dissent in respect of such proceedings received from
any member present at the meeting, within forty-eight hours of the close,
thereof, shall be submitted by the President or Chairman, as the case may be,
within three days of the date to the meeting to the Inspector:Provided that
the Inspector may direct that such minutes shall be submitted either generally
or in any specified classes of cases to any officer empowered by him in this
behalf.

### 93. Power of Panchayat to call for records.

\- A Panchayat may require the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], as the
case may be, to produce any document which is in his custody and he shall,
subject to [such rules as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No.
118, Rural Development (C4), dated 5th July, 1999 at page 549 of this book.],
comply with every such requisition.

### 94. Proceedings of Panchayat and Committees.

(1)The proceedings of every Panchayat, and of all committees thereof shall be
governed by such rules [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G O. Ms.
No. 167, Rural Development (C4), dated 9th August, 1999 at page 595 and G.O.
Ms. No. 260, dated 17th December, 1999 at page 815 of this book.] and by
regulations, not inconsistent with such rules or the provisions of this Act,
made by the Panchayat with the approval of the Inspector.(2)The Inspector may
remit for re-consideration and re-submission any regulation or part thereof to
the Panchayat:Provided that it shall be competent for the Inspector to add to,
omit or alter any regulation which contravenes the provisions of this Act or
the Rules made thereunder.

### 95. Appointment of joint committees.

(1)A Panchayat may, and if so required by the Inspector, shall, join with one,
or more than one, other local authority in constituting a joint committee for
any purpose for which they are jointly responsible.(2)The constitution, powers
and procedure of a joint committee and the method of settling differences of
opinion arising in connection with the Committee between the local authorities
concerned shall be in accordance with such rules [as may be prescribed] [See
Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 247, Rural Development (C4), dated 23rd December,
1999.].

### 96. Committees.

(1)(a)There shall be an Appointment Committee for every Panchayat Union,
[which shall be composed of the Chairman and the vice-Chairman of the
Panchayat Union Council and the Commissioner] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Ninth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu 59 of 2008).]. The Chairman
of the Panchayat Union Council shall be the Chairman of the Committee. Subject
to the provisions of section 102 and to such Rules as may be made by the
Government in this behalf, appointments to all posts under the Panchayat Union
Council, the pay of which is debitable to the funds of the Panchayat Union
Council shall be made with the prior approval of the Committee.(b)(i)There
shall be an Agricultural Production Committee for every Panchayat Union, which
shall be composed of the Chairman of the Panchayat Union Council who shall be
the Chairman of that Committee, the Commissioner and three persons nominated
by the Panchayat Union Council.(A)he is not a member of the Panchayat Union
Council; or(B)in the opinion of the Panchayat Union Council, he does not
possess adequate knowledge of, and experience in, agriculture.(ii)No person
shall be nominated under sub-clause (i), if -(c)There shall be an Education
Committee and a General Purposes Committee in every Panchayat union. The
Panchayat Union Council may, and if so required by the Government, shall
appoint such other committees as may be necessary for the efficient
performance of its duties and functions under this Act. Each of the committee
constituted under this clause shall consist of such number of members as may
be specified by the Council and shall include the Chairman ex officio. The
members of each committee constituted under this clause, other than the
Chairman, shall be elected by the Panchayat Union Council from among its
elected members.(2)Subject to [such rules] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No.
247, Rural Development (C4), dated 3rd December, 1999.] as may be made by the
Government in this behalf, the Panchayat Union Council shall have the power,
by regulations made from time to time, to determine the powers and duties of
every Committee constituted under sub-section (1).

### 97. Standing Committees.

(1)(a)For the purpose of assisting the District Panchayat in exercising such
of its powers, discharging such of its duties and performing such of its
functions specified under this Act, a District Panchayat may constitute
Standing Committees for dealing with -(i)food and agriculture;(ii)industries
and labour;(iii)public works;(iv)education; and(v)health and welfare including
prohibition.(b)A District Panchayat may constitute additional Standing
Committees for such purposes as it thinks fit.(2)Each Standing Committee shall
consist of such number of persons not exceeding five including the Chairman as
specified by the District Panchayat and elected by the District Panchayat from
among its elected members.(3)The Chairman of the District Panchayat shall be
the ex officio member in all the Standing Committees constituted by the
District Panchayat.(4)Each Standing Committee shall elect its own Chairman
from among its members who are elected members of the District Panchayat.(5)No
member of the District Panchayat shall be eligible to serve on more than two
Standing Committees.(6)The [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief
Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] shall nominate one of the officers under his control as
ex officio Secretary for each of the Standing Committees. The [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] shall be entitled to
attend the meetings of all the Standing Committees.Administration Reports

### 98. Administration reports of Village Panchayats.

(1)Every Village Panchayat shall submit to the Panchayat Union Council a
report on its administration for each year as soon as may be after the close
of such year and not later than the prescribed date, in such form, with such
details and through such authority [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in
G.O. Ms. No. 248, Rural Development (C4), dated 3rd December, 1999.].(2)The
report shall be prepared by the Executive Authority and the Village Panchayat
shall consider it and forward the same to the Panchayat Union Council with its
resolution thereon.

### 99. Administration report of Panchayat Union Councils and District
Panchayats.

(1)Every Panchayat Union Council shall submit to the District Panchayat a
consolidated report on its administration and on the administration of all
Village Panchayats in the Panchayat Union for each year as soon as may be
after the close of such year and not later than the prescribed date, in such
form, with such details and through such authority [as may be prescribed] [See
Rules issued in G. O. Ms. No. 247, Rural Development (C4), dated 3rd December,
1999. Published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated 10th December, 1999.].(2)The report shall be
prepared by the Commissioner and the Panchayat Union Council shall consider it
and forward the same to the District Panchayat with its resolution
thereon.(3)The District Panchayat shall prepare a general report on the
administration of Panchayat Union Councils and Village Panchayats in the
district and submit the same to the Government before such date as may be
prescribed. The District Panchayat shall also send a copy of the report to the
Inspector.(4)The report and resolution thereon shall be published in such
manner as the Government may direct.Validation of Proceedings

### 100. Acts of Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council and District
Panchayat, etc., not to be invalidated by infirmity, vacancy, etc.

\- No act of a Village Panchayat or of a Panchayat Union Council or of a
District Panchayat or of a Committee thereof or of any person acting as
President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member of such Village
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat or Committee, shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of a defect in the establishment of
such Panchayat or Committee, as the case may be, or on the ground that the
President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Member of such Village
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat or Chairman or
Member of a Committee was not entitled to hold or continue in such office by
reason of any disqualification or by reason of any irregularity or illegality
in his election or by reason of such act having been done during the period of
any vacancy in the office of President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-
Chairman or member of such Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union Council or
District Panchayat or Committee.

## Chapter VI  
A [Chapter VI-A inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2004
(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2004) w.e.f. 14-6-2004 and omitted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 2006) w.e.f.
14-7-2006.]

## Chapter VII  
Establishment, Powers and Functions of Panchayats

### 101. Establishment of Panchayats.

(1)The sanction of the Panchayat shall be obtained for all proposals for
fixing or altering the number, designations and grades of its officers and
servants and the salaries, fees and allowances payable to them.(2)Such
proposals shall be taken into consideration by the Panchayat, only at the
instance of the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], as the case may be,
and the Panchayat may sanction the proposal with or without
modifications:Provided that no proposal adversely affecting any officer or
servant of a Panchayat who has been in the permanent service of such Panchayat
for more than five years and is drawing a salary of not less than five hundred
rupees per mensem shall be considered except at a special meeting convened for
the purpose and no such proposal shall be given effect to unless assented to
by at least one-half of the members then in the Panchayat.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), the Government in the case of
Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats and the Inspector in the case
of Village Panchayats shall have power to fix or alter the number,
designations and grades of, and the salaries, fees and allowances payable to
the officers and servants of any Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council
or the District Panchayat or any class of such officers and servants and it
shall not be open to the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or the
District Panchayat to vary the number, designations, grades, salaries, fees or
allowances as so fixed or altered except with the previous sanction of the
Government in the case of Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats and
of the Inspector in the case of Village Panchayats:[Provided that the
Inspector shall observe any guidelines issued by the Government in this
regard.] [Proviso added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).]

### 102. Conditions of service of officers and servants of Panchayats.

(1)The Government shall have power to make rules regarding the authorities who
may appoint the officers and servants of Panchayats, other than the
Commissioners and the [Secretaries] [Substituted for the words 'Chief
Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and the classification, method of recruitment, pay and
allowances, discipline and conduct and conditions of service of such officers
and servants.Such rules may provide for the constitution of any class of
officers or servants of Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and the
District Panchayats, as the ease may be, other than the Commissioners and the
[Secretaries] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).],
into a separate service for the whole or any part of the State.(2)Subject to
the provisions of this Act and any Rules which the Government may make in this
behalf, the Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat, as the case may
be, may frame regulations in respect of the officers and servants on the staff
of the Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat, -(a)fixing the
amount and nature of the security to be furnished;(b)prescribing educational
and other qualifications;(c)regulating the grant of leave, leave allowances,
acting allowances and travelling allowances;(d)regulating the grant of
pensions and gratuities;(e)establishing and maintaining Provident Funds and
making contributions thereto compulsory;(f)regulating conduct; and(g)generally
prescribing conditions of service:Provided -(i)that the grant of any leave,
leave allowances, travelling allowances, pension or gratuity provided for in
such regulations shall, in no case, without the special sanction of the
Government exceed what would be admissible in the case of Government servants
of similar standing and status;(ii)that the conditions under which such
allowances are granted or any leave, superannuation or retirement is
sanctioned shall not without similar sanction, be more favourable than those
for the time being prescribed for such Government servants.(3)A Rule may be
made under sub-section (1) insofar as it relates to officers and servants of
Village Panchayats and Panchayat Union Councils, so as to have retrospective
effect on and from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of this
Act.

### 103. Appointment of common officers.

\- Two or more Village Panchayats or two or more Panchayat Union Councils may,
subject to such Rules as may be prescribed, and shall if so required by any
authority empowered in [this behalf by Rules] [See Rules issued in G. O. Ms.
No. 139, Rural Development (C4), dated 21st July, 1999, page 559 and published
in Part-III, section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated 23rd July, 1999.], appoint the same officer or servant to exercise or
discharge any powers or duties of a similar nature for both or all of them.

### 104. Transfer of officers and servants of Village Panchayats and Panchayat
Union Councils.

(1)Any officer or servant of a Village Panchayat may be transferred to the
service of any Panchayat Union Council or any other Village Panchayat by the
Inspector:Provided that no officer or servant shall be so transferred except
after consulting the Commissioner or the Executive Authority
concerned:Provided further that in making a transfer under this sub-section,
the I Inspector may issue such general or special directions as may, in his
opinion, be necessary for the purpose of giving due effect to such
transfer.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), any officer or
servant of a Panchayat Union Council (including the Commissioner) may be
transferred by the Government to the services of any other Panchayat Union
Council or any Municipality constituted under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920):Provided that no officer
or servant (other than the Commissioner) shall be so transferred except after
consulting the Panchayat Union Councils or Municipal Councils
concerned:Provided further that the Government, while making a transfer under
this sub-section, may issue such general or special directions as may, in
their opinion be necessary for the purpose of giving due effect to such
transfer.

### 105. Power of Government to transfer officers and servants of District
Panchayats.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the Government
shall have power, -(a)to transfer any officer or servant of the District
Panchayat (including the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief
Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1998).]) to the service of any other District Panchayat or to
any Municipality constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act,
1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920);(b)to issue general or special direction as
they may think necessary for the purpose of giving due effect to any transfer
under clause (a).

### 106. Power to punish officers and servants.

\- Subject to such control as may be prescribed, the Executive Authority, the
Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] may censure, fine, withhold increments or promotions from, or
reduce to a lower rank in the seniority list, or to a lower post or time-scale
or to a lower stage in a time-scale, suspend, remove or dismiss any officer or
servant in the service of Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or the
District Panchayat, as the case may be, for any breach of departmental rules
or discipline, or for carelessness, unfitness, neglect of duty or other
misconduct.

### 107. Applicability of certain directions to public health establishment.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 109, the provisions of sections 101 to
106 shall also apply to the public health establishments of Panchayats,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939
(Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939).

### 108. Teachers including headmasters and basic servants in the Panchayat
Union Schools to be Government servants.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, on and from the 1st June 1981, all teachers (including
headmasters) and basic servants in the Panchayat Union Schools in the State of
Tamil Nadu shall become whole-time Government servants.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 96 or in any other provisions
of this Act and subject to the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution,
the Government may make rules regulating the conditions of service of the
teachers (including headmasters) and basic servants in the Panchayat Union
Schools.

### 109. Health assistants, auxiliary nurses, mid- wives and maternity
assistants in public health establishments of Panchayat Union Council to be
Government servants.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, on and from the 1st October 1982, all health assistants,
auxiliary nurses, mid-wives and maternity assistants in the public health
establishments of Panchayat Union Councils in the State shall become whole-
time Government servants.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1) of section 96 or in any other provisions of this Act and, subject to the
provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution, the Government may make rules
regulating the conditions of service of the health assistants, the auxiliary
nurses, mid-wives and maternity assistants in the public health establishments
of Panchayat Union Councils.

## Chapter VIII  
Functions, Powers and Property of Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils
and District Panchayats

### 110. Duty of Village Panchayat to provide for certain matters.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder, it
shall be the duty of Village Panchayat, within the limits of its funds, to
make reasonable provision for carrying out the requirements of the Panchayat
Village in respect of the following matters, namely: -(a)the construction,
repair and maintenance of all village roads, that is to say, all public roads
in the village (other than those classified as National Highways, State
Highways, major District roads and Panchayat Union roads) and of all bridges,
culverts, road-dams and causeways on such roads;(aa)[ the extension of
village-sites and the regulations of building;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1997).](b)the
lighting of public roads and public places in built-up areas;(c)the
construction of drains and the disposal of drainage water and sullage not
including sewage;(d)the cleaning of streets, the removal of rubbish heaps,
jungle growth and prickly-pear, the filling in of disused wells, insanitary
ponds, pools, ditches, pits or hollows and other improvements of the sanitary
condition of the village;(e)the provision of public latrines and arrangements
to cleanse latrines whether public or private;(f)the opening and maintenance
of burial and burning grounds;(g)the sinking and repairing of wells, the
excavation, repair and maintenance of ponds [***] [The words 'or tanks' was
Omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 2009).] and the construction and maintenance of water-works [for the
supply of water for drinking, washing] [Substituted for 'for the supply of
water for washing' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and bathing purposes; and(h)such other duties as the
Government may, by notification, impose.

### 111. Power of Village Panchayat to provide for certain other matters.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder, a
Village Panchayat may also make such provisions as it thinks fit for carrying
out the requirements of the village in respect of the following matters,
namely: -(a)the planting and preservation of trees on the sides of all public
roads in the village, subject to mutually agreed terms and conditions between
the Village Panchayat and the authority which maintains the road in case the
road is not maintained by the Village Panchayat itself;(b)the lighting of
public roads and public places in areas other than built-up areas;(c)the
opening and maintenance of public markets other than markets which are
classified as Panchayat Union markets;(d)the control of fairs and festivals
other than those classified as Panchayat Union fairs and festivals;(e)the
opening and maintenance of public landing places, halting places and cart-
stands and of public cattle-sheds;(f)the opening and maintenance of public
slaughter-houses;(g)the opening and maintenance of reading rooms;(h)the
establishment and maintenance of wireless receiving sets, [television sets]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1999).], playgrounds, parks, sport's clubs and centres of physical
culture;(i)the opening and maintenance of literacy centres and centres for
imparting social education; and(j)the construction of works of public utility
and the provisions of other facilities for the safety, health, comfort,
convenience, culture or recreation of the inhabitants of the village.[***]
[[The following proviso was omitted by Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999.'Provided
that nothing in this clause shall apply to water supply for non-irrigation
purposes and to sewerage'.]]

### 112. Duty of Panchayat Union Council to provide for certain matters.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder, it
shall be the duty of a Panchayat Union Council, within the limits of its
funds, to make reasonable provision for carrying out the requirements of the
Panchayat Union in respect of the following matters, namely: -(a)the
construction, repair and maintenance of all public roads in the Panchayat
Union which are classified as Panchayat Union roads and of all bridges,
culverts, road-dams and cause-ways on such roads;(aa)[ the excavation, repair
and maintenance of tanks and the construction of water works for the supply of
water for drinking, washing and bathing purposes. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 2009).](aaa)[ the
construction and maintenance of comprehensive water supply schemes for the
supply of protected drinking water covering one or more Village Panchayats as
may be notified by the Government;](b)the establishment and maintenance of
dispensaries and the payments of subsidies to rural medical
practitioners;(c)the establishment and maintenance of maternity and child
welfare centres, including the maintenance of a Thai service and offering
advice and assistance to mothers in family planning;(d)the construction and
maintenance of poor houses, orphanages, shops, stalls, plinths, the training
and employment of vaccinators, the removal of congestion of population and the
provision of house-sites;(e)the opening and maintenance and expansion or
improvement of elementary schools, including the payment of grants to private
managements in respect of elementary schools;(f)preventive and remedial
measures connected with any epidemic or with malaria;(g)the control of fairs
and festivals classified by the Panchayat Union Council as those reserved for
control by it;(h)veterinary relief;(i)[***] [ Clause (i) was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1997).
Before omission it was read as: 'the extension of village sites and the
regulation of building.'](j)the opening and maintenance of public markets
which are classified as Panchayat Union markets;(k)the maintenance of
statistics relating to births and deaths;(l)the establishment and maintenance
of choultries;(m)improvements of agriculture, agriculture stock and the
holding of agricultural shows;(n)the promotion and encouragement of cottage
industries; and(o)such other duties as the Government may, by notification,
impose.

### 113. Entrustment of execution of National Extension Service Scheme of
Community Development to Panchayat Union Councils.

\- The Government shall, as soon as may be after the constitution of a
Panchayat Union Council for a Panchayat Development Block under this Act,
entrust to the Panchayat Union Council subject to such conditions and
restrictions as may be specified by the Government, the execution in the
Panchayat Development Block of the National Extension Service Scheme of
Community Development, including in particular, all measures relating to the
development of agriculture, animal husbandry and village industries organised
on an individual or co-operative basis.

### 114. Entrustment of certain schemes to Panchayat Union Councils.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in section 113, the Government may, subject to
such conditions and restrictions as may be specified, entrust all or any of
the schemes, programmes and activities for economic development, whether such
schemes, programmes and activities are to be executed or implemented either by
the Government or by any statutory body or other agency to the Panchayat Union
Council for its execution or implementation.(2)The Panchayat Union Council
may, if so notified by the Government, review the schemes, programmes and
other activities executed by the Government or by any statutory body or other
agency within the Panchayat Union.

### 115. Power of Panchayat Union Council to provide for certain other
matters.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder, a
Panchayat Union Council may, within the limits of its funds, make such
provision as it thinks fit for carrying out the requirements of the Panchayat
Union in respect of measures of public utility other than those specified in
section 112, calculated to promote the safety, health, comfort or convenience
of the inhabitants of the Panchayat Union:[***] [[The following proviso was
omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1999).'Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to water supply
for non-irrigation purposes and to sewerage.']]

### 116. Common burial and burning grounds, etc.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the [Rules] [See Rules issued in
G.O. Ms. No. 213, Rural Development (C4), dated 5th October, 1999. Published
in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Part III, section 1(a),
dated 8th October, 1999.] made thereunder, two or more Village Panchayats
-(i)may construct and maintain water-works [for supply of water for drinking,
washing] [Substituted for the words 'for supply of water for washing' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).], and
bathing purposes from a common source and may also provide a common burial and
burning ground; and(ii)may entrust to the Panchayat Union Council with its
consent and on such terms as may be agreed upon, the management of any
institution or the execution or maintenance of any work.

### 117. Lighting of public roads and public places.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) of section 111, the
Government may, by general or special order, direct any [Village Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat] [Substituted for the words
'Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] to provide for the lighting
of public roads and public places within its jurisdiction and it shall be the
duty of the [Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or District
Panchayat] [Substituted for the words 'Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1999).] to provide for such light:Provided that where such a direction
is given, the Government shall make such provision for the cost of lighting as
they may consider reasonable and the decision of the Government shall be
final.

### 118. Maintenance of common dispensaries, child welfare centres, etc.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules made thereunder, two or
more Panchayat Union Councils may establish and maintain common dispensaries,
child welfare centres and institutions of such other kind as may be
prescribed.

### 119. Transfer of immovable property, management of institutions, execution
of maintenance of works, etc., to a Village Panchayat.

(1)The Panchayat Union Council may, subject to such control as may be
prescribed, by notifies don declare that any immovable property vested in
itself shall vest in any Village Panchayat in the same Panchayat Union and
such property shall, from the date specified in the said notification, vest
accordingly.(2)Subject to such Rules as may be prescribed, [the Government,
the Director of Rural Development or any other Head of Department or the
Collector] [Substituted for the words 'the Government, Commissioner of Land
Administration, the Collector or Revenue Divisional Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).], the
District Panchayat, the Panchayat Union Council or the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], the Commissioner,
or any person or body of persons, may transfer to the Village Panchayat, with
its consent and subject to such conditions as may be agreed upon, the
management of any institution, or the execution or maintenance of any work, or
the exercise of any power or the discharge of any duty, whether within or
without the village, and whether provided for in this Act or not.

### 120. Transfer to Village Panchayat of unreserved forests.

(1)(a)All unreserved forests in the village at the commencement of this Act
shall vest in the Village Panchayat and be administered by it for the benefit
of such village.(b)In respect of every forest so vested, the Village Panchayat
shall, if so required by the Collector, pay to the Government such rent as the
Collector may, from time to time, subject to the control of the Commissioner
of Land Administration, fix in this behalf.(2)(a)If the Revenue Divisional
Officer is of opinion that a Village Panchayat is not administering properly a
forest vested in it under sub-section (1), he may by order, withdraw such
forest from the control of the Village Panchayat for such period as may be
specified in the order, not exceeding the period, if any, prescribed in this
behalf. He may in respect of such forest direct that it be vested in the
Panchayat Union Council and be administered by it.(b)The Revenue Divisional
Officer may, from time to time, by order, extend the period specified in any
order issued under clause (a), subject to the period prescribed in this
behalf.(c)Before issuing an order under clause (a) or (b), a reasonable
opportunity shall be given to the Village Panchayat to show cause against such
issue.(d)When an order is issued under clause (a) or (b), the Village
Panchayat concerned may, within three months of the service of the order,
appeal against it to the Collector and the Collector may confirm, modify or
reverse the order.(3)The Commissioner of Land Administration may, at any time,
either suo motu or on application, call for and examine the record of any
order issued by the Revenue Divisional Officer or the Collector under sub-
section (2) for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or
propriety of such order, and may pass such order in reference thereto as he
thinks fit.

### 121. Power of Government to resume possession of unreserved forest vested
in Village Panchayat and payment of compensation, etc.

(1)If in the opinion of the Government any unreserved forest vested in a
Village Panchayat under section 120 is required for any public purpose, they
may, by notification, resume the possession and administration of such
unreserved forest and upon such resumption by the Government, all rights and
interests created in or over such unreserved forest before such resumption
shall as against the Government cease and determine.(2)Whenever the possession
and administration of such unreserved forest is resumed by the Government
under sub-section (1), there shall be paid to the Village Panchayat concerned
compensation for any improvement made by such Village Panchayat in such
unreserved forest, as determined in the manner hereinafter provided by the
Collector within whose jurisdiction such unreserved forest is
situate.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, "improvement"
means any work or product of a work which adds to the value of the unreserved
forest or is suitable to it and consistent with the purpose for which it was
vested in the Village Panchayat and shall include the following works or the
products of such works -(a)the erection of buildings or any other structure,
the construction of tanks, wells, channels, dams and other works for the
storage or supply of water for agricultural or domestic purposes;(b)the
preparation of land for irrigation;(c)the reclamation, clearance, enclosure or
permanent improvement of land for agricultural purposes;(d)the renewal or
reconstruction of any of the foregoing works or alterations therein or
addition thereto;(e)the planting or protection and maintenance of fruit trees,
timber-trees and other useful trees and plants.(3)The compensation payable in
respect of the improvements referred to in clauses (a) to (d) of the
explanation to sub-section (2) shall be the actual value of such improvements
as on the date of resumption of the unreserved forest by the Government which
shall include actual cost of the labour, supervision thereof, and of the
materials, together with other expenditure, if any, which would be required to
make such improvements, less a reasonable deduction on account of the
deterioration, if any, which may have taken place from age or other cause. The
compensation payable in respect of improvement referred to in clause (e) of
the explanation to sub-section (2) shall be such sum which the trees or plants
might reasonably be expected to realise if sold by public auction to be cut
and carried away at the time of resumption of the unreserved forest by the
Government:Provided that in computing the actual value of such improvements,
the value of unreserved forest to which such improvements have been made shall
not be taken into account:Provided further that if any grant for the purpose
of making such improvements has been paid by the Government to the Village
Panchayat concerned, then, the amount of such grant paid shall be deducted
from the amount of compensation payable in respect of such
improvements:Provided also that in the case of trees and plants in the
unreserved forest which are of spontaneous growth, the compensation payable in
respect of such trees, and plants shall be the proper cost of protection and
maintenance of such trees and plants.(4)The amount of compensation referred to
in sub-section (2) shall be given to every Village Panchayat, at its option
-(a)in cash in such annual instalments with interest at such rates as may be
prescribed, or(b)in saleable or otherwise transferable promissory notes or
securities or stock certificates of the Government, or(c)partly in cash or
partly in such securities specified in clause (b), as may be required by the
Village Panchayats.(5)The option of the Village Panchayat referred to in sub-
section (4) shall be exercised by such Village Panchayat before the expiry of
a period of three months from the date of resumption of the possession and
administration of the unreserved forest by the Government and the option so
exercised shall be final and shall not be altered or rescinded after it has
been exercised. Any Village Panchayat which omits or fails to exercise the
option referred to in sub-section (4) within the time specified above shall be
deemed to have opted for payment in securities and stock certificates referred
to in clause (b) of sub-section (4). The amount of compensation payable in
instalments shall be paid, and the securities and stock certificates referred
to in clause (b) of sub-section (4) shall be issued, within sixty days from
the date of receipt by the Government of the option referred to above or where
no such option has been exercised from the date before which such option ought
to have been exercised.(6)Any Village Panchayat aggrieved by an order relating
to compensation under this section may appeal to the Commissioner of Land
Administration within such period and in such manner as may be prescribed. The
order of the Commissioner of Land Administration on such appeal and where no
appeal is preferred, the order which has not been appealed against, shall be
final and shall not be called in question in any Court of law.

### 122. Power of Commissioner of Land Administration to transfer or resume
control of endowments and inams.

(1)(a)Subject to the control of the Government, the Commissioner of Land
Administration may, by notification, make over to a Panchayat Union Council,
with its consent, the management and superintendence of any charitable
endowment in respect of which powers and duties attached to the Commissioner
of Land Administration under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Endowments and
Escheats Regulation, 1817 (Tamil Nadu Regulation VII of 1817); and thereupon
all powers and duties attached to the Commissioner of Land Administration in
respect thereof shall attach to the Panchayat Union Council as if it had been
specially named in the said Regulation, and the Panchayat Union Council shall
manage and superintend such endowment.(b)The Commissioner of Land
Administration may, of his own motion and shall on a direction from the
Government, by notification, resume the management and superintendence "of any
endowment made over to a Panchayat Union Council under clause (a) and upon
such resumption, all the powers and duties attached to the Panchayat Union
Council in respect of the endowment shall cease and determine.(2)The
Government may assign to a Panchayat Union Council with its consent, a
charitable inam, resumed by the Government or any other authority, provided
that the net income from such inam can be applied exclusively to any purpose
to which the funds of such Panchayat Union Council may be applied; and may
revoke any assignment so made.(3)The management and superintendence of any
charitable endowment which immediately before the constitution of a Panchayat
Union Council for any Panchayat Development Block under this Act was vested in
a district board under the Madras District Boards Act, 1920 (Madras Act XIV of
1920) shall, on such constitution, vest in the Panchayat Union Council
exercising jurisdiction over the place where the endowment is situated.

### 123. Government's power to add to functions of Panchayat Union Council.

\- Subject to such Rules as may be prescribed, [the Government, the Director
of Rural Development or any other Head of Department or the Collector]
[Substituted for the words 'the Government, the Commissioner of Land
Administration, the Collector or Revenue Divisional Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] or any
person or body of persons may transfer to the Panchayat Union Council with its
consent and on such terms as may be agreed upon, the management of any
institution or the execution or maintenance of any work, or the exercise of
any power or the discharge of any duty whether within or without the Panchayat
Union Council and whether provided for in this Act or not.

### 124. Limitation of power to accept donations and trusts.

\- A Panchayat may accept donations for, or trusts relating exclusively to,
the furtherance of any purpose to which its funds may be applied.

### 125. Vesting of public roads in Village Panchayat.

(1)All public roads in any village (other than roads which are classified by
the Government as National Highways or State Highways or as major District
roads or as Panchayat Union roads) shall vest in the Village Panchayat
together with all pavements, stones, and other materials thereof, all works,
materials and other things provided therefor, all drains, drainage works,
tunnels and culverts, whether made at the cost of the Village Panchayat or
otherwise, in, alongside or under such roads, and all works, materials and
things appertaining thereto.(2)The Government may, by notification, exclude
from the operation of this Act any such public road, drain, drainage work,
tunnel or culvert and may also modify or cancel such notification.

### 126. Vesting of public roads in Panchayat Union Councils.

(1)All public roads in any Panchayat Union which are classified as Panchayat
Union roads shall vest in the Panchayat Union Council together with all
pavements, stones and other materials thereof, all works, materials and other
things provided therefor, all drains, drainage works, tunnels and culverts,
whether made at the cost of the Panchayat Union Council or otherwise, in,
alongside or under such roads, and all works, materials and things
appertaining thereto.(2)The Government may, by notification, exclude from the
operation of this Act any Panchayat Union road, drain, drainage work, tunnel
or culvert and may also modify or cancel such notification.

### 127. Duty of Village Panchayat in respect of public roads excluded from
the operation of the Act.

\- Where any public road has been excluded from the operation of this Act
under sub-section (2) of section 125 or sub-section (2) of section 126 and
placed under the control of the Highways Department of Government (hereinafter
referred to as the Highways Department), the Village Panchayat may and, if so
required by the Government, shall make provision -(a)for the watering and
maintenance of the drainage of such road;(b)for the provision, maintenance and
repair of the drains in, alongside or under such road;(c)for the provision,
maintenance and repair of foot-ways attached to such road:Provided that where
in carrying out of the above provisions it is necessary for the Village
Panchayat to open and break up the soil or pavement of any such road, the
Village Panchayat shall obtain the previous consent of such officer of the
Highways Department as the Government may, by general or special order,
specify:Provided further that in cases of emergency, the Village Panchayat
may, without such consent, open and break up the soil or pavement of any such
street, but shall, as far as practicable, restore such soil or pavement to the
condition in which it was immediately before it was opened and broken up; and
a report of the action so taken and the reasons therefor shall be sent
forthwith to the officer specified under the foregoing proviso:Provided also
that where the execution of any work is required by the Government, the
Government shall make provision for the cost thereof.

### 128. Precautions in case of dangerous structures.

(1)If any structure adjoining a public road vested in a Panchayat Union
Council or a Village Panchayat appears to the Commissioner or the Executive
Authority, as the case may be, to be in a ruinous state and dangerous to the
passers by, the Commissioner or Executive Authority may, by notice require the
owner or occupier to fence off, take down, secure or repair such structure so
as to prevent any danger therefrom.(2)If immediate action is necessary, the
Commissioner or Executive Authority shall himself, before giving such notice
or before the period of such notice expires, fence off, take down, secure or
repair such structure or fence off a part of any road or take such other
temporary measures as he may think fit to prevent danger, and the cost of
doing so shall be recoverable from the owner or occupier in the manner
hereinafter provided.

### 129. Precautions in case of dangerous trees.

(1)If any tree or any branch of a tree standing on land adjoining a public
road vested in a Panchayat Union Council or Village Panchayat appears to the
Commissioner or Executive Authority to be likely to fall and thereby endanger
any person using, or any structure on such road, the Commissioner or Executive
Authority may, by notice, require the owner of the said tree to secure, lop or
cut down the said tree so as to prevent any danger therefrom.(2)If immediate
action is necessary, the Commissioner or Executive Authority shall himself,
before giving such notice or before the period of such notice expires, secure,
lop or cut down the said tree or fence off a part of the public road or take
such other temporary measures as he thinks fit to prevent danger and the cost
of so doing shall be recoverable from the owner of the tree in the manner
hereinafter provided.

### 130. Fencing of buildings or lands and pruning of hedges and trees.

\- Where a public road is vested in a Panchayat Union Council or Village
Panchayat, the Commissioner or Executive Authority may, by public notice,
require the owner or occupier of any building or land near such road to
-(a)fence the same to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or Executive
Authority;(b)trim or prune any hedges bordering on such road so that they may
not exceed such height from the level of the adjoining roadway as the
Commissioner or Executive Authority may determine; or(c)cut and trim any
hedges or trees overhanging such road and obstructing it or the view of
traffic or causing it damage; or(d)lower an enclosing wall or fence which, by
reason of its height and situation, obstructs the view of traffic so as to
cause danger.

### 131. Prohibition against obstructions in or over public roads, etc.

(1)No person shall, except as permitted by Rules made under this Act and
except in accordance with the conditions imposed by any licence made requisite
by such Rules -(a)build any wall or erect any fence or other obstruction or
projection or make any encroachment whatsoever, whether permanent or
temporary, [in or over any public road or any property vested in or belonging
to or regulated or owned by, a Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council]
[Substituted for the words 'in or over any public road' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).];(b)make
any hole or deposit any matter [in or upon any public road or any property
vested in or belonging to or regulated or owned by, a Village Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council] [Substituted for the words 'in or over any public
road' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29
of 1999).];(c)work a quarry in or remove stone, earth or other material from
any place within twenty metres of a public road or of other immovable property
vesting in or belonging to a Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council,
provided that nothing in this clause shall be deemed to apply to any work
which, in the opinion of the Inspector, is done in connection with a bona fide
agricultural operation;(d)erect any building over any drain or any part
thereof;(e)plant any tree on any public road or other property vesting in or
belonging to a Village Panchayat or a Panchayat Union Council; or(f)fell,
remove, destroy, lop or strip bark, leaves, or fruits from, or otherwise
damage, any tree which is growing on any such public road or other property or
on any poramboke land, the use of which is regulated by a Village Panchayat
under section 134 or section 135 and the right to which has not been
established by such person as vesting in or belonging to him.(2)It shall be
the duty of the Village Administrative Officer of every revenue village to
report on encroachments on properties vested in Village Panchayats or
Panchayat Union Councils to the Executive Authority or the Commissioner
concerned and to the officer of the Revenue Department, and [it shall be the
duty of the Executive Authority or the Commissioner concerned either suo motu
or on obtaining a report from the Village Administrative Officer in this
regard to institute proceedings under this Act] [Substituted for the words 'it
shall be the duty of the Executive Authority or the Commissioner concerned to
institute proceedings under this Act' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1999).] and secure the removal of
the encroachments within such time as may be specified by the Government by
general or special order. If the removal of the encroachments has not been
secured within the period specified in such order, the officers of the Revenue
Department shall institute proceedings under the Tamil Nadu Land Encroachment
Act, 1905 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1905 and secure such removal.

### 131A. [ Prohibition of erection of certain hoardings. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 2000).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, -(a)(i)on or after the date of the commencement of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2000 (hereinafter in this section
referred to as the amendment Act), no person shall erect any hoarding (other
than traffic sign and road sign) visible to the traffic on the road and which
is hazardous and disturbance to safe traffic movement so as to adversely
affect free and safe flow of traffic;(ii)where any hoarding is erected in
contravention of sub-clause (i), it shall be confiscated and removed by the
Executive Authority without any notice;(b)(i)where any hoarding (other than
traffic sign and road sign) visible to the traffic on the road is hazardous
and disturbance to safe traffic movement so as to adversely affect free and
safe flow of traffic and which is in existence immediately before the date of
the commencement of the amendment Act, the Executive Authority shall, by
notice in writing, require the owner or any person in possession of such
hoarding, to remove such hoarding within such time as may be specified in the
notice:Provided that such time shall not exceed fifteen days from the date of
issue of such notice;(ii)where the hoarding referred to in sub-clause (i) is
not removed within the time specified in the notice, the Executive Authority
shall, without further notice, remove such hoarding and recover the
expenditure for such removal as an arrear of land revenue.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this section, "hoarding" means any screen of boards at any
place whether public or private used or intended to be used for exhibiting
advertisement including the framework or other support, erected, wholly or in
part upon or over any land, building, wall or structure visible to public
wholly or partly]

### 132. Vesting of communal property or income in Village Panchayat.

\- Any property or income including any fishery right which by custom belongs
to, or has been administered for the common benefit of the inhabitants of the
village or of the holders in common of village land generally or of the
holders of lands of a particular description or of the holders of lands under
particular source of irrigation shall, if so declared by the Government, vest
in the Village Panchayat and be administered by it for the benefit of the
inhabitants or holders aforesaid.

### 133. Maintenance of irrigation works, execution of kudimaramat, etc.

(1)Subject to such conditions and control [as may be prescribed] [See Rules
issued in G. O. Ms. No. 222, Rural Development (C4), dated 20th October,
1999.], the Government may transfer to any Village Panchayat or to any
Panchayat Union Council the protection and maintenance of any irrigation work,
the management of turns of irrigation, or the regulation of distribution of
water from any irrigation work to the fields depending on it.(2)The Village
Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council shall have power, subject to such
restrictions and control as may be prescribed, to execute kudimaramat in
respect of any irrigation source in the village and to levy such fee and on
such basis for the purposes there of [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued
in G.O. Ms. No. 214, Rural Development (C4), dated 5th October, 1999 and
published in Part III, S. 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 8th October, 1999.]:Provided that nothing contained in
this section shall be deemed to relieve the village community or any of its
members of its or his liability under the Tamil Nadu Compulsory Labour Act,
1858 (Central Act 1 of 1858), in respect of any irrigation source in the
village in case the Village Panchayat makes default in executing the
kudimaramat in respect of that irrigation source.(3)Where the maintenance of
any irrigation work, is transferred under this section, the fishery rights of
Government in such work shall be transferred to and be vested in the Village
Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, subject to such
terms and conditions including terms and conditions regarding the utilisation
of the income, as may be specified by the Government.

### 134. Village Panchayat to regulate the use of certain porambokes in
ryotwari tracts.

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply only in ryotwari tracts.(2)The
following porambokes namely, grazing grounds, threshing floors, burning and
burial-grounds, cattle-stands, cart-stands and topes shall vest in the Village
Panchayat, and the Village Panchayat shall have power, subject to such
restrictions and control [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms.
No. 317, Rural Development (C4), dated 6th December 2000 and published in Part
III, section 1(a'), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
7th December 1999.] to regulate the use of such porambokes, provided the
porambokes are at the disposal of the Government.(3)The Collector, after
consulting the Village Panchayat, may, by notifications, exclude from the
operation of this Act, any poramboke referred to in subsection (2), and may
also modify or cancel such notification.(4)The Village Panchayat shall also
have power, subject to [such restrictions] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No.
317, Rural Development (C4), dated 6th December 2000 and published in Part
III, section l(a'), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
7th December 1999.] and control as may be prescribed, to regulate the use of
any other poramboke which is at the disposal of the Government, if the Village
Panchayat is authorised in that behalf by an order of the Government.(5)The
Village Panchayat may, subject to such restrictions and control as may be
prescribed, plant trees on any poramboke, the use of which is regulated by it
under sub-section (2) or sub-section (4).

### 135. Village Panchayat to regulate the use of certain communal lands in
estates governed by the Tamil Nadu Estates Land Act, 1908.

(1)In estates governed by the Tamil Nadu Estates Land Act, 1908 (Tamil Nadu
Act I of 1908), notwithstanding anything contained in that Act, the Village
Panchayat shall have power subject to such restrictions and control [as may be
prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 273, Rural Development (C4),
dated 28th December, 1999 and published in Part III, section 1(a), of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 30th December 1999.] -(a)to
regulate the use of lands which are set apart for any of the purposes referred
to in item (b) of clause (16) of section 3 of the said Act, namely, threshing
floors, cattle-stand, village-sites and other lands situated in the village
which are set apart for the common use of the inhabitants of such
village;(b)to exercise the powers vested in the Collector by section 20-A of
the said Act, namely, to direct that any land referred to in clause (a) which
is no longer required for its original purpose shall be used for any other
specified communal purpose, provided that the sanction of the Collector is
obtained therefor; and(c)to plant trees on any land the use of which is
regulated by the Village Panchayat under clause (a):Provided that nothing
contained in clause (b) shall be deemed to affect in anyway the operation of
the provisos to sub-section (1) of the said section 20-A.(2)After an estate
ceases to be governed by the Tamil Nadu Estates Land Act, 1908 (Tamil Nadu Act
I of 1908), the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply to the lands
referred to in that sub-section, to such extent and with such modifications,
as may be prescribed.

### 136. Collected rubbish, etc., to belong to Village Panchayat.

\- All rubbish, filth and other matter collected by a Village Panchayat under
this Act shall belong to it.

### 137. Immovable property required by Village Panchayats and Panchayat Union
Councils may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.

\- Any immovable property which any Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council is authorised by this Act or any Rules made thereunder to acquire may
be acquired under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central
Act I of 1894), and on payment of the compensation awarded under the said Act,
in respect of such property and of any other charges incurred in acquiring it,
the said property shall vest in the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council, as the case may be.

### 138. Contributions from persons having control over places of pilgrimage,
etc.

\- Where a mosque, temple, mutt or any place of religious worship or
instruction or any place which is used for holding fair or festivals or for
other like purposes is situated within the limits of a village or in the
neighbourhood thereof and attracts either throughout the year or on particular
occasions a large number of persons, any special arrangement necessary for
public health, safety or convenience, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
made by the Village Panchayat; but the Government may, after consulting the
trustee or other person having control over such place, require him to make
such recurring or nonrecurring contribution to the funds of the Village
Panchayat as they may determine.

### 139. Power to order closure of places of public entertainment.

\- In the event of the prevalence of any dangerous disease within a Panchayat
Development Block or a Village, the Commissioner may, by notice, require the
owner or occupier of any building, booth or tent used for purposes of public
entertainment to close the same for such period as they may fix.

### 140. Minor suffering from dangerous disease not to attend schools.

\- No person being the parent or having the care or charge of a minor who is
or has been suffering from dangerous disease or has been exposed to infection
therefrom shall, after a notice from the Commissioner or any person duly
appointed by such Commissioner in this behalf that the minor is not to be sent
to school or college, permit such minor to attend school or college without
having procured from the Commissioner or such person or a registered medical
practitioner a certificate that in his opinion such minor may attend without
risk of communicating such disease to others.Explanation. - In this section
and section 139, "dangerous disease" means an infectious disease within the
meaning of section 52 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu
Act III of 1939), which is notified as a dangerous disease by the Government.

### 141. Compulsory vaccination.

\- The Panchayat Union Council shall enforce vaccination throughout the
Panchayat Union and it may enforce re-vaccination throughout the Panchayat
Union or in any part thereof, in respect of such persons, to such extent, and
in such manner, as may be prescribed.

### 142. Obligation to give information of smallpox or cholera.

\- Where an inmate of any dwelling place is suffering from smallpox or
cholera, the head of the family to which the inmate belongs and, in default,
the occupier or person in charge of such place, shall give intimation of the
fact to the Commissioner or the Village Administrative Officer with the least
possible delay.

### 143. Precautions in case of dangerous tanks, wells, holes, etc.

(1)If any tank, pond, well, hole, stream, dam, bank or other place appears to
him to be, for want of sufficient repair, protection or enclosure, dangerous
to the public health or safety, the Commissioner or Executive Authority may,
with the approval of the Panchayat Union Council or Village Panchayat, as the
case may be, by notice require the owner to fill in, remove, repair, protect
or enclose the same so as to prevent any danger therefrom.(2)If immediate
action is necessary, he shall, before giving such notice or before the period
of notice expires, himself take such temporary measures as he thinks fit to
prevent danger, and the cost of doing so shall be recoverable from the owner
in the manner hereinafter provided.

### 143A. [ Grant of permit to sink well. [Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2014,
dated 2.9.2014.]

(1)No person shall, either himself or through any person on his behalf engage
in sinking any well in the panchayat village for any purpose without obtaining
a permit from the executive authority:Provided that this sub-section shall not
apply for sinking of well for domestic purpose:Provided further that this sub-
section shall not apply to the revenue villages specified in the Schedule to
the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987. (Tamil Nadu
Act 27 of 1987).(2)Any person desiring to sink a well shall apply to the
executive authority, for grant of permit for this purpose and shall not
proceed with any activity connected with such sinking of well, unless a permit
has been granted by the executive authority.(3)Every application for grant of
permit shall be made in such form and contain such particulars as may be
prescribed, and shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding five thousand
rupees, as may be prescribed.(4)On receipt of an application under sub-section
(2), the executive authority may grant, subject to such conditions and
restrictions as it may specify, a permit authorising sinking of well or refuse
to grant such permit:Provided that no permit shall be refused unless the
applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard.(5)The decision
regarding the grant or refusal to grant the permit shall be intimated by the
executive authority to the applicant within such period as may be
prescribed.(6)Any person aggrieved by the decision of the executive authority
under sub-section (5) may, within such period and in such manner as may be
prescribed, appeal to such authority as may be specified by the Government, by
notification, in this behalf.(7)The owner of every well in use or disuse shall
follow such safety measures as may be prescribed.]]

### 143B. [ Grant of certificate of registration. [Inserted by Act No. 22 of
2014, dated 2.9.2014.]

(1)Every person desiring to carry on the business of sinking well in any
panchayat village shall apply to the Collector for grant of a certificate of
registration.(2)Every application for grant of a certificate of registration
shall be made in such form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed
and shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding fifteen thousand rupees, as
may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the
Collector may grant, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be
specified, a certificate of registration or refuse to grant the certificate of
registration:Provided that no certificate of registration shall be refused
unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard.(4)The
decision regarding the grant or refusal to grant the certificate of
registration shall be intimated by the Collector to the person within such
period as may be prescribed.(5)Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Collector under sub-section (4) may, within such period and in such manner as
may be prescribed, appeal to such authority as may be specified by the
Government, by notification, in this behalf.(6)Every person carrying on the
business of sinking well shall, while sinking a well or on completion of
sinking a well, follow such safety measures, as may be prescribed.Explanation.
- For the purpose of sections 143,143-A and 143-B, -(a)"sink" with all its
grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes digging, drilling,
boring or deepening;(b)"well" means a well sunk for search or extraction of
groundwater and includes an open well, dug well, bore well, dug-cum-bore well,
tube well, filter point, collection well or infiltration gallery, but does not
include a well sunk by the Government or Central Government for carrying out
scientific investigation, exploration, development or management work for the
survey and assessment of groundwater resources;(c)"person" includes a company
or association of individuals, whether incorporated or not.]

### 144. Removal of filth or noxious vegetation from lands and buildings.

(1)The Commissioner or Executive Authority may, by notice, require the owner
or occupier of any building or land which appears to him to be in a filthy or
unwholesome state or overgrown with any thick or noxious vegetation, trees or
undergrowth injurious to health or dangerous to the public or offensive to the
neighbourhood, or otherwise a source of nuisance, to clear, cleanse or
otherwise put the building or land in proper state or to clear away and remove
such vegetation, trees or undergrowth or to take such other action as may be
deemed by the Commissioner or Executive Authority necessary to remove such
nuisance within such period and in such manner as may be specified in the
notice.(2)If it appears to the Commissioner or Executive Authority necessary
for sanitary purposes so to do, he may, by notice, require the owner or
occupier of any building or land to cleanse or lime-wash the same in the
manner and within a period to be specified in the notice.

### 145. Power of Commissioner or Executive Authority to use or sell materials
of dangerous structure taken down, etc.

(1)When the Commissioner or Executive Authority takes down any structure or
part thereof or cuts down any tree or hedge or shrub or part thereof in virtue
of his powers under this Chapter, the Commissioner or Executive Authority may
sell the materials or things taken down, cut down or removed and apply the
proceeds in, or towards payment of the expenses incurred.(2)If, after a
reasonable enquiry, it appears to the Commissioner or Executive Authority that
there is no owner or occupier to whom notice can be given under any section in
this Chapter, he may himself take such order with the property mentioned in
such section as may appear to him to be necessary and may recover the expenses
incurred by the sale of such property (not being immovable property) or of any
portion thereof.

### 146. Limitation of compensation.

\- No person shall be entitled, save as otherwise expressly provided, to
compensation for any damages sustained by reason of any action taken by the
authorities of a Panchayat Union Council or a Village Panchayat in pursuance
of their powers under this Chapter.

### 147. Public markets.

(1)The Panchayat Union Council may, after obtaining the previous written
permission of the Inspector, provide places for use as public markets and,
with the sanction of the Inspector, close any such market or part
thereof.(2)Subject to such [Rules as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in
G.O. Ms. No. 3, Rural Development (C4), dated 4th January 2001 and published
in Part III, section 1 (a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 5th January, 2001], the Village Panchayat or Panchayat
Union Council may, after obtaining the previous written permission of the
Inspector, levy any one or more of the following fees in any public market at
such rates, not exceeding the maximum rates, if any, prescribed in that behalf
as the Panchayat Union Council or Village Panchayat may think fit: -(a)fees
for the use of, or for the right to expose goods for sale in such
market;(b)fees for the use of shops, stalls, pens or stands in such
market;(c)fees on vehicles including motor vehicles as defined in the Motor
Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) or pack animals bringing, or on
persons taking into such market any goods for sale;(d)fees on animals brought
for sale into or sold in such market;(e)licence fees on brokers, commission
agents, weighmen and measurers practising their calling in such market.

### 148. Licensing of private markets.

(1)No person shall open a new private market or continue to keep open a
private market unless he has obtained a licence from the Village Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, to do so. Such licence shall be
renewed every year.(2)(a)The Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as
the case may be, shall grant the licence applied for subject to such
conditions as it may think fit as to supervision and inspection, sanitation,
weights and measures to be used, rents and fees to be charged and such other
matters [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 3, Rural
Development (C4), dated 4th January 2001 and published in Part III, section 1
(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 5th January,
2001].(b)The Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be,
may modify the conditions of licence to take effect from a specified
date.(c)The Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be,
may, at any time, suspend or cancel any licence granted under clause (a) for
breach of the conditions thereof.(d)Any person aggrieved by an order of the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council under clauses (a), (b) or (c) may
appeal against such order to the Inspector who may, if he thinks fit, suspend
the execution of the order pending the disposal of the appeal.(3)(a)Any person
claiming to levy in a private market lawfully established prior to the coming
into force of the Madras Local Boards Act, 1884 (Madras Act V of 1884) fees of
the nature specified in sub-section (2) of section 147, shall apply to the
Inspector for a certificate recognizing his right in that behalf; and the
Inspector shall pass orders on such application after giving due notice to the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, and
considering any representations made by it.(b)Any person aggrieved by an order
of the Inspector refusing to grant a certificate under clause (a) may, within
six months from the date of communication of such order, institute a suit to
establish the right claimed by him, and subject to the result of such suit,
the Inspector's order shall be final.(4)When a licence granted under sub-
section (2) does not permit the levy of any fee, it shall be granted free of
charges; but when such permission is given, a fee not exceeding fifteen per
cent of the gross income of the owner from the market in the preceding year
shall be charged by the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the
case may be, for such licence.(5)The Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council, as the case may be, or any officer duly authorised by it may close a
private market which is unlicensed or the licence for which has been suspended
or cancelled, or which is held or kept open contrary to the provisions of this
Act.

### 149. Decision of disputes as to whether places are markets.

\- If any question arises as to whether any place is a market or not, the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, shall make a
reference thereon to the Government and their decision shall be final.

### 150. Prohibition of sale in un-licensed private markets, etc.

\- No person shall sell or expose for sale any animal or article -(a)in any
public or licensed private market without the permission of the Executive
Authority or Commissioner or licensee, as the case may be, or of any person
authorised by him, or(b)in any unlicensed private market.

### 151. Prohibition against sale in public roads.

\- The Executive Authority or Commissioner may, with the sanction of the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, prohibit by
public notice or licence or regulate the sale or exposure for sale of any
animal or article in or upon any public road or place or part thereof.

### 152. Classification of markets.

\- The Government shall have power to classify public and private markets
situated in a Panchayat Development Block as Panchayat Union markets and
Village Panchayat market, and provide for the control of any such market, and
for the apportionment of the income derived therefrom between the Panchayat
Union Council and the Village Panchayat or the payment of a contribution in
respect thereof to the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union, as the case
may be.It shall be open to the Government to revise, from time to time, the
apportionment of income ordered or the contribution directed to be paid under
this section if such revision is recommended by the District Panchayat.

### 153. Acquisition of right of persons to hold private market.

(1)A Panchayat Union Council may acquire the rights of any person to hold a
private market in any place in a panchayat development block and to levy fee
therein. The acquisition shall be made under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894
(Central Act I of 1894) and such rights shall be deemed to be land for the
purposes of the Act.(2)On payment by the Panchayat Union Council of the
compensation awarded under the said Act in respect of such property and any
other charges incurred in acquiring it, the rights of such person to hold a
private market and to levy fees therein shall vest in the Panchayat Union
Council.

### 154. Public landing places and cart-stands, etc.

\- Subject to such Rules as may be prescribed, the Village Panchayat may
-(a)provide public landing places, halting places and cart-stands (which last
expression includes stands for animals and vehicles of any description
including motor vehicles) and levy fees for their use; and(b)where any such
place or stand has been provided, prohibit the use for the same purpose by any
person, within such distance thereof of any public place or the sides of any
public road as the Village Panchayat may, subject to the control of the
Inspector, specify.

### 155. Private cart-stand.

(1)No person shall open a new private cart-stand or continue to keep open a
private cart-stand unless he obtains from the Village Panchayat a licence to
do so. Such licence shall be renewed every year.(2)The Village Panchayat
shall, as regards private cart-stands already lawfully established, and may at
its discretion as regards new private cart-stands, grant the licence applied
for, subject to such conditions as the Village Panchayat may think fit as to
supervision and inspection, conservancy and such other matters as may be
prescribed; or the Village Panchayat may refuse to grant such licence for any
new cart-stand.(3)The Village Panchayat may modify the conditions of the
licence to take effect from a specified date.(4)The Village Panchayat may, at
any time, suspend or cancel any licence granted under sub-section (2) for
breach of the conditions thereof.(5)The Village Panchayat may levy on every
grant or renewal of a licence under this section, a fee not exceeding two
hundred rupees.

### 156. Public slaughter-houses.

\- A Village Panchayat may provide places for use as public slaughter-houses
and charge rents and fees for their use.

### 157. Prohibition or regulation of the use of places for slaughtering
animals and the licensing of slaughterers.

\- The Government shall have power to make Rules for -(a)prohibiting or
regulating the slaughter, cutting up or skinning of animals specified in the
Rules on all occasions not excepted therein, at places other than public
slaughter-houses;(b)licensing person to slaughter animals specified in the
Rules for purposes of sale to the public; and(c)the inspection of slaughter-
houses and of the meat therein and the payment of remuneration to the officers
employed for such inspection.

### 158. Numbering or naming of building, etc.

(1)In any area to which this Act applies, [such authority as may be
prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 143, Rural Development (C4),
dated 21st July, 1999 and published in Part III, section 1(a), of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 23rd July 1999.] in this behalf,
may cause a number to be affixed to the side or outer door of any building or
to some place at the entrance of the premises.(2)With the approval of the
Government, the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council shall give
name to new village road or panchayat union road, as the case may be, and
shall also give name to park, playground, bus-stand, arch or new property
belonging to, or vesting in, Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council and
may, subject to the approval of the Government, alter the name of any such
road, park, play-ground, bus-stand, arch or property.(3)No person shall,
without lawful authority, destroy, pull down or deface any such number.(4)When
a number has been affixed under sub-section (1), the owner of the building
shall be bound to maintain such number and to replace it if removed or
defaced; and if he fails to do so, the authority referred to in sub-section
(1) may, by notice, require him to replace it.

### 159. Purposes for which places may not be used without a licence.

(1)The Government may, by notification, specify the purposes which, in their
opinion, are likely to be offensive or dangerous to human life or health or
property.(2)[ The Village Panchayat may, with the previous approval of the
prescribed authority, notify that no place within the limits of the Panchayat
Village shall be used for any of the purposes specified in the notification
issued under sub-section (1) without a licence and except in accordance with
the conditions specified in such licence.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 19 of 1999).](3)No
notification issued under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall take effect
until sixty days from the date of its publication.(4)[ The Village Panchayat
shall be the authority competent to grant the licence or to refuse to grant
it.] [[Substituted for the following Sub-section (4) by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 19 of 1999).'(4) The Commissioner
shall be the authority competent to grant the licence or to refuse to grant it
in the case of Panchayat Villages.']]

### 160. Permission for construction of factories and the installation of
machinery.

\- No person shall, without the permission of the Panchayat Union Council in
Panchayat Villages and except in accordance with the conditions specified in
such permission, -(a)construct or establish any factory, workshop or workplace
in which it is proposed to employ steam power, water power or other mechanical
power or electrical power, or(b)install in any premises any machinery or
manufacturing plant driven by any power as aforesaid, not being machinery or
manufacturing plant exempted by the Rules.

### 161. Power of Government to make rules in respect of the grant and renewal
of licences and permissions.

(1)The Government may make Rules -(a)prohibiting or regulating the grant or
renewal of licences under section 159 and the period for which such licences
shall be valid;(b)as to the time within which applications for such licences
or renewals thereof shall be made; and(c)prohibiting or regulating the grant
of permissions under section 160.(2)Rules made under clause (c) of sub-section
(1) may empower the Panchayat Union Council in Panchayat Villages and
Panchayat Unions to set apart specified areas for industrial purposes and
provide for the refusal of permission under section 160 in respect of any
factory, workshop, workplace or premises outside such areas and also, subject
to the sanction of the prescribed authority for the removal to such areas, of
any factory, workshop or workplace which has been already established at any
place, or any machinery which has already been installed in any premises,
situated outside such areas:Provided that no such Rule shall authorise the
removal of any factory, workshop or workplace or machinery installed in any
premises, in the occupation or under the control of the Central or the State
Government or of a market Committee established under the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1989).(3)The Government may, either generally or in any particular case, make
such order or give such directions as they deem fit in respect of any action
taken or omitted to be taken under section 159 or section 160.(4)The income
derived from fees on licences under section 159 and on permission under
section 160 shall, if received by the Panchayat Union Council, credited to the
funds of the Village Panchayat concerned.

### 162. Modification of the Tamil Nadu Places of Public Resort Act, 1888.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Places of Public
Resort Act, 1888 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1888), when the Government extend that
Act to any village, or part thereof -(a)the authority to whom application
shall be made for a licence under the Act in respect of any place or building
to be used exclusively for purpose other than the holding of cinematograph
exhibitions, and who may grant or refuse such licence, shall be the
Commissioner in the case of Panchayat Villages;(b)the appeal from the order of
the Commissioner granting, refusing, revoking or suspending a licence, shall
lie to the Panchayat Union Council;(c)the income derived from fees on licences
under this section shall, if received by the Panchayat Union Council, be
credited to the funds of the Village Panchayats concerned.

### 163. Functions of District Panchayat.

(1)The District Panchayat shall advise the Government on all matters
concerning the activities of Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils in
the district as well as on all matters relating to the development of the
economic resources of the district and the services maintained therein for
promoting the culture and welfare of the inhabitants of the district.(2)In
particular, it shall be the duty of the District Panchayat to perform the
following functions, namely: -(a)advising the Government on all matters
relating to the services maintained by, and all development schemes undertaken
by, all Village Panchayats and Panchayat Union Councils in the district as
well as those agencies in the district, which are under the administrative
control of the Government;(b)watching the progress of the measures undertaken
by the Government, Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and
departmental agencies in respect of the services and development schemes
aforesaid;(c)advising the Government on matters concerning the implementation
of any provision of law or any order specifically referred to by the
Government to the District Panchayat such as -(i)classification of markets as
Village Panchayat markets and Panchayat Union markets and fixing rates of
contribution payable by one authority to the other;(ii)classification of fairs
and festivals as village panchayat fairs, village panchayat festivals and
panchayat union fairs and panchayat union festivals;(iii)classification of
public roads (other than roads classified by the Government as National
Highways, State Highways and major district roads) as panchayat union roads
and panchayat village roads;(d)advising the Government on all matters relating
to development of road transport.

### 164. General powers of District Panchayat.

\- For the purpose of efficiently performing its functions under this Act,
every District Panchayat may, within the limits of its
jurisdiction,-(a)undertake such measures as it deems necessary;(b)collect such
data as it deems necessary;(c)publish statistics or other information relating
to various aspects of the regulation or development of the activities of
Panchayat Union Councils and Village Panchayats in the district;(d)require any
Panchayat Union Council or Village Panchayat to furnish such information as
may be required by it in relation to the measures undertaken by that Panchayat
Union Council or Village Panchayat for the regulation or development of its
activities and such other matters as may be prescribed.

### 165. Annual report of District Panchayat.

(1)The District Panchayat shall prepare in such form and at such time each
year [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No: 23, Rural
Development (C4), dated 1st February, 1999. [The Tamil Nadu District Panchayat
(Submission of Annual Reports) Rules, 1999.]], an annual report giving a true
and full account of its activities during the previous year and copies thereof
shall be forwarded to the Government.(2)[Sub-section (2) was omitted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2008).]

### 166. Returns and reports of District Panchayat.

\- Every District Panchayat shall furnish to the Government such returns,
reports, statistics and other informations with respect to its activities as
the Government may, from time to time, require.

### 166A. [ Annual report of the functioning of panchayats. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2008.]

\- The Government shall lay on the table of the Legislative Assembly, an
annual report of the functioning of the panchayats in the State.]

## Chapter IX  
Taxation And Finance

### 167.

[Omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act
12 of 2009)].

### 168.

[Omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act
12 of 2009)].

### 169. Orders regarding collection of [***] [The words 'Local Cess, Local
Cess Surcharge and' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment)
Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009).] surcharge on the Duty on transfers of
property.

\- The Government may make rules not inconsistent with this Act, -(a)for
regulating the collection of [***] [The words 'local cess under section 167,
local cess surcharge under section 168 and' was omitted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009).]
surcharge on the Duty on transfers of property under section 175;(b)for fixing
the proportions in which the proceeds of [***] [The words 'Local Cess, Local
Cess Surcharge and' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment)
Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009)] Surcharge on the Duty on transfers of
property shall be distributed among [Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union
Councils and District Panchayats] [The words 'Panchayat Union Councils and
District Panchayats' were omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment)
Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999).]; and(c)for deduction of the expenses
incurred by the Government in the collection of [***] [The words 'Local Cess,
Local Cess Surcharge and' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth
Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009)] Surcharge on the Duty on
transfers of property.

### 170. Land revenue assignment.

\- The Government shall pay to each Panchayat Union Council a sum representing
one rupee for each individual of the population of the Panchayat Development
Block concerned from out of the total land revenue (including water-cess)
collected in the State during that year. The sum thus credited to the
Panchayat Union Council shall be referred to as the Land Revenue Assignment of
that block.

### 171. Taxes leviable by Village Panchayats.

(1)Every Village Panchayat shall levy in the Panchayat Village a house-tax.
[***] [The words 'and a vehicle tax' was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1995).](2)A duty shall also be
levied in every Panchayat Village on certain transfers of property in
accordance with the provisions of section 175.(3)[Subject to such rules as may
be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 255, Rural Development, dated
13th December, 1999.] and with the sanction of the Inspector and subject to
such restrictions and conditions, if any, as may be imposed by him either at
the time of granting sanction or later, the Village Panchayat may also levy in
the village, a tax on agricultural land for a specific purpose.

### 172. House-tax.

(1)The house-tax shall be levied on all houses in every Panchayat Village on
the basis on which such tax was levied in the local area concerned immediately
before the commencement of this Act or on the basis of classified plinth area
at the rates specified in Schedule I, as the Village Panchayat may adopt
subject to the provisions of sub-section (3).(2)The house-tax shall, subject
to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due to the Government in
respect of the site of the house, be a first charge upon the house and upon
the movable property, if any, found within or upon the same and belonging to
the person liable to such tax.(3)The Government shall, by notification,
determine in regard to any Panchayat Village or any class of Panchayat
Villages whether the house-tax shall be levied every half-year or year and in
so doing have regard to the following matters, namely: -(a)the classification
of the local areas under section 4;(b)the annual receipts of the Village
Panchayat;(c)the population of the Panchayat Village and the predominant
occupation of such population; and(d)such other matters as may be
prescribed.(4)The Government may make rules providing for -(a)the persons who
shall be liable to pay the tax and the giving of notices of transfer of
houses;(b)the grant of vacancy and other remissions;(c)the circumstances in
which and the conditions subject to which, houses constructed, re-constructed
or demolished, or situated in areas included in, or excluded from the
Panchayat Village during any half-year or year, shall be liable or cease to be
liable to the whole or any portion of the tax.(5)If the occupier of a house
pays the house-tax on behalf of the owner thereof, such occupier shall be
entitled to recover the same from the owner and may deduct the same from the
rent then or thereafter due by him to the owner.

### 172A. [ Levy and collection of advertisement tax. [Sections 172-A and
172-B were inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1999).]

\- Every person who erects, exhibits, fixes or retains upon or over any land,
building, wall, hoardings or structure any advertisement, or who displays any
advertisement to public view in any manner whatsoever in any place whether
public or private, in the Panchayat Village shall pay on every advertisement
which is so erected, exhibited, fixed, retained or displayed to public view, a
tax calculated at such rates and in such manner as the [Collector] may,
determine in accordance with such rule [as may be prescribed] [See Rules
issued in G.O. Ms., No. 218, Rural Development (C4), dated 14th October, 1999.
Published in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Part III, section
1(a), dated 15th October, 1999.]:Provided that the rates shall be subject to
the rates that may be prescribed by the Government and different rates may be
prescribed for different Village Panchayats taking into consideration the
location, the size of the advertisement board, the period and the types of
advertisements:Provided further that no tax shall be levied under this section
on any advertisement or a notice -(a)of a public meeting; or(b)[ of an
election to the Parliament, Legislative Assembly or a Panchayat; or]
[Substituted for the words '(b) of an election to the Legislative Assembly;
or' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
2001).](c)of a candidature in respect of such an election:Provided also that
no such tax shall be levied on advertisement which is not a sky-sign and which
-(a)is exhibited within the window of any building; or(b)relates to the trade
or business carried on within the land or building upon or over which such
advertisement is exhibited, or to any sale or letting of such land or building
or any effects therein or to any sale, entertainment or meeting to be held
upon or in the same; or(c)relates to the name of the land or building upon or
over which the advertisement is exhibited, or to the name of the owner or
occupier of such land or building; or(d)relates to the business of any railway
administration; or(e)is exhibited within any railway station or upon any wall
or other property of a railway administration except any portion of the
surface of such wall or property fronting any street.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this action. -(i)the expression "structure" shall include any
movable board on wheels used as an advertisement or an advertisement
medium;(ii)the expression "sky-sign" means any advertisement supported on or
attached to any post, pole, standard, frame-work or other support wholly or in
part upon or over any land, building, wall or structure which, or any part of
sky-sign which shall be visible against the sky from some point in any public
place and includes all and every part of any such post, pole, standard, frame-
work or other support. The expression "sky-sign" shall also include any
balloon, parachute, or other similar device employed wholly or in part or the
purposes of any advertisement upon or over any land, building or structure or
upon or over any public place, but shall not include -(a)any flag staff, pole
vane or weather-cock, unless adopted or used wholly or in part for the purpose
of any advertisement, or(b)any sign, or any board, frame or other contrivance
securely fixed to, or on the top of, the wall or parapet of any building or on
the cornice or blocking of any wall, or to the ridge of a roof:Provided that
such board, frame or other contrivance shall be of one continuous face and not
open work, and does not extend in height more than one metre above any part of
the wall, or parapet, or ridge to, against or on, which it is fixed or
supported, or(c)any advertisement relating to the name of the land or
building, upon or over which the advertisement is exhibited, or to the name of
the owner or occupier of such land or building, or(d)any advertisement
relating exclusively to the business of a railway administration and placed
wholly upon or over any railway, railway yard station, platform or station
approach belonging to a railway administration, and so placed that cannot fall
in any street or public, or(e)any notice of land or building to be sold, or
let placed upon such land or building;(iii)the expression "public place" means
any place which is open to the use and enjoyment of the public whether it is
actually used or enjoyed by the public or not;(iv)the expression
"advertisement" shall not include any advertisement published in any
newspaper.

### 172B. Prohibition of advertisements.

\- No advertisement shall, after the levy of tax under section 172-A as
determined by the [Collector] [Substituted for the words 'Village Panchayat'
by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Eight Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of
2008).] be erected, exhibited, fixed or retained upon or over any land,
building, wall, hoarding or structure within the Panchayat Village, or shall
be displayed in any manner whatsoever in any place except in accordance with
the rules made under this Act:Provided that the [Collector] [Substituted for
the words 'Village Panchayat' by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Eight Amendment)
Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 2008).] shall regulate the height of the
advertisement in the Panchayat Village and shall remove such objectionable
advertisement in such manner [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 218, Rural Development (C4), dated 14th October, 1999 and published in
Part III, section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated 15th October, 1999.]:Provided further that the Government may, by
notification, prohibit advertisements in any place within any Panchayat
Village.]

### 173.

[Section 173 was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil
Nadu Act 29 of 1995)]

### 174. Appeal against assessments.

\- An appeal shall lie to such authority and within such time, [as may be
prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No, 255, Rural Development (C4),
dated 13th December, 1999 and published in Part III, section 1(a), of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 27th December, 1999.],
against any assessment of tax made in pursuance of [sections 171,172 and
172-A] [Substituted for the words 'sections 171 and 172' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1999).].

### 175. Duty on transfer of property.

(1)The duty on transfer of property shall be levied -(a)in the form of a
surcharge on the duty imposed by the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of
1899), as in force for the time being in the State of Tamil Nadu, on every
instrument of the description specified below, which relates to immovable
property situated in the area under the jurisdiction of a Village Panchayat;
and(b)at such rate, as may be fixed by the Government, not exceeding five per
centum on the amount specified below against each instrument: -

(i) Sale of immovable property. |  The market value of the property as set forth inthe instrument, and in a case where the market value is finallydetermined by any authority under section 47-A of the IndianStamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899), the market value as sodetermined by such authority.  
---|---  
(ii) Exchange of immovable property. |  The market value of the property of the greatervalue as set forth in the instrument, and in a case where themarket value is finally determined by any authority under section47-A of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899), themarket value as so determined by such authority.  
(iii) Gift of immovable property. |  The market value of the property as set forth inthe instrument, and in a case where the market value is finallydetermined by any authority under section 47-A of the IndianStamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899), the market value as sodetermined by such authority.  
(iv) Mortgage with possession of immovableproperty. |  The amount secured by the mortgage as set forthin the instrument.  
(v) Lease in perpetuity of immovable property. |  An amount equal to the one-sixth of the wholeamount or value of the rent which would be paid or delivered inrespect of the first fifty years of the lease, as set forth inthe instrument.  
(vi) [ Release of Benami right in favour ofpersons excepted under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the BenamiTransactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (Central Act 45 of 1988), ofimmovable property. [Added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 62 of 1997).] |  The market value of the property as set forth inthe instrument and in a case where the market value is finallydetermined by any authority under section 47-A of the IndianStamp Act, 1899 (Central Act 11 of 1899) the market value as sodetermined by such authority.  
(vii) Settlement of immovable property otherthan in favour of a member or members of a family. |  The market value of the property as set forth inthe instrument and in a case where the market value is finallydetermined by any authority under section 47-A of the IndianStamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899), the market value as sodetermined by such authority.  
|  Explanation.- For the purpose of thisitem, the word "family" shall have the
same meaning asin the Explanation to item (i) of clause (a) of Article 58
inSchedule I of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899)as amended
by the Indian Stamp (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1981(Tamil Nadu Act 42 of
1981)].  
  
(2)On the introduction of the duty aforesaid -(a)section 27 of the said Indian
Stamp Act shall be read as if it specifically required the particulars to be
set forth separately in respect of property situated in the area under the
jurisdiction of Village Panchayat and in respect of property situated outside
such area;(b)section 64 of the said Act shall be read as if it referred to the
Village Panchayat as well as the Government.(3)and (4) [Sub-sections (3) and
(4) Omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.]

### 175A. [ Apportionment of Entertainments Tax among Panchayats. [Section
175-A inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 13 of the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) so far as Panchayats are
concerned, ten per cent of the proceeds of the tax under section 4, section
4-F and section 4-H of that Act collected every year shall be credited to the
Government and the balance of ninety per cent shall be distributed among
Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats in such
proportions as the Government may fix.]

### 176. Exemption.

\- No exemption from the payment of any [surcharge or tax specified in section
171 shall be granted by the village panchayat] [Substituted for the words
'surcharge or tax specified in section 168 or 171 shall be granted by the
Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council' by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 12 of 2009).] except in
accordance with such rules [as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 255, Rural Development (C4), dated 13th December, 1999. Published in
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Part III, section 1(a), dated
27th December 1999.]:Provided that, in any particular case, such exemption may
be granted with the previous sanction of the Government.

### 177. Power to require land revenue staff to collect taxes and fees due to
Village Panchayats.

\- Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner shall have power to require the staff of the Land Revenue
Department to prepare at quinquennial intervals a house-tax assessment
Register in such form as may be prescribed and to collect any tax or fee due
to the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council on payment of such
remuneration not exceeding 6-1/4 per cent of the gross sum collected as the
Collector may, by general or special order, determine.

### 178. Write-off of irrecoverable amounts.

\- Subject to such restrictions and control [as may be prescribed] [See Rules
issued in G.O. Ms. No. 244, R.D., dated 2nd December 1999 in G O. Ms. No. 206,
R.D., dated 17th August 2000.], a Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council
may write-off any tax, fee or other amount whatsoever due to it, whether under
a contract or otherwise, or any sum payable in connection therewith, if in its
opinion such tax, fee, amount or sum is irrecoverable:Provided that where the
Collector or any of his subordinates is responsible for the collection of any
tax, fee or other amount due to a Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council
the power to write-off such tax, fee or amount or any sum payable in
connection therewith, on the ground of its being irrecoverable, shall be
exercised by the Commissioner of Land Administration or subject to his
control, by the Collector or any officer authorized by him.

### 179. Local Education Grant.

\- The Government shall pay annually to every Panchayat Union Council a Local
Education Grant the amount of which shall be calculated as follows: -The total
amount of expenditure approved by the Government for being debited to the
Panchayat Union (Education) Fund shall be divided into slabs in the manner
specified below: -So much of the expenditure as may be equal to the land
revenue assignment of the block referred to in section 170 shall constitute
the first slab.So much of the expenditure as may be in excess of the first
slab subject to a maximum of 250 paise for each individual of the population
of the Panchayat Development Block concerned shall constitute the second
slab.To each Panchayat Union Council, the Government shall make a Local
Education Grant which shall be a proportion of the second slab not less than
fifty per cent and not more than eighty per cent as may be specified by the
Government in respect of that block.

### 180.

[Section 180 was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999).]

### 181. Classification of Panchayat Development Blocks.

\- For the purpose of sanctioning grants to Panchayat Union Councils, the
Government may classify Panchayat Development Blocks in such manner as they
may deem fit once in every five years and it shall be open to the Government
to sanction grants at varying rates for the different classes of Panchayat
Development Blocks. It shall also be open to the Government to revise the
classification of Panchayat Development Blocks once in every five year.

### 181A. [ Deposit of fund of Panchayat. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2000).]

\- Any Panchayat having surplus fund shall, with the prior approval of the
Inspector, deposit such surplus fund in any of the financial institutions
specified by the Government:Provided that no such deposit shall be made when
there is need to utilise this fund for administration or development work
during the next twelve months.]

### 181B. [ Grant or loan for scheme or project. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2000).]

(1)The Government may make grant or loan to a Panchayat for the execution of
specific scheme, project, programme or plan relating to any of the matters
administered by such Panchayat, subject to such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed.(2)Such Panchayat shall utilise such grant or loan only for the
purpose for which such grant or loan is given.(3)The provisions of the Local
Authorities Loans Act, 1914 (Central Act IX of 1914), shall apply in respect
of the loan given by the Government under this section.]

### 181C. [ Raising of loan by Panchayat. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Second Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2000).]

\- Every Panchayat shall be competent to raise loan in full or in part from
any Financial Institution or agency or bank for any of the following purposes,
subject to the conditions imposed by the Government in this behalf, namely:
-(a)to carry out any of the works connected with the improvement and
development of infrastructure in Panchayat areas;(b)to carry out relief works
at the time of natural calamities;(c)to undertake any measure in connection
with, or ancillary to, the above purposes; and(d)to carry out any of its other
statutory functions.]

### 181D. [ Procedure for inter-Panchayats lending. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2000).]

(1)Any Panchayat may raise loan from any other Panchayat and any Panchayat may
sanction loan to another Panchayat to carry out any of its statutory functions
or for the creation of capital assets or income generating assets, with the
prior sanction of the Inspector.(2)The procedure for the receipt, utilisation
and repayment of the loan under this section and section 181-C shall be,
subject to such terms and conditions, as may be agreed upon by the Financial
Institution or agency or bank or lending Panchayat, as the case may be, and
the borrowing Panchayat. Every Pan-chayat shall maintain, in respect of the
loan, such books of accounts, as may be prescribed.(3)Every Panchayat shall
utilise the loans only for the purposes for which such loans are borrowed.]

### 182.

[Section 182 was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999).]

### 183.

[Section 183 was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999).]

### 184.

[Section 184 was omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999).]

### 185. Constitution of Panchayat Union Fund and Village Panchayat Fund.

\- There shall be constituted -(a)for each Panchayat Union, a Panchayat Union
(General) Fund and a Panchayat Union (Education) Fund;(b)for each Village
Panchayat, a Village Panchayat Fund.

### 186. Panchayat Union (General) Fund.

\- The receipts which shall be credited to the Panchayat Union (General) Fund
shall include -(a)[***] [[Clause (a) of section 186 was omitted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999):Before
omission it was as follows: '(a) such part of the local Cess collected in the
Panchayat Development Block as remains after crediting to the Panchayat Union
(Education) Fund and the Village Panchayat Fund under section 167;']](b)[ The
proportionate share of the proceeds of the [***] [Substituted for the
expressions: 'the local Cess surcharge collected in the Panchayat Development
Block under section 168' vide Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act,
2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.] surcharge on the duty
on transfers of property and Entertainments Tax received by the Panchayat
Union Council under sections 169 and 175-A;](c)[***] [Clauses (c) and (d) of
section 186 were omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 ofl999): Before omission it was as below: '(c) the Local
Cess Surcharge Matching Grant paid by the Government under section 180; (d)
the Local Roads Grant paid by the Government under section 182;'](d)[***]
[Clauses (c) and (d) of section 186 were omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999): Before omission it
was as below: '(c) the Local Cess Surcharge Matching Grant paid by the
Government under section 180; (d) the Local Roads Grant paid by the Government
under section 182;'](e)fees on licences issued and permissions given by the
Panchayat Union Councils;(f)fees levied in public markets classified as
Panchayat Union markets after deducting the contribution, if any, paid by the
Panchayat Union Council to the Village Panchayat on the scale fixed by the
Government;(g)the contribution paid to the Panchayat Union Council by Village
Pan-chayats in respect of markets classified as Village Panchayat
markets;(h)fees for the temporary occupation of roads or road margins;(i)fees
for the use of choultries;(j)receipts from dispensaries maintained by the
Panchayat Union Council;(k)income from endowments and trusts under the
management of the Panchayat Union Council;(l)[***] [Clause (1) omitted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2007)
w.e.f. 8th June 2007. Before omission it was as follows: '(I) the
proportionate share of the proceeds of the Entertainments Tax received by the
Panchayat Union Council under section 13 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax
Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939);'](m)contributions from Government, other
Panchayat Union Councils, municipalities, other local authorities and persons
in aid of every institution or service maintained or financed from Panchayat
Union funds or managed by the Panchayat Union Council;(n)sale-proceeds of
tools and plants, stores and materials and of trees and avenue produce
appertaining to Panchayat Union roads;(o)income from Panchayat Union ferries
and fisheries;(p)interest on loans and securities;(q)interest on arrears of
revenue;(r)income from, and sale proceeds of, buildings, lands and other
property belonging to the Panchayat Union Council;(s)unclaimed deposits and
other forfeitures;(t)fines and penalties levied under this Act by the
Panchayat Union Council or at its instance or on its behalf;(u)all sums other
than those enumerated above or in section 187 which arise out of, or are
received in aid of, or for expenditure on, any institutions or services
maintained or financed from the Panchayat Union funds or managed by the
Panchayat Union Council;(v)all other moneys received by the Panchayat Union
Council.

### 187. Panchayat Union (Education) Fund.

\- The receipt which shall be credited to the Panchayat Union (Education) Fund
shall include -(a)[***] [[The following clause (a) of section 187 was omitted
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1999): Before omission it was as below:'(a) twenty per cent of the local Cess
collected under section 167;']](b)the land revenue assignment paid by the
Government under section 170;(c)the Local Education Grant paid by the
Government;(d)such contribution from the Panchayat Union (General) Fund as the
Government may decide to be necessary in any year in order to balance the
budget of the Fund for that year;(e)all fines and penalties levied within the
jurisdiction of the Panchayat Union Council under the provisions of the Tamil
Nadu Elementary Education Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1920);(f)all
income derived from any endowments or other property owned or managed by the
Panchayat Union Council for the benefit of elementary education;(g)all other
sums which may be contributed or received by the Panchayat Union Council for
the purposes of elementary education.

### 188. Village Panchayat Fund.

\- [(1)] [Re-numbered as sub-section (I) by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Ad, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1997).] The receipts which shall be
credited to the Village Panchayat Fund shall include -(a)[ the house-tax and
any other tax or any cess or fees levied under sections 171 and 172;]
[Substituted for the words 'the house-tax, the vehicle-tax and any other tax
or any Cess or Fee, levied under sections 171 to 173' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1995).](b)[ the profession tax
levied by Village Panchayats under Chapter IX-A;] [[Substituted for the
following clause (b) by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1999):'(b) the profession tax levied by Village
Panchayats under the Tamil Nadu Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and
Employments Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1992);']](c)[***] [Clause (c) 'The
proceeds of the duty on transfers of property levied under section 175'
omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act
23 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.](d)[ the proportionate share of the proceeds
of the [***] [Clause (d) substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.]
surcharge on the duty on transfers of property and Entertainments Tax received
by the Village Panchayat under sections 169 and 175-A;](e)[***] [Clause (e)
'In respect of Village Panchayat Fund, the Village House-Tax Matching Grant'
omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
30 of 1999).](f)the taxes and tolls levied in the village under sections 117
and 118 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of
1939);(g)fees levied in public markets classified as Village Panchayat markets
after deducting the contributions, if any, paid by the Village Panchayat to
the Panchayat Union Council on the scale fixed by the Government;(h)the
contribution paid to the Village Panchayat by Panchayat Union Councils in
respect of markets classified as Panchayat Union markets;(i)fees for the
temporary occupation of village-sites, roads and other similar public places
of parts thereof in the Panchayat Village;(j)fees levied by the Village
Panchayat in pursuance of any provision of this Act or any rule or order made
thereunder;(k)income from endowments and trusts under the management of the
Village Panchayat;(l)the net assessment on service inams which are resumed by
the Government;(m)[***] [[Clause (m) omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 2007) w.e.f 8th June 2007. Before
omission it was as follows:(m)the proportionate share of the proceeds of the
Entertainments Tax received by the Village Panchayat under section 13 of the
Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939);]](n)income
derived from Panchayat Village fisheries;(o)income derived from ferries under
the management of the Village Panchayat;(p)unclaimed deposits and other
forfeitures;(q)a sum equivalent to the seigniorage fees collected by the
Government every year from persons permitted to quarry for road materials in
the Panchayat Village;(r)all income derived from porambokes the user of which
is vested in the Village Panchayat;(s)where the Panchayat Village is in a
ryotwari tract, all income derived from trees standing on porambokes although
the user of the porambokes is not vested in the Village Panchayat;(t)income
from leases of Government property obtained by the Village Panchayat;(u)fines
and penalties levied under this Act by the Village Panchayat or at the
instance or on behalf of the Village Panchayat;(v)all sums other than those
enumerated above which arise out of, or are received in aid of or for
expenditure on any institutions or services maintained or financed from the
Village Panchayat fund or managed by the Village Panchayat;(w)[ such other
moneys as may be specified by the Government.] [Substituted for the
expressions: 'all other moneys received by the Village Panchayat' vide Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2007) w.e.f.
8th June 2007.](2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section(l), the
Government may direct any Village Panchayat to constitute separate funds to
which shall be credited such receipt as may be specified and such funds shall
be applied and disposed of in such manner as may be prescribed.] [Sub-sections
(2) and (3) were added by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1997
(Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1997).](3)Subject to such general control as the Village
Panchayat may exercise, from time to time, all cheques for payment from
Village Panchayat Fund [***] [The words 'or other funds constituted under Sub-
section (2)' were omitted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2007
(Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.]President and another member
authorised by the Village Panchayat at a meeting in this behalf. [***]
[Pugazhendran, President, Brammapuram Village Panchayat v. B.G. Balu, AIR 2005
Madras 370.] shall be signed jointly by the President and Vice-President and
in the absence of the President or Vice-President, as the case may be, by the
Vice-President or the President and another member authorised by the Village
Panchayat at a meeting in this behalf.

### 189. District Panchayat (General) Fund.

(1)There shall be constituted for each District Panchayat, a District
Panchayat (General) Fund and the following shall form a part of, or be paid
into, the District Panchayat (General) Fund, namely: -(a)the amount
transferred to the District Panchayat (General) Fund by appropriation from out
of the Consolidated Fund of the State;(b)all grants, assignments, loans and
contributions made by the Government;(c)all rents from lands or other property
of the District Panchayat;(d)all interests, profits and other moneys accruing
by gift, grants, assignments or transfer from private individuals or
institutions;(e)all proceeds of land, security and other properties sold by
the District Panchayat;(f)all fees and penalties paid to or levied by or on
behalf of the District Panchayat under this Act;(g)all sums received by, or on
behalf of, the District Panchayat by virtue of this Act.(2)The Government
shall make a grant to every District Panchayat (General) Fund, to cover the
expenses of establishment at such scale as may be determined by it.Expenditure

### 190. Application of moneys received and expenditure from funds.

\- All moneys received by the Panchayat Union Council and the Village
Panchayat shall be applied and disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of this Act and other laws:Provided that the Panchayat Union Council or the
Village Panchayat shall have power, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, to direct that the proceeds of any tax or additional tax levied
under this Act shall be earmarked for the purpose of financing any specific
public improvement. A separate account shall be kept of the receipts from
every such tax or additional tax and the expenditure thereof.

### 191. Expenditure from Village Panchayat Fund and Panchayat Union Fund.

(1)The purposes to which the funds of the Panchayat Union Council or of the
Village Panchayat may be applied include all objects expressly declared
obligatory or discretionary by this Act or any Rules made thereunder or by any
other laws or Rules and the funds shall be applicable thereto within the
Panchayat Development Block or the Panchayat Village, as the case may be,
subject to such rules or special orders as the Government may prescribe or
issue and shall, subject as aforesaid, be applicable to such purposes outside
the Panchayat Development Block or Panchayat Village if the expenditure is
authorized by this Act or specially sanctioned by the Inspector.(2)It shall be
the duty of every Panchayat Union Council and Village Panchayat to provide for
the payment of -(a)any amount falling due on any loans contracted by it;(b)the
salaries and allowances and the pensions, pensionary contributions and
provident fund contributions of its officers and servants;(c)sums due under
any decree or order of a Court; and(d)any other expenses rendered obligatory
by or under this Act or any other law.(3)A Panchayat Union Council or Village
Panchayat may, with the sanction of the Government, contribute to any fund for
the defence of India.(4)A Panchayat Union Council or Village Panchayat may,
with the sanction of the Inspector, also -(a)contribute towards the expenses
of any public exhibition, ceremony or entertainment in the Panchayat
Development Block or Panchayat Village;(b)contribute to any charitable fund,
or to the funds of any institution for the relief of the poor or the treatment
of disease or infirmity or the reception of indisposed or infirm persons or
the investigation of the causes of disease; and(c)defray any other
extraordinary charges.

### 192. Preparation and sanction of budgets.

(1)The Executive Authority of the Village Panchayat and the Commissioner
shall, in each year, frame and place before the Village Panchayat or the
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, a budget showing the probable
receipts and expenditure during the following year.(2)The budget of a Village
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council shall, after preparation by the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner, be submitted on or before such date and to such
officer as may be prescribed and if the prescribed officer is satisfied that
adequate provision has not been made therein for the performance of any
necessary service or services, he shall have power to return the budget for
modification in such manner as may be necessary to secure such
provision.(3)The Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council, as the case
may be, shall sanction the budget with such modification as it thinks fit. If
there is a difference of opinion between the officer referred to in sub-
section (2) and the Village Panchayat and the Panchayat Union Council, as the
case may be, the budget shall be referred to the Inspector in the case of
Village Panchayat and the Government in the case of the Panchayat Union
Council. The Inspector or the Government, as the case may be, shall have power
to modify the budget in such manner as he or they may consider necessary.(4)If
in the course of a year, a Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council finds
it necessary to alter the figures shown in the budget with regard to its
receipts or to the distribution of the amounts to be expended on the different
services undertaken by it, a supplemental or revised budget may be framed,
sanctioned, submitted and modified in the manner provided in sub-sections (1)
and (2). Provided that no such alteration shall be given effect to except with
the consent of the prescribed officer.(5)On or before such date in each year
as may be prescribed, every Commissioner shall submit to the Government
through such officer and in such forms as may be prescribed a budget for the
ensuing financial year showing the income and expenditure relating to the
Panchayat Union (Education) Fund.(6)The Government may pass such orders as
they think fit in respect of the budget referred to in sub-section (5) and the
Panchayat Union Council concerned shall be bound to carry out all such
orders.(7)The accounts of the Panchayat Union (Education) Fund shall be
examined and audited by an Auditor appointed by the Government under section
193 and the Panchayat Union Council concerned shall carry out any instruction
which the Government may issue on the audit report.

### 193. Appointment of Auditors.

(1)The Government shall appoint Auditors for the accounts of the receipts and
expenditure of the funds of the Panchayat. Such Auditors shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code,
1860 (Central Act XLV of 1860).(2)[ The Government may recover from the
Panchayat, the expenditure incurred by the Government in the audit of the
accounts of such Panchayat, at such percentage, of the expenditure as may be
fixed by the Government.] [Sub-section (2) of section 193 was substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 19 of
2001).]

### 194. Contribution to expenditure by other local authorities.

\- If the expenditure incurred by the Government or by any Panchayat Union
Council or by any Village Panchayat or by any other local authority in the
State for any purpose authorised by or under this Act, is such as to benefit
the inhabitants of the Panchayat Union or Panchayat Village, the Panchayat
Union Council or the Village Panchayat, as the case may be, may, with the
sanction of the Inspector, and shall, if so directed by him, make a
contribution towards such expenditure.

### 195. Recovery of loans and advances made by Government.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1914
(Central Act LX of 1914), the Government may -(a)by order, direct any person
having custody of the funds of the Panchayat Union Council or the Village
Panchayat to pay to them in priority to any other charges against such fund,
except charges for the service of authorised loans, any loan or advance made
by them to the Panchayat Union Council or the Village Panchayat for any
purpose to which its funds may be applied under this Act;(b)recover any such
loan or advance by suit.(2)The person to whom the order referred to in clause
(a) of sub-section (1) is addressed shall be bound to comply with such order.

### 196. Application of certain sections of this Act to District Panchayat.

\- The provisions of sections 190, 191, 192, 194 and 195 (both inclusive)
shall, in as far as may be, apply in relation to the District Panchayat as
they apply in relation to Village Panchayat and Panchayat Union Council.

### 197. Certain powers and functions of District Panchayat to be notified by
the Government.

(1)It shall be lawful for the Government, from time to time, to direct by
notification that, -(a)any of the powers and functions of the Village
Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or of the Government; or(b)any road,
bridge, channel, building or other property movable, or immovable which is
vested in the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council or the
Government and which is situated in the district,shall, with the consent of
the District Panchayat and subject to such exemption and conditions as the
Government may make and impose, be exercised or placed under the control and
administration of the District Panchayat for the purposes of this Act and,
thereupon, such powers and functions and such road, bridge, channel, building
or other property, shall be under the control and administration of the
District Panchayat, subject to all exceptions and to all charges and
liabilities affecting the same.(2)It shall be competent for the Government, by
notification, to resume any of the powers and functions or property, placed
under the control of the District Panchayat under sub-section (1), on such
terms as the Government may determine.

### 198. Finance Commission.

(1)The Governor shall, as soon as may be, after the commencement of this Act,
but not later than 24th April 1994 and thereafter at the expiration of every
fifth year, constitute a Finance Commission referred to in Article 243-I of
the Constitution to review the financial position of the Panchayats and to
make recommendations to the Governor as to -(a)the principles which should
govern, -(i)the distribution between the State and Panchayats of the net
proceeds of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees leviable by the Government which
may be divided between them and allocation between the District Panchayats,
Panchayat Union Councils and Village Panchayats of their respective shares of
such proceeds;(ii)the determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees which
may be assigned to, or appropriated by, the Panchayats;(iii)the grants-in-aid
to the Panchayats, from the Consolidated Fund of the State;(b)the measures
needed to improve the financial position of the Panchayats;(c)any other matter
referred to the Finance Commission by the Governor in the interest of sound
finance of the Panchayats.(2)The Finance Commission shall consist of a
Chairman and [five other members] [Substituted for the words 'Four other
members' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Second Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act
6 of 2006) w.e.f 13-6-2006.].(3)The Chairman and members of Finance Commission
shall possess such qualifications and shall be appointed in [such manner as
may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 162, Rural Development
(C-11), dated 6th September, 1994.].(4)The Finance Commission shall determine
their procedure.(5)The chairman or a member of the Finance Commission may
resign his office by writing under his hand and addressed to the Finance
Secretary to the Government, but he shall continue in office until his
resignation is accepted by the Governor.(6)The casual vacancy created by the
resignation of the member or Chairman under sub-section (5) or for any other
reasons may be filled by the fresh appointment and a member or Chairman so
appointed shall hold office for the remaining period for which the member or
Chairman in whose place he was appointed would have held office.(7)The Finance
Commission shall have the, following powers in the performance of its
functions, namely: -(a)to call for any record from any officer or
authority;(b)to summon any person to give evidence or produce records;
and(c)such other powers as may be prescribed.(8)The Finance Commission shall
prepare a report on the activities of the Commission and submit the same to
the Government at the end of each financial year.(9)The Governor shall cause
every recommendation made by the Finance Commission under this section
together with an explanatory memorandum as to the action taken thereon to be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly.[Chapter IX-A] [Chapter IX-A
with sections 198-A to I were inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 55 of 1998)] Tax On Profession, Trade,
Calling and Employment

### 198A. Definitions.

\- For the purposes of this Chapter, -(a)"employee" means a person employed on
salary and includes, -(i)a Government servant receiving pay from the revenue
of the Central Government or any State Government;(ii)a person in the service
of a body, whether incorporated or not, which is owned or controlled by the
Central Government or any State Government, where such body operates within
the Panchayat Village even though its headquarters may be outside that
Panchayat Village; and(iii)a person engaged in any employment by an employer,
not covered by sub-clauses (i) and (ii);(b)"employer", in relation to an
employee earning any salary on a regular basis under him means, the person or
the officer who is responsible for disbursement of such salary and includes
the head of the office or any establishment as well as the Manager or Agent of
the employer;(c)"half-year" shall be from the 1st day of April to the 30th day
of September and from the 1st day of October to the 31st day of March of a
year;(d)"month" means a calendar month;(e)"person" means any person who is
engaged actively or otherwise in any profession, trade, calling or employment
in the State of Tamil Nadu and includes a Hindu undivided family, firm,
company, corporation or other corporate body, any society, club, body of
persons or association, so engaged, but does not include any person employed
on a casual basis;(f)"tax" means the tax on profession, trade, calling and
employment levied under this Chapter.

### 198B. Levy of profession tax.

(1)There shall be levied by the Village Panchayat a tax on profession, trade,
calling and employment.(2)Every company which transacts business and every
person, who is engaged actively or otherwise in any profession, trade, calling
or employment within the Panchayat Village on the first day of the half-year
for which return is filed, shall pay half-yearly tax at the rates specified in
the Table below in such manner as may be prescribed: -

SI. No. | Average half-yearly income | Half-yearly tax  
---|---|---  
| From | To |   
(1) | (2) | (3) |   
1. | Rs. Up to 21,000 | Rs. ... | Rs. Nil  
2. | 21,001 | 30,000 | 60  
3. | 30,001 | 45,000 | 150  
4. | 45,001 | 60,000 | 300  
5. | 60,001 | 75,000 | 450  
6. | 75,001 and above | ... | 600  
  
(3)The rate of tax payable under sub-section (2) shall be published by the
Inspector in such manner as may be prescribed.(4)Where a Company or person
proves that it or he has paid the sum due on account of the tax levied under
this Chapter or any tax of the nature of a profession tax imposed under the
[Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924)] [This Act has been repealed
and re-enacted as the Cantonments Act, 2006 (Central Act 41 of 2006).] for the
same half-year to any local authority or Cantonment Authority in the State of
Tamil Nadu, such company or person shall not be liable, by reason merely of
change of place of business, exercise of profession, trade, calling or
employment, or residence, to pay the tax to any other local authority or
Cantonment Authority.(5)The tax leviable from a Firm, Association or Hindu
Undivided Family may be levied on any adult member of the Firm, Association or
Family.(6)Where a person doing the same business in the same name in one or
more places within the Panchayat Village, the income of such business in all
places within the Panchayat Village shall be computed for the purpose of levy
of tax and such person shall pay the tax in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.(7)Where any Company, a Corporate Body, Society, Firm, body of
persons or Association pays the tax under this Chapter, any director, partner
or member, as the case may be, of such Company, Corporate Body, Society, Firm,
Body of Persons or Association shall not be liable to pay tax under this
Chapter for the income derived by such director, partner or member from such
Company, Corporate Body, Society, Firm, Body of Persons or
Association:Provided that such director, partner or member shall be liable to
pay tax under this Chapter for the income derived from other sources.(8)Every
person who is liable to pay tax, other than a person earning salary or wage
shall furnish to the Executive Authority a return in such form, for such
period and within such date and in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided
that, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (10) and (11), such person may
make a self-assessment on the basis of average half-yearly income of the
previous financial year and the return filed by him shall be accepted without
calling for the accounts and without any inspection.(9)Every such return shall
accompany with the proof of payment of the full amount of tax due according to
the return and a return without such proof of payment shall not be deemed to
have been duly filed.(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to
sub-section (8), the Executive Authority may select ten per cent of the total
number of such assessment in such manner as may be prescribed for the purpose
of detailed scrutiny regarding the correctness of the return submitted by a
person in this connection and in such cases final assessment order shall be
passed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.(11)If no return is
submitted by any person under sub-section (8) within the prescribed period or
if the return submitted by him appears to the Executive Authority to be
incomplete or incorrect, the Executive Authority shall, after making such
enquiry as he may consider necessary, assess such person to the best of his
judgment:Provided that before taking action under this sub-section, the person
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness or
completeness of any return submitted by him.(12)Every person who is liable to
pay tax under this section, other than a person earning salary or wage
-(a)shall be issued with a pass book containing such details relating to such
payment of tax as may be prescribed and, if the pass book is lost or
accidentally destroyed, the Executive Authority may, on an application made by
the person accompanied by such fee as may be fixed by the Village Panchayat,
issue to such person a duplicate of the pass book,(b)shall be allotted a
permanent account number and such person shall-(i)quote such number in all his
returns to, or correspondence with, the Executive Authority;(ii)quote such
number in all challans for the payment of any sum due under this
Chapter.(13)The rate of tax specified under sub-section (2) shall be revised
by the Village Panchayat once in every five years and such revision of tax
shall be increased not less than twenty-five per cent and not more than
thirty-five per cent of the tax levied immediately before the date of
revision.

### 198C. Employers liability to deduct and pay tax on behalf of the
employees.

\- The tax payable by any person earning a salary or wage shall be deducted by
his employer from the salary payable to such person, before such salary or
wage is paid to him in such manner as may be prescribed, and such employer
shall, irrespective of whether such deduction has been made or not when the
salary or wage is paid to such person, be liable to pay tax on behalf of such
person:Provided that if the employer is an officer of the State or Central
Government, the Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Chapter, prescribe the manner in which such employer shall discharge the said
liability.

### 198D. Filing of returns by employer.

(1)Every Employer liable to pay tax under this Chapter shall file a return to
the Executive Authority, in such form, for such period and by such date as may
be prescribed, showing therein the salaries paid by him to the employees and
the amount of tax deducted by him in respect of such employees.(2)Every such
return shall accompany with the proof of payment of the full amount of tax due
according to the return and a return without such proof of payment shall not
be deemed to have been duly filed.

### 198E. Assessment of the employer.

(1)The Executive Authority, if satisfied that any return filed by any employer
under sub-section (1) of section 198-D is correct and complete, shall accept
the return.(2)Where an employer has failed to file any return under sub-
section (1) of section 198-D within the time or if the return filed by him
appears to the Executive Authority to be incorrect or incomplete, the
Executive Authority shall, after making such enquiry as he considers
necessary, determine the tax due and assess the employer to the best of his
judgment and issue a notice of demand for the tax so assessed:Provided that
before assessing the tax due, the Executive Authority shall give the employer
a reasonable Opportunity of being heard.

### 198F. Penalty and interest.

(1)In addition to the tax assessed under sub-section (11) of section 198-B or
sub-section (2) of section 198-E, the Executive Authority shall direct the
person or employer to pay by way of penalty a sum which shall be, in the case
of submission of incorrect or incomplete return, one hundred per cent of the
difference of the tax assessed and the tax paid as per return:Provided that no
penalty under this sub-section shall be imposed after the period of three
years from the date of the order of the assessment under this Chapter and
unless the person affected has had a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against such imposition.(2)On any amount remaining unpaid after the dates
specified for its payment, the person or employer shall pay, in addition to
the amount due, interest at such rate not exceeding one per cent per mensem of
such amount for the entire period of default, as may be prescribed.

### 198G. Appeal.

(1)Any person or employer aggrieved by any order or decision of the Executive
Authority in relation to the payment of tax (including penalty, fee and
interest) may, within such time as may be prescribed, appeal to the authority
prescribed under section 174.(2)The decision of the authority referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be final and shall not be questioned in any Court of
law:Provided that no such decision shall be made except after giving the
person affected a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 198H. Exemptions.

\- Nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply to -(a)the members of the
Armed Forces of the Union serving in any part of this State, to whom the
provisions of the Army Act, 1950 (Central Act XLVI of 1950), the Air Force
Act, 1950 (Central Act XLV of 1950), or the Navy Act, 1957 (Central Act LXII
of 1957), applies;(b)the members of the Central Reserve Police Force to whom
the Central Reserve Police Force Act, 1949 (Central Act XLVI of 1949) applies
and serving in any part of this State;(c)physically disabled persons with
total disability in one or both the hands or legs, spastics, totally dumb or
deaf persons or totally blind persons:Provided that such physical disability
shall be duly certified by a Registered Medical Practitioner in the service of
the Government not below the rank of Civil Surgeon.

### 198I. Repeal and Savings.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act,
1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1992) (hereafter in this section referred to as the
1992 Act), in its application to the Village Panchayat, is hereby
repealed.(2)The repeal of the 1992 Act under sub-section (1) shall not affect,
-(i)the previous operation of the said Act or anything done or duly suffered
thereunder; or(ii)any right, privileges, obligations or liabilities acquired,
accrued or incurred under the said Act; or(iii)any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed.(3)Notwithstanding the
repeal of the 1992 Act, the rates of tax on professions, trades, callings and
employments specified in the Schedule to the said Act shall continue to apply
for the period commencing on the 1st day of April 1992 and ending with the
30th day of September 1998 for the levy and collection of such tax for the
said period, where the tax due under that Act has not been paid for the said
period.(4)The provisions of this Chapter, other than the rates of tax
specified in sub-section (2) of section 198-B and the provisions relating to
penalty and interest, shall mutatis mutandis apply to the levy and collection
of tax for the period mentioned in sub-section (3).(5)The arrears of tax under
the 1992 Act shall be paid in six equal half-yearly instalments in [such
manner and within such period as may be prescribed] [See Rules issued in G.O.
Ms. No. 9, Rural Development, dated 18th January 1999.].

## Chapter X  
Controlling Authorities

### 199. Appointment of officers to supervise Panchayats.

(1)The Government may appoint such officers as may be required for the purpose
of inspecting or superintending the operations of all or any of the Panchayats
constituted under this Act.(2)The Government shall have power to regulate by
rules made under this Act, the classifications, methods of recruitment,
conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline and conduct of the
officers referred to in sub-section (1) and of the members of their
establishments.

### 200. Powers of Inspecting Officers.

(1)The Inspector or the Collector or any officer appointed under section 199
or any other officer or person whom the Government or the Inspector or the
Collector may empower in this behalf, may-(a)enter on and inspect any
immovable property, or any work in progress, under the control of any
Panchayat or any Executive Authority or Commissioner or [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).];(b)enter any school,
dispensary, vaccination station or choultry maintained by or under the control
of any Panchayat or any other institution maintained by or under the control
of any Panchayat and inspect any records, registers or other documents kept in
any such institution;(c)enter the office of any Panchayat and inspect any
records, registers or other documents kept therein.(2)Village Panchayats and
their Presidents, executive authorities, Panchayat Union Councils and their
Chairmen, Commissioners, District Panchayats and their Chairmen, [Secretaries]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and the officers and
servants of Panchayats shall be bound to afford to the officers and persons
aforesaid, such access, at all reasonable times, to Panchayat property or
premises and to all documents as may, in the opinion of such officers or
persons, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, be necessary to enable
them to discharge their duties under this section.

### 201. Powers of officers for purpose of control.

\- The Inspector or any officer or person whom the Government or the
Inspector, may empower in this behalf may -(a)direct the Village Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat to make provision for and to
execute or provide any public work or amenity, or service of the description
referred to in sections 110,112 and 163;(b)call for any record, register or
other document in the possession, or under the control, of any Panchayat or
Executive Authority, or Commissioner or [Secretary] [Substituted for the words
'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).];(c)require any Panchayat or Executive Authority
or Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, account or
statistics;(d)require any Panchayat or Executive Authority or Commissioner or
the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] to
furnish any information or report on any matter connected with such
Panchayat;(e)require any Panchayat or Executive Authority or the Commissioner
or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1998).] to obtain his previous sanction before giving up a claim or closing
down any institution which is a source of income;(f)record in writing for the
consideration of any Panchayat or Executive Authority or Commissioner or the
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], any
observations in regard to its or his proceedings or duties.

### 202. Power to suspend or cancel resolution, etc. under the Act.

(1)The Inspector may, by order in writing, -(i)suspend or cancel any
resolution passed, order issued, or licence or permission granted,
or(ii)prohibit the doing of any act which is about to be done or is being
done, in pursuance, or under colour, of this Act, if in his opinion, -(a)such
resolution, order, licence, permission or act has not been legally passed,
issued, granted or authorised, or(b)such resolution, order, licence,
permission or act is in excess of the powers conferred by this Act or any
other law or an abuse of such powers or is considered by the Inspector to be
otherwise undesirable, or(c)the execution of such resolution or order, or the
continuance in force of such licence or permission or the doing of such act is
likely to cause danger to human life, health or safety, or is likely to lead
to a riot or an affray:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall enable
the Inspector to set aside any election which has been held.(2)The Inspector
shall, before taking action on any of the grounds referred to in clauses (a)
and (b) of sub-section (1), give the authority or person concerned an
opportunity for explanation.(3)The power conferred on the Inspector under
clause (c) of sub-section (1) may be exercised by the Collector in accordance
with the provisions of that clause.

### 203. Emergency powers of Collector and Inspector.

\- [Subject to such control as may be prescribed, the Inspector or the
Collector may, in cases of emergency, direct or provide for the execution of
any work, or the doing of any act which a Panchayat or Executive Authority or
Commissioner or [Secretary] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 148, Rural
Development (C4), dated 31st May, 2001 and published in Part III, section
1(a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 1st June,
2001.] is empowered to execute or do and the immediate execution or doing of
which is in his opinion necessary for the safety of the public and may direct
that the expense of executing such work or doing such act shall be paid by the
person having the custody of the Village Panchayat Fund or the Panchayat Union
(General) Fund or the District Panchayat (General) Fund in priority to any
other charges against such Fund except charges for the service of authorised
loans.]

### 204. Power to take action in default of a Village Panchayat, President or
Executive Authority, etc.

(1)If, at any time, it appears to the Inspector that a Village Panchayat,
President or Executive Authority or that a Panchayat Union Council or its
Chairman or Commissioner or a District Panchayat or its Chairman or
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], has made
default in performing any duty imposed by or under this or any other Act, he
may, by order in writing, fix a period for the performance of such duty.(2)If
such duty is not performed within the period so fixed, the Inspector may
appoint some person to perform it and may direct that the expense of
performing it shall be paid by the person having the custody of the Village
Pancha-yat Fund or the Panchayat Union Fund or the District Panchayat
(General) Fund, as the case may be, in priority to any other charges against
such Fund except charges for the service of authorised loans.(3)If on a
representation in writing made by the President, the Inspector is satisfied
that due to the non co-operation of the members with the President, the
Village Panchayat is not able to function, the Inspector may, by notification,
authorise the President to perform, subject to the control of the Inspector,
such of the duties imposed upon the Village Panchayat by law and for such
period not exceeding six months as may be specified in such notification.
During the period for which the President is so authorised, there shall be no
meeting of the Village Panchayat.(4)If on a representation in writing made by
the Chairman, the Government are satisfied that due to the non co-operation of
the members with the Chairman, the Panchayat Union Council or the District
Panchayat, as the case may be, is not able to function, the Government may, by
notification, authorise the Chairman to perform, subject to the control of the
Government or any officer authorised by the Government in this behalf, such of
the duties imposed upon the Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat,
as the case may be, by law and for such period not exceeding six months as may
be specified in such notification. During the period for which the Chairman is
so authorised, there shall be no meeting of the Panchayat Union Council or the
District Panchayat.

### 205. Removal of President.

(1)The Inspector -(a)of his own motion, or(b)on a representation in writing
signed by not less than two-thirds of the sanctioned strength of the Village
Panchayat containing a statement of charges against the President and
presented in person to the Inspector by any two of the members of the Village
Panchayat,is satisfied that the President willfully omits or refuses to carry
out or disobeys any provision of this Act, or any Rule, bye-law, Regulation,
or lawful order made or issued under this Act or abuses any power vested in
him, the Inspector shall,by notice in writing, require the President to offer
within a specified date, his explanation with respect to his acts of omission
or commission mentioned in the notice.(2)If the explanation is received within
the specified date and the Inspector considers that the explanation is
satisfactory, he may drop further action with respect to the notice. If no
explanation is received within the specified date or if the explanation
received is in his opinion not satisfactory, he shall forward to the Tahsildar
of the taluk a copy of the notice referred to in sub-section (1) and the
explanation of the President if received within the specified date with a
proposal for the removal of the President for ascertaining the views of the
Village Panchayat.(3)The Tahsildar shall then convene a meeting for the
consideration of the notice and the explanation, if any, and the proposal for
the removal of the President, at the office of the Village Panchayat at a time
appointed by the Tahsildar.(4)A copy of the notice of the meeting shall be
caused to be delivered to the President and to all the members of the Village
Panchayat by the Tahsildar at least seven days before the date of the
meeting.(5)The Tahsildar shall preside at the meeting convened under this
section and no other person shall preside thereat. If, within half an hour
appointed for the meeting, the Tahsildar is not present to preside at the
meeting, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a time to be appointed and
notified to the members and the President by the Tahsildar under sub-section
(6).(6)If the Tahsildar is unable to preside at the meeting, he may, after
recording his reasons in writing, adjourn the meeting to such other time as he
may appoint. The date so appointed shall be not later than thirty days from
the date so appointed for the meeting under sub-section (3). Notice of not
less than seven clear days shall be given to the members and the President of
the time appointed for the adjourned meeting.(7)Save as provided in sub-
sections (5) and (6), a meeting convened for the purpose of considering the
notice and the explanation, if any, and the proposal for the removal of the
President under this section shall not, for any reason, be adjourned.(8)As
soon as the meeting convened under this section is commenced, the-Tahsildar
shall read to the Village Panchayat the notice of the Inspector and the
explanation if any, of the President [and the proposal for the removal of the
President] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil
Nadu Act 2 of 1999).], for the consideration of which it has been
convened.[(8-A) There shall be no debate in any meeting under this section.]
[Sub-section 8-A was inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1999).](9)The Tahsildar shall not speak on the merits of
the notice or explanation nor shall he be entitled to vote at the
meeting.(10)The views of the Village Panchayat shall be duly recorded in the
minutes of the meeting and a copy of the minutes shall forthwith, on the
termination of the meeting, be forwarded by the Tahsildar to the
Inspector.(11)The Inspector may, after considering the views of the Village
Panchayat in this regard, in his discretion either remove the President from
office by notification with effect from a date to be specified therein or drop
further action.(12)The Government shall have power to cancel any notification
issued under sub-section (11) and may, pending a decision on such
cancellation, postpone the date specified in such notification.(13)[ Any
person in respect of whom a notification has been issued under sub-section
(11) removing him from the office of President shall, unless the notification
is cancelled under sub-section (12), be ineligible for election as President
until the expiry of three years from the date specified in such notification
as postponed by the order, if any, issued under sub-section (12).] [Sub-
section (13) substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil
Nadu Act 16 of2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007.]

### 206. Removal of Vice-President.

(1)If in the opinion of the Inspector, the Vice-President willfully omits or
refuses to carry out or disobeys any provisions of this Act or any Rule, bye-
law, regulation, or lawful order made or issued under this Act or abuses any
power vested in him, the Inspector shall, by notice in writing, require the
Vice-President to offer within a specified date, his explanation with respect
to his cases of omission or commission mentioned in the notice.(2)The
provisions of sub-sections (2) to (13) (both inclusive) of section 205 shall,
as far as may be, apply in relation to the removal of the Vice-President as
they apply in relation to the removal of the President by the Inspector on his
own motion.

### 207. Removal of Chairman of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)If the Government, -(a)of their own motion, or(b)on a representation in
writing signed by not less than two-thirds of the strength of the Panchayat
Union Council containing a statement of charges against the Chairman of the
Panchayat Union Council and presented in person to any officer appointed by
the Government in this behalf by any two of the members of the Panchayat Union
Council,are satisfied that the Chairman willfully omits or refuses to carry
out or disobeys the provisions of this Act, or any rules, bye-laws,
regulations or lawful orders issued thereunder or abuses the powers vested in
him, the Government shall, by notice in writing, require the Chairman to offer
within a specified date, his explanation with respect to his acts of omission
or commission mentioned in the notice.(2)If the explanation is received within
the specified date and the Government consider that the explanation is
satisfactory, the Government may drop further action with respect to the
notice. If no explanation is received within the specified date or if the
explanation received is, in their opinion not satisfactory, the Government
shall forward to the Revenue Divisional Officer of the division concerned, a
copy of the notice referred to in sub-section (1), and the explanation of the
Chairman with a proposal for the removal of the Chairman from office for
ascertaining the views of the Panchayat Union Council.(3)The Revenue
Divisional Officer shall, then, convene a meeting for the consideration of the
notice and the explanation, if any, and the proposal for the removal of the
Chairman at the office of the Panchayat Union Council at a time appointed by
the Revenue Divisional Officer.(4)A copy of the notice of the meeting shall be
caused to be delivered to the concerned Chairman and to all the members of the
Panchayat Union Council by the Revenue Divisional Officer at least seven days
before the date of the meeting.(5)The Revenue Divisional Officer shall preside
at the meeting convened under this section and no other person shall preside
thereat. If within half an hour appointed for the meeting, the Revenue
Divisional Officer is not present to preside at the meeting, the meeting shall
stand adjourned to a time to be appointed and notified to the members by the
Revenue Divisional Officer under sub-section (6).(6)If the Revenue Divisional
Officer is unable to preside at the meeting, he may, after recording his
reasons in writing, adjourn the meeting to such other time as he may appoint.
The date so appointed shall be not later than thirty days from the date
appointed for the meeting under sub-section (3). Notice of not less than seven
clear days shall be given to the members of the time appointed for the
adjourned meeting.(7)Save as provided in sub-sections (5) and (6), a meeting
convened for the purpose of considering the notice and the explanation, if
any, and the proposal for the removal of the Chairman under this section shall
not, for any reason, be adjourned.(8)As soon as the meeting convened under
this section is commenced, the Revenue Divisional Officer shall read to the
Panchayat Union Council the notice of the Government and the explanation, if
any, of the Chairman [and the proposal for the removal of the Chairman]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of
1999).] for the consideration of which it has been convened.(9)There shall be
no debate in any meeting under this section.(10)The Revenue Divisional Officer
shall not speak on the merits of the notice or explanation nor shall he be
entitled to vote at the meeting.(11)The views of the Panchayat Union Council
shall be duly recorded in the minutes of the meeting and a copy of the minutes
shall forthwith, on the termination of the meeting, be forwarded by the
Revenue Divisional Officer to the Government.(12)The Government may, after
considering the views of the Panchayat Union Council in this regard in their
discretion either remove the Chairman from office by notification with effect
from a date to be specified therein or drop further action.(13)[ Any person in
respect of whom a notification has been issued under sub-section (12) removing
him from the office of Chairman shall be ineligible for election as Chairman
and for holding any of those offices until the expiry of three years from the
date specified in the notification.] [Sub-section (13) was substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 2007) w.e.f.
8th June 2007.]

### 208. Removal of Vice-Chairman of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)If, in the opinion of the Government, the Vice-Chairman of the Panchayat
Union Council willfully omits or refuses to carry out or disobeys any
provisions of this Act, or any rules, bye-laws, regulations or lawful orders
issued thereunder or abuses any power vested in him, the Government shall, by
notice in writing, require the Vice-Chairman to offer within a specified date,
his explanation with respect to his acts of omission or commission mentioned
in the notice.(2)The provisions of sub-sections (2) to (13) (both inclusive)
of section 207 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to the removal of
the Vice-Chairman as they apply in relation to the removal of the Chairman of
the Panchayat Union Council by the Government on their own motion.

### 209. Removal of Chairman of District Panchayat.

(1)If the Government, -(a)of their own motion, or(b)on a representation in
writing signed by not less than two-thirds of the strength of the District
Panchayat containing a statement of charges against the Chairman of the
District Panchayat and presented in person to any officer appointed by the
Government in this behalf, by any two of the members of the District
Panchayat, are satisfied that the Chairman willfully omits or refuses to carry
out or disobeys the provisions of this Act, or any rules, bye-laws,
regulations or lawful orders issued thereunder or abuses the powers vested in
him, the Government shall, by notice in writing, require the Chairman to offer
within a specified date, his explanation with respect to his acts of omission
or commission mentioned in the notice.(2)The provisions of sub-sections (2) to
(13) (both inclusive) of section 207 shall, as far as may be, apply in
relation to the removal of the Chairman of District Panchayat as they apply in
relation to the removal of the Chairman of Panchayat Union Council by the
Government on their own motion.

### 210. Removal of Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat.

(1)If, in the opinion of the Government, the Vice-Chairman of District
Panchayat, willfully omits or refuses to carry out or disobeys any provisions
of this Act or any Rules, bye-laws, regulations or lawful orders issued
thereunder or abuses any power vested in him, the Government shall, by notice
in writing, require the Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat to offer within a
specified date, his explanation with respect to his acts of omission or
commission mentioned in the notice.(2)The provisions of sub-sections (2) to
(13) (both inclusive) of section 207 shall, as far as may be, apply in
relation to the removal of the Vice-Chairman of District Panchayat, as they
apply in relation to the removal of the Chairman of Panchayat Union Council,
by the Government on their own motion.

### 210A. [ Removal of President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or
member convicted under section 246-A. [Section 210-A inserted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 2002).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Government may, by
notification, remove any President, Vice-President or member of a Village
Panchayat or Chairman, Vice-Chairman or member of a Panchayat Union Council or
of a District Panchayat who is convicted twice of an offence punishable under
section 246-A.(2)The Government shall, when they propose to take action under
sub-section (1), give the President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman
or member concerned, an opportunity to explain and the notification issued
under the said sub-section shall contain a statement of the reasons of the
Government for the action taken.(3)[ Any person removed under sub-section (1)
from the office of President, Vice-President, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or
member, as the case may be, shall not be eligible for election to the said
office until the expiry of three years from the date specified in such
notification, issued under subsection (1).]]

### 211. Motion of no confidence in Vice-President of Village Panchayat.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, a motion expressing want of
confidence in the Vice-President of a Village Panchayat may be made in
accordance with the procedure laid down herein.(2)Written notice of intention
to make the motion, signed by members of the Village Panchayat not less in
number than [three-fifth] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 2008.] of the
sanctioned strength of the Village Panchayat, together with a copy of the
motion which is proposed to be made and a written statement of the charges
against the Vice-President, shall be delivered in person to the Tahsildar of
the Taluk by any two of the members of the Village Panchayat signing the
notice.(3)A copy of the statement of charges along with the notice of the
meeting shall be caused to be delivered to the Vice-President concerned by the
Tahsildar and the Vice-President shall be required to give a statement in
reply to the charges within a week of the receipt of the notice by the Vice-
President.(4)The Tahsildar shall, after the expiry of the period of the notice
issued under sub-section (3), convene a meeting for the consideration of the
motion, at the office of the Village Panchayat at a time appointed by
him.(5)The Tahsildar shall give to the members notice of not less than fifteen
clear days of such meeting and of the time appointed therefor.(6)The Tahsildar
shall preside at the meeting convened under this section, and no other person
shall preside thereat. If within half an hour after the time appointed for the
meeting, the Tahsildar is not present to preside at the meeting, the meeting
shall stand adjourned to a time to be appointed and notified to the members by
the Tahsildar under sub-section (7).(7)If the Tahsildar is unable to preside
at the meeting, he may, after recording his reasons in writing, adjourn the
meeting to such other time as he may appoint. The date so appointed shall not
be later than thirty days from the date appointed for the meeting under sub-
section (4). Notice of not less than seven clear days shall be given to the
members, of the time appointed for the adjourned meeting.(8)Save as provided
in sub-sections (6) and (7), a meeting convened for the purpose of considering
a motion under this section shall not for any reason be adjourned.(9)As soon
as the meeting convened under this section has commenced, the Tahsildar shall
read to the Village Panchayat, the motion for the consideration of which it
has been convened, the statement of charges and the written statement, if any,
of the Vice-President in reply to the said charges.(10)There shall be no
debate on any motion under this section.(11)The Tahsildar shall not speak on
the merits of the motion, nor shall he be entitled to vote thereon.(12)A copy
of the minutes of the meeting together with a copy of the motion and the
result of the voting thereon shall forthwith, on the termination of the
meeting, be forwarded by the Tahsildar to the Inspector.(13)If the motion is
carried with the support of not less than [four-fifth] [Substituted for the
words 'two- thirds' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 2008).] of the sanctioned strength of the Village Panchayat, the
Inspector shall, by notification, remove the Vice-President of the Village
Panchayat.(14)If the motion is not carried by such a majority as aforesaid, or
if the meeting cannot be held for want of the quorum referred to in sub-
section (13), no notice of any subsequent motion expressing want of confidence
in the same Vice-President shall be received until after the expiry of [one
year] [Substituted for the words 'six months' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Amendment) Act, 2008.] from the date of the meeting.(15)[ No notice of a
motion under this section shall be received, -(i)within one year of the
assumption of office by; or(ii)during the last year of the term of office of,
a Vice-President.]

### 212. Motion of no confidence in [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted
for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act,
1999.] of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, a motion expressing want of
confidence in the [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted for the words
'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999.] of a
Panchayat Union Council may be made in accordance with the procedure laid down
herein.(2)Written notice of intention to make the motion, signed by members of
the Panchayat Union Council not less in number than [three-fifth] [Substituted
for the words 'one-half' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil
Nadu Act 10 of 2008).] of the sanctioned strength of the Panchayat Union
Council, together with a copy of the motion which is proposed to be made and a
written statement of the charges against the [Chairman or Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] shall be delivered in
person to the Revenue Divisional Officer of the division by any two of the
members of the Panchayat Union Council signing the notice.(3)A copy of the
statement of charges along with the motion shall be caused to be delivered to
the concerned [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted for the words 'Vice-
Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
31 of 1999).] by the Revenue Divisional Officer and the [Chairman or Vice-
Chairman] [Substituted for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] shall be required to
give a statement in reply to the charges within a week of the receipt of the
motion by the [Chairman or Vice-Chairman.] [Substituted for the words 'Vice-
Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act
31 of 1999).](4)The Revenue Divisional Officer shall, then, convene a meeting
for the consideration of the motion at the office of the Panchayat Union
Council at a time appointed by him.(5)The Revenue Divisional Officer shall
give to the members notice of not less than fifteen clear days of the meeting
and of the time appointed therefor.(6)The Revenue Divisional Officer shall
preside at the meeting convened under this section, and no other person shall
preside thereat. If within half an hour after the time appointed for the
meeting, the Revenue Divisional Officer is not present to preside at the
meeting, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a time to be appointed and
notified to the members by the Revenue Divisional Officer under sub-section
(7).(7)If the Revenue Divisional Officer is unable to preside at the meeting,
he may, after recording his reasons in writing, adjourn the meeting to such
other time as he may appoint. The date so appointed shall not be later than
thirty days from the date appointed for the meeting under sub-section (4).
Notice of not less than seven clear days shall be given to the members of the
time appointed for the adjourned meeting.(8)Save as otherwise provided in sub-
sections (6) and (7), a meeting convened for the purpose of considering a
motion under this section shall not, for any reason, be adjourned.(9)As soon
as the meeting convened under this section has commenced, the Revenue
Divisional Officer shall read to the Panchayat Union Council the motion for
the consideration of which it has been convened, the statement of charges and
the statement, if any, of the [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted for the
words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] in reply to the said charges.(10)There shall be
no debate on any motion under this section.(11)The Revenue Divisional Officer
shall not speak on the merits of the motion, nor shall he be entitled to vote
thereon.(12)A copy of the minutes of the meeting together with a copy of the
motion and the result of the voting thereon shall forthwith, on the
termination of the meeting, be forwarded by the Revenue Divisional Officer to
the Government.(13)If the motion is carried with the support of not less than
[four-fifth] [Substituted for the words 'two-thirds' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 2008).] of the sanctioned strength
of the Panchayat Union Council, the Government shall, by notification, remove
the [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1999).] of the Panchayat Union Council.(14)If the motion is not carried by
such a majority as aforesaid, or if the meeting cannot be held for want of the
quorum referred to in sub-section (13), no notice of any subsequent motion
expressing want of confidence in the same [Chairman or Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] shall be received until
after the expiry of [one year] [Substituted for the words 'six months' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1999).] from the date of the meeting.(15)[ No notice of a motion under this
section shall be received, -(i)within one year of the assumption of office by;
or(ii)during the last year of the term of office of, Chairman or Vice-
Chairman.]

### 213. Motion of no confidence in [Chairman or Vice-Chairman] [Substituted
for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act,
1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] of District Panchayat.

\- A motion expressing want of confidence in the [Chairman or Vice Chairman]
[Substituted for the words 'Vice-Chairman' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1999).] of a District Panchayat may
be made in accordance with the procedure specified in sub-sections (2) to (15)
(both inclusive) of section 212, subject to the modification that the
reference to Revenue Divisional Officer in the said sub-sections shall be
construed as a reference to Collector.

### 214. Dissolution of Village Panchayat.

(1)If, in the opinion of the Government, a Village Panchayat is not competent
to perform or persistently makes default in performing the duties imposed on
it by law, or exceeds or abuses its powers, they may, by notification, direct
that the Village Panchayat be dissolved with effect from a specified date and
re-constituted with effect from a specified date which shall be within a
period of six months from the date of such dissolution.(2)Before publishing a
notification under sub-section (1), the Government shall communicate to the
Village Panchayat, the grounds on which they propose to do so, fix a
reasonable period for the Village Panchayat to show cause against the proposal
and consider its explanations and objections, if any.(3)On the date fixed for
the dissolution of a Village Panchayat under sub-section (1), all its members
as well as its President and Vice-President shall, forthwith, be deemed to
have vacated their offices as such and thereupon the provisions contained in
the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 16 shall apply.(4)In case the
President of a Village Panchayat which is dissolved under this section is a
member of a Panchayat Union Council, he shall, with effect on and from the
date of the dissolution, be deemed to have vacated his office as such member
notwithstanding anything contained in section 22.(5)On the re-constitution of
the Village Panchayat after the dissolution, the Government may pass such
orders as they deem fit as to the transfer to the Village Panchayat from the
Panchayat Union Council of the assets or institutions which were acquired by
the Panchayat Union Council during the period of dissolution on behalf of the
Village Panchayat and as to the discharge of the liabilities, if any, of such
Village Panchayat relating to such assets or institutions.(6)In the case of a
Village Panchayat re-constituted after dissolution, the elected member
including the President shall enter upon their offices on the date fixed for
its re-constitution and shall hold their offices only for the remainder of the
period for which the dissolved Village Panchayat would have continued under
sub-section (1) of section 9, had it not been dissolved.

### 215. Dissolution of Panchayat Union Council.

(1)If, in the opinion of the Government, a Panchayat Union Council is not
competent to perform or persistently makes default in performing the duties
imposed on it by law or exceeds or abuses its powers, they may, by
notification, -(a)dissolve the Panchayat Union Council from a specified date;
and(b)direct that the Panchayat Union Council be re-constituted with effect
from a date which shall not be later than six months from the date of
dissolution.(2)Before publishing a notification under sub-section (1), the
Government shall communicate to the Panchayat Union Council the grounds on
which they propose to do so, fix a reasonable period for the Panchayat Union
Council to show cause against the proposal and consider its explanations and
objections, if any.(3)On the date fixed for the dissolution of a Panchayat
Union Council under sub-section (1), all its members as well as its Chairman
and Vice-Chairman shall forthwith be deemed to have vacated their offices as
such.(4)During the interval between the dissolution and the re-constitution of
a Panchayat Union Council, the Inspector may appoint a person to exercise the
powers and discharge the duties of the Panchayat Union Council and of its
Chairman:Provided that any person to be appointed under the provisions of this
subsection shall be a person in the service of the Government not below the
rank of a Tahsildar or a Commissioner:(5)The Government may direct that the
Panchayat Union Council be re-constituted before the date fixed for its re-
constitution under clause (b) of sub-section (1).(6)The members as well as the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman of a re-constituted Panchayat Union Council shall
enter upon their offices on the date fixed for its re-constitution and they
shall hold their offices only for the remainder of the period for which the
dissolved Panchayat Union Council would have continued under sub-section (1)
of section 18, had it not been dissolved.(7)When a Panchayat Union Council is
dissolved under this section, the Government until the date of the re-
constitution of the Panchayat Union Council and the re-constituted Panchayat
Union Council, thereafter, shall be entitled to all the assets and be subject
to all the liabilities of the Panchayat Union Council as on the date of the
re-constitution, respectively.

### 216. Dissolution of District Panchayat.

(1)If, in the opinion of the Government, a District Panchayat is not competent
to perform or persistently makes default in performing the duties imposed on
it by law or exceeds or abuses its powers, they may, by notification,
-(a)dissolve the District Panchayat from a specified date; and(b)direct that
the District Panchayat be re-constituted with effect from the date, which
shall not be later than six months from the date of dissolution.(2)The
provisions of sub-sections (2) to (7) (both inclusive) of section 215 shall,
as far as may be, apply in relation to the dissolution of a District Panchayat
as they apply in relation to the dissolution of a Panchayat Union Council.

### 217. Powers of officers acting on behalf of Panchayat and liability for
payment of compensation.

\- The Government, the Inspector or any other person lawfully taking action on
behalf, or in default, of a Panchayat under this Act, shall have such powers
as are necessary for the purpose and shall be entitled to the same protection
under this Act as the Panchayat or its officers or servants whose powers are
exercised; and compensation shall be recoverable from the Village Panchayat
Fund or the Panchayat Union Fund or the District Panchayat (General) Fund by
any person suffering damage from the exercise of such powers to the same
extent, as if the action had been taken by the Panchayat or their officers or
servants.

### 218. Delegation of powers.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise any authority or officer not
below the rank of a Collector to exercise in regard to any Panchayat or any
class of Panchayats in any area or all Panchayats in any area, any of the
powers vested in them by this Act except the power to make rules and may, in
like manner, withdraw such authority.(2)The Inspector or the Collector may, by
notification, authorise any officer not below the rank of a Revenue Divisional
Officer to exercise in respect of any Panchayat Union Council or any class of
Panchayat Union Councils or all Panchayat Union Councils in the area under the
jurisdiction of such officer, any of the powers vested by this Act on the
Inspector or the Collector, as the case may be, and may, in like manner,
withdraw such authority.(3)The Inspector or the Collector may, by
notification, authorise any officer not below the rank of a Commissioner to
exercise in respect of any Village Panchayat or any class of Village
Panchayats or all Village Panchayats in the panchayat development block any of
the powers vested by this Act on the Inspector or the Collector, as the case
may be, and may, in like manner, withdraw such authority.(4)The exercise of
any power delegated under sub-sections (1) to (3) shall be, subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed or as may be specified in the
notification and also to control and revision by the delegating authority, or
where such authority is the Government by such officer as may be empowered by
the Government in this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control
and revise the acts or proceedings of any officer so empowered.(5)The exercise
of any power conferred on the Inspector or the Collector by any of the
provisions of this Act including sub-sections (2) to (4) of this section
shall, whether such power is exercised by the Inspector or the Collector
himself or by any officer to whom it has been delegated under sub-section (2)
or (3), be subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed
and also control by the Government or by such officer as may be empowered by
them in this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control the acts
or proceedings of any officer so empowered.

### 219. Revision.

(1)The Government may, after consulting the Inspector, the Collector or such
other officer or authority as they may deem fit, at any time, either suo motu
or on application, call for and examine the record of any order passed or
proceeding recorded under the provisions of this Act by -(a)the Inspector or
the Collector or any officer authorised by the Inspector or the Collector
under sub-section (2) or (3) of section 218; or(b)any officer authorised by
the Government under sub-section (1) of that section or any officer empowered
by them under sub-section (4) of that section; or(c)any other authority or
officer;for the purpose of satisfying themselves as the legality or propriety
of such order, or as to the regularity of such proceeding and pass such order
in reference thereto as they think fit.(2)The powers of the nature referred to
in sub-section (1) may also be exercised by such authority or officer as may
be empowered in this behalf by the Government.

## Chapter XI  
General and Miscellaneous Licences and Permissions

### 220. General provisions regarding licence and permissions.

(1)Save as otherwise expressly provided in or may be prescribed under, this
Act, every application for any licence or permission under this Act or any
rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder, or for the renewal thereof, shall
be made not less than thirty and not more than ninety days before the earliest
date with effect from which, or the commencement of the period (being a year
or such less period as is mentioned in the application) for which the licence
or permission is required.(2)Save as aforesaid, for every such licence or
permission, fees may be charged on such units and at such rates as may be
fixed by the Panchayat 1[or Collector, as the case may be,] provided that the
rates shall not exceed the maximum, if any, prescribed:[Provided that for
every licence for hoardings, the fees may be charged at such rates as may be
fixed by the Government.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Eighth
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 2008).](3)Save as aforesaid, if
orders on an application for any such licence or permission are not
communicated to the applicant within thirty days or such longer period as may
be prescribed in any class of cases after the receipt of the application by
the Executive Authority of the Village Panchayat or the Commissioner or the
[Secretary or the Collector] [Substituted for the word 'secretary' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Eighth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1998).],
the application shall be deemed to have been allowed for the period, if any,
for which it would have been ordinarily allowed and subject to the law, rules,
bye-laws and regulations and all conditions ordinarily imposed.(4)The
acceptance of the pre-payment of the fee for any such licence or permission
shall not entitle the person making such prepayment to the licence or
permission, but only to a refund of the fee in case of refusal of the licence
or permission.(5)If an act, for which any such licence or permission is
necessary, is done without such licence or permission, or in a manner
inconsistent with the terms of the licence or permission obtained, then,
-(a)the Executive Authority of the Village Panchayat or the Commissioner or
the [Secretary or the collector] [Substituted for the word 'secretary' by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Eighth Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of
1998).] may, by notice, require the person so doing such act to alter, remove,
or as far as practicable restore to its original state, the whole, or any part
of any property, movable or immovable, public or private affected thereby,
within a time to be specified in the notice and further,(b)if no penalty has
been specially provided in this Act for so doing such act the person so doing
it shall be punishable with the fine not exceeding fifty rupees for such
offence.(6)Whenever any person is convicted of an offence in respect of the
failure to obtain any such licence or permission, the Magistrate shall, in
addition to any fine which may be imposed, recover summarily and pay over to
the Panchayat the amount of the fee chargeable for the licence or permission,
and may, in his discretion, also recover summarily and pay over to the
Panchayat such amount, if any, as he may fix as the costs of the
prosecution.Explanation. - The recovery of the fee for a licence or permission
under this sub-section shall not entitle the person convicted to the licence
or permission.

### 221. Government and Market Committees not to obtain licence and
permission.

\- Nothing in this Act or in any rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder
shall be construed as requiring the taking out of any licence or the obtaining
of any permission under this Act or any such rule, bye-law or regulation in
respect of any place in the occupation or under the control of the Central or
State Government or of a Market Committee established under the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1989), or in respect of any property of the Central or the State Government or
of any property belonging to such Market Committee.Power to Enforce Notices,
Orders, Etc.

### 222. Time for complying with notice, order, etc., and power to enforce in
default.

(1)Whenever by any notice, requisition or order under this Act, or under any
rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder, any person is required to execute
any work, to take any measures or to do anything, a reasonable time shall be
named in such notice, requisition or order within which the work shall be
executed, the measure taken or the thing done.(2)If such notice, requisition
or order is not complied with within the time so named-(a)the Executive
Authority of the Village Panchayat or the Commissioner or the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], as the case may be,
may cause such work to be executed, or may take any measure or do anything
which may, in his opinion, be necessary for giving due effect to the notice,
requisition or order, and(b)if no penalty has been specially provided in this
Act for failure to comply with such notice, requisition or order, the said
person shall be punishable with fine not exceeding fifty rupees for every such
offence.Power of Entry and Inspection

### 223. Power of entry and inspection.

\- [(1) Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [See Rules issued
in G.O. Ms. No. 148, Rural Development (C4), dated 21st July, 1999. Published
in Tamil Nadu Government Gazette (Extraordinary), Part III, section 1(a),
dated 23rd July, 1999.] or any person authorised by him may enter on or into
any place, building or land, with or without assistants or workmen in order
-(a)to make any enquiry, inspection, test, examination, survey, measurement or
valuation or to execute any other work, which is authorised by the provisions
of this Act or of any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it or
which it is necessary to make or execute for any of the purposes of this Act
or in pursuance of any of the said provisions, or(b)to satisfy himself that
nothing is being done in such place, building or land for which a licence or
permission is required under any of the said provisions, without such licence
or permission or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of the licence or
permission obtained.(2)No claim shall lie against any person for any damage or
inconvenience necessarily caused by the exercise of powers under sub-section
(1) or the use of any force necessary for effecting an entrance under that
sub-section.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 2008).]

### 224. Testing of weights and measures.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted
for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or any person authorised by
him, may examine and test the weights and measures used in the markets and
shops in the Panchayat Village or the Panchayat Union Council or the District
Panchayat area, as the case may be, with a view to the prevention and
punishment of offences relating to such weights and measures under Chapter
XIII of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 225. Power to call for information from Village Administrative Officer.

(1)The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted
for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] may, by an order in
writing, require the Village Administrative Officer of any revenue village
comprised within the jurisdiction of the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union
Council or District Panchayat to furnish him with information on any matter
falling within such categories as may be prescribed in respect of such village
or any part thereof or any person or property therein.(2)The order shall
specify the period within which it may be complied with but the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words
'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], may, from time to time, extend such
period.Limitation

### 226. Limitation for recovery of dues.

\- No distraint shall be made, no suit shall be instituted and no prosecution
shall be commenced in respect of any tax or other sum due to a Panchayat under
this Act or any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it after the
expiration of a period of six years from the date on which distraint might
first have been made, a suit might first have been instituted or prosecution
might first have been commenced, as the case may be, in respect of such tax or
sum.Prosecutions, Suits, Etc.

### 227. Persons empowered to prosecute.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no person shall be tried
for any offence against this Act or any rule or bye-law made thereunder unless
complaint is made within three months of the commission of the offence by the
police, [the Village Panchayat] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment)
Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1999).], the Executive Authority, the Panchayat
Union Council, the Commissioner, the District Panchayat, the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or a person
expressly authorised in this behalf by the Village Panchayat, Panchayat Union
Council, District Panchayat, Executive Authority or Commissioner or the
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], but
nothing herein shall affect the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) in regard to the power of certain Magistrates to
take cognizance of offence upon information received or upon their own
knowledge or suspicion:Provided that failure to take out a licence or obtain
permission under this Act shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed
to be a continuing offence until the expiration of the period, if any, for
which the licence or permission it required and if no period is specified,
complaint may be made at any time within twelve months from the commencement
of the offence.

### 228. Composition of offences.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted
for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] may, subject to such
restrictions and control, as may be prescribed, compound any offence against
this Act or any [rule] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 205, Rural
Development (C4), dated 17th August, 2000 at page 901 and published in Part
III, section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
18th August, 2000.] or bye-law made thereunder, which may, by rules, be
declared compoundable.

### 229. Prosecutions and compositions to be reported to Village Panchayat,
Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat.

\- Every prosecution instituted or offence compounded by the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary shall be reported by him to the
Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat, as the
case may be, at its next meeting.

### 230. Sanction of prosecution.

(1)When the President or the Executive Authority or the Chairman or Vice-
Chairman of a Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat or the
Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] or any member is accused of any offence alleged to have been
committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his
official duty, no Court shall take cognizance of such offence except with the
previous sanction of the Government.(2)When according previous sanction under
sub-section (1), it shall be open to the Government to direct by order that
the President, Executive Authority, Chairman, Vice-Chairman or Commissioner or
the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], as
the case may be, shall not discharge his duties as such until the disposal of
the case.

### 231. Notice of action against Village Panchayat, etc.

(1)Subject to the provisions of section 232, no suit or other legal proceeding
shall be brought against any Village Panchayat or its President or Executive
Authority or any Panchayat Union Council or its Chairman or the Commissioner
or the District Panchayat or its Chairman or the [Secretary] [Substituted for
the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or any member, officer or servant
thereof or against any person acting under the direction of such Village
Panchayat, President, Panchayat Union Council or its Chairman, District
Panchayat or its Chairman, Executive Authority, Commissioner, [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], member, officer or
servant, in respect of any act done or purporting to be done under this Act or
in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the execution of this Act or
any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it until the expiration of
two months next after notice in writing, stating the cause of action, the
nature of the relief sought, the amount of compensation claimed and the name
and place of residence of the intended plaintiff has been left at the office
of the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council and if the proceeding is
intended to be brought against any such President, Executive Authority,
Chairman, Commissioner, Chairman or District Panchayat, [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], member, officer,
servant or person, also delivered to him or left at his place of
residence.(2)Every such proceeding shall, unless it is a proceeding for the
recovery of immovable property or for a declaration of title thereto, be
commenced within six months after the date on which the cause of action arose
or in case of a continuing injury or damage, during such continuance or within
six months after the ceasing thereof.(3)If any Village Panchayat, Panchayat
Union Council, or District Panchayat or person to whom notice is given under
sub-section (1), tenders amount to the plaintiff before the proceeding is
commenced and if the plaintiff does not in such proceeding recover more than
the amount so tendered, he shall not recover any costs incurred by him after
such tender and the plaintiff shall also pay all costs incurred by the
defendant after such tender.

### 232. Protection of Chairman, President and officers acting in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall be brought against the Chairman,
Commissioner, President, Executive Authority, [Secretary] [Substituted for the
words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or any member, officer or servant of a
Panchayat or any person acting under the direction of a Panchayat or of such
Chairman, Commissioner, President, Executive Authority, [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).], member, officer or
servant in respect of any act done or purporting to be done under this Act or
in respect of any alleged neglect or default on his part in the execution of
any act under this Act, or any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under
it, if such act was done, or such neglect or default occurred in good faith;
but any such proceeding shall, so far as it is maintainable in a Court, be
brought against the Panchayat except in the case of suits brought under
section 234.

### 233. Injunction not to be granted in election proceedings.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), or in any other law for the time being in force, no
Court shall grant any permanent or temporary injunction or make any interim
order restraining any proceeding which is being or about to be taken under
this Act for the preparation or publication of any electoral roll for the
conduct of any election.

### 234. Liability of the President, Executive Authority and members, etc.,
for loss, waste or misapplication of property.

(1)The President, Executive Authority and every member of a Village Panchayat
and the Chairman, Commissioner and every member of a Panchayat Union Council
and the Chairman, [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] and every member of a District Panchayat shall be liable for the
loss, waste or misapplication of any money or other property owned by or
vested in the Village Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or the District
Panchayat, if such loss, waste or misapplication is a direct consequence of
his neglect or misconduct; and a suit for compensation may be instituted
against him in any Court of competent jurisdiction by the Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council or the District Panchayat with the previous sanction
of the Inspector.(2)Every such suit shall be commenced within three years
after the date on which the cause of action arose.

### 235. Assessment, etc., not to be impeached.

(1)No assessment or demand made and no charge imposed, under the authority of
this Act shall be impeached or affected by reason of any clerical error or by
reason of any mistake (a) in respect of the name, residence, place of business
or occupation of any person, or (b) in the description of any property or
thing, or (c) in respect of the amount assessed, demanded or charged, provided
that the provisions of this Act have, in substance and effect, been complied
with and no proceedings under this Act shall, merely for defect in form, be
quashed or set aside by any Court of law.(2)No suit shall be brought in any
Court to recover any sum of money collected under the authority of this Act or
to recover damages on account of assessment or collection of money made under
the said authority:Provided that the provisions of this Act have, in substance
and effect, been complied with.(3)No distraint or sale under this Act shall be
deemed unlawful, nor shall any person making the same be deemed a trespasser,
on account of any error, defect, or want of form in the bill, notice,
schedule, form, summon, notice of demand, warrant of distraint, inventory, or
other proceedings relating thereto, if the provisions of this Act and of the
rules and bye-laws made thereunder have in substance and effect been complied
with:Provided that every person aggrieved by any irregularity may recover
satisfaction for any special damage sustained by him.

### 236. Public roads, markets, wells, tanks, etc., to be open to all.

\- All roads, markets, wells, tanks, reservoirs and waterways vested in, or
maintained by, a Panchayat shall be open to the use and enjoyment of all
persons, irrespective of their caste or creed.

### 237. Power to farm out fees.

\- A panchayat shall have power to farm out the collection of any fees due to
it under this Act or any rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder for any
period not exceeding three years at a time, on such conditions as it thinks
fit.

### 238. Adjudication of disputes between local authorities.

(1)When a dispute exists between a Village Panchayat or a Panchayat Union
Council or a District Panchayat and one or more other local authorities in
regard to any matter arising under the provisions of this or any other Act and
the Government are of opinion that the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat
Union Council or the District Panchayat and the other local authorities
concerned are unable to settle it amicably among themselves, the Government
may take cognizance of the dispute, and -(a)decide it themselves, or(b)refer
it for inquiry and report, to an Arbitrator or a board of Arbitrators or to a
joint committee constituted for the purpose.(2)The report referred to in
clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be submitted to the Government who shall
decide the dispute in such manner as they deem fit.(3)Any decision given under
clause (a) of sub-section (1) or under sub-section (2) may be modified, from
time to time, by the Government in such manner as they deem fit and any such-
decision with the modifications, if any, made therein under this sub-section
may be cancelled at any time by the Government:Provided that any such decision
or any modification therein or cancellation thereof shall be binding on the
Village Panchayat, the Panchayat Union Council, the District Panchayat and
each of the other local authorities concerned and shall not be liable to be
questioned in any Court of law.(4)Where one of the local authorities concerned
is a cantonment authority or the port authority of a major port, the powers of
the Government under this section shall be exercisable only with the
concurrence of the Central Government.

### 239. [Tamil Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the words
'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).].

(1)The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral
rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to the Village Panchayats,
Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats shall be vested in the [Tamil
Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the words 'State Election
Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4
of 1998).] consisting of a [Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner]
[Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] to be appointed
by the Governor under Article 243-K of the Constitution.(2)(a)No person shall
be qualified for appointment as [Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner]
[Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] unless he is or
has been an officer of the Government not below the rank of Secretary to the
Government.(b)[ The Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner shall hold office
for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for two
successive terms: [Clause (2) (b) substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth
Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 2007) w.e.f. 8th June 2007. Before
substitution it was as follows: (b) The [Tamil Nadu State Election
Commissioner] shall hold office for a term of two years and shall be eligible
for reappointment, [***]; [** *]]Provided that no person shall hold the office
of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner for more than six years in the
aggregate:Provided further that a person appointed as Tamil Nadu State
Election Commissioner shall retire from office if he completes the age of
sixty-five years during the term of his office.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 2008).](3)Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (2), the conditions of service and tenure of
office of the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner] [Substituted for the
words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act,
1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] shall be such as the Governor [may, by
rules] [See Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 132, Rural Development (Cl), dated
the 14th July 1994.] determine:Provided that the [Tamil Nadu State Election
Commissioner] [Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] shall not
be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a
Judge of a High Court and conditions of service of the [Tamil Nadu State
Election Commissioner] [Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission'
by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).]
shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.(4)The Governor
shall, when so requested by the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commission]
[Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] make available
to the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commission] [Substituted for the words
'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] such staff as may be necessary for the discharge
of the functions conferred on the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commission]
[Substituted for the words 'State Election Commission' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] by sub-section
(1).

### 240. Preparation of development plan.

(1)Every Village Panchayat shall prepare every year a development plan for the
Panchayat Village and submit it to the Panchayat Union Council before such
date and in such form as may be prescribed.(2)Every Panchayat Union Council
shall prepare every year a development plan for the Panchayat Union after
including the development plans of the Village Panchayats and submit it to the
District Panchayat before such date and in such form as may be
prescribed.(3)Every District Panchayat shall prepare every year a development
plan for the district after including the development plans of the Panchayat
Union Councils and submit it to the District Planning Committee constituted
under section 241.

### 241. [ District Planning Committee. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayat
(Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1997).]

(1)The Government shall constitute in every district, a District Planning
Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as the Committee) to
consolidate the plans prepared by the District Panchayats, Panchayat Union
Councils, Village Panchayats, [Town Panchayats,] Municipal Councils and
Municipal Corporations in the district and to prepare a draft development plan
for the district as a whole.(2)[ (a) The Committee shall consist of, -(i)the
Chairman of the District Panchayat;(ii)the Mayor of the City Municipal
Corporation in the district;(iii)the Collector of the district;(iv)such number
of persons, not less than four-fifth of the total number of members of the
Committee [as may be specified by the Government], elected in the prescribed
manner from amongst the members of the District Panchayats, Town Panchayats
and Councillors of the Municipal Corporations and the Municipal Councils in
the district in proportion to the ratio between the population of the rural
areas and of the urban areas in the district.](b)The following persons shall
be permanent special invitee of the Committee: -(i)members of the House of the
People who represent the whole or part of the district;(ii)members of the
Council of States who are registered as electors in the district;(iii)members
of the Tamil Nadu State Legislative Assembly whose constituencies lie within
the district;(iv)all the Chairmen of the Panchayat Union Councils in the
district;(v)all the Chairmen of the Municipal Councils in the district;(vi)all
the Chairmen of the Town Panchayats in the district.(c)The permanent special
invitees referred to in clause (b) shall be entitled to take part in the
proceedings in the meetings of the Committee.(3)The [Secretary] [Substituted
for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] of the District Panchayat
shall be the Secretary to Committee.(4)[ The Chairman of the District
Panchayat shall be the Chairperson of Committee and the Collector of the
District shall be the Vice-Chairman of Committee.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 2000).](5)The
Committee shall meet at such place, at such interval and at such time and
observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its
meetings (including the quorum at its meetings) [as may be prescribed] [See
Rules issued in G.O. Ms. No. 100, Rural Development (C4), dated 8th June, 1999
and published in Part III, section 1 (a), of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 7th July, 1999.].(6)The Committee shall consolidate the
plans prepared by the District Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils, Village
Panchayats, Town Panchayats, Municipal Councils and the Municipal Corporations
in the district and prepare a draft development plan for the district as a
whole.(7)Every Committee shall, in preparing the draft development
plan,-(a)have regard to, -(i)the matters of common interest between the
District Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils, Village Panchayats, Town
Panchayats, Municipal Councils and Municipal Corporations in the district
including spatial planning, sharing of water and other physical and natural
resources, the integrated development of infrastructure and environmental
conservation;(ii)the extent and type of available resources whether financial
or otherwise;(b)consult such institutions and organisations as the Governor
may, by order, specify.(8)The Chairperson of the Committee shall forward the
development plan to the Government alongwith the recommendations of the
Committee regarding the sources available and the resources required for the
implementation of the plans proposed.(9)The Committee shall allocate funds to
various schemes to the Panchayats and Panchayat Unions and shall monitor the
implementations of the schemes.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, "Town Panchayat" and "Municipal Council", shall mean the Town
Panchayat and the Municipal Council constituted under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), and "Municipal
Corporation" means the Corporations constituted under the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971) or the Coimbatore
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981), or the
Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1994), or the Tirunelveli City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1994) or the Salem City Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1994) or any other Municipal Corporation that may be constituted under
any law for the time being in force, as the case may be.] [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Sixth Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
2000).]

### 242. Power of Government to make Rules.

(1)The Government shall, in addition to the rule making powers conferred on
them by any other provision contained in this Act, have power to make rules
generally to carry out the purposes of this Act.[(1-A) A rule under section
188 may be made so as to have retrospective effect on and from a date not
earlier than the 26th day of March 1997.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 54 of 1997).](2)In particular, and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Government may
make rules -(i)as to the principles to be followed in regard to the exclusion
of any local area from or the inclusion of any local area in a village under
sub-section (2) of section 4;(ii)providing for -(a)[ the adjudication of
disputes arising out of election by the district judge having jurisdiction;]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1996).](b)all matters relating to electoral rolls or elections, not
expressly provided for in this Act, including deposits to be made by
candidates standing for election and the conditions under which such deposits
may be forfeited, and the conduct of inquiries and the decision of disputes
relating to electoral rolls;(iii)as to the determination of the population for
the purposes of this Act;(iv)as to the resignations of Chairman, Vice-Chairman
and Members of Panchayat Union Councils and District Panchayats and of the
Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of Village Panchayats and the date on
which such resignations shall take effect;(v)as to the interpellation of the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman by the members of a Panchayat Union Council or the
District Panchayat and of the President of a Village Panchayat by the members
of the Village Panchayat, and the moving of resolutions at meetings;(vi)as to
the constitution of Committees of the Panchayat and the inclusion of outsiders
therein and the delegation of functions to such Committees;(vii)providing for
the procedure to be followed at meetings of the Panchayats and at Committees
thereof and for the conduct of business and the number of members which shall
form a quorum at any meeting;(viii)providing for the classification of
resolutions of Panchayats as those involving financial implications or
otherwise and for laying down the proportion of the sanctioned strength of
Panchayats with whose support such resolution shall be carried;(ix)as to the
powers of the Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayats, its Chairman
and Committees thereof with respect to the incurring of expenditure and the
powers and duties of the Commissioner and [Secretary] [Substituted for the
words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).];(x)providing for the travelling and
other allowances of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other members of the
Panchayat Union Council, District Panchayat and of members of the Committees
of the Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat;(xi)as to the delegation
of any function of a Panchayat to the President, Chairman, member, any officer
of the Panchayat or any servant of the Central or State Government;(xii)for
the lodging and investment of the moneys of the Panchayats and for the manner
in which such moneys may be drawn upon;(xiii)as to the transfer of allotments
entered in the sanctioned budget of a Panchayat from one head to
another;(xiv)as to the estimates of receipts and expenditure, returns,
statements and reports to be submitted by Panchayat;(xv)as to the preparation
of plans and estimates for works and the power of Panchayat and of servants of
the Central or State Government to accord professional or administrative
sanctions to estimates;(xvi)as to the accounts to be kept by Panchayat, the
audit and publication of such accounts and the conditions under which rate-
payers may appear before auditors, inspect books and accounts, and take
exception to items entered or omitted;(xvii)as to the powers of auditors to
disallow and surcharge items, appeals against orders of disallowance or
surcharge and recovery of sums disallowed or surcharged;(xviii)as to the
powers of auditors, inspecting and superintending officers and officers
authorised to hold inquiries, to summon and examine witnesses and to compel
the production of documents, and all other matters connected with audit,
inspection and superintendence;(xix)as to the conditions on which property may
be acquired by a Panchayat or on which property vested in or belonging to a
Panchayat may be transferred by sale, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise;(xx)as to the conditions on which and the mode in which contracts
may be made by or on behalf of Panchayat;(xxi)as to the assessment of taxes
under this Act and the revision of assessments;(xxii)as to the acceptance in
lieu of any tax due under this Act of any service by way of labour, cartage or
otherwise;(xxiii)as to the realisation of any tax or other sum due to a
Panchayat under this Act or any other law or any rules or bye-laws, whether by
distraint and sale of movable property, by prosecution before a Magistrate, by
a suit, or otherwise;(xxiv)as to the realisation of fees due in respect of the
use of cart-stands and the like, whether by the seizure and sale of the
vehicle or animal concerned or any part of its burden or otherwise;(xxv)as to
the form and contents of licences, permissions and notices granted or issued
under this Act, the manner of their issue or the method of their service, and
the modifications, suspension or cancellation thereof;(xxvi)as to the powers
of Executive Authorities, Commissioners, [Secretaries] [Substituted for the
words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] to call for information on any matter,
to summon and examine witness, and to compel the production of
documents;(xxvii)for the use of the facsimiles of the signatures of the
Executive Authorities, Commissioners, [Secretaries] [Substituted for the words
'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] and officers of Panchayat;(xxviii)as to the
grant to the public of copies of any proceeding or record of the Panchayat not
relating to any matter classified as confidential by the Government or any
authority empowered by them, and the fees to be levied for the grant of such
copies;(xxix)as to the opening, maintenance, management and supervision of
elementary schools;(xxx)regulating contracts between the Panchayat and the
owners or occupiers of private premises for the removal therefrom of rubbish
or filth, or any kind of rubbish or filth;(xxxi)as to the provision of burial
and burning grounds, the licensing of private burial and burning grounds, the
regulation of the use of all grounds so provided or licensed, the closing of
any such grounds, and the prohibition of the disposal of corpses except in
such grounds or other permitted places;(xxxii)as to the licensing of pigs and
dogs and the destruction of unlicensed pigs and dogs;(xxxiii)as to the
regulation or restriction of building and the use of sites for
building;(xxxiv)for the removal of encroachments of any description from
public roads vesting in Panchayat and the repair of any damage caused to such
roads by the person causing the damage or at his expense;(xxxv)for the
determination of any claim to trees growing on public roads or other property
vesting in or belonging to Panchayat or on porambokes or on lands the use of
which is regulated by them under section 134 or 135; and for the presumption
to be drawn as regards the ownership of such trees;(xxxvi)as to the imposition
and recovery of penalties for the unauthorised occupation of public roads or
other land vesting in or belonging to Panchayat and the assessment and
recovery of compensation for, and damage caused by, such occupation;(xxxvii)as
to the powers which may be exercised by the Panchayat or the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words
'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] in respect of any public or private market or
the user thereof, and the enforcement of any orders issued in pursuance of
such powers;(xxxviii)for compelling owners of cattle to stall them in cattle-
sheds provided by the Panchayat and the fees leviable in respect
thereof;(xxxix)as to the disposal of household and f arm-yard waste in the
village, the acquisition of land by the Panchayat or laying out plots for
digging pits in which such waste may be thrown, the assignment of any of those
plots to persons in the village, and the conditions subject to which such
assignment may be made, including the rent to be charged;(xl)as to the duties
to be discharged by officers in relation to Panchayats and their Executive
Authorities, their Chairmen, Commissioners and [Secretaries] [Substituted for
the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment)
Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).];(xli)as to appeals against orders
(including orders granting or refusing licences or permissions) passed under
this Act and the time within which appeals whether allowed by this Act or by
rules or otherwise should be presented;(xlii)as to the classification of
public roads and fairs and festivals as appertaining to the
Panchayat;(xliii)for regulating the sharing between local authorities in the
State of the proceeds of any tax or income levied or obtained under this or
any other Act;(xliv)for the decision of disputes between two or more local
authorities of which one is a Panchayat;(xlv)regulating the principles in
accordance with which grants and contributions may be paid by the Government
to the Panchayat;(xlvi)as to the accounts to be kept by owners, occupiers and
farmers of private markets and the audit and inspection of such
accounts;(xlvii)as to the manner of publication of notifications or notices to
the public under this Act.

## Chapter XII  
Penalties

### 243. Penalties for breach of Rules.

\- In making any Rule under this Act, the Government may provide that a breach
thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees,
or in case of a continuing breach, with fine not exceeding fifteen rupees for
every day during which the breach continues after conviction for the first
breach.

### 244. Bye-laws and penalties for their breach.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any other law and to such
rules as may be prescribed, a Panchayat may, with the approval of the
Inspector, make bye-laws for carrying out any of the purposes for which it is
constituted.(2)In making a bye-law, the Panchayat may provide that any person
who commits a breach thereof shall be liable to pay by way of penalty such sum
as may be fixed by the Panchayat not exceeding fifteen rupees or, in case of a
continuing breach, not exceeding five rupees for every day during which the
breach continues after a penalty has been levied for the first breach.(3)The
Government shall have power to make Rules regarding the procedure for the
making of bye-laws, the publication thereof, and the date on which they shall
come into effect.

### 245. General provisions regarding penalties specified in the Schedules.

(1)Whoever -(a)contravenes any of the provisions of this Act specified in the
first and second columns of Schedule II; or(b)contravenes any rule or order
made under any of the provisions so specified; or(c)fails to comply with any
directions lawfully given to him, or any requisition lawfully made upon him
under or in pursuance of any of the said provisions,shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to the amount mentioned in that behalf in the fourth
column of the said Schedule.(2)Whoever, after having been convicted of,
-(a)contravening any of the provisions of this Act specified in the first and
second columns of Schedule III; or(b)contravening any rule or order made under
any of the provisions so specified; or(c)failing to comply with any direction
lawfully given to him or any requisition lawfully made upon him under or in
pursuance of any of the said provisions, continues to contravene the said
provision or the said rule or order, or continues to fail to comply with the
said direction or requisition, shall be punishable for each day after the
previous date of conviction during which he continues so to offend, with fine
which may extend to the amount mentioned in that behalf in the fourth column
of the said Schedule.Explanation. - The entries in the third column of
Schedules II and III headed "Subject" are not intended as definitions of the
offences described in the provisions specified in the first and second columns
thereof, or even as abstracts of those provisions, but are intended merely as
references to the subject dealt with therein.

### 246. Penalty for acting as Member, President or Vice-President of a
Village Panchayat or as Member, Chairman or Vice-Chairman of a Panchayat Union
Council or District Panchayat when disqualified.

(1)Whoever acts as a Member of a Panchayat or Panchayat Union Council or
District Panchayat knowing that, under this Act or the rules made thereunder,
he is not entitled or has ceased to be entitled to hold office as such, shall
be punishable with fine not exceeding two hundred rupees for every such
offence.(2)Whoever acts as the President, temporary President or Vice-
President of a Village Panchayat, or exercises any of his functions including
where he is also the Executive Authority, any of his functions as such and
whoever acts as the Chairman, temporary Chairman or Vice-Chairman of a
Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat or as Commissioner or
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or
exercises any of his functions as such, knowing that, under this Act or the
Rules made thereunder, he is not entitled or has ceased to be entitled to hold
office as such, or to exercise such functions, shall be punishable with fine
not exceeding one thousand rupees for every such offence.(3)Any person who
having been the President, temporary President or Vice-President of a Village
Panchayat, or the Chairman, temporary Chairman or Vice-Chairman of a Panchayat
Union Council or District Panchayat fails to hand over any documents of, or
any moneys or other properties vested in or belonging to the Village Panchayat
or Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat which are in or have come
into his possession or control, to his successor in office or other prescribed
authority -(a)in every case as soon as his term of office as such President,
temporary President or Vice-Chairman or as such Chairman, temporary Chairman
or Vice-Chairman expires;(b)in the case of a person who was the Vice-President
also on demand by the President; and(c)in the case of a person who was the
Vice-Chairman also on demand by the Chairman,shall be punishable with fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees for every such offence.

### 246A. [ Penalty for failure to obtain permission of Government for foreign
trip. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2002 (Tamil
Nadu Act 52 of 2002).]

\- Whoever undertakes a trip to any foreign country in violation of section
82-A shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to fifty
thousand rupees.]

### 246B. [ Penalty for sinking well without permit or registration. [Inserted
by Act No. 22 of 2014, dated 2.9.2014.]

\- Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of section 143-A or 143-B or the
rules made thereunder shall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to
seven years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.]

### 247. Penalty for acquisition by an officer or servant of interest in
contract work.

\- If any officer or servant of a Panchayat knowingly acquires, directly or
indirectly by himself or by a partner, employer or servant, any personal share
or interest in any contract or employment with, by or on behalf of, the
Panchayat, he shall be deemed to have committed an offence under section 168
of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860):Provided that no person
shall, by reason of being a shareholder in, or member of, any company, be held
to be interested in any contract entered into between such company and the
Panchayat unless he is a director of such company.

### 248. Wrongful restraint of Executive Authority or Commissioner or
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or his
delegates.

\- Any person who prevents the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
[Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or any
person to whom the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the [Secretary]
[Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats
(Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] has lawfully
delegated his powers of entering on or into any place, building or land from
exercising his lawful power of entering thereon or there into shall be deemed
to have committed an offence under section 341 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 249. Prohibition against obstruction of Panchayats.

\- Any person obstructing or molesting the President, or the Executive
Authority or the Chairman or the Commissioner or the [Secretary] [Substituted
for the words 'Chief Executive Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third
Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1998).] or a member of the
Panchayat, or any person employed by the Panchayat or any person with whom a
contract has been entered into by or on behalf of the Panchayat in the
discharge of their duty or of anything which they are empowered or required to
do by virtue or in consequence of this Act or of any rule, bye-law, regulation
or order made thereunder, shall be punished with fine which may extend to
fifty rupees.

### 250. Prohibition against removal or obliteration of notice.

\- Any person who, without authority in that behalf removes, destroys, defaces
or otherwise obliterates any notice exhibited or any sign or mark erected by,
or under the orders of, a Panchayat or its Executive Authority, or by the
Commissioner or by the [Secretary] [Substituted for the words 'Chief Executive
Officer' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1998).] shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees.

### 251. Penalty for not giving information or giving false information.

\- Any person required by this Act or by any notice or other proceedings
issued thereunder to furnish any information, who omits to furnish such
information, or knowingly furnishes false information shall be punishable with
fine not exceeding one hundred rupees.

## Chapter XIII  
Miscellaneous

### 252. Construction of reference to a Panchayat, etc.

\- In the application of any law, rule, bye-law, regulation, notification,
scheme, form or order to any area, in the absence of an intention to the
contrary appearing in this Act and unless the Government otherwise direct, any
reference to a "Panchayat" or a "Panchayat Union Council" or a "Panchayat
Village" or a "Panchayat Union" shall be deemed to include also a reference to
the Village Panchayat or a Panchayat Union Council or a District Panchayat or
a Panchayat Village or a Panchayat Union constituted under this Act.

### 253. Special provisions relating to newly constituted Panchayats.

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply when a Panchayat is constituted
for the first time under this Act.(2)When a Panchayat is newly constituted
under this section, the [Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner] [Substituted
for the words 'State Election Commissioner' by Tamil Nadu Panchayals
(Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1998).] shall make arrangements for
the election of members and of the President or the Chairman, as the case may
be, so that the member and the President or the Chairman, may come into office
on the date specified in the notification issued for the constitution of such
Panchayat.(3)When a Panchayat is constituted under this section, the
Government may appoint a special officer not below the rank of a Tahsildar,
for such period not exceeding six months as the Government may, by order,
specify, to exercise the powers, discharge the duties and perform the
functions of the Panchayat, its President or Chairman, as the case may
be.[(3-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), the Special
Officers appointed under that sub-section in respect of the Village Panchayats
and Panchayat Union specified in Schedule IV-A shall hold office up to the
31st day of March 2000 or for such shorter period as the Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf.] [Sub-section (3-A) inserted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 44 of
1999).](4)The Special Officer shall exercise the powers, discharge the duties
and perform the functions of the Panchayat, its President or Chairman, until
the members of the Panchayat have come into office and a President or Chairman
has been elected.

### 254. Construction of reference to "local boards" Madras Local Boards Act,
1920, etc.

\- In the application of any law, rule, bye-law, regulation, notification,
scheme, form or order to any Panchayat after the constitution of a Panchayat
under this Act, in the absence of an intention to the contrary appearing in
this Act and unless the Government otherwise direct -(i)any reference to a
village or local area shall be deemed to be a reference to a Panchayat
village, Panchayat Development Block or a Panchayat Union or a Panchayat
District as the circumstances may require;(ii)any reference to local boards
shall be deemed to be a reference to District Panchayats, Panchayat Union
Councils or Village Panchayats, as the case may be;(iii)any reference to the
Madras Local Boards Act, 1920 (Madras Act XIV of 1920), shall be deemed to be
a reference to the Tamil Nadu District Boards Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of
1920), the Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats Act, 1950 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1950),
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958) and the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(iv)any reference
to the Tamil Nadu District Boards Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1920) or
the Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats Act, 1950 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1950), or the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958), shall be deemed
to be a reference to the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994); and(v)any reference to a district board or its President shall be
deemed to be a reference to the Panchayat Union Council having jurisdiction or
its Chairman, as the case may be.

### 255. Repeal and savings.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958)
(hereinafter referred to in this section as the said Act) is hereby
repealed.(2)The repeal, by sub-section (1), of the said Act shall not affect
-(a)the previous operation of the said Act or anything done or duly suffered
thereunder; or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under the said Act; or(c)any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offences committed against the said Act;
or(d)any investigation, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as
aforesaid and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(3)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), anything done or any action taken, including
any appointment, or delegation made, notification, order, instruction or
direction issued, or any rule, regulation or form framed, certificate granted
or registration effected, under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done
or taken under this Act and shall continue to have effect accordingly, unless
and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.

### 256. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and to
be in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution (Seventy-third
Amendment) Act, 1992 as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing
the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a
period of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order
made under this section shall, as soon as may be, after it is made, be placed
on the table of the Legislative Assembly.

### 257. Power, authority and responsibilities of Panchayats.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Government may, by notification
and subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified therein,
entrust to a Panchayat or any other committee constituted under this Act with
such powers and responsibilities with respect to the preparation of plans for
economic development and social justice and also with such powers and
authority as may be necessary to enable them to carry out the responsibilities
conferred upon them including those in relation to the matters listed in
Schedule-IV.

### 257A. [ Provision of rain water harvesting structure. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act 34 of 2003, w.e.f. 21-7-2003.]

(1)In every building owned or occupied by the Government or a statutory body
or a company or an institution owned or controlled by the Government, rain
water harvesting structure shall be provided by the Government or by such
statutory body or company or other institution, as the case may be, in such
manner and within such time as may be prescribed.(2)Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (1), every owner or occupier of a building shall provide rain
water harvesting structure in the building in such manner and within such
period as may be prescribed.Explanation. - Where a building is owned or
occupied by more than one person, every such person shall be liable under this
sub-section.(3)Where the rain water harvesting structure is not provided as
required under sub-section (2), the Executive Authority or any person
authorised by him in this behalf may, after giving notice to the owner or
occupier of the building, cause rain water harvesting structure to be provided
in such building and recover the cost of such provision along with the
incidental expense thereof in the same manner as property
tax.(4)Notwithstanding any action taken under sub-section (3), where the owner
or occupier of the building fails to provide the rain water harvesting
structure in the building before the date as may be prescribed, the water
supply connection provided to such building shall be disconnected till rain
water harvesting structure is provided.]

### 257AA. [ Permission to construct swimming pool. [Inserted by Act No. 45 of
2012, dated 15.11.2012.]

(1)No swimming pool shall be constructed in any place, after the appointed
day, without obtaining a permission from the Inspector.(2)Every application
for permission to construct a swimming pool shall be made to the Inspector and
shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding rupees five thousand, as may be
prescribed, and shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.(3)On
receipt of an application under sub-section (2), the Inspector may, after
making such enquiry as he deems necessary, either grant or refuse to grant the
permission. Every permission granted shall be in such form and subject to such
terms and conditions, as may be prescribed.(4)Where the Inspector refuses to
grant permission under sub-section (3), he shall give reasons in writing for
such refusal.(5)No owner or occupier of a building or land in which a swimming
pool is located immediately before the appointed day, shall continue the use
of such swimming pool unless he obtains a permission under this section in
respect of such swimming pool within a period of three months from the
appointed day.(6)Every owner or occupier of a building or land in which a
swimming pool is located, shall maintain the swimming pool in such manner and
follow such safety norms, as may be prescribed.(7)Any person authorised by the
Inspector in this behalf, may enter into any building or land in which a
swimming pool is located, in order to make any enquiry or inspection and may
take any measures or do anything which may, in his opinion, be necessary for
the purpose of maintenance of the swimming pool or for the safety of the
persons using the swimming pool:Provided that the Government shall authorise,
for the purpose of this sub-section, any officer, -(i)not below the rank of
Joint Director in the office of the Director of School Education, in respect
of swimming pools located in the premises of schools;(ii)not below the rank of
Joint Director in the office of the Director of Collegiate Education, in
respect of swimming pools located in the premises of colleges and
Universities.(8)For the purpose of sub-section (7), the Government may
authorise different persons for different classes of buildings or land in
which swimming pools are located.Explanation. - For the purpose of this
section, "appointed day" means such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint under sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2012.]Disputes Regarding Elections

### 258. Election petitions.

(1)No election of a President or a Chairman or a Member shall be called in
question except by an election petition presented to the District Judge of the
district in which the Panchayat is situated, within [forty-five days]
[Substituted for the words 'fifteen days' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment)
Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 2001).] from the date of the publication of
the result of the election under this Act.(2)An election petition calling in
question any such election may be presented on one or more of the grounds
specified in section 259 by any candidate at such election, by any elector of
the ward concerned or by any member.(3)A petitioner shall join as respondents
to his petition all the candidates at the election.;(4)An election petition
-(a)shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the
petitioner relies;(b)shall, with sufficient particulars, set forth the ground
or grounds on which the election is called in question; and(c)shall be signed
by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) for the verification of pleadings.(5)[
The trial of an election petition shall, so far as is practicable,
consistently with the interest of justice in respect of the trial, be
continued from day-to-day until its conclusion, unless the District Judge
finds the adjournment of the trial beyond the following day to be necessary
for reasons to be recorded.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth
Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2001).](6)Every election petition
shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to
conclude the trial within six months from the date on which the election
petition is presented to the District Judge for trial.

### 259. Grounds for declaring elections to be void.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the District Judge is of
opinion -(a)that on the date of his election a returned candidate was not
qualified or was disqualified, to be chosen as a member under this Act,
or(b)that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or
his agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or
his agent, or(c)that any nomination paper has been improperly rejected,
or(d)that the result of the election insofar as it concerns a returned
candidate has been materially affected -(i)by the improper acceptance of any
nomination, or(ii)by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the
returned candidate by a person other than that candidate or his agent or a
person acting with the consent of such candidate or agent, or(iii)by the
improper acceptance or refusal of any vote or reception of any vote which is
void; or(iv)by the non-compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any
rules or orders made thereunder, the Court shall declare the election of the
returned candidate to be void.(2)If, in the opinion of the Court, a returned
candidate has been guilty by an agent of any corrupt practice, but the Court
is satisfied -(a)that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election
by the candidate, and every such corrupt practice was committed contrary to
the orders, and without the consent of the candidate;(b)that the candidate
took all reasonable means for preventing the commission of corrupt practice at
the election; and(c)that in all other respects the election was free from any
corrupt practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agents,then, the
Court may decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void.

### 260. Corrupt practices.

\- The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of
this Act: -(1)Bribery as defined in clause (1) of section 123 of the
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Central Act XLIII of 1951).(2)Undue
influence as defined in clause (2) of the said section.(3)The systematic
appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person to vote or refrain
from voting on grounds of caste, race, community or religion or the use of or
appeal to, religious symbols, or, the use of or appeal to, national symbols
such as the national flag or the national emblem, for the furtherance of the
prospects of that candidate's election.(4)The publication by a candidate or
his agent or by any other person of any statement of fact which is false, and
which he either believes to be false or does not believe to be true, in
relation to the personal character or conduct of any candidate, or in relation
to the candidate, or withdrawal from [contest] [Substituted for the word
'contact' by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of
1999).] of any candidate being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice
the prospects of that candidate's election.(5)The hiring or procuring whether
on payment or otherwise of any vehicle or vessel by a candidate or his agent
or by any other person for conveyance of any elector (other than the candidate
himself, and the members of his family or his agent) .to or from any polling
station provided in accordance with the rules made under this Act:Provided
that the hiring of a vehicle or vessel by an elector or by several electors at
their joint costs for the purpose of conveying him or them to or for any such
polling station shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice under this clause
if the vehicle or vessel so hired is a vehicle or vessel not propelled by
mechanical power:Provided further that the use of any public transport vehicle
or vessel or any tram-car or railway carriage by an elector at his own cost
for the purpose of going to or coming from any such polling station shall not
be deemed to be corrupt practice under this clause.Explanation. - In this
clause, the expression "vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of being
used for the purpose of road transport whether propelled by mechanical power
or otherwise and whether used for drawing other vehicles or otherwise.(6)The
holding of any meeting in which intoxicating liquors are served.(7)The issuing
of any circular, placard or poster having a reference to election which does
not bear the name and address of the printer and publisher thereof.(8)Any
other practice which the Government may by Rules, specify to be corrupt
practice.

### 261. Transitory provision.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by notification, if necessary,
appoint special officers to exercise the powers and discharge the functions of
the Village Panchayats, the Panchayat Union Councils, or the District
Panchayats, as the case may be, until the day on which the first meetings of
the Village Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils, or the District Panchayats,
as the case may be, are held after ordinary elections to the said Panchayats
after the commencement of this Act.(2)[ The Special Officers appointed under
sub-section (1) in respect of the Village Panchayats specified in Schedule V
shall hold office up to the [24th day of October 2006] [Substituted by Tamil
Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 2003) w.e.f.
17-10-2003.]or for such shorter period as the Government may, by notification,
specify in this behalf]

### 262. Rules, Notifications and orders to be placed before the Legislative
Assembly.

(1)All Rules, Notifications and orders made or issued under this Act, except
the notifications issued under sections 3,5, 7 read with section 4,11, 12, 20,
21 and 32 shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless
they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into
force on the day on which they are so published.(2)All notifications issued
under sections 3, 5, 7 read with sections 4, 11,12,20,21 and 32 shall be
published in the District Gazette concerned and unless they are expressed to
come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which
they are so published.(3)Every Rule, Notification or order made or issued by
the Government under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or
issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the
expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in any such rule,
notification or order, or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule,
notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule, notification or
order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule, notification or order.

## I

[See section 172(1)]

Classification |  If the tax islevied every half-year(2) |  If the tax islevied every year(3)  
---|---|---  
Minimum rate per half-year | Maximum rate per half-year | Minimum rate per year | Maximum rate per year  
(1) | (i) | (ii) | (iii) | (iv)  
Concrete houses, Madras-terraced houses,storeyed houses. |  Rs. P. 0.25 per 9.29 square decimeters of theplinth area. |  Rs. P. 0.50 per 9.29 square decimeters of theplinth area. |  Rs. P. 0.50 per 9.29 square decimeters of theplinth area. |  Rs. P. 1.00 per 9.29 square decimeters of theplinth area.  
Tiled houses. |  0.15 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.30 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.30 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.60 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea.  
Thatched houses 20 square metres and above. |  0.10 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.20 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.20 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea. |  0.40 per 9.29 square decimeters of the plintharea.  
Thatched houses below 20 square metres. |  0.20 for every 9.29 square metres or partthereof of plinth area. |  0.50 for every 9.29 square metres or partthereof of plinth area. |  0.40 for every 9.29 square metres or partthereof of plinth area. |  1.00 for every 9.29 square metres or partthereof of plinth area.  
  
Explanation I. - In respect of buildings which are partly concrete, terraced,
tiled or thatched, the rates applicable to the respective categories as above
shall be applicable for the portions covered by each kind:Provided that in
respect of buildings, the plinth area of which does not exceed 18.58 square
metres and which are fully concrete, terraced or tiled, or partly concrete,
terraced or tiled, house-tax shall be levied at a flat rate of rupees twenty
per half year.Explanation II. - The use of the building maybe classified and
surcharge shall be levied on the levy of house-tax at the rates specified
below:-

SI. No. | Class of usage | Rate of surcharge  
---|---|---  
(i) | Purely residential. | Village Panchayats | Nil  
(ii) |  Simple commercial like petty shops and othersmall commercial establishments. | Village Panchayats | 20%  
(iii) |  Largely commercial, industrial and businessestablishments, Cinema theatres, Hostels, Lodges, etc. | Village Panchayats | 60%  
  
Provided that in respect of buildings used partly as residential and partly as
commercial, industrial, etc., purposes, the rate of surcharge applicable to
the respective categories as above shall be applicable for the portions
covered by each class of usage:Provided further that Educational Institutions
(not commercial in nature) exempted from levy of house-tax immediately before
the commencement of this Act, shall continue to be exempted under this Act.

## II

Ordinary Penalties[See section 245(1)]

Section | Subsection or clause | Subject | Fine which may be imposed  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
128 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to fence off, takedown, secure or repair dangerous structure. | Five thousand rupees.  
129 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to secure, lop orcut down dangerous trees. | Five hundred rupees.  
130 | - |  Failure to obey requisition to fence building orland or trim, prune or cut hedges and trees or lower an enclosingwall. | Two hundred rupees.  
131 | (1)(a) |  Unlawful building of wall or erecting of fence,etc., in or over public road. | Two thousand rupees.  
131 | (1)(b) |  Unlawful making of hole or depositing of matterin or upon public road. | Five hundred rupees.  
131 | (1)(c) |  Unlawful quarrying in any place near publicroad, etc. | Fifty rupees.  
131 | (1)(d) | Unlawful erection of building over drain. | Two hundred rupees.  
131 | (1)(e) |  Planting of trees without permission on anypublic road or other property vested in Panchayat or PanchayatUnion Council. | Two hundred rupees.  
131 | (1)(f) |  Felling etc., without permission of treesgrowing on public read or other property vested in a Panchayat oron Poramboke land the use of which is regulated by it undersection 134 or section 135 | Two hundred rupees.  
139 | - | Failure to close place of public entertainment. | Two hundred rupees.  
140 | - | Sending infected child to school. | Fifty rupees.  
142 | - | Failure to give information of small pox. | Fifty rupees.  
143 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to fill in, etc.,tank or other place dangerous to public health or safety. | Fifty rupees.  
144 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to clear or cleanse,etc., building or land in filthy state or overgrown with noxiousvegetation. | Fifty rupees.  
148 | (1) |  Opening a new private market or continuing tokeep open a private market without licence or contrary tolicence. | Five hundred rupees.  
148 | (3) |  Levy of fees in private market without acertificate | One hundred rupees.  
150 | (a), (b) |  Sale or exposure for sale in public or privatemarket of any animal or article without permission. | Twenty rupees.  
151 | - |  Sale, etc., of articles in public roads orplaces after prohibition or without licence or contrary toregulations. | Ten rupees.  
154 | (a), (b) |  Using any public place or road-side as a landingor halting place or as a cart-stand within prohibited distance. | Fifty rupees.  
155 | (1) |  Opening a private cart-stand or continuing tokeep open a private cart-stand without licence or contrary tolicence. | Two hundred rupees.  
157 | (a) |  Slaughtering, cutting up or skinning, etc., ofanimals outside public slaughter-house in contravention of Rules. | Two hundred rupees.  
157 | (b) |  Slaughtering animals for purposes of salewithout licence or contrary to licence. | Twenty rupees.  
158 | (3) |  Unlawful destruction, etc., of number affixed onbuildings. | Five rupees.  
158 | (4) |  Failure to replace number when required to doso. | Twenty rupees.  
159 | (1) |  Using a place for offensive or dangerous tradewithout licence or contrary to licence. | One hundred rupees.  
160 | (a) |  Unlawful erection of factory, workshop, etc.,One thousand rupees. |   
236 | - |  Obstructing a person in the use or enjoyment ofa public road, market, well, tank, etc. | One hundred rupees.  
  
## III

Penalties For Continuing Breaches[See Section 245 (2)]

Section | Sub-section or clause | Subject | Fine which may be imposed  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
128 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to fence off, takedown, secure or repair dangerous structure. | Fifty rupees.  
129 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to secure, lop orcut down dangerous trees. | Ten rupees.  
130 | (a), (b), (c) and (d) |  Failure to obey requisition to fence building orland or trim, prune or cut hedges and trees, or lower anenclosing wall. | Ten rupees.  
131 | (1)(a) |  Unlawful building of wall or erecting offence,etc., in or over public road. | Twenty rupees.  
131 | (1)(b) |  Unlawful making of hole or depositing of matterin or upon public road. | Ten rupees.  
131 | (1)(c) |  Unlawful quarrying in any place near publicroad, etc. | Ten rupees.  
131 | (1)(d) | Unlawful erection of building over drain. | Fifty rupees.  
139 | - | Failure to close place of public entertainment. | One hundred rupees.  
143 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to fill in, etc.,tank or other place dangerous to public health or safety. | Ten rupees.  
144 | (1) |  Failure to obey requisition to clear or cleanse,etc., building or land in filthy state or overgrown with noxiousvegetation. | Ten rupees.  
148 | (1) |  Keeping open a private market without licence orcontrary to licence. | One hundred rupees.  
148 | (3) |  Levy of fees in private market without acertificate. | Fifty rupees.  
150 | - |  Sale or exposure for sale in public or privatemarket of animal or article without permission. | Ten rupees.  
155 | (1) |  Keeping open a private cart-stand withoutlicence or contrary to licence. | Twenty rupees.  
159 | (1) |  Using a place for an offensive or dangeroustrade without a licence or contrary to licence. | Twenty rupees.  
160 | (a) | Unlawful erection of factory, work-shop, etc. | One hundred rupees.  
  
## IV

[See section 257]

### 1\. Agriculture, including agricultural extension.

### 2\. Land improvement, implementation of land reforms, land consolidation
and soil conservation.

### 3\. Minor irrigation, water management and watershed development.

### 4\. Animal husbandry, dairying and poultry.

### 5\. Fisheries.

### 6\. Social forestry and farm forestry.

### 7\. Minor forest produce.

### 8\. Small scale industries, including food processing Industries.

### 9\. Khadi, village and cottage Industries.

### 10\. Rural housing.

### 11\. Drinking water.

### 12\. Fuel and fodder.

### 13\. Roads, culverts, bridges, waterways and other means of communication.

### 14\. Rural electrification, including distribution of electricity.

### 15\. Non-conventional energy sources.

### 16\. Poverty alleviation programme.

### 17\. Education, including primary and secondary schools.

### 18\. Technical training and vocational education.

### 19\. Adult and non-formal education.

### 20\. Libraries.

### 21\. Cultural activities.

### 22\. Market and fairs.

### 23\. Health and sanitation, including hospitals, primary health centres
and dispensaries.

### 24\. Family Welfare.

### 25\. Women and child development.

### 26\. Social Welfare, including welfare of the handicapped and mentally
retarded.

### 27\. Welfare of the weaker sections, and in particular, of the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.

### 28\. Public distribution system.

### 29\. Maintenance of community assets.

[Schedule IV-A] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Seventh Amendment) Act,
1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 1999).][See section 253 (3A)]Part-A {||-| SI. No.|
Name of Village Panchayats|-| (1)| (2)|-| 1| Yercaud|-| 2| Manjakuttai|-| 3|
Vellakkadai|-| 4| Velur|-| 5| Nagalur|-| 6| Semmanatham|-| 7| Valavanthi|-| 8|
Thalaisholai|-| 9| Maramangalam|}Part-B Yercaud Panchayat Union[Schedule V]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 2003) w.e.f. 17-10-2003.][See section 261(2)]

SI. No. | Name of the Village Panchayats  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Keeripatti]  
2. | [Pappapatti] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fourth Amendment) Act, 2003 (Tamil Nadu Act 42 of 2003) w.e.f. 25-11-2003.]  
  
[Schedule VI] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Third Amendment) Act, 2002
(Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 2002).][See section 9A(1)]

SI. No. | Name of the Village Panchayats  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1. | Kottakatchiyendal  
2. | Nattarmangalam.]  
  
[Schedule VII] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil
Nadu Act 6 of 2005) w.e.f. 6-3-2005.][See section 9-B(1)]

SI. No. |  Name of the VillagePanchayats  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1 | Manjakuttai  
2 | Maramangalam  
3 | Nagaliir  
4 | Semmanathan  
5 | Thalaisliolai  
6 | Valavanthi  
7 | Vellakadai  
8 | Veliir  
9 | Yercaud]

