## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Waqf Tribunal (Conditions of Service and Procedure) Rules, 2016

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Waqf Tribunal (Conditions of Service and Procedure) Rules, 2016

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-WAQF-TRIBUNAL-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-AND-PROCEDURE-
RULES-2016 of 2016

  * Published on 7 October 2016 
  * Commenced on 7 October 2016 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 October 2016.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Waqf Tribunal (Conditions of Service and Procedure) Rules,
2016Published Vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 55, Backward Classes, Most
Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare (T1), dated 07.10.2016Last Updated
16th January, 2020Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 55, Backward Classes, Most
Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare (T1), dated 07.10.2016, No. SRO
A-17(a)/2016. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and
clauses (xxii), (xxiia) and (xxiii) of sub-section (2) of Section 109 of the
Waqf Act, 1995 (Central Act 43 of 1995), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby
makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Waqf Tribunal (Conditions of
Service and Procedure) Rules, 2016.(2)These rules shall come into force on the
7th day of October 2016.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means The
Waqf Act, 1995 (Central Act 43 of 1995);(b)"Board" means a Board established
and constituted under Section 13 of the Act;(c)"Chairman" means the Chairman
of the Tribunal;(d)"Government" means the Government of Tamil
Nadu;(e)"Registrar" means the Registrar of the Tribunal and includes Assistant
Registrar or any other person to whom the Registrar may, with the approval of
the Tribunal, delegate any function to be exercised by the
Registrar;(f)"Member" means a member of the Tribunal;(g)"Registry" means the
Registry of the Tribunal;(h)The words and expression used and not defined in
these rules, but defined in the Act shall have the same meaning respectively
assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Composition of Waqf Tribunal.

\- Every Waqf Tribunal shall consist of -(a)one person, who shall be a member
of the State Judicial Service holding a rank, not below that of a District,
Sessions or Civil Judge, Class I, who shall be the Chairman;(b)one person, who
shall be an officer from the State Civil Services equivalent in rank to that
of the Additional District Magistrate who shall be a Member;(c)one person not
less than 45 years of age preferably a Muslim possessing Bachelors Degree in
Law and having knowledge of Muslim law and jurisprudence including laws
relating to Waqf, as member and appointment of every such person shall be made
either by name or by designation by notification by the State Government.

### 4. Salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairman and Members of the Tribunal.

(a)The Chairman shall continue to receive the salary and allowances for which
he is entitled as a member of the State Judicial Service.(b)The member
referred to in clause (b) of rule 3 appointed from the State Civil Services
shall continue to receive the salary and allowances for which he is entitled
as an Officer of the State Civil Service.(c)Selection of a member referred to
in clause (c) of rule 3 shall be made by a Board headed by the Secretary to
Government incharge of the administrative department concerned as Chairperson;
an Islamic Scholar of repute; and the Chairman of Bar Council of Tamil Nadu or
a member of Bar Council of Tamil Nadu nominated by the Bar Council of Tamil
Nadu as members.(d)Orders governing the pay and other allowances including the
conditions of service of the members referred to in clause (c) of rule 3 will
be issued separately at the time of appointment.

### 5. Term of Chairman and Members.

\- The tenure of the member of the Tribunal appointed under clause (c) of rule
3 of these rules shall be three years from the date on which they enter upon
his office or till he attains 62 years of age whichever is earlier. The tenure
of the Chairman and the Member appointed under clauses (a) and (b) of rule 3
of these rules shall be as per their conditions of service governing their
deputation.

### 6. Filling up of vacancies.

\- A vacancy in the post of member nominated under clause (c) of rule 3 of
these rules shall be filled up by the Government. The newly inducted member
shall continue for the remaining period of tenure or till he attains 62 years
of age whichever is earlier.

### 7. Staff of the Waqf Tribunal.

(1)The State Government shall sanction such number of ancillary staff and
officers to each Waqf Tribunal as the State Government may consider necessary
for the proper functioning of Waqf Tribunal.(2)The staff and officers of the
Waqf Tribunals shall discharge their duties under the administrative control
of the Chairman.(3)The salaries, allowances and other conditions of the
service of such staff and officers of the Waqf Tribunals shall be the same as
provided in their respective Service rules.

### 8. Procedure for filing application and limitation.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in these rules, the provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) or the Civil Rules of Practice
or as the case may be, shall apply to the proceedings before the
Tribunal.(2)An application to the Tribunal shall be presented by the applicant
in person or by a duly authorised legal practitioner to the Registrar or any
other officer authorised in writing by the Registrar to receive the same or be
sent by registered post with acknowledgement duly addressed to the Registrar
of the Tribunal concerned.(3)If any application is made, it shall be within 90
days from the date of the order in which the applicant is aggrieved or a right
of an interested person is denied or any cause of action arises in any matter
in relation to a waqf and its properties:provided that in the case of any
delay in filing application before the Tribunal, the applicant may file a
supporting application with affidavit for condoning the delay by adducing
proper cause for such delay and the Chairman of the Tribunal if satisfied may
condone such delay and allow the applicant to file an application for relief
sought for on such application.(4)The application under sub-rule (1) shall be
presented in triplicate in the following two compilation:-(a)application along
with the impugned order if any;(b)all other documents and annexures referred
to in the application.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules (1)
to (4) the Tribunal may permit more than one person to join together and file
a single application if it is satisfied having regard to the cause and nature
of relief prayed for that they have a common interest in the matter.(6)such
permission may also be granted to a Muthawalli or committee representing the
persons or Jamath desirous of joining in a single application, however, that
the application shall disclose the person on whose behalf it has been
filed.(7)Where the number of respondents is more than one, as many extra
copies of the application as there are respondents together with unused file
size envelope bearing the full address of each respondent shall be furnished
by the applicant:Provided that where the number of respondents is more than
five, the Registry may permit the applicant to file the extra copies of the
applications at the time of issue of notice to the respondents.(8)Every
application filed with the Registrar shall be accompanied by a fee of Rs.500/-
(Rupees five hundred) to be remitted in the form of demand draft of a
Nationalised Bank drawn in in favour of the Registrar of the Tribunal:provided
that where the Tribunal permits a single application to be filed, either by
more than one person or by a committee, the fee payable shall be Rs.500/-
(Rupees five hundred).(9)Every application filed shall set forth concisely
under distinct heads the grounds for such application. Every application
including any miscellaneous application shall be typed in double space on one
side on good quality paper.(10)It shall not be necessary to present a separate
application to seek an interim order or direction if in original application
the same is prayed for:Provided that atleast one affected person shall join
such an application.(11)Any applications before the Tribunal relating to suits
against the Board which do not comply with the mandatory provisions of two
months notice under Section 89 of the Act shall be summarily dismissed.

### 9. Presentation and scrutiny of the application.

(1)The Registrar or the officer authorised by him shall endorse on every
application the date on which it is presented or deemed to have presented and
shall sign the endorsement.(2)If, on scrutiny, the application is found to be
in order, it shall be duly registered and given a serial number. If the
application on scrutiny is found defective and such defect not formal in
nature, the Registrar may allow the applicant such time to rectify the defect
as he may deem fit and the applicant shall be informed of the defects, if any
and he shall be required to rectify the same within such time as may be
stipulated by the Registrar.(3)If the applicant fails to rectify the defect
within the stipulated time, the Registrar may, by order decline to register
the application and inform the Chairman accordingly.

### 10. Service of notice and processes issued by the Tribunal.

(1)Notices to be issued by the Tribunal may be served by any of the following
modes-(i)service by the party himself;(ii)by hand delivery (dasti) through
process server;(iii)by registered post with acknowledgement due:Provided that
if the Tribunal does not specify the mode of service, notice may be sent by
registered post with acknowledgement due.(2)Where notice issued by the
Tribunal is served by the party himself by 'hand delivery' (Dasti) he shall
file in the Registry of the Tribunal, the acknowledgement together with an
affidavit of service.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1),
the Tribunal may, taking into account the number of respondents and their
places of residence or work and other circumstances, direct the notice of the
application shall be served upon the respondents in any other manner,
including any manner of substituted service, as it appears just and convenient
to the Tribunal.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the
Tribunal, may in its discretion, having regard to the nature of the case,
direct the service of the notice on the Counsel, authorised to accept the
service, for any Department or Organisation of the State and Central
Government, or an authority, a corporation, a body owned or controlled by the
State or Central Government.(5)Every notice issued by the Tribunal shall
unless otherwise ordered, be accompanied by a copy of the application and a
copy of the impugned order.(6)Every applicant shall pay a fee for the service
of execution of processes, in respect of an application where the number of
respondents exceeds five, as under:-(i)a sum of rupees twenty five for each
respondent in excess of five respondents; or(ii)where the service is in such a
manner as the Tribunal may direct under sub-rule (3) such a sum not exceeding
the actual charges incurred in effecting the service as may be determined by
the Tribunal.(7)If the Tribunal is satisfied that it is not reasonably
practicable to serve notice of application upon all the respondents, it may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that the application shall be
heard notwithstanding that some of the respondents have not been served with
notice of the application:Provided that no application shall be heard
unless.-(i)notice of the application has been served on the Central Government
or the State Government, if such Government is a respondent;(ii)notice of the
application has been served on the authority which passed the order against
which the application has been filed; and(iii)the Tribunal is satisfied that
the interests of the respondents on whom notice of the application has not
been served are adequately and sufficiently represented by the respondents on
whom notice of the application has been served.

### 11. Filing of reply and other documents by the respondents.

(1)Each respondent intending to contest the application, shall file in
triplicate the reply to the application and the document relied upon with the
Registry within one month of the service of notice of the application on
him.(2)In the reply filed under sub-rule (1), the respondent shall
specifically admit, deny or explain the facts stated by the applicant in his
application and may also state such additional facts as may be found necessary
for the justification of the case. It shall be signed and verified as a
written statement by the respondent or any other person duly authorised by him
in writing in the same manner as provided for in Order VI, Rule 15 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).(3)The documents referred to
in sub-rule (1) shall also be filed alongwith the reply and the same shall be
marked.(4)The respondent shall also serve a copy of the reply alongwith
documents as mentioned in sub-rule (1) on the applicant or his legal
practitioner, if any, and file proof of such service in the Registry.(5)The
Tribunal may allow filing of the reply after the expiry of the prescribed
period.(6)The Tribunal may permit the parties to amend the pleadings in the
same manner as provided under Order VI, Rule 17 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 12. Date and place of hearing to be notified.

\- The Tribunal shall notify to the parties the date and the place of hearing
of the application in such manner as the Chairman may by general or special
order direct.

### 13. Action on application for application's default.

(1)Where on the date fixed for hearing of the application or on any other date
to which such hearing may be adjourned the applicant does not appear when the
application is called for hearing, the Tribunal may in its discretion, either
dismiss the application for default or hear and decide it on merit.(2)Where an
application has been dismissed for default and the applicant files an
application within thirty days from the date of dismissal and satisfies the
Tribunal that there was sufficient cause for his non appearance when the
application was called for hearing, the Tribunal shall make an order setting
aside the order dismissing the application and restore the same:

### 14. Substitution of legal representatives.

(1)In the case of death of a party during the pendency of the proceedings
before the Tribunal, the legal representatives of the deceased party or his
successor in office may apply within ninety days of the date of such death for
being brought on record as necessary parties.(2)Where no application is
received from the legal representatives or his successor in office within the
period specified in sub-rule (1), the proceedings against the deceased party
shall abate:Provided that on good and sufficient reasons the Tribunal, on an
application, from the legal representatives of the deceased party or his
successor beyond the period specified in sub-rule (1) may set aside the order
of abatement and substitute the legal representatives.

### 15. Adjournment of hearing.

\- The Tribunal may if sufficient cause is shown at any stage of proceedings
grant time to the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing of the
application. The Tribunal may make such order as it thinks fit with respect to
the costs occasioned by the adjournment.

### 16. Order to be signed and dated.

(1)All final orders shall be decided by the Chairman along with two members of
the Tribunal.(2)In case of division between the members of the Tribunal
decision of the majority of the members of the Tribunal shall prevail.(3)Every
order of the Tribunal shall be signed by the Chairman and Members constituting
the Tribunal, which pronounced the order.(4)The order shall be pronounced in
open court.

### 17. Communication of order to parties.

(1)Every interim order, granting or refusing or modifying interim relief and
final order shall be communicated to the applicant and to the concerned
respondent or to their Counsels, either by hand delivery or by post free of
costs:Provided that unless ordered otherwise by the Tribunal, a copy of the
final order need not be sent to any respondent who has not entered
appearance.Provided further that when the petitioner or the respondent is
represented by a Counsel, under a single Vakalatnama, only one copy shall be
supplied to such Counsel as named therein.(2)If the applicant or the
respondent to any proceeding requires a copy of any document or proceeding the
same shall be supplied to him on such terms and conditions on payment of such
fees as may be fixed by the Chairman by general or special order.

### 18. Inspection of the records.

(1)The parties to any case or their counsel may be allowed to inspect the
record of the case on making an application in writing to the
Registrar.(2)Subject to such terms and conditions as may prescribed by the
Chairman by a general or special order a person who is not a party to the
proceeding, may also be allowed to inspect the proceedings after obtaining the
permission of the Registrar in writing.

### 19. Orders and directions in certain cases.

\- The Tribunal may make such orders or give such directions as may be
necessary or expedient to give effect to its order or to prevent abuse of its
process or to secure the ends of justice.

### 20. Registration of legal practitioner's clerk.

(1)No clerk employed by a legal practitioner shall act as such in the Tribunal
or be permitted to have access to the records and obtain copies of the orders
of the Bench of the Tribunal in which the legal practitioner ordinarily
practises unless his name is entered in the Register of clerks maintained by
the Tribunal. Such clerk shall be known as a "Registered Clerk".(2)A legal
practitioner desirous of registering his clerk shall make an application to
the Registrar. On such application being allowed by the Registrar, his name
shall be entered in the Register of Clerks.(3)After registration of the clerk,
the Registrar shall direct the issue of an identity card to him which shall be
non- transferable and shall be produced by the holder upon request by an
officer or other employee of the Tribunal authorised in this behalf. The
identity card shall be issued under the signature of the Registrar of the
Tribunal.(4)A register of all the clerks registered under sub-rule (2) shall
be maintained in the office of the Registrar of Tribunal.(5)A legal
practitioner shall have at a time not more than two registered
clerks.(6)Whenever a legal practitioner ceases to employ a registered clerk,
he shall notify the fact at once to the Registrar by means of a letter
enclosing therewith the identity card issued to his clerk by the Registry, and
on receipt of such letter the name of the said registered clerk shall be
struck off from the register.

### 21. Working hours of the Tribunal.

\- Except on Saturday, Sunday and other public holidays, the office of the
Tribunal shall, subject to any order made by the Chairman remain open from
10.00 a.m. to 5.45 p.m.

### 22. Sitting hours of the Tribunal.

\- The sitting hours of the Tribunal shall ordinarily be from 10.30 a.m. to
1.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. subject to any general or special order made
by the Chairman of the Tribunal.

### 23. Powers and functions of the Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall have the custody of the records of the Tribunal and
shall exercise such other functions as are assigned to him under these rules
or by the Tribunal by separate order.(2)The Registrar may, with the approval
of the Chairman of the Tribunal delegate to any officer of the Tribunal any
function or power required by these rules to be performed or exercised by the
Registrar.(3)In the absence of the Registrar, any other officer to whom the
powers and functions of the Registrar are delegated by the Chairman of the
Tribunal, as the case may be, may exercise the powers and functions of the
Registrar.(4)The official seal shall be kept in the custody of the
Registrar.(5)Subject to any general or special direction by the Chairman the
seal of the Tribunal shall not be affixed to any order, summons or other
process save under the authority in writing of the Registrar or any officer
authorised in this behalf.(6)The seal of the Tribunal shall not be affixed to
any certified copy issued by the Tribunal save under the authority in writing
of the Registrar.(7)The Registrar shall have the power-(i)to receive all
applications and other documents including transferred applications;(ii)to
decide all questions arising out of the scrutiny of the applications before
they are registered;(iii)to require any application presented to the Tribunal
to be amended in accordance with the Act and the rules;(iv)subject to the
direction of the Tribunal, to fix the date of first hearing of the
applications or other proceedings and issue notices thereof;(v)to direct any
formal amendment of records;(vi)to order grant of copies of documents to
parties to the proceedings;(vii)to grant leave to inspect the records of the
Tribunal;(viii)to dispose of all matters relating to the service of notices or
other processes, applications for the issue of fresh notices and for extending
the time for filing such applications, to grant time not exceeding 30 days for
filing a reply or rejoinder if any, and to place the matter before the
Tribunal for appropriate orders after the expiry of the aforesaid
period;(ix)to requisition records from the custody of any court or other
authority ;(x)to receive applications within ninety days from the date of
death for substitution of legal representatives of the deceased parties or his
successor in office during the pendency of the application;(xi)to receive and
dispose of applications for substitution except where the substitution would
involve setting aside an order of abatement ;(xii)to receive and dispose of
applications by parties for return of documents.

### 24. Qualification of Registrar.

\- The persons now officiating in the State Judicial Services and Judicial
Ministerial Services shall be appointed on deputation basis with usual terms
and conditions. The conditions of service of officers and staff shall be
governed by respective service rules / Special rules or Ad hoc rules to be
framed separately if any post is not covered by any service rules.

### 25. Seal and emblem.

\- The official seal and emblem of the Tribunal shall be such as the State
Government may specify.

### 26. Dress of the Members and staff of the Tribunal.

\- The dress for the Members of the Tribunal (including Chairman) and Members
of the staff of the Tribunal shall be such as the Chairman may specify.

### 27. Dress of the parties.

\- A legal practitioner or, as the case may be, a presenting officer shall
appear before the Tribunal in his professional dress, if any, and if there is
no such dress in a formal closed dress.

