## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Parks, Play-Fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation)
Act, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Parks, Play-Fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation)
Act, 1959

## Act 26 of 1959

  * Published on 19 February 1960 
  * Commenced on 19 February 1960 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 February 1960.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Parks, Play-Fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation)
Act, 1959(Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1959)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Parks, Play-fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1959). - Within the last few years, the influx of
the population into the towns and cities has led to a great deal of pressure
on accommodation and it is noted that, for this purpose, many open spaces and
play-fields are being encroached upon. It is also noted that several parks,
play-fields and open spaces are not kept in proper sanitary condition and that
the Corporation and the municipalities themselves have constructed many
buildings for their use and have dumped in many places goods, converting them
into sore godowns. If this tendency is allowed to grow, the health of the city
population will be seriously affected and the absence of free open spaces,
which should act as lungs in urban areas will render the population liable to
ill-health, disease or infection. The proposed measure is designed to prevent
such a catastrophe.Published in Part IV - A page 452 of the Fort, St. George
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 20th September 1958.Received the assent of
the Governor on the 19th February 1960 and first published in Part IV-B, page
27, the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 2nd March 1960.An act to provide
for the preservation and regulation of parks, play-fields and open spaces in
the State of [Tamil Nadu]. [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaption of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Whereas it is expedient to provide for
the preservation and regulation of parks, play-fields and open spaces in the
State of [Tamil Nadu:] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
taws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Be it enacted in the Tenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of taws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Parks, Play-fields and
Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1959.(2)It extends to the whole
of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'State of Madras' by
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of taws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into
force at once -(i)in the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).]; and(ii)in every municipality in the State.(4)The Government may, from
time to time, by notification, extend the provisions of this Act from such
date as may be specified in the notification to any other local area in the
State, and may cancel or modify any such notification.Notes. - This Act was
extended to the added territories by section 3 of, and the First Schedule to
the Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
8 of 1964) repealing the corresponding law in force in those territories.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"executive
authority" means the Commissioner, chairman, president, executive officer or
other functionary of the local authority concerned who is vested with general
executive powers under any of the Acts mentioned in the
Schedule;(b)"Government" means the State Government;(c)"open space" means any
land, whether enclosed or not, belonging to the Government or any local
authority, on which there are no buildings or of which not more than one-
twentieth part is covered with buildings, and the whole or the remainder of
which is used for purposes of recreation, air or light;(d)"park" means a piece
of land on which there are no buildings or of which not more than one-
twentieth part is covered with buildings, and the whole or the remainder of
which is laid out as a garden with trees, plants or flower beds or as a lawn
or as a meadow and maintained as a place for the resort of the public for
recreation, air or light;(e)"play-field" means a piece of land adapted for the
purposes of play, game or sport and used by schools or colleges or clubs.

### 3. Preparation and submission of list of parks, play-fields and open space
by executive authorities.

(1)The executive authority of every local authority shall, not later than six
months from the date on which this Act comes into force in the area within the
jurisdiction of the local authority, prepare and submit for the approval of
the Government a correct and complete list with plans and maps of all the
parks, play-fields and open spaces in the area aforesaid containing such
particulars as may be prescribed.(2)The Government shall, as soon as may be,
after the receipt of the list and other documents referred to in sub-section
(1), publish the list in the prescribed manner and such publication shall
state at what place and time the maps, plans, and documents aforesaid will be
available to the public for inspection.

### 4. Approval of lists by Government.

(1)Any person interested, may submit his objections or suggestions in writing
in respect of anything contained in, or relating to, the list, to the
Government, within three months from the date of the publication under sub-
section (2) of section 3.(2)The Government may, after considering the
objections and suggestions, if any, and making such inquiry as they think fit
approve the list with or without modifications.(3)The approval of the
Government to a list under sub-section (2) shall be published in the
prescribed manner and such publication shall contain the list and shall also
state at what place and time particulars relating to the matters mentioned in
the list will be available to the public for inspection.

### 5. Variation or revocation of list.

(1)The Government may, at any time, either suo motu or at the instance of the
local authority concerned or of any person interested, vary or revoke a list
published under section 4.(2)Before making any such variation or revocation,
the Government shall publish in the prescribed manner a draft of such
variation or revocation together with a notice specifying a date on or after
which such draft will be taken into consideration, and shall consider any
objection or suggestion which may be received in respect of such draft from
the local authority or any person interested before the date so
specified.(3)(a)The Government shall once in every five years review the
approved lists of parks, play-fields and open spaces and shall cause revised
lists to be prepared.(b)Whenever such a general revision of approved lists has
been completed, the Government shall publish in the prescribed manner the
revised lists and such publication shall state that objections and suggestions
will be considered if they reach the Government within a period of one month
from the date of such publication.(4)The Government shall, after considering
the objections and suggestions, if any, received within the period referred to
in sub-section (3) publish the revised lists in the prescribed manner and the
revision shall take effect on such publication.

### 6. Prohibition of the use of parks, play-fields and open spaces in certain
cases.

\- No park, play-field or open space specified in the list published under
section 4 or 5 shall, except with the previous sanction of the Government, be
used for any purpose other than the purpose or purposes for which it was used
on the date of the coming into force of this Act under sub-section (3) of
section 1 or on the date with effect from which this Act is extended to the
local area concerned under sub-section (4) of section 1, as the case may be.

### 7. Maintenance of parks, play-fields and open spaces.

\- The local authority shall maintain in a clean and proper condition all
parks, play-fields and open spaces belonging to or vested in it and included
in the list published under section 4 or 5.

### 8. Prohibition of construction of buildings, etc.

\- No person shall, except with the previous sanction of the Government,
construct any building or put up any structure likely to affect the utility of
the park, play-field or open space or make any encroachment in or over any
park, play-field or open space specified in the list published under section 4
or 5.

### 9. Obligation of owner of parks, play-fields, etc.

(1)In the case of parks and play-fields not vested in the local authority, but
included in the list published under section 4 or 5, the executive authority
may, by notice, require the owner or the person or authority in occupation of
such park or play-field -(i)to maintain such park or play-field in a clean and
proper condition, or(ii)to remove or alter any projection, encroachment or
obstruction in or over any such park or play-field or to execute such repairs
to any building in such park or play-field as the executive authority may
consider necessary, within a date specified in the notice.(2)If the owner or
the person or authority in occupation fails to comply with the notice under
sub-section (1), the executive authority shall himself arrange to -(i)maintain
such park or play-field in a clean and proper condition, or(ii)remove or alter
the projection, encroachment or obstruction, or(iii)execute such repairs as he
may consider necessary and the cost of such maintenance, removal, alteration
or repairs shall be recoverable from the owner or the person or authority in
occupation in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)Any dispute as to the amount
of the cost shall be decided by the Government and their decision shall be
final.(4)The executive authority may, instead of, or in addition to, taking
action as indicated in sub-section (2), proceed to acquire the land under the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894), for the purpose of
effective management of the land as a park or play-field.(5)Any owner or any
person or authority in occupation of a play-field desiring to convert the
play-field to any use other than as a play-field may give notice to the person
or authority managing the affairs of any educational institution or other duly
constituted public body which uses the play-field or to the local authority
within whose jurisdiction the play-field is situated to purchase his or its
rights in the play-field. If such person, authority, public body or local
authority does not agree to purchase his or its rights, he or it may after the
expiry of a reasonable period which shall be not less than six months put it
to such use as he or it desires.

### 10. Submission of annual return.

\- The executive authority shall submit to the Government in such form and
with such particulars as may be prescribed, an annual return in respect of the
parks, play-fields and open spaces which are situated within the limits of the
local authority concerned and which are specified in the list published under
section 4 or 5. The return shall also contain a list of the parks and play-
fields in respect of which action was taken under sub-section (2) of section 9
together with particulars as regards the nature of the action taken in respect
of them and the steps taken in regard to their proper maintenance.

### 11. Removal of unauthorised persons.

\- If any person enters or remains in any park, play-field or open space
belonging, to or vested in the Government or a local authority after having
been required by the executive authority or any person authorised in his
behalf by the Government or the local authority not to enter or remain in such
park, play-field or open space, he may, without prejudice to any other
proceedings which may be taken against him, be removed from such park, play-
field or open space by any Police Officer or any other person acting on behalf
of the Government or the executive authority.

### 12. Penalties.

\- Whoever throws any rubbish into any park, play-field or open space
specified in the list published under section 4 or 5 or gets over the railings
or fence, or steals or damages the fruits, flowers, plants, grass or any other
thing whatsoever therein or commits any nuisance therein, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or
with both.

### 13. Power of control of Government.

(1)If the Government are satisfied, after giving the executive authority an
opportunity of explanation, that the executive authority has failed to enforce
effectively the provisions of this Act or to execute any work which under this
Act the executive authority is required to execute, the Government may order
the local authority to do all things necessary for enforcing the provisions of
this Act effectively or for executing any work which under this Act, the
executive authority is required to execute.(2)For the purposes of this
section, the Government shall have the same powers of calling for records, of
causing inspection to be made, and of enforcing their orders, of appointing
persons to enforce them as they have under sections 40 to 43 (both inclusive)
of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal
Act, 1919 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation ' iotliWisi Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
taws (Second Amendment) order, 1969.] Act IV of 1919) or sections 34 and 39 of
the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation ' iotliWisi Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of taws (Second Amendment) order, 1969.]
Act V of 1920).

