## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy
Act, 1971

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy
Act, 1971

## Act 5 of 1972

  * Published on 26 February 1972 
  * Commenced on 26 February 1972 
  * [This is the version of this document from 26 February 1972.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy Act,
1971(Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 1972)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 5 of 1972). - There is at present no law in force in this State
governing Homeopathy. The Government have decided to recognise the
homoeopathic system of medicine and to regulate the practice in that system of
medicine by undertaking suitable legislation. It is proposed to establish a
council of Homeopathy as in the case of modem medicine and provide for the
registration of practitioners of homoeopathic medicine who hold recognised
qualifications. There are also a large number of persons in this State who do
not possess any recognised qualification in homeopathy but who have been
practising Homeopathy for a long time and such practice is the sole means of
their livelihood. It is considered that such of those practitioners who have
been in practice of homeopathy for a period of not less than ten years should
be allowed to continue to practice and that to enable them to do so they
should get themselves registered within a period of one year from the
commencement of the proposed Act. Such of those who do not possess any of the
recognised qualifications and who are not in regular practice as practitioners
for a period of not less than ten years but who have been in regular practice
for a period of not less than four years before the commencement of the Act
will be allowed registration in the register for the registration of
homeopathic practitioners, subject to their passing a written test to be
conducted within a period of three years from the commencement of the proposed
Act. After the expiry of the said period no person who has not been registered
will have the right to practice homeopathy. The issue of degrees, diplomas,
certificates, etc., by unauthorised persons will be an offence punishable
under the proposed Act. The unqualified persons and unregistered institutions
will thus be eliminated from the field of practice of homoeopathic
medicine.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above objects. The
provisions of the Bill are explained in the Notes on Clauses.Published in Part
IV-Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
23rd July 1971.Received the assent of the President on the 26th February 1972
and first published in Part IV-section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary dated the 8th March 1972.An Act to provide for the development
of the Homeopathy system of medicine and registration of practitioners of
Homeopathy and for matters connected therewith in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be
it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-second
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and
Practitioners of Homeopathy Act, 1971.(2)It extends to the whole of the State
of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may,
by notification, appoint; and different dates may be appointed for different
provisions of this Act.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"approved
institution" means a hospital, health centre or other such institution
recognised by a University as an institution in which a person may undergo the
training, if any, required by his course of study before the award of any
medical qualification to him;(2)"commencement of this Act", in relation to any
provision of this Act, means the date of the coming into force of that
provision;(3)"council" means the Council of Homeopathy established under
section 3.(4)"Government" means the State Government;(5)"Homeopathy" means the
system of medicine founded by Dr. Hahnemann and includes Schussler's system of
biochemic remedies and the expression "homoeopathic" shall be construed
accordingly;(6)"hospital", "asylum", "infirmary", "dispensary", "lying-in-
hospital", "sanatorium" means an institution where the methods of treatment
carried on are those approved by the council;(7)"member" means a member of the
council;(8)"modern medicine" means modem scientific medicine commonly known as
allopathic medicine in all its branches and includes surgery and obstetrics,
but does not include veterinary medicine and surgery;(9)"practitioner" means
any person engaged in the practice of Homeopathy;(10)"president" means the
president of the council;(11)"register" means a register maintained under
section 16;(12)"registered practitioner" means a practitioner whose name is
for the time being entered in a register;(13)"registrar" means the registrar
of the council appointed under section 14;(14)"regulation" means a regulation
made by the council under this Act;(15)"ride" means a rule made by the
Government under this Act;(16)"University" means any University in India
established by law and having a faculty of Homeopathy.

## Chapter II  
Establishment of Council

### 3. Establishment of Council.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, establish for the State of Tamil
Nadu, a council to be called the Council of Homeopathy.(2)The council shall be
a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to
acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to
contract and shall, by its name, sue and be sued.

### 4. Constitution of the council.

\- The council shall consist of the following fifteen members,
namely:-(a)(i)six members elected from among themselves by registered
practitioners who possess any of the qualifications specified in the Schedule;
and(ii)three members elected from among themselves by practitioners registered
under clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of section 15;(b)six members
nominated by the Government of whom-(i)three shall be registered
practitioners;(ii)one shall be either the Secretary to the Government in the
Department dealing with Health and Family Planning or one of the Deputy
Secretaries to the Government in that Department;(iii)one shall be either the
Director of Health Services and Family Planning or one of his assistants who
shall be a medical officer; and(iv)one shall be the head of a Government
teaching institution in Homeopathy.

### 5. President.

(1)There shall be a president for the council.(2)The president shall be
nominated by the Government from among the members who are registered
practitioners.

### 6. First council to be nominated by the Government.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the first council shall
be nominated by the Government and shall hold office for a period of five
years from its constitution.

### 7. Disqualification for membership.

\- No person shall be eligible for being elected or nominated as a member, if
he-(1)is not ordinarily resident in the State of Tamil Nadu;(2)in a case
falling under clause (a) or sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of section 4, is not
such registered practitioner as is referred to in that clause or, as the case
may be, sub-clause;(3)is an applicant to be adjudicated an insolvent or is an
undischarged insolvent;(4)is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a
competent court;(5)has been sentenced by a Criminal Court to imprisonment for
any offence involving moral turpitude;(6)is a paid employee of the council;
or(7)has not completed twenty-five years of age.

### 8. Term of office of members.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the term of office of a member
(including the member nominated as president) shall be five years from the
date of his election or nomination as member.(2)An outgoing member (including
the member nominated as president), if otherwise qualified, shall be eligible
for re-election or re-nomination.

### 9. Cessation of membership.

\- A member shall be deemed to have vacated his seat-(1)on sending his
resignation in writing to the president or the registrar;(2)on his absence
without excuse sufficient in the opinion of the council from three consecutive
meetings of the council;(3)on his ceasing to ordinarily reside in the State of
Tamil Nadu for twelve consecutive months;(4)on removal of his name from the
register;(5)on his applying to be adjudicated, or on his being adjudicated, an
insolvent;(6)on his being declared to be of unsound mind by a Competent
Court;(7)on the expiry of the term mentioned in sub-section (1) of section
8;(8)on his being sentenced by a Criminal Court to imprisonment for any
offence involving moral turpitude; or(9)in the case of any officer nominated
under sub-clause (ii), (iii) or (iv) of clause (b) of section 4, also on his
ceasing to hold the post; or(10)on his becoming a paid employee of the
council.

### 10. Removal of member.

(1)The Government may, by order, remove any member (including the president)
if the member is, in the opinion of the Government, guilty of gross misconduct
in any respect, professional or otherwise, which renders him unfit to be a
member.(2)The Government shall, when they propose to take action under sub-
section (1), give the member concerned an opportunity for explanation.

### 11. Filling of vacancies.

\- When the seat of any member becomes vacant, the vacancy for the remaining
period shall be filled by election or nomination, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of section 4: Provided that any vacancy in the
office of any-(1)selected member, or(2)nominated member, occurring within six
months before the date of the expiry of the term of office of the members
under sub-section (1) of section 8-(a)in a case falling under clause (1),
shall not, without the previous sanction of the Government, be filled; or(b)in
a case falling under clause (2), may, if the Government deem fit, be kept
unfilled.

### 12. Executive committee.

(1)There shall be an executive committee of the council consisting of the
president ex-officio, and four other members of the council who shall be
elected in the prescribed manner by the council at its first meeting.(2)Every
member of the executive committee so elected shall hold office so long he
continues to be a member of the council and, if any casual vacancy occurs
before the said period, the council shall fill the vacancy for the remaining
period by electing a member of the council.(3)The council may, subject to such
rules as may be made by the Government in this behalf and with the previous
sanction of the Government, delegate any of its powers and duties to its
executive committee.(4)The Government shall have power to cancel any
delegation made under sub-section (3).

### 13. Meetings of the council and executive committee.

(1)The council and the executive committee shall meet at such time and place
and every meeting of the council or the executive committee shall be summoned
by such person and in such manner as may be specified by regulations:Provided
that until such regulations are made, it shall be lawful for the president to
summon a meeting of the council or of the executive committee at such time and
place as he may deem expedient by letter addressed to each member of the
council or of the executive committee.(2)All questions at any meeting of the
council or its executive committee shall be decided by the votes of the
majority of the members present and voting at the meeting and in the case of
an equality of votes, the member presiding shall have and exercise a second or
casting vote:Provided that in the case of an equality of votes at an election,
the choice shall be by casting lots.(3)The members of the council and the
members of the executive committee shall be paid such daily and travelling
allowances as may be prescribed.

### 14. Registrar and other officers and servants.

(1)(a)The council shall appoint a registrar who shall be the secretary to the
council. The registrar shall act as treasurer of the council, unless the
council appoints another person as treasurer under sub-section (3). The
registrar shall also be the secretary of the executive committee.(b)The
council may, at any time, remove the registrar from office by a resolution
passed at a special meeting convened for the purpose and supported by the
votes of not less than two-thirds of the total number of members present and
voting at the meeting.(c)The appointment of the registrar or his removal from
office shall be subject to the approval of the Government and shall not take
effect until such approval has been accorded.(2)In the temporary absence of
the registrar, on leave by reason of illness or other cause, or pending the
filling of a vacancy caused in any other manner, his powers and duties shall,
for a period of not more than three months, be exercised and performed by such
person and in such manner as the president may direct.(3)The council may also
appoint such other officers and servants as it may deem necessary for the
purposes of this Act. The remuneration and other conditions of service of the
registrar and other officers and servants of the council shall be such as may
be specified by regulations.(4)All officers and servants of the council
appointed under this section shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

## Chapter III  
Registration of Practitioners

### 15. Registration of practitioners.

(1)Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act-(a)every person who
possesses any of the qualifications specified in the Schedule and who
furnishes to the registrar proof of his qualification for registration whether
or not such person practises or intends to practise Homeopathy;(b)every person
who does not possess any of the qualifications referred to in clause (a), but
who, [xxx] [The expression 'within the period of one year from the
commencement of this Act or such further period not exceeding one yearns may
be fixed by the Government in this behalf was omitted by section 2(a)(i) of
the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy
(Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1975), with effect from 10th June
1975.](i)[ makes an application in the prescribed manner so as to reach the
council on or before the 4th day of May 1976; and] [Substituted for the
following original sub-clause by section 2(a)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy
System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy (Amendment) Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1975):- '(i) makes an application in the prescribed
manner to the council;'](ii)proves in the prescribed manner to the
satisfaction of the council that he has been in regular practice as a
practitioner for a period of not less than ten years [on the 4th day of May
1974] [Substituted for 'on the date of the application by section 2 (a)(ii) of
the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy
(Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1975):- '(i) makes an application
in the prescribed manner to the council;']; and(c)every person who neither
possesses any of the qualifications referred to in clause (a) nor has been in
such practice as is referred to in clause (b), but who, [xxx] [The expression
'within the period of one year from the commencement of this Act or such
further period not exceeding one year as may be fixed by the Government in
this behalf was omitted by section 2(b)(1) of the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System
of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 1975):-](i)[ makes an application in the prescribed manner so as to
reach the council on or before the 4th day of May 1976;] [Substituted for the
following original sub-clause by section 2(b)(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy
System of Medicine and Practitioners of Homeopathy (Amendment) Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1975):- '(i) makes an application in the prescribed
manner to the council'.](ii)proves in the prescribed manner to the
satisfaction of the council that he has been in regular practice as a
practitioner for a period of not less than four years [on the 4th day of May
1974] [Substituted for 'on the date of the application' by section 2(6)(iii)
of the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy System of Medicine and Practitioners of
Homeopathy (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1975), which was deemed
to have come into force on the 10th June 1975.]; and(iii)passes a written test
to be conducted by the council within a period of five years from the
commencement of this Act,shall be entitled to have his name entered in the
relevant register of practitioners maintained under sub-section (2) of section
16.(2)The place and time at which the written test referred to in sub-clause
(iii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall be conducted and the syllabus for
the test shall be prescribed by regulations.(3)Every application for
registration under this Act shall be sent to the registrar together with the
prescribed fee and such proof of qualifications for registration, as may be
prescribed.(4)The council may refuse to permit the registration of any person
who has been convicted of any such offence as implies in the opinion of the
council a defect of character or who, after inquiry at which opportunity has
been given to the candidate to be heard in person or by pleader, has been held
by the council to have been guilty of infamous conduct in any professional
respect.

### 16. Registers of practitioners and their maintenance.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and subject to any general or special
order of the council, it shall be the duty of the registrar to maintain the
registers referred to in sub-section (2) and, from time to time, to revise
those registers and publish the same in the prescribed manner.(2)There shall
be maintained the following registers, namely:-(i)a register containing the
names of practitioners who possess any of the qualifications specified in the
Schedule and who are registered or deemed to be registered under clause (a) of
sub-section (1) of section 15;(ii)a register containing the names of
practitioners registered or deemed to be registered under clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 15;(iii)a register containing the names of
practitioners registered under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section
15.(3)Every register maintained under sub-section (2) shall be in such form
and shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.(4)The registrar shall
maintain every register in accordance with this Act and the rules made
thereunder and shall remove from such register the name of any registered
practitioner who is dead or whose name is directed to be removed or deleted
from the register under section 19. For this purpose, information regarding
the death of any registered practitioner shall be furnished to the registrar
by such officer, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.(5)Every
register maintained under sub-section (2) shall be deemed to be a public
document within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act I of
1872).

### 17. Fees for registration.

(1)Every person who applies to be registered under this Act shall pay such
registration fee not exceeding one hundred rupees as may be
prescribed.(2)Every registered practitioner who applies to the registrar for
registration under a new name or in respect of any additional qualification
obtained subsequent to registration under this Act shall pay such registration
fee not exceeding ten rupees as may be prescribed.

### 18. Certificate of registration.

(1)Every person whose name has been entered in a register maintained under
sub-section (2) of section 16 shall be issued a certificate of registration in
the prescribed form.(2)Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the registrar
that the certificate of registration issued under sub-section (1) has been
lost or destroyed, the registrar may, on payment of such fee not exceeding ten
rupees as may be prescribed, issue a duplicate thereof.

### 19. Alteration of register by council.

(1)The council may, if it deems fit and after giving due notice to the person
concerned and inquiring into his objections, if any, order that any entry in
the relevant register, which shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
council to have been fraudulently or incorrectly made or brought about, be
cancelled or amended.(2)(a)The council may direct the removal altogether or
for a specified period from the relevant register of the name of any
registered practitioner for the same reasons for which registration may be
refused under sub-section (1) or sub-section (4) of section 15 and the said
sub-section (4) shall apply to any inquiry under this section.(b)The council
may also direct that any name so removed shall be restored.(3)Nothing
contained in sub-section (2) shall relieve a registered practitioner of any
obligation or code of ethics which may be imposed upon registered
practitioners generally by the council.(4)Any registered practitioner may make
an application to the council for the deletion of his name from the relevant
register and the council may, subject to such rules as may be made by the
Government in this behalf, direct such deletion. Any such practitioner may
apply for fresh registration under section 15.(5)Whenever the name of any
registered practitioner is directed to be removed or deleted from the register
by the council, it may publish or cause to be published the fact of such
removal or deletion in such manner as it deems fit.

### 20. Appeals.

(1)Any person aggrieved by-(a)any decision of the registrar refusing to
register under sub-section (1) of section 15, may appeal to the Council;
or(b)any decision of the council under sub-section (4) of section 15 or
section 19, may appeal to the Government.(2)The appeal under sub-section (1)
shall be preferred within three months from the date of the receipt by the
appellant of the decision appealed against:Provided that the appellate
authority may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding three
months for preferring any such appeal, if it is satisfied that the appellant
had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal in time.(3)In disposing of
an appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority may, after giving the
party an opportunity of making his representations, pass such order thereon as
it may deem fit.(4)The order of the appellate authority on such appeal shall
be final.(5)The appellate authority may, pending the exercise of its powers
under this section, pass such interlocutory orders as it may deem fit.

### 21. Procedure of council in inquiries and appeals.

(1)Any inquiry under section 15 or section 19 may be held by a committee
consisting of three members of the council elected for the purpose by the
council. The council or the committee, as the case may be, may, at its
discretion, hold such inquiry in camera. When the inquiry is held by a
committee, it shall make a report to the council which shall pass orders under
section 15 or section 19, as the case may be.(2)For the purpose of any such
inquiry or of any appeal under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 20,
the council or any committee thereof elected as aforesaid shall be deemed to
be a Court within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act I
of 1872), and shall exercise all the powers of a Commissioner appointed under
the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (Central Act XXXVII of 1850), and
such inquiries and appeals shall be conducted as far as may be, in accordance
with the provisions of section 5 and sections 8 to 20 of the Public Servants
(Inquiries) Act, 1850 (Central Act XXXVII of 1850).

### 22. Powers of council.

\- The council shall have the following powers, namely:-(1)to establish with
the approval of the Government institutions teaching Homeopathy, to aid
institutions teaching Homeopathy and to grant or refuse affiliation to such
aided institutions or to withdraw, after giving the governing body or
authority of the aided institution an opportunity to show cause against the
action proposed to be taken, such affiliation;(2)to call on the governing body
or authority of an institution affiliated to the council, or of an institution
applying for affiliation, to furnish within such period as may be specified,
such reports, returns or other information as the council may require to judge
the efficiency of the institution;(3)to hold examinations for persons who
shall have pursued a course of study in institutions established by, or
affiliated to, the council, and to confer degrees, diplomas and certificates
on them on having passed the necessary examinations;(4)to provide by
regulations courses of study for different examinations held by the
council;(5)to provide for instruction or for refresher courses in such
branches of t medical science as would be useful to persons studying
Homeopathy;(6)to appoint examiners and to fix their remuneration and to
publish the results of the examinations held by it;(7)to grant scholarships,
prizes and medals to students of institutions established by, or affiliated
to, the council who are meritorious, or stipends to students who are poor and
deserving; and with the sanction of the Government to grant to students
scholarships for research or special study in any institutions that the
council may think fit, whether in India or abroad and to endow chairs of
Homeopathy in institutions established by, or affiliated to, the council;(8)to
confer honorary degrees on practitioners of extraordinary merit;(9)to collect
prescribed fees or charges for admission to the examinations held by the
council and for certificates, diplomas or degrees granted or conferred by
it;(10)to exercise general supervision over the residential and disciplinary
arrangements made by the institutions established by, or affiliated to, the
council and arrangements for promoting the health and general welfare of the
students of such institutions;(11)to recommend to the Government the sanction
of a grant to an affiliated institution teaching Homeopathy or the withdrawal
or suspension, after giving the governing body or authority of the institution
concerned an opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed, of any
such grant;(12)to appoint such number of inspectors for the inspection of
institutions teaching Homeopathy as the council may deem fit on such terms as
the council may, with the previous sanction of the Government,
determine;(13)to receive grafts, donations, gifts and endowments;(14)to incur
such expenditure, to adopt such measures and to do such acts as may be
necessary for the furtherance of the objects mentioned in this section;(15)to
advise the Government in the matter of research in Homeopathy; and(16)to
perform such other functions as the Government may direct or, on the
recommendation of the council, approve for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

### 23. Control by Government.

\- Whenever it appears to the Government that the council has neglected to
exercise or has exceeded or abused any power conferred upon it by this Act or
any rule made thereunder or has neglected to perform any duty imposed upon it
by this Act or any rule made thereunder, the Government may notify the
particulars of such neglect, excess or abuse to the council, and, if the
council fails to remedy such neglect, excess or abuse within such time as may
be fixed by the Government in this behalf, the Government may, for the purpose
of remedying such neglect, excess or abuse, cause any of the powers and duties
of the council to be exercised and performed by such person or authority and
for such period as the Government may deem fit.

### 24. Reference to special officer.

(1)In every case mentioned in section 23, the Government may, whether or not
they have already taken action under that section, appoint as special officer,
a person who is, or has been, or is qualified for appointment as, a District
Judge and refer to such special officer the particulars of any neglect, excess
or abuse referred to in that section and such special officer shall inquire in
a summary manner and report to the Government, as to the truth of the
particulars referred to him and, in case of any such neglect, excess or abuse
being found by the special officer to have been established, the special
officer shall recommend the remedies, if any, which are, in his opinion,
necessary.(2)The Government may direct the council to adopt the remedies so
recommended within such time as, having regard to the report of the special
officer, they may deem fit; and if the council fails to comply with any such
direction, the Government may pass such orders or take such action as they
deem necessary to give effect to the recommendations of the special
officer.(3)The special officer shall have power to administer oaths and to
enforce the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents and shall
have all such other necessary powers for the purpose of any inquiry conducted
by him, as are exercised by a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 25. Privileges of registered practitioners.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force-(i)a certificate required by law to be given by a medical practitioner
shall be valid if it is signed by any registered practitioner belonging to
such class of registered practitioners as may be specified by the Government,
from time to time; and(ii)the expression "legally qualified medical
practitioner" or "duly qualified medical practitioner" or any word or
expression importing reference to a person recognized by law as a medical
practitioner or as a member of the medical profession, shall, in any
Provincial Act as defined in clause (46) of section 3 of the General Clauses
Act, 1897 (Central Act X of 1897), or in any State Act as defined in clause
(59) of the said section 3 or in any Central Act in its application to the
State of Tamil Nadu in so far as any such Act relates to any of the matters
specified in List II or List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution,
be deemed to include a practitioner, registered or deemed to be registered
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 15.

## Chapter IV  
Penalties

### 26. Prohibition of practice of Homeopathy by persons not registered.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force-(a)no person other than a practitioner registered or deemed to be
registered under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 15 or
registered under clause (c) of that sub-section shall practise Homeopathy in
the State of Tamil Nadu;(b)no registered practitioner, unless authorised by
the Government in this behalf, shall be entitled to-(i)sign or authenticate a
birth or a death certificate or a medical or a physical fitness certificate
required by any law or rule to be signed or authenticated by a duly qualified
medical practitioner; or(ii)give evidence at any inquest; or in a Court of law
as an expert under section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Central Act I
of 1872), on any matter relating to medicine, surgery or midwifery;
or(c)except with the special sanction of the Government, no person other than
a practitioner registered or deemed to be registered under clause (a) of
subsection (1) of section 15 shall hold any appointment as physician, surgeon,
or other medical officer in any hospital, asylum, infirmary, dispensary,
lying-in-hospital, sanatorium or other similar institution of Homeopathy only
or of both Homeopathy and modem medicine, whether supported entirely by
voluntary contributions or not.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-
section, a person who-(i)mechanically fits or sells lenses, artificial eyes,
limbs or other apparatus or appliances; or(ii)is engaged in the mechanical
examination of eyes for the purposes of constructing or adjusting spectacles,
eye-glasses or lenses; or(iii)practises physio-therapy or electro-theraphy or
chiropody or naturopathy or hydropathy or yogic healing; or(iv)does domestic
administration of family remedies; or(v)being registered under the Dentists
Act, 1948 (Central Act XVI of 1948), limits his practice to the art of
dentistry; or(vi)being a nurse, midwife, health visitor, or auxiliary nurse-
midwife registered under the Tamil Nadu Nurses and Midwives Act, 1926 (Tamil
Nadu Act III of 1926), or a dhai, attends on a case of labour,shall not be
deemed to practise Homeopathy.(2)Any person who contravenes sub-section (1)
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 27. Conferring, granting or issuing colourable imitation of degrees,
diplomas, etc. to be an offence.

(1)No person other than-(a)a University; or(b)an institution established by,
or affiliated to, the council; or(c)an authority empowered or recognised as
competent by the Government to confer, grant or issue any degree, diploma,
licence, certificate or any other like award entitling the holder thereof to
practise Homeopathy,shall confer, grant or issue or hold himself out as
entitled to confer, grant or issue any degree, diploma, licence, certificate
or any other like award which is identical with or is a colourable imitation
of, any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or award conferred, granted or
issued by a University or an institution or authority referred to in clauses
(b) and (c) and purports to entitle the holder thereof to practise
Homeopathy.(2)Any person who contravenes sub-section (1) shall be
punishable-(i)for the first offence, with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees; and(ii)for the second or any subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term, which may extend to six months or with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

### 28. Prohibition against addition of any title, description, etc., to name
of any person unless authorised to do so.

(1)No person shall add to his name any title, description, letter or
abbreviation which implies that he holds a degree, diploma, licence,
certificate or any other like award as his qualification to practise
Homeopathy, etc., unless,-(a)he actually holds such degree, diploma, licence,
certificate or any other like award; and(b)such degree, diploma, licence,
certificate or any other like award-(i)is recognised by any law for the time
being in force in India or in any part thereof; or(ii)has been conferred,
granted or issued by a University or an institution or authority referred to
in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of section 27.(2)Any person who
contravenes sub-section (1) shall be punishable-(i)for the first offence, with
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees; and(ii)for the second or any
subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 29. Penalty for falsely pretending to be a registered practitioner.

\- Any person who falsely pretends to be a registered practitioner shall,
whether any person is actually deceived by such pretence or not, be
punishable-(i)for the first offence, with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees; and(ii)for the second or any subsequent offence, with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 30. Jurisdiction of Criminal Courts.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by the registrar in this behalf.(2)No
Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a magistrate of the first
class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.According to clauses (a)
and (c) of sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), any reference to a Magistrate of the first class
shall be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the first class
and any reference to a Presidency Magistrate shall be construed as a reference
to a Metropolitan Magistrate with effect on and from the 1st April 1974.

### 31. Bar of jurisdiction of Courts.

\- No act done in the exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act on
the Government or the council or any committee thereof or the registrar shall
be questioned in any court of law.

### 32. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, the
company as well as every person in charge of, and responsible to, the company
for the conduct of its business at the time of the commission of the offence
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in
this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed, with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section-(a)"company" means anybody corporate, and includes a
firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to a
firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 33. Acts of council, committee, etc., not to be invalidated by certain
defects.

\- No act of the council or any committee thereof or of any person acting as
president or as member of the council or of the committee shall be deemed to
be invalid merely on the ground of-(a)any vacancy or defect in the
constitution of the council or of the committee;(b)the president or any member
of the council or committee not being entitled to hold or continue in office
by reason of any disqualification or any irregularity or illegality in his
election or nomination; or(c)any defect or irregularity in such act not
affecting the merits" of the case.

### 34. Alteration in the list of qualifications mentioned in the Schedule.

\- The Government may, if they are satisfied on the report of the council or
otherwise, that the course of study and examinations prescribed by any
University, medical college, school or any other institution conferring,
granting or issuing any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other
like award-(1)included in the Schedule are not such as to secure the
possession by persons obtaining such degree, diploma, licence, certificate or
any other like award of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient
practice of Homeopathy, or(2)not included in the Schedule are such as to
secure the possession by the persons aforesaid of such knowledge and skill, by
notification, direct that such degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any
other like award-(a)in a case falling under clause (1), be removed from the
Schedule, or(b)in a case falling under clause (2), be included in the
Schedule, and upon the issue of any such notification, the Schedule shall be
deemed to have been amended accordingly.

### 35. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the election of members to the council;(c)the
election and term of office of the president of the council;(d)the
notification of election or nomination to, or any vacancy in, the office of
the president or member of the council;(e)the powers and duties of the
president;(f)the election of members of the executive committee of the
council;(g)the number of members necessary to constitute a quorum for meetings
of the council and its executive committee;(h)the procedure at any inquiry
held under section 15 or section 19;(i)the particulars to be stated in, and
the proof of qualifications to be sent along with, applications for
registration under this Act;(j)the institution, hearing and disposal of
appeals under section 20;(k)the fees to be paid for applications and appeals
under this Act;(l)the compilation and publication of the registers referred to
in sub-section (2) of section 16;(m)the allowances of non-official members of
the council;(n)the disposal of fees received under this Act;(o)the
qualifications and conditions required for any registered practitioner
performing surgery and post-mortem in any approved institution.

### 36. Publication of rules, commencement of rules and notifications and
placing them before the Legislature.

(1)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(2)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(3)Every rule made under this Act and every
notification-issued under section 34. shall, as soon as possible, after it is
made or issued, be placed on the fable of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the
session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any
such rule or notification or the [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted
for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.] that the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the
rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 37. Power to make regulations.

(1)The council may, with the previous sanction of the Government, by
notification, make regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the rules
made thereunder for enabling it to perform its functions under this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such regulations may provide for-(a)the convening of meetings of the council
and its executive committee;(b)the conduct of business at such meetings;(c)the
delegation of powers or duties of the council to its president;(d)the
appointment, control, remuneration and other conditions of service of the
officers and servants of the council referred to in section 14;(e)the place
and time at which the written test referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 15 shall be conducted and the syllabus for
the test.

### 38. Repeals and savings.

(1)Any law corresponding to this Act in force in the added territories
immediately before the commencement of this Act including the Andhra Ayurvedic
and Homoeopathic Medical Practitioners Registration Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXVI
of 1956) (hereafter in this section referred to as the corresponding law),
shall, in so far as the corresponding law relates to Homeopathy, stand
repealed on such commencement.(2)The repeal by sub-section (1) of the
corresponding law shall not affect-(i)the previous operation of the
corresponding law or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(ii)any
right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under
the corresponding law; or(iii)any fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect of any offence committed against the corresponding law;
or(iv)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, fine, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid,and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy
may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such fine, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if this Act had not been
passed.(3)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), anything done or any
action taken, including any appointment or delegation made, notification,
order, instruction or direction issued, or any rule, regulation or form
framed, certificate granted or registration effected, under the corresponding
law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act and shall
continue to have effect accordingly, unless and until superseded by anything
done or any action taken under this Act.(4)For the purpose of facilitating the
application of this Act in the added territories, any Court or other authority
may construe this Act with such alterations not affecting the substance as may
be necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before the Court or other
authority.(5)Any reference to the corresponding law in any law which continues
to be in force in the added territories after the commencement of this Act
shall, in relation to those territories, be construed as a reference to this
Act.(6)After the commencement of this Act, every practitioner in the added
territories who-(a)possesses any of the qualifications specified in the
Schedule and who is registered under the Andhra Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic
Medical Practitioners Registration Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXVI of 1956) as in
force in the added territories immediately before the commencement of this
Act, shall be deemed to be a practitioner registered under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of section 15; and(b)does not possess any of the qualifications
referred to in clause (a), but who is registered under the Andhra Ayurvedic
and Homoeopathic Medical Practitioners Registration Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXVI
of 1956), as in force in the added territories immediately before the
commencement of this Act, by virtue of his practice in Homeopathy for the
period specified in that Act, shall be deemed to be a practitioner registered
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 15.(7)The registrar shall, on
receipt of an application made in this behalf in the prescribed manner by any
such practitioner as is referred to in sub-section (6) and after making such
inquiry as he deems fit, enter in the relevant register maintained under sub-
section (2) of section 16 the name of such practitioner. No fee shall be
payable for making any such entry.(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, all persons
possessing any of the qualifications specified in the Schedule, who at the
commencement of this Act are practising both Homeopathy and modem medicine
shall be entitled to continue such practice.Explanation. - For the purpose of
this section, the expression "added territories" shall mean the territories
specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu
(Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959).

## Schedule

Qualifications In Homeopathy[See sections 4(1), 15(l)(a), 16(2)(i), 22, 34,
38(6)(a) and (8)]

### 1\. Any of the following post-graduate diplomas of the Faculty of
Homeopathy (London), namely:-

(1)F.F. Horn. (Lond.).(2)M.F. Horn. (Lond.).(3)D.F. Horn. (Lond.).

### 2\. Any diploma granted by any of the following institutions in West
Bengal, namely:-

(1)The Calcutta Homoeopathic Medical College.(2)D. N. De Homoeopathic Medical
College.(3)The Prathap and Herring Homoeopathic Medical College.(4)The
Midnapore Homeopathy Medical College.(5)The Bengal Alien Homeopathy Medical
College.

### 3\. Government diploma in Integrated Medicine (HOMEOPATHY) awarded by the
Board of Indian Medicine, Hyderabad.

### 4\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
General Council and State Faculty of Homoeopathic Medicine, West Bengal

### 5\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Council of Homoeopathic Medicine, Calcutta, West Bengal.

### 6\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Andhra Board for Ayurveda and Homeopathy, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh.

### 7\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
State Board of Homoeopathic System of Medicine, Patna, Bihar.

### 8\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Board of Homoeopathic System of Medicine, Delhi.

### 9\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Council of Homoeopathic System of Medicine, Trivandrum, Kerala State.

### 10\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Board of Homoeopathic and Bio-Chemical Systems of Medicine,-Madhya Pradesh,
Bhopal.

### 11\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
Court of Examiners in Homeopathy, Bombay, Maharashtra.

### 12\. Any degree, diploma, licence, certificate or any other like award
conferred, granted or issued on passing the final examination held by the
State Board of Homoeopathic System of Medicine, Lucknow, and Agra University,
Agra.

