## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent
(Extension to Added Territories) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent
(Extension to Added Territories) Act, 1963

## Act 33 of 1963

  * Published on 27 February 1964 
  * Commenced on 27 February 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 February 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Extension
to Added Territories) Act, 1963(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1963)Statement of Objects
and Reasons. - Under the Andhra Pradesh and Madras (Alteration of Boundaries)
Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959) which was passed to implement the Pataskar
Award, certain territories have been transferred from the State of Andhra
Pradesh to the State of Madras with effect from the 1st April 1960. Those
territories have been added to the Chingleput and the North Arcot districts of
this State. In those territories, the Andhra Tenancy Act, 1956 (Andhra Act
XVIII of 1956) is in force. This Act materially differs from the Madras
Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Madras Act XXV of 1955) and the
Madras Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Madras Act XXIV
of 1956), which are in force in the rest of the State excluding the
Kanyakumari district. With a view to achieve uniformity in the tenancy laws in
force in this State, it has been decided to repeal Andhra Act XV111 of 1956 in
its application to the said territories and to extend the Madras Acts XXV of
1955 and XXIV of 1956 with suitable modifications to those territories.2\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3 of the
Fort St. George Gazette, the dated 16th August 1963.Received the assent of the
Governor on the 27th February 1964 and published in Fort St. George Gazette,
dated the 27th February 1964.An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955, and the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenant (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 and to extend those Acts to added
territories in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cultivating Tenants
Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Extension to Added Territories) Act,
1963.(2)It shall come into force at once.Notes. - This Act was published in
the Fort St. George Gazette on the 27th February 1964 and as such, this Act
came into force on that date.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, "added territories"
means the territories specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh
and Madras (Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act LVI of 1959).

### 3.

[The amendments made by this section have already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955
(Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955).

### 4.

[The amendments made by this section have already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair
Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of 1956).]

### 5. Extension of [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Acts XXV of 1955 and XXIV
of 1956 to the added territories, repeals and savings.

(1)The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXV of 1955), and the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of 1956), as in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act and as amended by this Act (hereinafter in this
section referred to as the said Acts) are hereby extended to, and shall be in
force in, the added territories.(2)Any law corresponding to either of the said
Acts in force in the added territories immediately before the commencement of
this Act including the Andhra Tenancy Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XVIII of 1956)
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the corresponding law) shall stand
repealed on such commencement.(3)The repeal by sub-section (2) of the
corresponding law shall not affect-(a)the previous operation of the
corresponding law or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or(b)any
right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under
the corresponding law; or(c)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in
respect of any offence committed against the corresponding law; or(d)any
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as
aforesaid;and any such investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(4)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), anything done or any action taken including any
appointment or delegation made, notification, order, instruction or direction
issued, rule, regulation or form framed, certificate granted or registration
effected under the corresponding law shall be deemed to have been done or ta
ken under the said Act and shall continue in force accordingly, unless and
until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the said
Acts.(5)For the purpose of facilitating the application of the said Acts in
the added territories, any Court or other authority may construe the said Acts
with such alterations not affecting the substance as may be necessary or
proper to adapt them to the matter before the Court or other authority.(6)Any
reference in the said Acts to a law which is not in force in the added
territories shall, in relation to those territories, be construed as a
reference to the law, if any, in force in those territories corresponding to
the law referred to in the said Acts.(7)Any reference in any law which
continues to be in force in the added territories after the commencement of
this Act to the corresponding law shall, in relation to those territories, be
construed as a reference to the said Acts.

