## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission Act, 2017

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission Act, 2017

## Act 23 of 2017

  * Published on 11 July 2017 
  * Commenced on 11 July 2017 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 July 2017.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission Act, 2017(Act No. 23 of 2017)Last Updated
15th January, 2020[Dated 11.07.2017]An Act to provide for the constitution of
Delimitation Commission for delimitation of territorial wards of Village
Panchayats, Panchayat Unions, District Panchayats, Town Panchayats,
Municipalities and Municipal Corporations and for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto.BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State
of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission Act
2017.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Commission" means
the Delimitation Commission constituted under section 3;(b)"Government" means
the State Government;(c)"local body" means,-(i)a village panchayat, panchayat
union or district panchayat Tamil Nadu Act constituted under the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994(21 of 1994).(ii)a town panchayat or municipality
constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920(5 of 1920)
and(iii)a municipal corporation established under any law for the time being
in force;(d)"member" means a member of the Commission and includes the
Chairman; and(e)"Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner" means the State
Election Commissioner appointed by the Governor of Tamil Nadu under Article
243K of the Constitution.

### 3. Constitution of Delimitation Commission.

(1)As soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, the Government shall
constitute a Commission to be called the Delimitation Commission which shall
consist of the following members, namely:-(a)The Tamil Nadu State Election
Commissioner, who shall be the Chairman, ex-officio;(b)The Director of Rural
Development and Panchayat Raj, ex-officio;(c)The Commissioner of Municipal
Administration, ex-officio;(d)The Director of Town Panchayats, ex-
officio;(e)The Commissioner of Chennai City Municipal Corporation, ex-
officio;(f)The Secretary, Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, who shall be
the Member-Secretary, ex-officio.(2)The headquarters of the Commission shall
be located within the limits of Chennai City Municipal Corporation.

### 4. Functions of Commission.

(1)The Commission shall perform the following functions, namely:-(a)to make
recommendations for fixing the total number of members to be elected to every
local body on the basis of the population as ascertained at the last preceding
census of which the relevant figures have been published;(b)to make
recommendations for dividing the area of every local body into as many wards
as the number of members required to be elected to that local body on the
basis of the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which
the relevant figures have been published;(c)to make recommendations to
determine the boundaries of the wards in every local body;(d)to make
recommendations with a view to ensure that the population of each ward in
every local body shall, as far as practicable, be the same throughout that
local body;(e)to make recommendations to have every territorial wards, as far
as practicable, be geographically compact area;(f)to make recommendations to
determine the territorial ward or wards in which seats are reserved for
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Women in every local body on the basis
of the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the
relevant figures have been published;(g)to make periodical reports at
prescribed intervals to the Government; and(h)to perform such other functions
as the Government may specify from time to time.

### 5. Powers of Commission.

(1)The Commission shall determine its own procedure and shall, in the
performance of its functions, have all the powers of a civil court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), while trying a suit, in
respect of the following matters, namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the
attendance of witnesses;(b)requiring the production of any document;
and(c)requisitioning any public record from any court or office.(2)The
Commission shall have power to require any person to furnish any information
on such points or matters as in the opinion of the Commission may be useful
for, or relevant to, any matter under the consideration of the
Commission.(3)The Commission may authorize any of its members to exercise any
of the powers conferred on it by clauses (a) to (c) of sub-section (1) and
sub-section (2), and any order made or act done in exercise of any of those
powers by the member authorized by the Commission in that behalf shall be
deemed to be the order or act, as the case may be, of the Commission.(4)If
there is a difference of opinion among the members, the opinion of the
majority shall prevail, and the proceedings and orders of the Commission shall
be expressed in terms of the views of the majority.

### 6. Meeting of Commission.

\- The Commission shall meet, as often as may be necessary, at such time and
place and observe such rules of procedure as may be provided in the
regulations.

### 7. Staff of Commission.

\- The Commission shall appoint such number of employees as may be necessary
for the efficient performance of its functions. The terms and conditions of
service of the employees of the Commission shall be such as may be provided in
the regulations.

### 8. Power to issue directions.

\- The Government may issue to the Commission such directions as in their
opinion are necessary or expedient for carrying out the purposes of this Act
and the Commission shall give effect to all such directions.

### 9. Proceedings of Commission not to be invalidated by infirmities.

\- The Commission shall have power to act notwithstanding the temporary
absence of a member or the existence of a vacancy in the Commission and no act
or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid or called in question on the
ground merely of such temporary absence or of the existence of such vacancy.

### 10. Members and employees of Commission to be public servants.

\- The Chairman, members, the Member-Secretary and other employees of the
Commission shall be deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of
any of the provisions of this Act, or regulation or order or direction made or
issued under this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 11. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government, the
Commission or any member thereof or any employee or person acting under the
direction of the Government or the Commission, in respect of anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or
regulation, order or direction made or issued under this Act.

### 12. Power to make regulations.

\- The Commission may, with the previous approval of the Government, make
regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Act.

### 13. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion requires, by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this
Act.

