## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976

## Act 15 of 1976

  * Published on 6 April 1976 
  * Commenced on 6 April 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 6 April 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976(Presidents Act
15 of 1976)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15 of 1976). - By
the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 10 of 1975), suits for the recovery of debts due from agriculturists and
applications for the execution of the decrees for payment of money passed in
any such suit were barred for the period up to the 15th January, 1976. Though
the drought conditions had eased in view of the favourable monsoon, the
agriculturists were not in a position to repay after the harvest all the loans
taken by them. They required some time to rehabilitate themselves. It was,
therefore, decided that the relief granted to agriculturists should be
extended for a further period of three months. The Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Ordinance, 1976 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 1 of
1976) was promulgated to give effect to the above decision.2\. The President
issued a Proclamation on the 31st January, 1976 under article 356 of the
Constitution, in relation to the State of Tamil Nadu, declaring, inter alia,
that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or
under the authority of Parliament. The Ordinance referred to above could not
be replaced by an Act of Parliament for want of time. Hence by virtue of the
powers delegated to the Governor of Tamil Nadu by the President, the Tamil
Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) No. 2 Ordinance, 1976 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 7 of 1976) was promulgated and the relief granted to the
agriculturists was extended for a period of one year from the 15th January,
1976, instead of for three months as provided in the Tamil Nadu Ordinance 1 of
1976.3\. The proposed measure seeks to replace the Tamil Nadu Ordinance 7 of
1976.4\. Parliament has, under article 357(l)(a) of the Constitution, now
conferred on the President, the powers of the Legislature of the State to make
laws vide the Tamil Nadu State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976
(41 of 1976).5\. In view of the urgency of the matter, it is not practicable
to consult the Consultative Committee on Tamil Nadu Legislation constituted
under the above Act. The measure is accordingly being enacted without
reference to the Consultative Committee.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page
153 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th April
1976.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1976 (President's Act 3 of 1977). - By the Tamil Nadu
Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15 of
1976) and the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976
(President's Act 16 of 1976), there is a moratorium on recovery of debts of
agriculturists and non-agriculturists up to the 14th January, 1977. The Tamil
Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976 (President's Act 31 of 1976), provides for total
discharge of debts of rural artisans whose annual household income does not
exceed Rs. 2,400 and that of small farmers and landless agricultural
labourers. There is, however, no specific exclusion of the debts of
subscribers to the chit fund schemes. Chit fund schemes are of a self
liquidating nature and partake the character of mutual aid schemes. It has
been represented that the grant of moratorium in respect of recovery of debts
due from subscribes to chit fund schemes and wiping off their debts under the
Debt Relief Acts will seriously jeopardise the future conduct of chit fund
schemes. In the present form, the moratorium and Debt Relief Acts are bound to
disrupt whatever, little economic impact chit funds have on the savings of the
community. It is, therefore, considered that chit fund schemes registered
under the Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961), have to
be given exemption from the operation of debt relief measures. Accordingly, it
is proposed to exempt any liability incurred or arising under any chit, the
bye-laws of which have been registered under the Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961), from the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 and the Tamil Nadu Debt
Relief Act, 1976.2\. The present measure seeks to give effect to this
proposal.3\. The Committee constituted under the proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 3 of the Tamil Nadu State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976
(41 of 1976), has been consulted before the enactment of this measure as a
President's Act.Published in Part IV-Section 2 page 354 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 29th December 1976.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1978). - Under the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists
(Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15 of 1976), the Tamil Nadu
Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 16 of 1976) and
the Tamil Nadu Debt Belief Act, 1976 (President's Act 31 of 1976), only
certain categories of debts and liabilities of the persons eligible for relief
under the aforesaid Acts have been exempted. Nidhis and Mutual Benefit
Societies are run on the basis of mutuality of interest among members on the
same principles of co-operative societies. It has been represented that if
provisions of the above mentioned Acts are strictly enforced, it will result
in these institutions incurring heavy losses, as they will not be in a
position to repay to the members the deposits already made by them, and also
no fresh deposits will be received, thus crippling their business and possibly
leading to their ultimate extinction. It is, therefore, proposed to exempt any
liability in respect of any sum due to any company, which is declared to be a
Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society under sub-section (1) of section 620-A of the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) from the provisions of the Tamil
Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976 (President's Act 15
of 1976), the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1976
(President's Act 16 of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976
(President's Act 31 of 1976).2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above
object.Published in Part IV-Section I, page 343-344 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 31st March, 1978.Received the
assent of the President dated the 6th April 1976 and first published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th April 1976.An Act
to provide temporary relief to indebted agriculturists in the State of Tamil
Nadu.Be enacted by the President in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of
India.In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu State
Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976 (41 of 1976), the President is
pleased to enact as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1976.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 15th day of January 1976.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"agricultural land"
means land used for agriculture or horticulture, not being land appurtenant to
a residential building;(b)",agriculturist" means a person who owns an interest
in agricultural land, and who, by reason of such interest, is in possession of
such land or is in receipt of the rents or profits thereof and shall include a
lessee; but shall not include-(i)a firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 1932), or a company as defined in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or a corporation formed in pursuance of an Act of
Parliament of the United Kingdom or of any special Indian Law, or(ii)any
person who was assessed to income-tax under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961), or to agricultural income-tax under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Income-
tax Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1955), or to sales-tax under the Tamil Nadu
General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959), or under the Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956), in any of the years 1971-72, 1972-73,1973-74
and 1974-75.Explanation. - Where a joint Hindu Family or a tarwad, tavazhi,
kutumba or kavaru is an agriculturist, every coparcener or member of the tar-
wad, tavazhi, kutumba or kavaru, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be an
agriculturist, provided that he has not been assessed to income-tax or
agricultural income-tax or sales-tax in any of the years
1971-72,1972-73,1973-74 and 1974-75;(c)"debt"-(i)means any sum of money which
a person is liable to pay under a contract (express or implied) for
consideration received; and(ii)includes rent in cash or kind which a person is
liable to pay or deliver in respect of the lawful use and occupation of
agricultural land.Explanation I. - For the purpose of this clause, "rent" in
relation to agricultural land, shall mean rent accrued due for the fasli year
ending with the 30th day of June 1974 and for any previous fasli
year.Explanation II. - It is immaterial that the sum or produce is recoverable
only by sale of property in enforcement of a mortgage or charge or that the
contract was entered into by the person's predecessor-in-title or by the
manager of the joint Hindu family or the karanavan of the tarwad or tavazhi or
the yajaman of the kutumba or kavaru of which such person was or is a
member.Exception. - "Debt" does not include-(i)rent or compensation for the
use and occupation of house property;(ii)rent or compensation for the use and
occupation of immovable property (not being house property or agricultural
land) accrued due on or after the 16th day of January 1975;(iii)any liability
arising out of a breach of trust;(iv)any liability in respect of
maintenance;(v)any sum payable to the State Government or the Central
Government or to any local authority, whether by way of revenues, tax, cess or
loan or otherwise;(vi)any sum payable to any co-operative society, including a
land development bank, registered or deemed to be registered under the Tamil
Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961), provided
that the right of the society to recover the sum did not arise by reason of an
assignment made subsequent to the 15th day of September 1974;(vii)wages or
remuneration due as salary, or otherwise for service rendered;(viii)any
liability in respect of any sum due to-(A)any banking company to which the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), applies;(B)the State Bank of India
constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955);(C)any
subsidiary bank as defined in clause (k) of section 2 of the State Bank of
India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959);(D)any corresponding new bank
as defined in clause (d) of section 2 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970);(E)the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation, established under the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 1963);(F)any other
financial institution notified by the State Government in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette;(G)[ any liability incurred or arising under any chit, the
bye-laws of which have been registered under the [Tamil Nadu Chit Funds Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961)] [Inserted and was deemed always to have been
inserted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976
(President's Act 46 of 1976).]];(H)[ any liability in respect of any sum due
to any company which is declared to be a Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society under
sub-section (1) of section 620-A of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of
1956);] [Inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1978).](d)"pay", with its grammatical variations, includes deliver;(e)"suit"
or "application" does not include an appeal from a decree or order passed in a
suit or application or an application for revision or review.

### 3. Bar of suits and applications.

\- No suit for the recovery of a debt shall be instituted, no application for
the execution of a decree for payment of money passed in a suit for the
recovery of a debt shall be made, and no suit or application for the eviction
of a tenant on the ground of non-payment of a debt shall be instituted or
made, against any agriculturist in any civil or revenue Court on and from the
date of commencement of this Act and before the expiry of [two years and six
months] [Substituted for the words 'two years' by section 2(a) of the Tamil
Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1978). The
words 'two years' were earlier substituted by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for
the words 'one year and, six months' which in turn were substituted for the
words 'one year' by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 3 of 1977).] from the said
date.Explanation I. - "Suit" does not include a claim to a set-off made in a
suit instituted by an agriculturist.Explanation II. - Where a debt is payable
by an agriculturist jointly or jointly and severally with a non-agriculturist,
no suit or application of the nature mentioned in this section shall be
instituted or made either against the non-agriculturist or against the
agriculturist before the expiry of the period mentioned in this
section.Explanation III. - A suit shall be deemed to be a suit for the
recovery of a debt notwithstanding that other reliefs are prayed for in such
suit, and a decree shall be deemed to be a decree for payment of money passed
in such suit notwithstanding that other reliefs are granted by such
decree:Provided that a suit for possession of land shall not be deemed to be a
suit for recovery of a debt by reason merely of mesne profits being also
prayed for in such suit.

### 4. Stay of proceedings.

(1)All further proceedings in suits and application of the nature mentioned in
section 3 in which relief is claimed against an agriculturist, not being
proceedings for the amendment of pleadings or for the addition, substitution
or the striking off of parties, but otherwise inclusive of proceedings
consequent on orders or decrees made in appeals, revision petitions, or
applications for review, shall, subject to the next succeeding sub-section,
stand stayed until the expiry of [two years and six months] [Substituted for
the words 'two years' by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1978). The words 'two years' were
earlier substituted by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second
Amendment) Act, 1977 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for the words 'one year and,
six months' which in turn were substituted for the words 'one year' by section
2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act
3 of 1977).] from the date of commencement of this Act:Provided that, in
regard to property under attachment, the Court may pass such orders as it
deems necessary for the custody or preservation of the property or for the
sale of such property if it is subject to speedy or natural decay or, if in
respect of it, the expenses of custody or preservation are considered
excessive.(2)On application made by the defendant or the respondent or by all
the defendants or all the respondents, as the case may be, the stay effected
by subsection (1) in a suit or application shall be dissolved and the suit or
application shall be proceeded with from the stage which had been reached when
further proceedings in the suit or the application were stayed.

### 5. Exclusion of time for limitation.

(1)In computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for a
suit for the recovery of a debt or an application for the execution of a
decree passed in such suit, the time during which the institution of the suit
or the making of application was barred by section 3 or during which the
plaintiff or his predecessor-in-title, believing in good faith that section 3
applied to such suit or such application, refrained from instituting the suit
or making the application, shall be excluded.Explanation. - "Goodfaith" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in clause (22) of section 3 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897).(2)Where in a suit or an application in which
the question of exclusion of time under sub-section (1) arises, the defendant
or the respondent, or one of the defendants or respondents, with respect to
whom the question is raised, would have been an agriculturist, but for the
fact that in the year 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, or 1974-75 he had been
assessed to income-tax under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), or to
agricultural income-tax under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Income-Tax Act, 1955
(Tamil Nadu Act V of 1955), or sales tax under the Tamil Nadu General Sales
Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959), or under the Central Sales Tax Act,
1956 (74 of 1956), it shall be conclusively presumed that, in refraining from
instituting the suit or making the application, the creditor believed in good
faith that such defendant or respondent was an agriculturist.

### 6. Effect of transfer of immovable property by the debtor.

\- Every transfer of immovable property by a debtor entitled to the benefit of
section 3 or section 4, made on or after the date of commencement of this Act
and before the expiry of [two years and six months] [Substituted for the words
'two years' by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment Act,
1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of1978). The words 'two years' were earlier substituted
by section 2(a) of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Second Amendment) Act,
1977 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1977) for the words 'one year and six months' which
in turn were substituted for the words 'one year' by section 2(c) of the Tamil
Nadu Debt Relief Laws (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 3 of 1977).] from
the said date shall, in any suit or other proceeding, with respect to such
transfer, be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been made with
intent to defeat or delay the creditors of the transferor.

### 7. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955), the Tamil Nadu Public
Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 57 of 1961), the Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of
1930), the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Act, 1968
(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1968), the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1972), or in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or in any other law for the time being in force,
or any custom, usage or contract, or decree or order of a Court or other
authority.

### 8. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after
it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted
for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 9. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) No. 2 Ordinance,
1976 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 7 of 1976), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding
such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall
be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provision of this
Act.

