## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1954

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1954

## Act 34 of 1954

  * Published on 13 January 1955 
  * Commenced on 13 January 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 January 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1954(Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1954)Received the assent of the Governor on the 13th
January 1955 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the
19th January 1955.An Act further to amend the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948.Whereas it is expedient
further to amend the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of
1948) for the purposes hereinafter appearing;Be it enacted in the Fifth Year
of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1954.(2)Sections 2 and 3 shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 19th April 1949.

### 2. to 9.

\- [The amendments made by sections 2 to 9 have been incorporated in the
Principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948)].

### 10. Saving and validation.

\- For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that the amendments made
by sections 2 and 3 of this Act, shall not affect; or be deemed to have
affected, any proceeding taken by the Government under the Principal Act in
respect of an estate which was notified under that Act, between the notified
date and the date on which further proceedings under that Act in respect of
that estate were interrupted after the receipt of the order of Court; and
every such proceeding shall be deemed to be, and be deemed always to have
been, valid.

