## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Rules, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Rules, 1984

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-CULTIVATING-TENANTS-SPECIAL-PROVISIONS-RULES-1984 of 1984

  * Published on 17 January 1986 
  * Commenced on 17 January 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 January 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Rules, 1984Published vide
Notification No. SRO A-44/86.-G.O. Ms. No. 54, Revenue, dated 17th January
1986In exercise of the powers conferred by section 16 of the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of
1984), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules, namely:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special
Provisions) Rules, 1984.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1984);(b)"authorised agent" means,-(i)a person holding a power-of-
attorney, authorising him to act on behalf of his principal; or(ii)an agent
empowered by written authority under the hand of his principal to act on his
behalf;(c)"competent authority" means the Revenue Divisional Officer in whose
jurisdiction the holding in question or part thereof is situate, or an officer
of the Revenue Department not lower in rank than the Revenue Divisional
Officer empowered by the State Government in this behalf;(d)"Form" means a
form appended to these rules;(e)"section" means a section of the Act.

### 3. Procedure for deposit of instalment of arrears of rent.

\- Every cultivating tenant may deposit the instalments of arrear of rent due
under sub-section (1) of section 5, or if the rent is payable in kind, its
market value of the instalment as on the date of deposit to the account of the
landlord under sub-section (1) of section 6 shall make an application in Form
I and deposit the same before the competent authority.

### 4. Notice to landlord under section 6(2).

\- As soon as the deposit is made by the cultivating tenant towards the
instalments of arrears of rent, a notice in Form II shall be issued by the
competent authority to the landlord intimating the deposit of the instalment
of arrears of rent and fixing a date, time and place for an enquiry to decide
whether the amount deposited by the cultivating tenant represents the correct
amount of the instalments of rent due to the landlord. On the date fixed or on
any subsequent date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the competent
authority may, after taking such evidence or making such enquiry as it thinks
fit, pass orders in accordance with the provisions of the Act.

### 5. Application for eviction of a cultivating tenant falling under sub-
section (1) of section 7.

\- Every application under sub-section (2) of section 7 made by the landlord
for eviction of the cultivating tenant for non-payment of any instalment of
arrears of rent shall be in Form III. On receipt of the application, a notice
in Form II shall be issued by the competent authority, to the landlord
cultivating tenant, intimating the deposit and or non-deposit of the
instalment of arrears of rent and fixing a date, time and place for enquiry.
On the date fixed or on any subsequent date to which the hearing may be
adjourned, the competent authority may, after taking such evidence or making
such enquiry, as it thinks fit, pass orders in accordance with the provisions
of the Act.

### 6. Right to restoration of possession of evicted cultivating tenant.

\- Every cultivating tenant, who had been evicted from any land on or after
the 1st July 1984, but before the date of the publication of the Amendment
Act, i.e., 26th August 1985 on the ground that he has not paid the arrears of
rent for the period prior to the 30th June 1983 shall make an application in
Form IV to the competent authority within a period of five months after the
date of such publication for restoration of possession of such land and to
hold it with all the rights and subject to all liabilities of a cultivating
tenant under the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXV of 1955) or under the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of
Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961),
as the case may be, provided that the restoration of possession in the case of
cultivating tenant should be subject to the conditions that it does not
violate the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961) (Section 60) stipulates the ceiling for
cultivating tenants 5 standard acts of land:Provided that the competent
authority may admit an application presented after the expiry of the period
referred to above, if it is satisfied that the applicant has sufficient cause
for not presenting the application within that period.

### 7. Court-fee.

\- Every application under these rules shall bear a Court-fee stamp of two
rupees and shall be accompanied by sufficient number of copies of the
application for service on the landlords, cultivating tenants, or other
persons likely to be affected, as the case may be.

### 8. Powers of competent authority and conduct of proceedings.

(1)The competent authority shall have the powers exercisable by a Civil Court
in the trial of suits.(2)The proceedings of the competent authority shall be
summary and shall, as far as possible, be governed by the provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) with regard to,-(a)the
issue and service of summons;(b)the examination of parties and
witnesses;(c)the production of documents;(d)the amendment of pleadings;(e)the
addition of parties;(f)the passing of ex-parte orders and setting them aside
for good cause;(g)the ordering of dismissal for default of appearance and
setting aside such orders for good cause;(h)local inspection;(i)the passing of
orders; and(j)the enforcement of any order or decision.

### 9. Grounds for the decisions of the competent authority to be recorded.

\- In passing an order under section 7, the competent authority shall, record
in brief, the grounds for its decision.

### 10. Authorised agent to plead on behalf of the party in proceeding before
the competent authority.

\- In any proceedings before the competent authority, any authorised agent mav
be permitted to plead on behalf of the party:Provided that the competent
authority may, at any stage of the proceedings, cancel such permission.

### 11. Process fees.

\- The competent authority may collect process fees at the following rates,
namely:-(1)For each summons or notice-

(a) When sent by registered post for each defendantrespondent or witness; | Rs. 5.00  
---|---  
(b) When served by an officer of the Court— |   
| (i) On a defendant, respondent or witness; | Rs. 5.00  
|  (ii) On every additional defendant respondent orwitness residing in the same village, if the process applied forat the same time. | Rs. 2.00  
  
(2)Mileage for the travelling expenses of the process-server at twenty-five
paise per kilometer may be calculated from the headquarters of the Court or
the Tribunal to the place to which the process-server has to go for serving
the summons.(3)Authorisation letters produced before the competent authority
shall be engrossed on non-judicial stamp paper of the value of Rs. 5 (Rupees
five only).Form I(See rule 3]Application for Deposit of Instalment of Arrears
of Rent Under Section 6 of the Act..........before the.......I........hereby
deposit to the account of the landlord named below the instalment of arrears
of rent or if the rent is payable in kind its market value in accordance with
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenant (Special Provisions) Act,
1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1984).

### 2\. The following particulars are furnished for information of the
competent authority.

(i)Name of the sub-tenant and his address.(ii)Particulars of lands under sub-
lease.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the lands | Local name, if any | Classification if wet dry garden, or Manavari | Extent (A. C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
### 3\. Particulars of deposit towards the instalment of arrears of rent,-

(i)Name of the Treasury/Sub-Treasury.(ii)Number and date of
challan.(iii)Amount deposited.

### 4\. The market value of the rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of
deposit.

### 5\. Date of deposit.

### 6\. Name and address of the landlord to whom the rent is payable.

### 7\. Remarks.

I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the applications are, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, true and correct.Place:Date:Signature of
the applicant.Form II[See rules 4 and 5]NoticeBefore the..............(Name of
authority)To..................(Name, designation and place of residence)Take
notice that an application has been filed before the undersigned
by................(Name and address) who is a cultivating tenant of the lands
specified in the Table below and who has paid or deposited or is deemed to
have paid or deposited a sum of Rs........( only) towards the instalment of
arrears of rent. It is proposed to conduct an enquiry before the undersigned
at............(hour) on........at (place).* to decide whether the cultivating
tenant is deemed to have paid the instalment of the arrears of rent for the
purposes of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenant (Special Provisions) Act, 1984
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1984)or* to decide whether a cultivating tenant has to
be evicted for non-payment of instalment of arrears of rent, or* to restore
the cultivating tenant of the possession of the land from which he was evicted
on or after the 16th January 1984.*Strike out which is not applicable.In case
you desire to make any representation in this behalf, you may appear in person
or by an authorised agent. You must be prepared to produce on that day all the
witnesses upon whose evidence and all the documents upon which, you intend to
rely in support of your defence. Take notice that, in default of your
appearance on the aforesaid date, the application will be heard and disposed
of in your absence.

### 1\. Name and address of the cultivating tenant who deposited the rent.

### 2\. Particulars of lands under sub-lease.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the lands | Local name, if any  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
### 3\. Amount deposited towards the instalment of arrears of rent.

### 4\. The market value of the rent (if payable in kind) as on the date of
deposit.

### 5\. Date of deposit.

### 6\. Name and address of the landlord or landlords to whom the rent is
payable.

### 7\. Name and address of other persons likely to be affected.

### 8\. Remarks.

OfficeStation:Date:Signature and Designationof the AuthorityForm III(See rule
5]Application for Eviction of a Cultivating Tenant Falling Under Section
7(1)In the Court of.....................Before
the..........................(...............No...........of)

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above named plaintiff/petitioner states as follows:-

### 1\. ................. (name) the plaintiff/petitioner is a landlord and
resides at............(address);

The address of the plaintiff/ petitioner for service of all notices and
process is.....................(address);

### 2\. The respondent is a cultivating tenant and residing at..............

(address);

### 3\. Whereas a suit or proceeding is pending against the defendant
/respondent for the recovery of instalment of arrears of rent or for the
eviction of the defendant/respondent for non-payment of any instalment of
arrears of rent. Whereas the defendant/respondent has failed to pay any of the
instalment of rent and the respondent having deposited in instalment of the
rent has failed to deposit further sum if any within the time allowed by the
competent authority, under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants (Special Provision) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1984).

Now, Therefore, I,...............the plaintiff/petitioner in the said suit or
proceeding pray that the defendant/respondent cultivating tenant may be
evicted from the lands noted below.

### 4\. The following particulars are furnished for information of the
competent authority:-

(i)Name of the sub-tenant and his address.(ii)Particulars of lands under sub-
lease.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification if wet dry garden or Manavari | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the application are, to the
best of my knowledge and belief, true and correct.Place:Date:Signature of the
applicant.Form IV[See rule 6]Application for Restoration of Possession of
Evicted Cultivating TenantIn the Court of......................Before
the...........................(................No...........of)

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above named plaintiff/petitioner states as
follows:-I,..................(name) the plaintiff/petitioner is a cultivating
tenant residing at No.(address). The address of the plaintiff/petitioner for
service of all notices and process is...........(address);

### 2\.

.................the defendant/respondent is a landlord residing
atNo...............(address);

### 3\. Whereas a decree or order has been passed in the suit or proceedings

(No of ) by the against the plaintiff/petitioner for eviction for non-payment
of instalment of arrears of rent and has been evicted from the lands specified
in the table below after the 16th January 1984 and before the publication of
the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Special Provisions) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of 1984) and whereas, I, .................., the plaintiff/petitioner
in the said suit pray that the said decree or order may be cancelled and I may
be restored to possession of the lands specified in the table below with all
the rights and subject to all the liabilities of a cultivating tenant.

### 4\. The following particulars are furnished for the information of the
competent authority:-

### 1\. Name and address of the cultivating tenant to whom the evicted lands
are to be restored.

### 2\. Particulars of lands under sub-lease.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification if wet dry garden or Manavari | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
### 3\. Actual date of eviction from the lands.

### 4\. Name and address of the landlord or land owners from whom the lands
are to be restored.

### 5\. Remarks.

I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the application are, to the
best my knowledge and belief, true and correct.Place:Date:Signature of the
applicant.

