## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services
(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services
(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019

## Act 37 of 2019

  * Published on 25 September 2019 
  * Commenced on 25 September 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 September 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services
(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019(Act No. 37 of 2019)Last Updated 16th
January, 2020The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received
the assent of the President on the 25th September 2019 and is hereby published
for general information:-An Act to provide for improved production and
marketing of agricultural produce, livestock and its products through holistic
contract farming and to facilitate the contracting parties to develop mutually
beneficial and efficient contract farming system and also promote services
contract, by putting in place a friendly and effective institutional mechanism
and conducive regulatory and policy frame work for contract farming and lay
down procedures and systems and the matters connected therewith and incidental
thereto.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu
in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock
Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019.(2)It
shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"agreement" means
the contract farming agreement between the contract farming purchaser, who
offers to purchase the agricultural produce or livestock or its products and
the contract farming producer, who agrees to produce the crop or rear the
livestock, under which the production or rearing and marketing of an
agricultural produce or livestock or its product as the case may be, is
carried out as per the conditions laid down in the agreement not inconsistent
with this Act or any other law for the time being in force, and includes the
agreement between the service contract purchaser, or such other purchaser and
contract farming producer made under this Act;(b)"agriculture" means growing
or cultivation of plants or produce of agriculture, horticulture, apiculture,
sericulture, or forest or any other such activity for the purpose of food,
fodder, fiber, bio-fuel and raw materials for agro-industries;(c)"agricultural
produce" includes all produce, whether minimally processed or not, of
agriculture, horticulture, apiculture, sericulture, animal husbandry or forest
or any other such activity identified for contract under this
Act;(d)"Authority" means the Tamil Nadu State Contract Farming and Services
(Promotion and Facilitation) Authority established under section
3;(e)"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the State Contract Farming and
Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Authority, appointed by the Government
under section 4;(f)"committee" means "Dispute Settlement Committee"
constituted under section 28;(g)"company" means a public limited company
registered under the Companies Act, 2013; (Central Act 18 of
2013)(h)"contract" means legally enforceable agreement made under this
Act;(i)"contract farming" means farming by a contract farming producer as
specified under written agreement with contract farming purchaser to the
effect that agricultural produce including livestock or its product shall be
purchased by the contract farming purchaser or by his duly authorised agent
therefor;(j)"contract farming producer" means a farmer or farmer producer
organisation, who or which has agreed to produce or rear the crop or livestock
or its product as specified and in the manner set forth in the agreement and
supply the same to the purchaser or his duly authorised agent therefor, as per
the terms and conditions specified in the agreement;(k)"contract farming
purchaser" means a person, who has entered into contract farming agreement
under this Act;(l)"farmer" means a person, who is engaged in production of
agricultural produce or rearing of livestock by himself or by hired labour or
otherwise, including lessee, tenant and sharecropper;(m)"farmer producer
company" means a company of farmer producer members as defined in Part-IXA of
the Companies Act, 1956, (Central Act 1 of 1956) including any amendments
thereto and re-enactment thereof and incorporated with the Registrar of
Companies;(n)"farmer producer organisation" means an association of farmers,
by whatever name or form it is called, registered under any law for the time
being in force, which is to mobilise farmers and build their capacity to
collectively leverage their production and marketing strength;(o)"firm" means
a firm as defined under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (Central Act IX of
1932);(p)"force majeure" means an event that is unforeseeable, unavoidable and
outside the control of the contracting parties, comprising flood, drought, bad
weather, earthquake, epidemic outbreak of disease and insects-pests attack and
other like events;(q)"fund" means the Tamil Nadu State Contract Farming and
Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Authority Fund constituted under section
32;(r)"Government" means the State Government;(s)"lease" means a contract
between the land or premises owner, the lessor and the contract farming
purchaser the lessee under this Act, not inconsistent with any other law for
the time being in force;(t)"livestock" includes domesticated animals like
cattle, buffalo, goat, sheep, pig, and also includes other species like
poultry, fish and other aquatic species, birds and such other animal species
as permissible under law, as decided by contracting parties under section 13
for the purpose of this Act;(u)"livestock product" means all products of
livestock, as decided by the contracting parties under section 13 for the
purpose of this Act;(v)"marketing" means all activities involved in the flow
of agricultural produce or livestock or its product from production point
commencing at the stage of harvest or otherwise, as the case may be, till the
same reaches the ultimate consumer viz. grading, processing, storage,
transport, channels of distribution and all other functions involved in the
process;(w)"person" includes individual, Hindu Undivided Family, a co-
operative society or a company or firm or an association or a body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not;(x)"notification" means a
notification published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette;(y)"premises"
include building, structure, enclosure and surroundings thereof meant for
rearing of livestock and activities connected therewith or incidental
thereto;(z)"prescribed" means prescribed by the rules made under this
Act;(za)"price volatility" refers to the degree to which prices rise or fall
over a period of time;(zb)"processing" means any one or more of a series of
treatments including drying, powdering, crushing, de-corticating, de-husking,
parboiling, aging, polishing, ginning, pressing and curing or any other
manual, mechanical, chemical or physical treatment to which raw agricultural
produce, livestock or its product is subjected to and also includes post-
harvest management including cleaning, sorting, grading and such other value
additions;(zc)"processor" means a person who undertakes processing of any
agricultural produce, livestock or its product on his own accord or on payment
of a charge;(zd)"produce" includes agricultural produce, livestock or its
product, agreed by the contracting parties for contract farming, services
contract or any such other contract consistent with this Act;(ze)"purchaser"
includes contract farming purchaser and service contract purchaser or such
other purchaser under this Act;(zf)"recording of agreement" means recording of
contract farming agreement made between the purchaser and the contract farming
producer under section 12;(zg)"registration" means registration of purchaser
made under section 12;(zh)"regulations" means the regulations made by the
Authority under section 45;(zi)"rules" means the rules made under this
Act;(zj)"Schedule" means the Schedule appended to this Act;(zk)"services
contract" means the agreement between the farmer or farmer producer
organisation or farmer producer company and the services contract purchaser
wherein the former supplies the produce and the latter provides the post-
harvest management and marketing services to the produce like storage, primary
value addition and such other services in the food value chain including
marketing linkages to organised retailers, processors, exporters, futures or
option trading;(zl)"services contract purchaser" means a person who has
entered into post-harvest management and marketing services contract under
this Act.

## Chapter II  
Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Authority

### 3. Establishment and incorporation of Contract Farming and Services
(Promotion and Facilitation) Authority.

(1)With effect on and from such date as the Government may, by notification,
specify in this behalf, there shall be established an Authority to be called
the Tamil Nadu State Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and
Facilitation) Authority, to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform
the functions assigned to it by or under this Act.(2)The Authority shall be a
body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with powers to
acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to
contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued.(3)The head quarters of
the Authority shall be at Chennai and the Authority may also establish its
offices at other places in the State.

### 4. Composition of the Authority.

(1)The Authority shall consist of,-(a)a Chairperson to be appointed by the
Government, from amongst the persons holding the post of Agricultural
Production Commissioner or Secretary to Government, Agriculture
department;(b)five ex-officio members, namely:-(i)Commissioner or Director,
Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business as Member Secretary;(ii)the
Commissioner or Director of Agriculture;(iii)the Commissioner or Director of
Horticulture and Plantation Crops;(iv)the Commissioner or Director of Animal
Husbandry and Veterinary Services; and(v)Joint Commissioner of Revenue
Administration(c)two members to be nominated by the Government to represent
the Food Processors or Exporters or Bulk contract farming purchasers linked
with retail chain, as non- official members;(d)two members to be nominated by
the Government, to represent the farmers or farmers groups or association, by
whatever name it is called, as non-official members;(e)an expert in
Agricultural Economics nominated by the Government:Provided that no person
shall be nominated as a non-official member more than twice.(2)One amongst the
chairperson and members of the Authority shall be a woman.(3)The Commissioner
or Director, Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business shall be the Chief
Executive Officer and have administrative control over the employees of the
Authority.

### 5. Term of office and conditions of service of the Chairperson and
members.

(1)(a)The Chairperson shall cease to hold office as soon as he vacates the
office of the Agricultural Production Commissioner or Secretary to Government,
as the case may be.(b)Every ex-officio member shall cease to be a member of
the Authority as soon as he vacates the office by virtue of which he is a
member of the Authority.(2)(a)The term of office of a non-official member of
the Authority shall be for three years:Provided that he shall cease to hold
office if he completes the age of sixty-five years.(b)A non-official member of
the Authority shall hold office at the pleasure of the Government and the
Government may, if they deem fit, remove him before expiry of the term of
office:Provided that no non-official member shall be removed from office,
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 6. Allowances to non-official members.

\- The non-official members of the Authority shall be paid from the fund,
sitting fee and allowances as may be prescribed for attending its meeting or
any other work as may be assigned to them by the Chairperson or the
Government.

### 7. Meetings of Authority, its proceedings and quorum.

(1)The Authority shall meet for the transaction of its business at least once
in two months on such date and at such time, as the Chairperson may
determine:Provided that the Authority may, in special circumstances meet at
any time and at any place in the State, as may be determined by the
Chairperson.(2)The Chairperson may, in his absence by reason of leave or
illness or for any other reason, authorise any of the other member of the
Authority to function as the Chairperson and the member so authorised, shall
preside over its meeting. In case of vacancy of Chairperson arising out of
suspension, resignation, dismissal or death, the Government shall nominate any
other member of the Authority to function as the Chairperson till such time a
regular incumbent assumes the office.(3)The member so authorised or nominated
to discharge the functions and powers of the Chairperson under sub-section (2)
shall not be entitled to any compensation, allowances or facility in addition
to what he would be entitled to as a member.(4)Not less than half of the total
number of members of the Authority shall form the quorum for transacting the
business at the meeting of the Authority.(5)All questions which come up before
any meeting of the Authority shall be decided by a majority of the members
present, and in the event of a tie, the Chairperson, or the person presiding
the meeting shall have the second or casting vote.

### 8. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Authority.

\- No act or proceeding of the Authority shall be invalid merely by reason
of,-(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Authority;
or(b)any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a member of the
Authority; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the Authority not
affecting the merits of the case.

### 9. Officers and employees of Authority.

(1)The Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and employees
as may be necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions under this
Act.(2)The terms and conditions of service of officers and employees of the
Authority appointed under sub-section (1) shall be governed by the regulations
to be approved by the Government.

## Chapter III  
Powers and Functions of Authority and its Chairperson

### 10. Powers and functions of Authority.

(1)It shall be the duty of the Authority to ensure proper implementation of
this Act and to make suggestions to the Government for promotion and better
performance of contract farming. For this purpose the Authority
shall,-(a)entertain and dispose of appeal under section 29;(b)take suo-motu
notice of failure to perform as per agreement and refer such cases for taking
decision to the Dispute Settlement Committee or the Authority itself may pass
such orders, as it may deem fit;(c)carry out inspection of offices entrusted
with the task of contract farming, service contract and such other contracts
and also the office of the Dispute Settlement Committee;(d)recommend changes
in procedures for contract farming which will make the contract farming more
transparent, easier and successful;(e)categorise the produce and place in the
Schedule under section 13 and also add or delete the produce from the
Schedule; and(f)issue general instructions, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act for the guidance of the Dispute Settlement
Committee.(2)Where the Authority is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds to inquire into a matter arising out of the provisions of this Act, it
may, suo-motu, initiate an inquiry in respect thereof.(3)The Authority shall,
while inquiring into any matter under this section, have the same powers as
are vested in a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, (Central Act V of 1908) in respect of the following matters,
namely:-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of persons, compelling them
to give oral or written evidence on oath and producing documents or
things;(b)requiring the discovery and inspection of documents;(c)receiving
evidence on affidavits;(d)requisitioning any public records or copies thereof
from any court or office;(e)issuing summons for examination of witness or
documents; and(f)any other matter which may be prescribed.(4)The Authority
shall ensure that not less than twenty five percent of the total annual
facilitation fee collected under section 21 is spent on promotion of contract
farming like training, engaging specialists for formulation of grade
standards, research and other like activities.(5)Every year, the Authority
shall also prepare,-(a)a general report covering all the activities of the
Authority in the previous year;(b)programmes of work;(c)the annual accounts of
the previous year; and(d)the Budget for the coming year clearly indicating the
probable revenue including grants from the Government, if any, and expenditure
to constitute the fund under section 32.(6)The Authority shall forward the
general report and the programmes to the Government and also publish it.(7)The
Authority shall approve its financial expenditure for the contract farming in
the State as well as for the day to day activities of the Authority and report
the same to the Government.(8)The Authority may prepare and undertake
extensive and periodical publicity programmes to publicise contract farming
and upgrade skill, knowledge among farmers with focus on youth and women
processors and such other stakeholders.(9)The Authority as a neutral
facilitator shall foster a dialogue between contract farming producers and
purchasers, by organising joint meetings and workshops, to discuss contractual
terms, their duties, obligations and also doubts, apprehensions and
misconceptions, if any, and suggest appropriate remedies.(10)The Authority may
endeavour to popularise the contracted product under this Act in domestic and
overseas markets as brand of contract farming produce.(11)The Authority may
maintain suitably designed Management Information System (MIS) of contract
farming operations in the State.(12)The Authority may, on its own or by
engaging experts, formulate grade standards for produce to be contracted
upon.(13)The Authority may also represent in the meetings or workshops of
farmers or farmer producer organisations, organised by purchaser to facilitate
them to understand the contracts under this Act, the relevant law and other
things incidental thereto.

### 11. Powers and functions of Chairperson.

(1)The Chairperson shall have powers of general superintendence and direction
in the conduct of the affairs of the Authority. The Chairperson shall preside
over the meetings of the Authority as well as exercise and discharge the
powers and functions of the Authority vested in him in accordance with the
rules framed under this Act.(2)The Chairperson shall also be responsible
for,-(a)the day-to-day administration of the Authority;(b)drawing up of
proposal for the Authority's work programmes in the State;(c)implementing the
work programmes and decisions adopted by the Authority;(d)ensuring that the
Authority carries out its tasks in accordance with the requirements of its
users, in particular with regard to the adequacy of the services provided and
the time taken;(e)the preparation of the statement of revenue and expenditure
and the execution of the budget of the Authority; and(f)any other activity as
may be necessary to carry out the affairs of the Authority in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)In case of absence
of the Chairperson or vacancy in the office of the Chairperson, the member, so
authorised or nominated, under section 7, shall perform the functions and
exercise the powers vested in the Chairperson.

## Chapter IV  
Registration, Recording of Agreement and Facilitative Framework

### 12. Registration of Purchaser and Recording of Agreement.

(1)Every purchaser shall be registered and agreement recorded in such manner
as may be prescribed and no such agreement shall be valid under this Act
unless the purchaser is so registered and agreement recorded with the
designated Registering and Agreement Recording Officer.(2)The Government shall
designate such number of officers not below Group 'B' from the Department of
Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, as may be necessary, called as
Designated Officers to exercise the powers and to perform the functions
assigned to them under this Act.(3)The Designated Officer shall facilitate
registration of purchaser and recording of agreement, as may be
prescribed.(4)The purchaser, shall digitally register and get its agreement
recorded with the Designated Officer of the jurisdiction within which the
produce is to be grown or raised, as the case may be, in such form and in such
manner with a requisite fee, as may be prescribed, and for such period as
specified in section 17:Provided that if the produce is partly or fully grown
or raised in jurisdictions of more than one Designated Officer, the purchaser
shall digitally register and get its agreement recorded with any one of the
officer who in turn shall forward the same to the concerned Designated
Officers, considering it a single point registration and agreement
recording.(5)There may be more than one agreement as per categorisation of
produce under section 13. The agreement shall be prepared in local language
clearly understandable to the contract farming producer and shall be in such
legally acceptable form containing such particulars and terms and conditions,
as may be specified in the rules.(6)The contract farming producer may enter
into contract with one purchaser or with multiple purchasers without any
overlap of same produce.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for
the time being in force, agreement under this Act shall be made on one legal
stamp paper only in denomination of rupees one hundred or in denomination as
required in the law.(8)The farmer producer organisation may, on behalf of
farmers on being so authorised, be a party to the contract.(9)While recording
the agreement, the Registering and Agreement Recording Officer shall ensure
that the title of land is, as reflected in latest record of rights.

### 13. Produce under Contract Farming.

(1)Considering the significance of a produce for the purpose of contract
farming and services contract under this Act, the contracting parties may
mutually decide the name of a produce mentioned in the Schedule and the said
produce shall be mentioned in the agreement:Provided further that if the said
produce is not categorised and mentioned in the Schedule, contracting parties
shall be free to mutually decide the pre-agreed price and the sale-purchase
price, mention the same in the agreement.(2)The Authority may, based on varied
factors such as price volatility or other such criteria, as may be prescribed
in the rules, recommend for inclusion or exclusion of a produce in the
Schedule to the Government, so as to guide the contracting parties to
benchmark the pre-agreed price and the sale-purchase price. The Government
may, by notification on the recommendation of the Authority may add, delete
the produce from Schedule or alter its categorisation, as it deems fit.

### 14. Support to agricultural production and rearing of livestock.

(1)The contract farming producer may get support from the contract farming
purchaser for improving production and productivity by way of inputs, feed and
fodder, technology and other services related thereto as specified in the
agreement.(2)The latitude of the contract under the Act may include
holistically from pre-production to post-production or any components thereof
with all terms and conditions, mentioned in the agreement, not inconsistent
with this Act.(3)Farmer-producers organisations or farmer producer companies
shall be promoted among small and marginal farmers and such other farmers
engaged in rearing of livestock for scale of economy in production and post-
production activities.(4)There shall be a contract farming facilitation group
at the village panchayat level for every contract, comprising the members, as
may be prescribed, to facilitate in selection of inputs, good agriculture
practices, sorting, grading, packing and delivery of produce and such other
production and post-production activities of contracted produce. The contract
farming facilitation group may comprise of,-(a)representative of contract
farming producers or group thereof;(b)representative of
purchasers;(c)technical expert to be engaged by purchaser;(d)jurisdictional
officer prescribed by the Government.(5)Save as provided in sub-sections (1)
and (2), farmer or farmer producer organisation or farmer producer company may
also enter into services contract or any other such contract with service
contract purchaser or such other purchaser, as may be prescribed and specified
in the agreement, not inconsistent with this Act and rules made thereunder.

### 15. Purchaser prohibited from raising permanent structure on producers'
land or premises.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement, the purchaser is
prohibited from raising any permanent structure or creating any kind of
leasehold rights or any kind of charge of whatever nature on the land of the
contract farming producer:Provided that any kind of temporary structure shall
be raised as agreed upon in the agreement which is related to production
process of produce or its marketing and shall be removed before the expiry of
the agreement, if not removed, then its ownership shall vest in the contract
farming producer, after the expiry of the agreement.

### 16. No title, rights, ownership or possession shall be transferred or
alienated or vest in the purchaser etc.,.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement, no title, rights or
interest, ownership or possession of land or premises or other such property
shall be transferred or alienated or vested in the purchaser or his successor
or his agent, as the case may be, as a consequence arising out of the
agreement. As a corollary to this, no charge, whatsoever, on the land of the
contract farming producer shall be validly created by any act or omission of
the contracting parties.

### 17. Object and period of agreement.

(1)The agreement shall be made by the contract farming purchaser exclusively
for the purchase of the produce and may include production activities like
supply of material inputs, land use, the advice or any other activity related
thereto as specified in the agreement.(2)The minimum period of the agreement
shall be for one crop season or one production cycle of contracted produce and
further continuance subject to renewal thereafter, as mutually decided by the
contract farming producer and contract farming purchaser and mentioned in the
agreement:Provided that in case of multiple produce contract, the produce with
more than one year production cycle may have separate agreements.(3)Save as
otherwise provided in sub-section (1), there may be a services contract for
the period as may be mutually agreed by the contracting parties, not exceeding
five years and renewable thereafter.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-sections (1) and (3), contract farming producer, the lessor, may lease out
his agricultural land or premises to the contract farming purchaser, the
lessee under this Act, not inconsistent with any other law for the time being
in force.

### 18. Quality grade standards.

(1)The contracting parties may, considering the channel of outlet, end use,
agronomic practices, agro-climate and such other factors, also work out
mutually acceptable quality grade standards or adopt any such standards
formulated by an agency of the State or Commission for Agriculture Costs and
Prices of Government of India or any other agency authorised by the Authority,
mentioned in the agreement, to execute the sale-purchase.(2)Save as provided
under sub-section (1), the Authority may also formulate quality grade
standards for produce, for adoption by the contracting parties mentioned in
the agreement.(3)The quality grade standards shall be categorised
into,-(i)premium quality;(ii)fair average quality; and(iii)below fair average
quality.(4)While identifying and defining quality parameters and their values,
generic and specific use of the produce shall be taken into
consideration.Explanation. - In case of contract farming for seed production,
genetic purity, germination percentage, viability, and other like activities,
as the case may be in the contract, may be important parameters.

### 19. Principles to determine pre-agreed price for produce.

\- To provide reasonable protection to the contract farming producer, the pre-
agreed price, category wise as under section 13 shall be determined in
accordance with the guiding criteria as may be prescribed in the rules and
mentioned in the agreement.

### 20. Principles to determine sale-purchase price of produce.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, there shall be sale price, mentioned in the contract,
determined in accordance with the guiding criteria as may be prescribed in the
rules.

### 21. Levy of facilitation fee.

\- The Authority shall levy and collect facilitation fee from the purchaser,
in respect of contracted produce, at such nominal rate, as may be notified,
but not exceeding 0.10 percent advalorem on contracted produce:Provided that
the Government may, in consultation with the Authority, exempt levy of
facilitation fee at initial stage of implementation of the Act, as they deem
fit, or at any time in the course on any or all contracted produce.

### 22. Sale-purchase of produce.

(1)The contracted produce, livestock and its product shall be outside the
ambit of the regulation of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1989).(2)The contract farming
purchaser shall buy the entire pre-agreed quantity of one or more produce of
the contract farming producer,-(a)in case, production support under section 14
has been provided for the contract, the contract farming purchaser shall buy
the pre-agreed quantity of the produce at pre-agreed rate, as may be
prescribed, considering the quantity to be at par with fair average quality,
owning responsibility of maintaining the quality. The contract farming
purchaser shall also buy the rest of the pre-agreed quantity at a rate
mutually acceptable to both the parties but not lower than the fixed
percentage of the price as may be prescribed, payable for fair average
quality, as provided in the agreement:Provided that below fair average quality
produce may be bought by other buyers for its or their specific purposes as
under section 24 and as mentioned in the agreement;(b)in case of contract only
for buying, the contract farming purchaser shall buy the pre-agreed quantity
at pre-agreed rate to the extent, commensurate to fair average quality, as
mentioned in the agreement. The contract farming purchaser shall also buy the
rest of the produce over and above the pre-agreed quantity at a rate mutually
acceptable to both the parties.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Central Act 10 of 1955) and Control Orders
issued thereunder and any other law for the time being in force, the provision
of stock limit shall not be applicable on such contract farming purchaser
purchasing produce for trade or processing or export to the extent of quantity
purchased under contract farming.(4)Only electronic weighing instruments or
other such instruments, which also satisfy the requirements of such weights
and measures as are prescribed by the Standards of Weights and Measures Act,
1976 (Central Act 60 of 1976) and the rules made thereunder, or any other
provision of law in force for such purpose, shall be used for weighing or
measuring produce.(5)Weighing instruments, weights and measures to be used for
weighing or measuring of contracted produce under this section may at any time
be inspected, examined and checked by the Chairperson, ex-officio members of
the Authority or by any other authorised officer.(6)The contract farming
purchaser shall have to make all arrangements for purchase and provide
materials required for filling and weighing or measuring of the produce, in
advance, when the produce is to be taken by the contract farming producer for
delivery to the contract farming purchaser at the agreed place. The contract
farming purchaser shall also be responsible to make the weighment or
measurement immediately and after the weighment or measurement is over, shall
take the delivery of the produce, forthwith by issuing a receipt slip with the
details of sale proceeds, as may be prescribed.(7)The contract farming
purchaser shall be considered to have thoroughly inspected the produce at the
time of delivery and have no right to retract it.(8)The contract farming
purchaser shall make the payment to the contract farming producer of the value
of the produce delivered by the contract farming producer as agreed to in the
agreement, and the same shall be made through electronic clearance on the spot
or as per the terms laid down in the contract, not inconsistent with this Act
or the rules made thereunder:Provided that in case of seed and such other
produce where quality is to be assessed later on, payment of two-third of the
value of the produce is to be made at the time of delivery of the produce and
the remaining one-third of payment after assessment of the quality as
prescribed.(9)In case, payment is not made on the spot as per the terms of the
contract, as under sub-section (8), a penal interest as prescribed, shall be
levied for late payment upto thirty days. If the said payment is not made
within thirty days, it shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue with
interest as prescribed, till such time as it is recovered and paid to the
contract farming producer.

### 23. Insurance of Produce.

(1)The produce under contract farming shall be covered under production linked
agricultural insurance scheme in operation or such other scheme, as may be
prescribed.(2)Save as provided under sub-section (1), the produce under
contract farming may be covered under price or market linked insurance scheme
or any other such scheme, as and when it may come to be implemented by the
Central Government or the Government or any other agency.

### 24. Other parties to contract.

\- Save as otherwise provided in the Act, insurance company, banking
institution providing credit, agri-input supplier, knowledge partner, buy-back
buyer and other buyer intending to purchase the produce below fair average
quality may be parties to the contract, and their roles and services be
mentioned in the agreement.

### 25. Obligation of contracting parties.

\- The contracting parties shall either perform, or offer to perform, their
respective promises, unless such performance is dispensed with or excused as
under section 26, or of any other law for time being in force.

### 26. Alteration and termination of contract.

(1)On reasonable cause, the contracting parties may, in the course, alter or
terminate the contract with mutual consent and shall intimate the same to the
authority or the officer authorised in this behalf.(2)In the event of a force
majeure or the change in the policy of the Government, the affected
contracting party, to the extent of adverse impact, shall not be bound to
honour the contract and can accordingly alter the terms with mutual consent or
terminate the contract, with the approval of the Authority or the officer
authorised in this behalf.

## Chapter V  
Dispute Settlement, Appeal and Fine

### 27. Negotiation or third party mediation or conciliation.

(1)In case of any dispute arising out of an agreement made in conformity to
this Act, the parties to the contract may seek a mutually acceptable solution
through the process of negotiation or through third party mediation or
conciliation in the manner, as may be prescribed.(2)The contracting parties
may mutually identify the conciliator or mediator in the manner as specified
in the agreement.

### 28. Dispute Settlement Committee.

(1)The Government may, by notification, constitute a Dispute Settlement
Committee, comprising an officer in-charge of Revenue Sub-division of the
District concerned as the Chairman and three Members, one each representing
farmers or farmer producer organisations, agro-industry representatives and a
domain expert.(2)Failing to reach a mutually acceptable solution under section
27, the aggrieved party may refer the dispute to the designated Dispute
Settlement Committee.(3)The Dispute Settlement Committee shall resolve the
dispute democratically by the majority present, and in the event of tie, the
Presiding Officer shall have a second or casting vote.(4)The Dispute
Settlement Committee shall resolve the dispute in summary manner within thirty
days, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)The
decision of the Dispute Settlement Committee under sub-section (3), shall have
the force of a decree of a civil court and shall be enforceable as such, and
the decretal amount shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.

### 29. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by the order passed under section 28 may prefer appeal
to the District Collector in such manner as may be prescribed, in this behalf,
within fifteen days or within thirty days by submitting reasons for delay, if
any, from the date of receipt of the order. The District Collector shall
dispose of the appeal within thirty days from the date of preferring the
appeal, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.(2)The decision of the District Collector in the appeal shall have the
force of a decree of a civil court and shall be enforceable as such and the
decretal amount shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.(3)Any person
aggrieved by the order passed under sub-section (1) above may make an
application to the Authority for appeal, in the manner as may be prescribed,
within fifteen days or within thirty days by submitting reasons for delay, if
any, from the date of receipt of the order. The Authority shall dispose of the
appeal within thirty days from the date of making the application after giving
the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard and the decision of the
Authority shall be final:Provided that the purchaser and contract farming
producer, while making an application for appeal shall have to deposit with
the Authority, an amount equal to twenty per cent and ten per cent,
respectively, of the amount as decided by the Dispute Settlement Committee
under section 28. If the Authority dismisses the appeal, the Authority shall
forthwith transfer the twenty per cent or ten per cent, as the case may be,
deposited with it and the balance amount be paid by the petitioner within
fifteen days to the beneficiary, and if not complied with, it shall be
recovered as an arrear of land revenue.(4)The decision of the Authority in the
appeal shall have the force of a decree of a civil court and shall be
enforceable as such and the decretal amount shall be recovered as an arrear of
land revenue.

### 30. Fine.

(1)The purchaser and the contract farming producer shall, on contravention or
breach of contract made under thisAct, in addition to un-liquidated damages,
or compensation and liquidated damages, be liable to pay a fine of not
exceeding fifteen thousand rupees and one thousand five hundred rupees,
respectively, as may be prescribed.(2)The damages, compensation and fine under
sub-section (1), shall be recovered from the purchaser and contract farming
producer as an arrear of land revenue.

### 31. Power of Government to supercede the Authority.

(1)If, at any time, the Government is of the opinion,-(a)that on account of
circumstances beyond the control of the Authority, it is unable to discharge
the functions or perform the duties imposed on it by or under the provisions
of this Act; or(b)that the Authority has persistently defaulted in complying
with any direction given by the Government under this Act or in the discharge
of the functions or performance of the duties imposed on it by or under the
provisions of this Act and as a result of such default, the financial position
of the Authority or the administrative function of the Authority has suffered;
or(c)that circumstances exist which render it necessary in the public interest
so to do; the Government may, by notification and for reasons to be specified
therein, supercede the Authority for such period not exceeding six months, as
may be specified in the notification, and appoint an Administrator or Board of
Administrators or any person, as it deems fit, to look after the functions of
the Authority during the period of its supersession:Provided that before
issuing any such notification, the Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Authority to make representations against the proposed
supersession and shall consider the representation, if any, of the
Authority.(2)Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1)
superceding the authority,-(a)the Chairperson and other members shall, as from
the date of supersession, be deemed to have vacated their offices;(b)all the
powers, functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions of this
Act, be exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Authority shall, until
the Authority is reconstituted be exercised by the Administrator or Board of
Administrators or by person appointed by the Government under sub-section (1);
and(c)all properties owned or controlled by the Authority shall, until the
Authority is reconstituted under sub-section (3), vest in the Government.(3)On
or before the expiration of the period of supersession specified in the
notification issued under sub-section (1), the Government shall reconstitute
the Authority by a fresh appointment of its Chairperson and other members, and
in such case, any person who had vacated his office under clause (a) of sub-
section (2) shall not be deemed to be disqualified for reappointment.(4)The
Government may cause a copy of the notification issued under sub-section (1)
and a full report of any action taken to be laid before the Legislative
Assembly as soon as may be after it is issued.(5)Notwithstanding anything
contained in any law or any contract or Memorandum or Articles of Association,
a person on removal, from office under this section, shall not be entitled to
claim any compensation for the loss or termination of office.

## Chapter VI  
Finance, Accounts and Audit

### 32. Grants by the Government constitution of fund and audit of accounts.

(1)The Government may, after due appropriation made by the State by law in
this behalf, make to the Authority grants of such sums of money, at the
initial stage, as may be prescribed, for being utilized for the purposes of
this Act.(2)There shall be constituted a fund to be called the Tamil Nadu
State Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Authority
Fund and shall be credited thereto,-(a)all grants provided by the Government,
fees received by the Authority;(b)all sums received by the Authority from such
other sources as may be decided upon by the Government;(c)all sums realised by
way of fine under this Act.(3)The fund shall be applied for meeting,-(a)the
salaries, allowances and other remuneration of the members, officers and other
employees of the Authority;(b)the other expenses of the Authority in
connection with the discharge of its functions and for the purposes of this
Act.(4)The Authority shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form and manner as may be
prescribed by the Government.(5)The accounts of the Authority shall be subject
to audit by an agency as the Government deems fit. The Authority may also make
arrangement for internal audit of accounts.(6)The Authority shall furnish to
the Government at such time and in such form and manner as may be prescribed,
or as the Government may direct, returns, statements and other particulars in
regard to any proposed or existing programme for the promotion and development
of contract farming and services, as the Government may, from time to time,
require.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 33. Submission of annual or periodical reports of accounts.

\- The purchaser shall submit reports of accounts in relation to agreement
entered into and executed for contract farming to the Designated Officer as
well as to the Authority, in such manner as may be prescribed.

### 34. Recovery of dues from any party to agreement.

\- If there is any due from any party to the agreement, it shall be recovered
as an arrear of land revenue.

### 35. Recovery of loans and advances given by the purchaser to the contract
farming producer.

\- The loans and advances given by the purchaser to the contract farming
producer can be recovered from sale proceeds of the produce in accordance with
the procedure and manner as may be prescribed and in no case, be realised by
way of sale or mortgage or lease of the land regarding which the agreement has
been entered into.

### 36. Power to order production of accounts and powers of entry, inspection
and search.

(1)Any officer empowered by the Authority in this behalf may, for the purposes
of this Act, ask the purchaser to produce the accounts and other documents and
to furnish any information relating to the stock of the contracted produce or
purchase, sale, storage and processing thereof; and also to furnish any other
information relating to the payment to the contract farming producer under
this Act.(2)All accounts and registers maintained by the purchaser and
documents relating to the stock of produce or purchase, sale, storage and
processing of such contracted produce in possession and the office,
establishment, godown or vehicle of such person shall be open to inspection at
all reasonable times, by such officer authorised in this behalf.(3)For the
purpose of sub-section (2), such officer may enter and search any place of
business, warehouse, office, establishment, godown or vehicle where there is
sufficient reason to believe that such person keeps, or is for the time being
keeping, any accounts, registers, documents or stock of the business.(4)The
provisions of section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (Central
Act 2 of 1974) shall, so far as may be, apply to a search under sub-section
(3).

### 37. The Chairperson and the members or employees of the Authority to be
public servants.

\- The Chairperson, the ex-officio members and the employees of the Authority
shall, when acting or purporting to Act in pursuance of the provisions of this
Act, be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 38. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 39. Action taken by the Government on recommendations of Authority.

(1)The Government may consider the recommendations made by the Authority under
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 and send information to the
Authority of action taken within thirty days or such longer time as may be
decided in consultation with the Authority. In case the Government decides not
to implement any of the recommendations of the Authority, it shall communicate
its decision to the Authority with reasons thereof.(2)The Authority shall
prepare an annual report of the recommendations made by it under section 10
along with the action taken and reasons for not taking action, if any. The
Government shall cause a copy of this report to be laid on the table of the
Legislative Assembly of the State.

### 40. Power to give direction.

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Authority
shall, in exercise of its powers and performance of its functions under this
Act, be bound by such directions on questions of policy, other than those
relating to technical and administrative matters, as the Government may give
in writing to it from time to time:Provided that the Authority shall, as far
as practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views before any
direction is given under this sub-section.(2)The decision of the Government,
whether a question is one of policy or not, shall be final.

### 41. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question
which is by or under this Act required to be decided or dealt with by any
Authority or officer mentioned in this Act.

### 42. Delegation of powers.

\- The Government may, by notification, delegate all or any of the powers
vested in them under this Act or the rules made thereunder, except those
powers conferred upon them by sections 31, 40, 44 and 46 to any officer or
authority subject to such conditions and to such control and revision by the
Government or by such authority as may be specified in the notification and in
the like manner withdraw any power so delegated.

### 43. Act to have overriding effect.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law made by the legislature of
the State for the time being in force.

### 44. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any
of the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing powers, the Government may make rules relating to
the matters which may be or is required to be prescribed by rules.(3)(a)All
rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day
shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(b)All
notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come
into force on a particular day, come into force on the date on which they are
so published.(4)Every rule made or notification or order issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in
any such rule or notification or order or the Assembly decides that the rule
or notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however that any such modification
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification or order.

### 45. Power to make Regulations.

(1)The Authority may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the
rules made thereunder.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the
following matters:-(a)summoning and holding of meetings of the
Authority;(b)powers and duties of the officers and other employees of the
Authority;(c)management of the property of the Authority;(d)maintenance of
accounts and the preparation of balance sheet by the(e)procedure for carrying
out the functions of the Authority under this Act; and(f)any other matter
which is to be, or may be provided in the regulations.

### 46. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order, make provisions or give such directions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to it to be
necessary or expedient for the removal of the difficulties:Provided that no
such order shall be issued after the expiry of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.

### 47. Savings.

\- Nothing herein contained shall affect the provisions of any Statue, Act or
Regulation not hereby expressly repealed, nor any usage of or customs of
trade, nor any incident or any contract, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act.The Schedule[See sections 10(1)(e), 13(1) and (2)]

Class of agricultural produce | Name of agricultural produce  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
I. Cereals | 1\. Paddy.  
| 2\. Rice in all forms.  
| 3\. Wheat in all forms.  
| 4\. Cholam (Jowar) in all forms.  
| 5\. Cumbu (Bajra) in all forms.  
| 6\. Ragi in all forms.  
| 7\. Maize in all forms.  
| 8\. Thina.  
| 9\. Kudiraivali.  
| 10\. Varagu.  
| 11\. Samai.  
II. Pulses | 1\. Redgram (Thuvarai) in all forms.  
| 2\. Blackgram (Ulundu) in all forms.  
| 3\. Greengram (Pachaipairu) in all forms.  
| 4\. Bengalgram (Kondakadalai) in all forms.  
| 5\. Peas (Pattani) in all forms.  
| 6\. Lab (Mochai) in all forms.  
| 7\. Cowpea (Karamani) in all forms.  
| 8\. Soya Beans in all forms.  
| 9\. Horsegram (Kollu) in all forms.  
III. Oil seeds | 1\. Groundnut (Pods and Kernals) whole or split.  
| 2\. Gingelly or Seasamum seed or Ellu.  
| 3\. Castor (Pods or seeds).  
| 4\. Sunflower seeds or Kernals.  
| 5\. Coconut (in all forms except tender coconut).  
| 6\. Cotton seed.  
| 7\. Mustard (Kadugu) seeds.  
| 8\. Niger seeds.  
| 9\. Neem seeds.  
| 10\. Pungam seeds.  
IV. Fibres | 1\. Cotton (Kapas, lint, waste).  
| 2\. Coconut coir.  
V. Vegetables | 1\. Brinjal  
| 2\. Bhendi.  
| 3\. Potato.  
| 4\. Onion.  
|  5\. Gourds (Snake gourd or Pudalai, Bitter gourd or Pagal,Bottle gourd or
Surai, Pumpkin or Parangikai, Ribbed gourd orPeerkankai, Ash gourd or
Pusanikai).  
| 6\. Tomato.  
| 7\. Moringa (Murungai).  
| 8\. Greens (Keeraigal).  
| 9\. Green chillies.  
| 10\. Yams (all kinds).  
| 11\. Lab Avarai.  
| 12\. Cabbage.  
| 13\. Cauliflower.  
| 14\. Radish (all kinds).  
| 15\. Carrot.  
| 16\. Beans (all kinds).  
| 17\. Sweet Potato.  
| 18\. Green Banana (Valaikkai).  
| 19\. Chow Chow.  
| 20\. Kari leaf (Karuveppilai).  
| 21\. Knol-khol.  
| 22\. Turnip.  
| 23\. Green peas.  
| 24\. Cluster beans (Kothavarakai).  
| 25\. Beetroot.  
| 26\. Agathi.  
| 27\. Green Mango (Mongai in all kinds).  
VI. Fruits | 1\. Banana.  
| 2\. Mango.  
| 3\. Guava.  
| 4\. Grapes (Kodimundhari).  
|  5\. Citrus (Sathugudi, Loose Jacket Orange, Lime, Lemon andGrape).  
| 6\. Pomegranate (Mathulai).  
| 7\. Jack.  
| 8\. Melons.  
| 9\. Pine Apple.  
| 10\. Apple.  
| 11\. Pears.  
| 12\. Plums.  
| 13\. Papaya.  
| 14\. Sapota (Chikoo).  
| 15\. Cucumber.  
VII. Drugs and Narcotics | Tobacco in all forms.  
VIII. Tubers | Tapioca-tubers, tapioca chips, tapioca flour, tapioca starch.  
IX. Condiments and spices | 1\. Chillies or red chillies.  
| 2\. Garlic.  
| 3\. Turmeric in all forms.  
| 4\. Coriander (Dhania seeds).  
| 5\. Cardamom.  
| 6\. Arecanut (Whole or splits).  
| 7\. Tamarind in all forms.  
| 8\. Cashewnuts in all forms.  
| 9\. Ginger in all forms.  
| 10\. Betal leaves or Vetrilai.  
X. Animal husbandry products | 1\. Butter.  
| 2\. Cattle.  
| 3\. Eggs.  
| 4\. Ghee.  
| 5\. Goat.  
| 6\. Hides and Skins.  
| 7\. Milk.  
| 8\. Pig.  
| 9\. Poultry.  
| 10\. Sheep.  
| 11\. Wool.  
XI. Apiculture | Honey.  
XII. Pisciculture | Fish.  
XIII.Forest products | 1\. Bamboo.  
| 2\. Bidi leaves.  
| 3\. Lac.  
| 4\. Gum.  
| 5\. Kadukai (Myrobalan) (gali nut).  
XIV. Sericulture | 1\. Cocoons.  
| 2\. Silk yarn.  
XV. Silviculture | 1\. Tree species used as a raw material in industries  
XVI. Miscellaneous | 1\. Sugarcane Jaggery in all forms.  
| 2\. Palmgur Jaggery in all forms.  
|  3\. Raw rubber in all forms, pale latex crepe sole crepe andcentrifuged
latex rubber, Manufacturers Association grades onrubber sheets and estates
brown crepe grades.

