## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Issue and Disposal of Audit Reports of Panchayat
Union Council and District Panchayat) Rules, 2000

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Issue and Disposal of Audit Reports of Panchayat
Union Council and District Panchayat) Rules, 2000

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-ISSUE-AND-DISPOSAL-OF-AUDIT-REPORTS-OF-
PANCHAYAT-UNION-COUNCIL-AND-DISTRICT-PANCHAYAT-RULES-2000 of 2000

  * Published on 31 July 2000 
  * Commenced on 31 July 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Issue and Disposal of Audit Reports of Panchayat Union
Council and District Panchayat) Rules, 2000Published vide Notification No. G.
O. Ms. No. 199, Rural Development (C-4), dated 31st July 2000 - No.
SRO-A-64(b)/2000Published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st July 2000.In exercise of the
powers conferred under clause (xviii) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in
supersession of the rules relating to Issue and Disposal of Audit Reports of
Panchayat Union Councils, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Issue and Disposal of
Audit Reports of Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat) Rules, 2000.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Accounts and records to be produced to the Auditor.

\- The Commissioner of a Panchayat Union Council or Secretary of District
Panchayat, as the case may be, shall send all accounts and records of the
Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat to the auditor, appointed under
sub-section (1) of section 193 of the Act, as required by him and also to the
Accountant-General and his subordinate officers, whenever he or his
subordinate officers demand the production of records of a Panchayat Union
Council or District Panchayat.

### 4. Annual accounts.

\- The Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, shall finalise the
accounts of a year in respect of all funds, close all the relevant registers
and send the annual accounts to the auditor before the end of May of the year
following the year to which the accounts relate.

### 5. Audit of Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat Accounts.

(1)The auditor shall conduct the audit of accounts of the Panchayat Union
Council and District Panchayat every year, soon after the Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case maybe, submits the annual accounts for the previous
year in respect of all funds maintained by him concurrently as and when the
bills are passed for payment by the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may
be.(2)The auditor shall take up the audit of the accounts of the panchayat
union council or, district panchayat in his jurisdiction from the month of
June onwards and complete the audit of all such institutions, in his
jurisdiction within twelve months of the date of receipt of annual accounts by
him. If so, directed by the Government, the auditory shall take up concurrent
audit of the voucher of the Panchayat Union or District Panchayat soon after
payment is made and send audit slips after every voucher is audited by him
concurrently.

### 6. Powers of the auditors.

(1)The auditor may, by summons in writing, -(i)require the production of any
book, deed, contract account, voucher, receipt or other document, the perusal
or examination of which he considers necessary;(ii)require any person having
the custody or control of any such document or person accountable for it to
appear in person before him duly specifying the purpose of production;
and(iii)require any person so appearing to make and sign a declaration in
respect of such document or to answer any question or to prepare and furnish
any statement relating thereto.(2)Whoever fails to comply with any requisition
lawfully made upon him under this rule, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to one hundred rupees or in case of a continuing breach, with fine
not exceeding fifteen rupees for every day during which the breach continues
after conviction for the first breach.

### 7. Scrutiny of the records.

\- The auditor shall scrutinise every item of receipts and expenditure subject
to checks, prescribed in the audit manual and instructions issued by Rural
Development Department, from time to time, and find out whether the
Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, has conducted the financial
transactions of the institution in accordance with the Issue and Disposal of
Audit Reports of Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat rules and
orders laid down by Government, from time to time.

### 8. Preparation and finalisation of audit reports.

\- The auditor, during the course of audit, shall, either in annual audit or
concurrent audit, issue a copy of the draft of objection of any transaction,
which he considers, is not in accordance with the Issue and Disposal of Audit
Reports of Panchayat Union Council and District Panchayat rules and orders
laid down by Rural Development Department in Government, from time to time, to
the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, on getting his
acknowledgement. On receipt of such draft audit objection, the Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case may be, shall take effective action to set right the
defects pointed out therein and furnish replies to the auditor, as soon as
possible or before the audit is over, as to the nature of action taken for
setting right the objection and get his acknowledgement. The auditor shall be
bound to consider such replies received from the Commissioner or Secretary, as
the case may be, during the course of the audit and may either drop the draft
objection or modify the same based on the nature of replies received. At the
closure of the audit, the auditor shall compile all the draft audit objections
which remain unanswered properly from an audit report, present it, to the
Commissioner of Secretary, as the case may be, and obtain the dated signature
of the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, at the end of each page
of the audit report. The Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, while
signing in the audit report, shall write against each objection either
"accepted the objection mentioned in this para", or write "not accepted as the
objection lacks authority for the basis of the objection in this para". The
Assistant Director of Local Fund Audit, while scrutinising and reviewing the
draft audit report in the presence of the Commissioner or Secretary, as the
case may be, during local passing, shall examine the objections one by one,
discuss the contents of the objections with the Commissioner or Secretary, as
the case may be, endeavour to convince him as to the correctness of the basis
of the objections and finalise the audit report.In case, the Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case may be, is not convinced about the authority for the
basis of certain objections, the Assistant Director of Local Fund Audit shall
ask the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, to record his views
briefly on the objection and then add the same to the audit report. Such views
as recorded by the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, shall be
part of the audit report.

### 9. Review of audit report.

\- The reviewing authority, namely, the Assistant Director of Local Fund Audit
Department, shall not include any objection in the report for which draft
audit objection was not furnished to the Commissioner or Secretary, as the
case may be, previously in the draft stage and in such cases he shall look
into the transaction afresh and decide its proprietary for inclusion in the
audit report. In order to avoid such contingency, the Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case may be, shall ensure that the records and registers
requested in audit are produced systematically during the course of audit.

### 10. Contents of audit report.

\- The audit report shall contain, besides the names of the Commissioners or
Secretaries, as the case may be, who were in office during the period of
audit, the names of the engineers, the union overseers and other officers who
were also in office during the period of audit. In addition to these, the
names of officials who (other than Assistant) recommended payment for an item
of expenditure, which is objected to, at the stage prior to the approval by
the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, and in the case of loss of
revenue and in respect of the defects in the stores accounting, the name of
the officials including Assistants who are responsible for the loss of revenue
or for the maintenance of materials, accounts and custody of such stocks,
shall also be specified at the end of each objection, for facilitating the
fixing of proportionate and joint responsibility on the principle of
contributory negligence on the officials who are jointly or severally
responsible for an irregular or inadmissible expenditure incurred.

### 11. Sending of audit reports and special report on serious irregularities.

(1)The Assistant Director of Local Fund Audit shall send the audit report on
the accounts of a panchayat union council or district panchayat to the
Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, within thirty days of the
completion of audit by the subordinate auditors, send a copy of audit report
to the Assistant Director of Rural Development (Audit) of the district and to
the Inspector concerned. In addition to this, he shall also submit to the
Director of Local Fund Audit, copies of objections involving serious financial
and other persistent irregularities for further action, who may communicate
such of those audit objections which, in his opinion, are serious in nature,
to the Government for such action as may be found necessary.(2)The auditor
shall communicate copies of objections to the Commissioner or Secretary, as
the case may be, in whose period the expenditure in question, was incurred in
cases where it is considered that he is personally responsible for the
expenditure and obtain his acknowledgement. The personal responsibility shall
arise in a case where the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, has
taken an exceptional or different decision, departing from the office advice,
for incurring an expenditure which has given room for the objection or cannot
be recovered from the recipient legally. When the present Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case may be, can and has to take effective action to fix
responsibility and recover the amount either from the recipient of money
legally or from the officials who administratively tendered wrong advice, such
cases should not be considered as matters for which the past Commissioner or
Secretary, as the case may be, is personally responsible. In cases, where the
limitation of time stands in the way of lawful recovery of an objected
expenditure, only the officials who were in office, from the date of receipt
of audit report to the crucial date of time bar, shall be considered as
responsible for not initiating action for recovery before the date of time bar
and action shall be taken to fix responsibility for the reported loss, on the
principle of contributory negligence and joint responsibility.

### 12. Actions to be taken on audit objections.

(1)The Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, soon after the receipt
of audit report, shall initiate action and arrange to open one file for each
objections in the concerned branch or seat, pursue effective, speedy and
systematic action to settle the objections and furnish final replies to all
the objections raised. No audit file shall be closed before the receipt of
orders settling the objections contained therein. Wherever recovery orders are
required to be passed by the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be,
for recovering the amount for settlement of objections, such orders shall be
passed, immediately, by him after following the prescribed procedure. In
cases, where recovery orders have to be passed by an outside authority, the
Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, shall send proposals with all
relevant details to such authority who shall initiate action for issuing
recovery orders and pass final orders within two months of the receipt of the
proposal from the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, by having
recourse to the rules relating to the disciplinary action.(2)It shall be the
bounden duty of the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, and his
staff who are in office at the lime of receipt of audit report issued in
concurrent audit to take effective action to settle the audit objections. If
the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, in office considers that
any orders passed by the previous Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may
be, contrary to the office advice, is responsible for the objection in
question, he may address the Assistant Director of Rural Development (Audit)
concerned, for fixing up of responsibility on the person or persons concerned
adhering to the principles of joint responsibility and contributory negligence
and passing necessary recovery orders within a month from the date of receipt
of proposals by him. Suitable replies may, thereafter, be furnished to all
those objections.

### 13. Audit report to be placed before the panchayat union council or
district panchayat.

\- The Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, after preparing proper
and final replies to the objections, place the audit report and the replies to
the objections before the panchayat union council or district panchayat, as
the case may be, for discussion and suitable decision. He shall send the
replies, addressed to the auditor, in triplicate with a copy of the resolution
of the panchayat union council or district panchayat, as the case may be, to
the Inspector through the Assistant Director of Rural Development (Audit)
concerned, within two months from the date of receipt of audit report. The
Assistant Director of Rural Development (Audit) concerned shall scrutinise the
replies, offer his remarks as to the acceptability of replies or otherwise and
communicate the review to the Assistant Director of Local Fund Audit along
with a copy of replies received from the Commissioner or Secretary, as the
case may be, within fifteen days of the receipt of report. The Assistant
Director of Local Fund Audit concerned shall scrutinise the replies of the
Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, along with the remarks of the
Assistant Director (Audit) concerned, pass orders as to the dropping of the
objections or their continuance, pending further replies and communicate them
to the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be, within a month from the
date of receipt of report from the Assistant Director of Rural Development
(Audit) concerned.

### 14. Action for settlement of the audit objections.

\- No audit report shall be kept pending for more than two years from the date
of receipt of the report by the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be.
It shall be the responsibility of the Commissioner or Secretary, as the case
may be, to take action to settle audit objection by adopting such speedy and
effective measures as are necessary including recourse to recovery orders
wherever necessary. It is the responsibility of the Inspector concerned to
watch effective action at all levels, for the early settlement of the
objections and ensure closure of audit report within the period specified
above after the settlement of all objections.

### 15. Restriction for re-audit.

\- After the issue of an audit report on the accounts of the panchayat union
council or district panchayat, as the case may be, for a year, the audit of
the accounts for the year shall not be re-opened, save with the special orders
of the Government.

