## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951

## Act 20 of 1951

  * Published on 24 September 2011 
  * Commenced on 24 September 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 September 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951(Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1951)Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Madras Payment of Salaries and Removal of
Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1962 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1962). -
Sections 3, 4(1) and 5(1) of the Madras Payment of Salaries and Removal of
Disqualifications Act, 1951 (Madras Act XX of 1951) provides for the payment
to the Ministers, the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly and the Chairman of
the Legislative Council, of a house rent allowance of two hundred and fifty
rupees per mensem; but the house rent allowance is not payable to any
Minister, the Speaker or the Chairman if he occupies a house provided by the
State Government free of rent. Furniture and other amenities are also provided
in the residences of Ministers, the Speaker and the Chairman with reference to
executive orders issued by the State Government. It is proposed to amend the
Act so as to give statutory effect to the supply of such furniture and
providing of amenities.2\. Sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act provides
for the payment to the Chairman of the Legislative Council of a salary of one
thousand rupees per mensem, a house rent allowance of two hundred and fifty
rupees per mensem and a conveyance allowance of two hundred and fifty rupees
per mensem. But, the house rent allowance is not payable, if the Chairman
occupies a house provided by the State Government free of rent. Under section
7 of the Act, suitable conveyance is provided for the use of the Chairman
subject to such rules regarding its maintenance and repair as may be made by
the State Government. The Chairman is also entitled to travelling and daily
allowances under section 8 and with reference to the rules made under section
9 of the Act. According to section 9-A of the Act, while the office of Speaker
is vacant and the duties of the office are performed by the Deputy Speaker or
a Member of the Legislative Assembly, the Deputy Speaker or the Member shall,
during the period he so performs such duties, be paid salary and allowances of
the Speaker and be entitled to avail himself of the other privileges attached
to the office of the Speaker. It is proposed to make similar provision in the
Act in regard to the Deputy Chairman or a Member of the Legislative Council
appointed to perform the duties of the office of the Chairman as provided in
clause (1) of article 184 of the Constitution.3\. Under section 10 of the Act,
a Minister and the members of his family are entitled free of charge, to
accommodation in hospitals maintained by the State Government and also to
medical treatment, subject to such conditions as may be determined, by the
rules made by the State Government. It is proposed to extend to the Speaker
and the Chairman the facilities that are admissible to the Ministers under
section 10 of the Act.4\. The salary drawn by the Members of the State
Legislature is not treated as income for the grant of the following
educational concessions to their children: -(a) Educational concession under
rule 92 of the Madras Educational Rules;(b) Harijan Welfare Scholarships;
and(c) Educational concessions under the scheme of financial assistance to the
children of political sufferers.The concession mentioned above is already
availed of by the Members of the State Legislature with reference to the
executive orders of Government. It has been proposed that the salary drawn by
the Members of the Legislature need not be treated as income for the purpose
of affording the Members and their families medical attendance and treatment
in the medical institutions maintained by the State Government. As the
Government are advised that executive instructions regarding educational and
medical concessions will not be in order, it is proposed to make specific
provision in the Act for the purpose.5\. Section 14 of the Act empowers the
State Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. The
section does not provide, for the laying of the rules before the State
Legislature. The Committee on Subordinate Legislation has recommended that
provision should be made in all Acts for the placing of rules on the table of
both Houses of the Legislature. It is proposed to suitably amend section 14 of
the Act to give effect to the above recommendation.6\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th July 1962.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1973
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1973). - It has been decided that the Members of the
Legislature of this State should be allowed to travel free of cost in the
buses of the State Transport Department and of the Transport Corporations
owned by the Government till such time as they hold office as Members of the
Legislature,2\. As the grant of passes for free travel in the buses of the
State Transport Department and of the Transport Corporations is of a permanent
nature and the concession granted to the Members of the Legislature is of
considerable financial importance, the Accountant-General, Tamil Nadu, has
suggested that it would be more appropriate if suitable provision regarding
this concession is incorporated in the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act,
1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951). The Government have accepted the Accountant-
Generals suggestion and decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) by undertaking legislation.3\. This Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 3rd August
1973.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second
Amendment) Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1973). - Under section 7 of the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the
maintenance and repair of conveyances for the use of the Ministers, the
Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Leader of
the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the Opposition in
the Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly
and the Government Whip in the Legislative Council are governed by the rules
made by the State Government. It has been decided that the supply of petrol
for such conveyances may also be governed by the rules made by the State
Government. No conveyance allowance will be admissible to the Ministers,
Speaker, etc., and accordingly, it is proposed to omit references to
conveyance allowance admissible under the Act to the Ministers, Speaker,
etc.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 30th
November 1973.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989). - The Government
have decided to equate the salary of the post of Parliamentary Secretary to
that of the post of Deputy Speaker, Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and also
provide a car to the Parliamentary Secretary instead of the conveyance
allowance. The Government have also decided to omit the reference to Chief
Parliamentary Secretary in the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil
Nadu Act XX of 1951). The Government have further decided to stop payment of
pension with retrospective effect to an ex-legislator who ceases to be a
citizen of India or who has voluntarily acquired the citizenship of a foreign
State, or is under any acknowledgment of allegiance or adherence to a foreign
State.2\. To give effect to the above decisions, it has been proposed to amend
sections 6, 6-B, 7,10 and 12-B of the said Act, suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th April 1989.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act,
1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1989). - The Government have decided to increase
the salary of the Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary and the Leader of
the Opposition from Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 1,900 per mensem and also to increase the
compensatory allowance payable to the Members of the Legislative Assembly from
Rs. 500 to Rs. 700 per mensem. The Government have also decided that the above
increased pay and allowances shall be given with effect from the 1st June
1989.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in
Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 31st October 1989.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1990). - The Government
have decided to pay a lump sum allowance of Rs. 50,000 (Rupees fifty thousand
only) to the family of any member of the Legislative Assembly, who dies before
the expiry of the term of his office. The Government have also decided that
the payment of the said allowance shall be given with effect on and from the
27th January 1989.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 19th January 1990.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 37
of 1990). - The Government have decided to increase the pay and allowances of
Ministers including the Chief Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the
Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of the Opposition and members of the
Legislative Assembly as given below with effect from the 1st May 1990: -(a)
The salary given to Ministers including Chief Minister and the Speaker will be
enhanced from Rs. 2,100 to Rs. 3,000 per month;(b) The salary of the Deputy
Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary and the Leader of the Opposition will be
enhanced from Rs. 1,900 per month to Rs. 2,700 per month;(c) The salary of the
Members will be enhanced from Rs. 600 to 1,000 per month;(d) The compensatory
allowance given to the Members will be enhanced from Rs. 700 to Rs. 800 per
month;(e) The telephone allowance given to the members will be enhanced from
Rs. 450 to Rs. 700 per month;(f) Transit allowance given to the members will
be enhanced from Rs. 5,650 to Rs. 7,000 per annum;(g) Pension to former
Members of Legislature is increased from Rs. 300 to Rs. 500 at the maximum
subject to maximum pension of Rs. 1,000 instead of Rs. 600 per month;(h) The
Government have also decided to give financial assistance to every member of
the Legislative Assembly, including any such member who holds any of the
offices referred to in sections 3,4, 6 and 6A, who on prior intimation to the
State Government, undergoes surgery relating to heart, kidney or any other
part of the body, which the State Government may consider to be a major
surgery, in any hospital maintained by the Central Government, any State
Government or any Union Territory Administration or in any private hospitals
situated in the territory of India. To give effect to the above decisions it
has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 21st August 1990.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act
33 of 1992). - The Government have decided to grant "Constituency Allowance"
of rupees 250 per month for every member of the Legislative Assembly,
including nominated members, but excluding any such member who holds the
office of Minister, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, Chief
Government Whip or Leader of the Opposition, with effect from the 1st
September 1991.2\. It has also been decided to avail this opportunity to
delete or modify certain words which were not covered in the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.3\. To give effect to the above decisions, it
has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) suitably.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 21st April 1992.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
31 of 1994). - In pursuance of an assurance given by the then hon'ble Minister
for Education that a scheme for the benefit of the family members of a Member
of the Legislative Assembly who expired during the period as such Member will
be taken up in consultation with the Life Insurance Corporation of India. The
Government, in consultation with the Life Insurance Corporation, have decided
to introduce Group Insurance Scheme to the Members of the Legislative Assembly
including Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, Leader
of the Opposition and the Chief Government Whip by paying annual premium
amount fixed by the Life Insurance Corporation for such Group Insurance
Scheme. The Government have also decided to recover a token sum of Rs. 300 per
year from the salary of each member towards contribution to such Group
Insurance Scheme and if any Member relinquishes the whole of the salary or
allowance, then, the above token amount will not be recovered from such
Member.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in
Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 2nd May 1994.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1994). - The
Government have decided to increase the salary of Ministers including the
Chief Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition, the
Chief Government Whip and Members of the Legislative Assembly as given below,
with effect from the 1st April 1993.(a) The salary of Ministers, including
Chief Minister and the Speaker will be enhanced from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,500
per month.(b) The salary of the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition and
the Chief Government Whip will be enhanced from Rs. 2,700 to Rs. 3,200 per
month.(c) The salary of the Members of Legislative Assembly will be enhanced
from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,250 per month.2\. The Government have also decided to
grant "postal allowance" of Rs. 250 per mensem for every member of the
Legislative Assembly excluding any such member who holds the office of
Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, Chief Government
Whip or Leader of the Opposition with effect from the 1st April 1993.3\. To
give effect to the above decisions, it has become necessary to amend the Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) suitably.4\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 2nd
May 1994.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Third Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1994). - The Government have
decided to increase the salary of Ministers including the Chief Minister, the
Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition, the Chief Government
Whip and Members of the Legislative Assembly as given below with effect from
1st April 1994: -(a) The salary of Ministers including Chief Minister and the
Speaker will be enhanced from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 4,500 per month.(b) The salary
of the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition and the Chief Government Whip
will be enhanced from Rs. 3,200 to Rs. 4,000 per month.(c) The salary of the
Members of Legislative Assembly will be enhanced from Rs. 1,250 to Rs. 1,500
per month.2\. The Government have also decided to increase the compensatory
allowance from Rs. 800 per month to Rs. 1,000 per month, the constituency
allowance from Rs. 250 per month to Rs. 300 per month, and the postal
allowance from Rs. 250 per month to Rs. 350 per month for every member of the
Legislative Assembly excluding any such member who holds the office of
Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, Chief Government
Whip or Leader of the Opposition with effect from the 1st April 1994.3\. The
Government have also decided to increase the pension to the former members of
the Legislature from Rs. 500 per month to Rs. 700 per month subject to the
maximum Pension of Rs. 1,400 per month instead of Rs. 1,000 per month.4\. The
Government have also decided to provide one free non-transferable bus pass to
the former members of the Legislature which shall entitle them to travel at
any time within any part of the State of Tamil Nadu by any bus run or operated
by any Transport Corporation owned by the State Government.5\. To give effect
to the above decisions, it has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) suitably.6\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 4th
November 1994.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1995). - The Government
have decided to restrict a Member of the Legislative Assembly who possesses a
free railway pass issued by the Central Government or by any authority for
having been a Member of Parliament, from claiming transit by railway allowance
under section 12-A of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu
Act XX of 1951).2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 17th April 1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 22
of 1995). - According to section 8-A(3) of the Salary, Allowances and Pension
of Members of Parliament Act, 1954 (Central Act 30 of 1954), Ex-Members of
Parliament are eligible to receive pension as Ex-Members of Parliament in
addition to any other pension.2\. The Government have decided to make the
persons who have served as M. L. A.s or as M. L. C.s or as both, who are in
receipt of pension as Ex-Members of Parliament, also entitled to receive the
State Legislator's pension, in addition to the pension for having been a
Member of Parliament and to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably for the purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th April
1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Third
Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1995). - The Government have
decided to increase the salary of Ministers including the Chief Minister, the
Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition, the Chief Government
Whip and Members of the Legislative Assembly as given below with effect from
the 1st April 1995: -(a) The salary of Ministers including Chief Minister and
the Speaker will be enhanced from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 5,000 per mensem.(b) The
salary of the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition and the Chief
Government Whip will be enhanced from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 4,500 per mensem.(c)
The salary of the Members of Legislative Assembly will be enhanced from Rs.
1,500 to Rs. 1,700 per mensem.2\. The Government have also decided to increase
the Telephone allowance from Rs. 800 per mensem to Rs. 900 per mensem, the
constituency allowance from Rs. 300 per mensem to Rs. 400 per mensem, and the
postal allowance from Rs. 350 per mensem to Rs. 450 per mensem for every
member of the Legislative Assembly excluding any such member who holds the
office of Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, Chief
Government Whip or Leader of the Opposition with effect from the 1st April
1995.3\. The Government have also decided to increase the minimum pension to
the former members of the Legislature from Rs. 700 per mensem to Rs. 800 per
mensem subject to the maximum pension of Rs. 1,500 per mensem instead of Rs.
1,400 per mensem, and the additional pension from Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 per mensem
for every further period of one year exceeding five years.4\. To give effect
to the above decisions, it has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) suitably.5\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 3rd
November 1995.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1998). - The Government
have decided to increase the compensatory allowance of the Ministers including
Chief Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition
and the Chief Government Whip and to increase the telephone allowances, postal
allowance and the constituency allowance to members of the Legislative
Assembly as given below with effect from the 1st June 1998: -(a) The
compensatory allowance of the Ministers including Chief Minister, the Speaker,
the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition and the Chief Government Whip
will be enhanced from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per mensem.(b) The telephone
allowance of the Members of the Legislative Assembly will be enhanced from Rs.
1,250 to Rs. 1,750 per mensem.(c) Both the postal allowance and the
constituency allowance of the Members of the Legislative Assembly will be
enhanced from Rs. 625 to Rs. 875 per mensem.2\. The Government have also
decided to. -(a) enhance the lump sum allowance to the family of deceased
member from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1,00,000;(b) enhance the family allowance paid
to the family of a member, who dies before the expiry of his term of office
from Rs. 250 to Rs. 500 per mensem for the unexpired portion of his term of
office;(c) pay a sum of Rs. 2,000 as monthly pension to former members who had
served as members for a period less than one year;(d) enhance the monthly
pension to former members who had served as members for a period of more than
one year but below five years from Rs. 1,250 to Rs. 3,000 per mensem;(e)
enhance the maximum amount of pension payable to the members who have served
for a period exceeding five years from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 5,000 per mensem.3\.
To give effect to the above decisions, the Government have decided to amend
the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951),
suitably.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in
Part IV - Section of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated
the 23rd November 1998.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 2000). - The
Government have decided -(a) to sanction a consolidated allowance of Rs. 2,000
per mensem to every Member of the Legislative Assembly, who does not hold any
of the offices referred to in sections 3,4,6 and 6-A of the Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) towards the payment by such
Member, to an attendant who renders assistance to him;(b) to allot apartments
to Members of the Legislative Assembly by Government on collection of a rent
of rupees two hundred and fifty per mensem; and(c) to sanction a sum of Rs.
2,500 per mensem as family pension to the family of a Member of the
Legislative Assembly in the event of the demise of the Member before the
expiry of the term of his office.2\. The Government have decided to give
effect to the above decisions and to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951,
suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in
Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 11th November 2000.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2005 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 2005). - 1. The
Government have decided to, -(a) enhance the compensatory allowance payable to
-(i) the Chief Minister, each of the other Ministers, Speaker/Deputy Speaker,
Leader of the Opposition and Chief Government Whip from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 6,000
per mensem;(ii) each of the Members of the Legislative Assembly from Rs.3,500
to Rs. 4,000 per mensem;(b) enhance the salary of the Deputy Speaker, Leader
of the Opposition and Chief Government Whip from Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 7,000 per
mensem;(c) enhance the following allowances payable to each of the Members of
the Legislative Assembly per mensem; -(i) constituency allowance from Rs. 875
to Rs. 2,000;(ii) postal allowance from Rs. 875 to Rs. 1,500;(iii) allowances
to the family of the deceased Member who expired before the expiry of his
term, from Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000;(iv) telephone allowance from Rs. 2,750 to Rs.
4000;(v) consolidated allowance from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500.2\. Government
have also decided to sanction,. -(a) a contingency allowance to the Chief
Minister, each of the other Ministers and Speaker of Rs. 3,000 per mensem and
also Rs. 2,000 per mensem as constituency allowance;(b) a contingency
allowance to the Deputy Speaker, Leader of the Opposition and Chief Government
Whip of Rs. 2,500 per mensem and also Rs. 2,000 per mensem as constituency
allowance.3\. The Government have decided to enhance and sanction, as the case
may be, the aforesaid allowances and salary with effect from the 15th
September 2001.4\. The Government have also decided to enhance the pension to
the former members of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council
from Rs. 5,000 per mensem to Rs. 6,000 per mensem with effect from the 1st
April 2005.5\. To give effect to the above decisions, the Government have
decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act
XX of 1951), suitably.6\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd September 2005.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act
24 of 2006). - The Government have decided to enhance the family pension to
the family of the Members of the Legislative Assembly, who die before the
expiry of the term of their office, from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,000 per mensem
with effect from the 1st April 2005.2\. To give effect to the above decision,
it has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 17th August 2006.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2006 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 2006). - The Government have decided to enhance the
Compensatory Allowance from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 8,000 per mensem and Constituency
Allowance from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 4,000 per mensem to Hon'ble Speaker, Hon'ble
Ministers, Deputy Speaker, Leader of Opposition and Chief Government Whip with
effect from 1-9-2006. Similarly, it has been decided to enhance the
Compensatory Allowance from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 6,000 per mensem and Constituency
Allowance from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 4.000 per mensem to Members of Legislative
Assembly with effect from 1-9-2006.2\. To give effect to the above decisions,
it has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th December 2006.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act
31 of 2007). - The Government have decided to enhance,-(a) the pension from
Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 7,000 per mensem to the Ex-Members of the Legislative
Assembly or of the Legislative Council;(b) the Transit by Railway Allowance
from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000;(c) to enhance the pension from Rs. 3,000 to Rs.
4,000 per mensem to the Members of the Legislative Assembly or of the Council
who served less than one year; and(d) to enhance the family pension of Rs.
3,000 to Rs. 3,500 per mensem to the family of any Member of the Legislative
Assembly, who died on or after the 15th day of November 1996 and before the
expiry of the term of his office.2\. The Government have also decided to
sanction,. -(a) family pension of Rs. 3,000 per mensem to the families of Ex-
Members of Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council, who died before
1st April 1999; and(b) a vehicle allowance of Rs. 5,000 per mensem to the
members of the Legislative Assembly.3\. It has also been decided to provide
that whenever there is an increase in pension to the members of Legislative
Assembly, the family entitled to family pension under sub-section (2-B) of
section 12-B shall also be entitled to receive fifty per cent of such increase
in pension in addition to the existing family pension received by him.4\. The
Government have also decided to give effect to the above decisions with effect
from 1st April 2007.5\. To give effect to the above decisions, it has become
necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu
Act XX of 1951), suitably.6\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 19th October 2007.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act
6 of 2008). - The Government have decided to sanction family pension to the
family of the Member of the Legislative Assembly, who died before the 15th
November 1996 and before the expiry of the term of his office and to the
family of the Member of the Legislative Council, who died on or before the
31st October 1986 and before the expiry of the term of his office, at the rate
of Rs. 3,500 per mensem with effect from the 1st October 2007.2\. To give
effect to the above decision, it has become necessary to amend the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.3\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section
1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 1st February
2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008). - The Government have
decided to, -(a) enhance the salary of,-(i) the Chief Minister, each of the
other Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Leader of the Opposition and Chief
Government Whip from Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 per mensem;(ii) each of the
Members of the Legislative Assembly from Rs. 2.000 to Rs. 3,000 per mensem;(b)
enhance the compensatory allowance payable to - (i) the Chief Minister, each
of the other Ministers, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Leader of the Opposition and
Chief Government Whip from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per mensem;(ii) each of the
Members of the Legislative Assembly from Rs 6.000 to Rs. 7,000 per mensem;(c)
enhance the contingency allowance payable to - (i) the Chief Minister, each of
the other Ministers and Speaker from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 per mensem;(ii)
the Deputy Speaker, Leader of the Opposition and Chief Government Whip from
Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,500 per mensem;(d) enhance the constituency allowance
payable to - (i) the Chief Minister, each of the other Ministers, Speaker,
Deputy Speaker, Leader of the Opposition, Chief Government Whip and each of
the Members of the Legislative Assembly from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 per
mensem;(e) enhance the following allowances payable to each of the Members of
the Legislative Assembly per mensem: -(i) telephone allowance from Rs. 4,000
to Rs. 5,000;(ii) postal allowance from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,500;(f) enhance the
pension to the former Members of the Legislative Assembly or of the
Legislative Council or both who was holding office for one term from Rs. 7,000
to Rs. 8,000 per mensem;(g) enhance the family pension of Rs. 3,500 to Rs.
4,000 per mensem to the family of the deceased Member of Legislative Assembly
and Member of Legislative Council who died before the expiry of the term of
office.2\. The Government have also decided to enhance the aforesaid
allowances and salary with effect from 1st April 2008.3\. To give effect to
the above decisions, the Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.4\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV -
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 2nd
December 2008.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 2009). - In G. O. Ms. No.
467, Publish (Special.B) Department, dated 29-05-2009, His Excellency the
Governor has appointed Thriu M. K. Stalin, Minister of Rural Development and
Local Administration as Deputy Chief Minister with immediate effect.
Consequent on the appointment of Deputy Chief Minister in the said Government
Order, it is proposed to amend section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), so as to include the term "Deputy Chief
Minister" therein.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
proposal.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 20th July 2009.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2010 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
2010). - The Government have decided to,-(a) enhance the salary of each of the
Members of the Legislative Assembly from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 8,000 per mensem;(b)
enhance the vehicle allowance of each of the Members of the Legislative
Assembly from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000 per mensem;(c) enhance the pension to
the former Members of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council
from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per mensem;(d) remove the existing classification
in the matter of family pension paid in accordance with the period of services
rendered by the former members of the Legislature and to enhance the family
pension to the legal heirs of those former Members at a uniform rate of Rs.
5,000 per mensem;(e) to make eligible for accommodation free of charge and
also to provide medical treatment to the legal heirs of the deceased Members
of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council in the hospitals
maintained by the State Government.2\. The Government have also decided to
enhance the aforesaid allowances and salary with effect from 1st April
2009.3\. To give effect to the above decisions, the Government have decided to
amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of
1951), suitably.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 1 page 3 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th January 2010.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2011. - The
Government have decided to provide for sanction of pension to the family of
any person who had been or is a Member of Legislative Assembly or of the
Legislative Council or of both whose whereabouts are not known.2\. To give
effect to the above decision, the Government have decided to amend the Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951) suitably.3\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2012. - The
Government have decided to enhance, on and from the 1st day of September,
2011, - (a) the Constituency Allowance payable to the Chief Minister, each of
the other Ministers, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the
Opposition, the Chief Government Whip and each of the members of the
Legislative Assembly, from Rs. 5,000/- to Rs. 10,000/- per mensem; (b) the
pension payable to each of the former Members of the Legislative Assembly or
of the Legislative Council, from Rs.10,000/- to Rs.12,000/- per mensem; (c)
the family pension payable to the family of a deceased Member of the
Legislative Assembly or Member of the Legislative Council, from Rs.5,000/- to
Rs.6,000/- per mensem.2\. To give effect to the above decisions, the
Government have decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), suitably.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Received the assent of the Governor on the 10th September 1951
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary dated the
11th September 1951.An Act to provide for the salaries and allowances of
Ministers, the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary Secretaries,
Leader of the Opposition, Chief Government Whip and Members of the Legislative
Assembly.Whereas it is expedient to provide by an Act of the Legislature for
the salaries and allowances of Ministers, the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker,
Parliamentary Secretaries, Leader of the Opposition, Chief Government Whip and
Members of the Legislative Assembly.It is hereby enacted as follows: -

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act -(1)[Omitted] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987
(with effect from 1st November 1986).].(2)"Speaker" and "Deputy Speaker" means
the Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively of the Legislative Assembly.

### 3. Salaries and Allowances of Ministers.

\- [(1) There shall be paid to [the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu
Act 52 of 1997) (with effect from 1st April 1997).] and to each of the other
Ministers who are members of the Governor's Council of Ministers, a salary of
[eight thousand rupees per [mensem] [Substituted for 'seven thousand rupees
per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008
(Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).]] and, subject to such maximum limit, as may be
prescribed, a house rent of such sum per mensem as the Public Works Department
of the State Government may, from time to time, fix with reference to the
prevailing rate of rent for the house the Minister occupies in the City of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of
Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]; but the house rent shall not be
paid to any Minister if he occupies a house provided by the State Government
free of rent.](2)There shall be paid to [the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief
Minister] [Substituted for the expression 'the Chief Minister' by Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 2009).] and to
each of the other ministers who are members of the Governor's Council of
Ministers, a compensatory allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for 'eight thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).].(3)There
shall be paid to [the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister] [Substituted for
the expression 'the Chief Minister' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 2009).] and to each of the other
Ministers who are Members of the Governor's Council of Ministers. -(a)a
contingency allowance of [four thousand rupees per mensem] [Substituted for
'three thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second
Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).]; and(b)a constituency
allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem] [Substituted for 'five thousand
rupees per mensem' by Act No. 2 of 2012, dated. 9.2.2012, w.r.e.f. 1.9.2011.].

### 4. Salaries and Allowances of Speaker and Deputy Speaker.

(1)There shall be paid to the Speaker a salary of [eight thousand rupees per
mensem] [Substituted for 'seven thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).]
and, subject to such maximum limit, as may be prescribed, a house rent of such
sum per mensum as the Public Works Department of the State Government may,
from time to time, fix with reference to the prevailing rate of rent for the
house the Speaker occupies in the City of Chennai; but the house rent shall
not be paid to the Speaker if he occupies a house provided by the State
Government free of rent.(2)[ There shall be paid to the Deputy Speaker a
salary of [eight thousand rupees [per mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1979) (with effect from
1st April 1978).]] and, subject to such maximum limit as may be prescribed, a
house rent of such sum per mensem as the Public Works Department of the State
Government may, from time to time, fix with reference to the prevailing rate
of rent for the house the Deputy Speaker occupies in the City of Chennai; but
the house rent shall not be paid to the Deputy Speaker if he occupies a house
provided by the State Government free of rent.](3)[ There shall be paid to the
Speaker and Deputy Speaker, a compensatory allowance of [ten thousand rupees
per mensem.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil
Nadu Act 52 of 1997) (with effect from 1st April 1997)]](4)(a)There shall be
paid to the Speaker, -(i)a contingency allowance of [four thousand rupees per
mensem] [Substituted for 'three thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of
2008).]; and(ii)a constituency allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for 'five thousand rupees per mensem' by Act No. 2 of 2012, dated
9.2.2012, w.r.e.f. 1.9.2011.].(b)There shall be paid to the Deputy
Speaker,-(i)a contingency allowance of [three thousand and five hundred rupees
per mensem] [Substituted for 'two thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem'
by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act
47 of 2008).]; and(ii)a constituency allowance of [ten thousand rupees per
mensem] [Substituted for 'five thousand rupees per mensem' by Act No. 2 of
2012, dated 9.2.2012, w.r.e.f. 1.9.2011.].

### 5. [ [Omitted Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with effect
from 1st November 1986).]

\- ***]

### 6. [ Salaries, allowances of Parliamentary Secretary. [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989) (with
effect from 1st April 1986).]

\- (i) There shall be paid to each of the Parliamentary Secretaries a salary
of [two thousand and seven hundred rupees] per mensem'.[(1-A) There shall be
paid to each of the Parliamentary Secretaries [Subject to such maximum limit]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu
Act 38 of 1981) (with effect from 9th June 1980).], as may be prescribed, a
house rent of such sum per mensem as the Public Works Department of the State
Government may, from time to time, fix with reference to the prevailing rate
of rent for the house the Parliamentary Secretary occupies in the City of
Chennai; but the house rent shall not be paid [if he occupies a house provided
by the State Government] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989) (with effect from 1st April 1986).] free of
rent.]](2)[ ***] [Omitted vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989) (with effect from 1st April 1986)]

### 6A. [ [Vide Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1979, w.e.f 1.4.1978.]

(1)There shall be paid to the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative
Assembly a salary of [eight thousand rupees per mensem] and subject to such
maximum limit, as may be prescribed, a house rent of such sum per mensem as
the Public Works Department of the State Government may, from time to time,
fix with reference to the prevailing rate of rent for the house, the Leader of
Opposition in the Legislative Assembly occupies in the City of Chennai; but
the house rent shall not be paid to the Leader of the Opposition in the
Legislative Assembly if he occupies a house provided by the State Government
free of rent; Provided that clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 12 shall
not apply to the holder of the office mentioned in this sub-section.(2)There
shall be paid to the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly a
salary of [eight thousand rupees [per mensem] [Substituted for 'seven thousand
rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act,
2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).]] and, subject to such maximum limit, as may
be prescribed, a house rent of such sum per mensem as the Public Works
Department of the State Government may, from time to time, fix with reference
to the prevailing rate of rent for the house the Chief Government Whip in the
Legislative Assembly occupies in the city of Chennai; but the House rent shall
not be paid to the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly [if he
occupies a house provided by the State Government] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1987 (with effect from 1st November 1986.)] free of
rent.[Provided that clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 12 shall not
apply to the holder of the office mentioned in this sub-section.] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of
1995) (with effect from 1st April 1995)](3)[ There shall be paid to the Leader
of the Opposition and Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly, a
compensatory allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 52 of 1997)
(with effect from 1st April 1997)]].(4)There shall be paid to the Leader of
the Opposition and Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly, -(i)a
contingency allowance of [three thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for 'two thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem' by Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of
2008).]; and(ii)a constituency allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for 'five thousand rupees per mensem' by Act No. 2 of 2012, dated
9.2.2012, w.r.e.f. 1.9.2011.].]

### 6B. Houses to be furnished and maintained at the cost of Government in
certain cases.

(1)Where a Minister, the Speaker, [the Deputy Speaker, a Parliamentary
Secretary] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil
Nadu Act 24 of 1979) (with effect from 1st April 1978).], the Leader of the
Opposition in [the Legislative Assembly] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987 (with effect from 1st November 1986).] or the Chief Government
Whip in [the Legislative Assembly] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987 (with effect from 1st November 1986).] occupies any house provided by the
State Government free of rent, such house shall, at the cost of the State
Government, be furnished and maintained and be provided with such amenities as
may be prescribed.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section
"maintained" in relation to a house includes paying local rates and taxes and
providing electricity and water.(2)Where a Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy
Speaker, a Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of Opposition in [the
Legislative Assembly] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with
effect from 1st November 1986).] or the Chief Government Whip in [the
Legislative Assembly] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with
effect from 1st November 1986).] is paid a house rent under sections 23,4,6 or
6-A, as the case may be, the house which he occupies in the City of Chennai
shall, at the cost of State Government be [furnished and maintained and be
provided with such "amenities" as may be prescribed.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1981) (with
effect from 9th June 1980).]Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section
"maintained" in relation to a house does not include paying local rates and
taxes but includes providing electricity and water:Provided that such cost
shall not exceed such limits as may be prescribed.

### 7. Conveyance to be provided for Ministers the Speaker, the Deputy
Speaker, etc.

(1)The State Government may from time to time, provide suitable conveyances
for the use of the Ministers, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, [the
Parliamentary Secretary] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989) (with effect from 11th February 1989).], the
Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly [and the Chief Government
Whip] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with effect from 1st
November 1986).] in the Legislative Assembly subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2) and to such rules regarding their maintenance and repairs as may
be made by the State Government regarding the maintenance and repair of and
the supply of petrol, for such conveyances.(2)[ The State Government shall
meet - (i) any liability arising with effect on and from the 3rd December 1953
out of the use of any conveyance provided under sub-section (1) incurred to
third parties by [a Minister or the Speaker] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1970 (Tamil 2 Nadu Act 23 of 1970) (with effect from
1st June 1970).] as the case may be or any person in his employment;(ii)any
liability arising with effect on and from the 1st June 1970 out of the use of
any conveyance provided under sub-section (1) incurred to third parties by the
Deputy Speaker, or Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly or the
Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly as the case may be or any
person in his employment; and(iii)[ any liability arising with effect on and
from the 11th day of February 1989 out of the use of any conveyance provided
under sub-section (1) incurred to third parties by the Parliamentary Secretary
or any person in his employment.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1990) (with effect from 27th
January, 1989).]]

### 8. Travelling Allowance of Ministers etc., for assuming and relinquishing
office.

\- A Minister, the Speaker or a Parliamentary Secretary shall -(a)in respect
of the journey for assuming office to the City of Chennai from his usual place
of residence in the State, if it is outside the City; and(b)in respect of the
journey on relinquishing office from the City of Chennai to his usual place of
residence in the State before he assumed office, if such place is outside the
City, be entitled to travelling allowances for himself and the members of his
family and for the transport of his personal effects, at such rates and upon
such conditions as may be determined by rules made by the State Government;
and until such rules are made at such rates, and upon such conditions as were
applicable to them immediately before the commencement of this Act.

### 9. Travelling and Daily Allowance of Ministers, etc.

(1)The holders of the offices referred to in section [3, 4 and 6 shall, in
respect of their tours, be entitled to travelling and daily allowances] [Vide
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with effect from 1st November,
1986).] at such rates and upon such conditions as may be determined by rules
made by the State Government; and until such rules are made at such rates and
upon such conditions as were applicable to them ? immediately before the
commencement of this Act.(2)[ The holders of the office referred to in Section
6-A shall be entitled to travelling and daily allowances for attending the
functions organised by the State Government or by any officer of any
department of that Government in the performance of his functions as an,
officer of such department, at such rates and upon such conditions as may be
determined by rules made by the State Government.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1984) (with effect from
19th January 1984).](3)Without prejudice to the provisions contained in
section 14, the State Government may make rules under sub-section (2) so as to
have retrospective effect on and from a date not earlier than the 19th January
1984.

### 9A. Salaries and Allowances of Deputy Speaker or Member of Legislative
Assembly while performing duties of Speaker.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, while the office of the
Speaker is vacant and the duties of the office are preformed by the Deputy
Speaker or a Member of the Legislative Assembly as provided in clause (1) of
Article 180 of the Constitution, the Deputy Speaker or the Member shall,
during the period he so performs such duties, be paid salary and allowances
and be entitled to the use of a house free of rent and a suitable conveyance
and to free accommodation in hospitals and free medical treatment in the same
manner, to the same extent and subject to the conditions as the Speaker is
paid or entitled to under sections [4,6-B, 7,8,9 and 10 and the rules made
under section 9:] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1970
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1970) (with effect from 3rd October, 1970).]Provided
that, during the period aforesaid, the Deputy Speaker or the Member shall not
be entitled to the salary and allowances including free accommodation in
hospitals and medical treatment attached to the Office of Deputy Speaker or
Member of the Legislative Assembly, as the case may be.

### 9B. [ Omitted] [Vide Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (with
effect from 1st November 1986).]

### 10. Ministers, Speaker or Deputy Speaker and his family be entitled to
free accommodation in State hospitals and to free medical treatment.

\- Subject to such conditions as may be determined by rules made by the State
Government, a Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker or the Parliamentary
Secretary shall for himself and the members of his family be entitled free of
charge to accommodation in hospitals maintained by the State Government and
also to medical treatment.

### 11. [ Omitted] [Vide Tamil Nadu Legislature (Prevention and
Disqualification) Act, 1967.]

.

### 12. Salaries and allowances of members of Legislative Assembly.

(1)Every Member of the Legislative Assembly who does not hold any of the
offices referred to in sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A shall be entitled to receive
-(a)a salary of [eight thousand rupees per mensem] [Substituted for 'three
thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
2010.].(b)travelling and daily allowances at such rates and upon such
conditions as may be determined by rules made by the State Government, and
until such rules are made at such rates and upon such conditions as were
applicable to the Members of the Legislative Assembly immediately before the
commencement of this Act.[(1-A) Every Member of the Legislative Assembly who
does not hold any of the offices referred to in sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A shall
be entitled to receive Compensatory allowance of [seven thousand rupees per
mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu
Act 45 of 1971) (With effect from 1st October, 1971).]].[(1-AA) Every Member
of the Legislative Assembly who does not hold any of the offices referred to
in sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A shall be entitled to receive [a constituency
allowance of [ten thousand rupees per mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1992).]] and a postal
allowance of two thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem].(2)The salary
referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) and the [compensatory allowance]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 35
of 1975) (with effect from 1st April, 1975).] referred to in sub-section
(1-A), [the constituency allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1992).] [and the postal allowance]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 35 of 1994) (with effect from 1st April, 1993).] referred to in sub-
section (1-AA) and the telephone allowance referred to in sub-section (4-B)
shall accrue to a Member from the date on which he is declared duly elected,
or in the case of a Member nominated by the Governor to fill a seat in the
Legislative Assembly from the date on which he is so nominated or if such
declaration or nomination is made before the vacancy occurs, from the date of
occurrence of the vacancy:Provided that the salary, the [compensatory
allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil
Nadu Act 35 of 1975) (with effect from 1st April, 1975).], the constituency
allowance, [the postal allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1975) (with effect from 1st April,
1975).] and the telephone allowance shall not be paid until the Member has
made and subscribed the oath or affirmation referred to in Article 188 of the
Constitution.[(2-A) Where on or after the 1st January 1967 any Member of the
Legislative Assembly dies before the expiry of the term of his office, his
family shall be paid an allowance of [one thousand rupees per mensem] [Vide
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 23
of 1970) (with effect from 3rd October, 1970).] for the unexpired portion of
the term of office of the said deceased Member.][(2-AA) Where any Member of
the Legislative Assembly dies before the expiry of the term of his office, his
family shall be paid a lump-sum allowance of [Two lakh rupees] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1990)
(with effect from 27th January, 1989).]].(2-B) The allowance payable under
sub-section [(2-A)] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment)
Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1970) (with effect from 3rd October, 1970).]
and the lump-sum allowance payable under sub-section [(2- AA)] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1990)
(with effect from 27th January, 1989).] shall be paid to the members of the
family in equal shares.Explanation. - The expression, "family" means the wife
or husband of the deceased Member and his or her minor sons, unmarried
daughters and parents.(3)Every Member referred to in sub-section (1), shall
subject to such conditions as may be determined by rules made by the State
Government be`entitled to hostel accommodation:Provided that the charge for
such accommodation shall in no case exceed three rupees per day.[(3-A) Every
member referred to in sub-section (1) shall, subject to such conditions as may
be determined by rules made by the State Government, be entitled to allotment
of an Apartment on payment of rent of Rupees two hundred and fifty per
mensem:] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 2000).]Provided that when such member avails the Apartment
accommodation, he shall not be entitled for hostel accommodation;[(3-A) Every
Member of the Legislative Assembly including any such Member who holds any of
the offices referred to in sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A, who on prior intimation
to the State Government, undergoes surgery relating to - ] [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1990)
(With effect from 1st May 1990).](a)heart;(b)kidney; or(c)any other part of
the bodywhich the State Government may consider to be a major surgery; in any
hospital maintained by the Central Government any State Government or any
Union Territory Administration, or in any private hospital situated in the
territory of India, shall be entitled to financial assistance subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed.(4)[ Subject to such conditions and during
such period as may be determined by rules made by the State Government,
-(a)every Member referred to in sub-section (1), and members of his
family;(b)every person who had been a Member of the Legislative Assembly or of
the Legislative Council or of both, but ceased to be such Member at any time
and members of his family; and(c)the members of the family of the deceased
Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council or of
both;shall be entitled free of charge to accommodation in the hospitals
maintained by the State Government and also to medical treatment.]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2010 (Tamil
Nadu Act 1 of 2010).](4)Every Member referred to in sub-section (1) shall for
himself and the members of his family subject to such conditions and during
such period as may be determined by rules made by the State Government be
entitled free of charge to accommodation in hospitals maintained by the State
Government and also to medical treatment:[Provided that every person who had
been a Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council or of
both, but had ceased to be such Member at any time, shall subject to such
conditions and during such period as may be determined by rules made by the
State Government, be entitled free of charge to accommodation in the hospitals
maintained by the State Government and also to medical treatment and the
benefits, conferred by this proviso shall not be available to the members of
the family of the person referred to in this proviso.] [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980) (with
effect from 5th March, 1980).][(4-A) (a) Every Member referred to in sub-
section (1) shall be provided with one free non-transferable pass which shall
entitle him to travel [either singly or with his or her spouse] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1979)
(with effect from 1st June 1978).] or with any other companion at any time in
any part of the State of Tamil Nadu [by any bus rum and operated] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1979)
(with effect from 1st October, 1978).] [by any Transport Corporation] [Vide
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of
1979) (with effect from 1st October, 1978).] owned by the State
Government.(b)The pass referred to in clause (a) shall be issued by such
authority and in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be valid for the
term of his office and on the expiration of such term, the pass shall be
surrendered to the Secretary, Legislative Assembly Secretariat:Provided that,
where any such pass is issued to a new Member before he takes his seat in the
Legislative Assembly, he shall be entitled to use the pass for attending a
session of that House for taking his seat therein.(c)Nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed as disentiling a Member of the Legislative Assembly
to any travelling allowance to which he is otherwise entitled under the
provisions of this Act.][(4-B) Every Member of the Legislative Assembly who
does not hold any of the offices referred to in [sections 3, 4, 6 and 6A]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu
Act 24 of 1982) (with effect from 1st April, 1982).] shall be entitled to
receive telephone allowance of [five thousand rupees per mensem] [Substituted
for 'four thousand rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008).] irrespective of the
fact whether he has any telephone or not.][(4-C) Every Member of the
Legislative Assembly who does not hold any of the offices referred to in
[sections 3, 4, 6 and 6A] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 1980 Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980) (With effect from 29th April 1979).]
shall be entitled to have a telephone at his residence, the installation
expenses of which shall be met with by the State Government.][(4-D) Every
member of the Legislative Assembly who does hot hold any of the offices
referred to in sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A shall be entitled to receive a
consolidated allowance of rupees [(two thousand and five hundred per mensem)]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 36
of 2000) (With effect from 1st June, 2000).] towards the payment by such
member to an attendant who renders assistance to him.][(4-E) Every member of
the Legislative Assembly who does not hold any of the offices referred to in
section 3, 4, 6 and 6-A shall be entitled to receive a vehicle allowance of
[rupees twenty thousand per mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2007) (With effect from 1st April,
2007).]].(5)The salary referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) [the
compensatory allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1975) (With effect from 1st April 1975).] referred
to in sub-section (1-A) [the constituency allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1992).] [and [the
postal allowance referred to in sub-section (1-AA) and telephone allowance]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 35 of 1994) (With effect from 1st April, 1993).]] referred to in sub-
section (4-B) and the consolidated allowance referred to in sub-section (4-D)
[and the vehicle allowance] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2007) (With effect from 1st April, 2007).]
referred to in sub-section (4-E), shall not be taken into account for the
purpose of calculating the total income of a member under any rule or order
relating to medical treatment in hospitals maintained by the State Government
or to the grant of educational concession of scholarship or to such other
matters as may be prescribed.(6)Removal of doubts. - For the removal of doubts
it is hereby declared that no Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the
Legislative Council referred to in section 12 of the principal Act, shall be
entitled to claim a salary of two hundred and fifty rupees per mensem under
the principal Act as amended by this Act for any period prior to the 1st day
of April 1964.

### 12A. [ Transit by Railway Allowance. [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Second Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu Act 69 of 1986) (with effect from 1st
April 1987).]

(1)Every Member of the Legislative Assembly including any such Member who
holds any of the offices referred to in sections 3, 4, and 6 shall, for every
financial year, be entitled to receive in such manner and subject to such
conditions, as may be prescribed a sum of [Twenty thousand rupees] in two
equal instalments payable in the month of April and October for the purpose of
travelling either singly or with his or her spouse or any other relative in
one or more journeys by any class by any railway in India.[Provided that
transit by railway allowance under this sub-section shall not be paid to any
member who is in receipt of free railway pass issued by the Central Government
or by any other authority for having been a Member of Parliament.] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of
1995).](2)Nothing in this section shall be construed as disentitling a Member
of the Legislative Assembly to any travelling allowance to which he is
otherwise entitled under the provisions of this Act.]

### 12B. Pension.

(1)There shall be paid a pension of [twelve thousand rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for 'ten thousand rupees per mensem' by Act No. 2 of 2012, dated
9.2.2012, w.r.e.f. 1.9.2011.] to every person who after the 15th day of August
1947, had been or is a Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the
Legislative Council or of both[***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 2010 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2010).][Explanation. - For the
purpose of this sub-section.(a)a Member of the Legislative Assembly shall
include a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the former State of Travancore
- Cochin, representing any territory which after the 1st day of November 1956
forms part of the State of Tamil Nadu:(b)a Member of the Legislative Assembly
or of the Legislative Council shall include a Member of the Legislative
Assembly or of the Legislative Council of the State of Andhra Pradesh,
representing any territory which after the 1st day of April 1960 forms part of
the State of Tamil Nadu;][Proviso - [Omitted] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980) (with effect from
13th March 1980).]] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1982
(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 2010) (with effect from 9th
March 1982).].[***] [Proviso was omitted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 2010.].Provided also that [no pension under this sub-section]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 10
of 1982) (with effect from 13th March 1980).] shall be paid to any person,
-(a)who is in receipt of pension from any other State for having been a Member
of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council of such State;(b)who
was a Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council of the
former State of Madras representing any territory which ceased to form part of
the State of Tamil Nadu.(c)[ who ceases to be a citizen of India or who has
voluntarily acquired the citizenship of a foreign State, or is under any
acknowledgement of allegiance or adherence to a foreign State.] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1989)
(with effect from 11th February 1989).][(1-A) Where any person entitled to
pension under sub-section (1) is also entitled to pension for having been a
Member of Parliament, such person shall be entitled to receive the pension
under sub-section (1) in addition to such pension to which he is entitled for
having been a Member of Parliament.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Second Amendment) Act, 1995 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1995) (With effect from 7th
July, 1995) Vide G.O. Ms. No. 1031, Public (Estate and Legislature), dated the
3rd November 1995.](2)[ (i) If any person who has been paid any pension under
this Act as in force before the date of publication of the Tamil Nadu Payment
of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1980 in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
becomes entitled to increase in the amount of pension so paid by virtue of the
said Amendment Act, the increase shall be given effect only on and from the
date of such publication and he shall not be entitled to any arrears of such
increase.(ii)If any person becomes entitled to pension for the first term by
virtue of this section, he shall be paid such pension only with effect on and
from the date of publication of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 1980 in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and he shall not be entitled to
any arrears of such pension.][(2-A) If any person becomes entitled to pension
for the first time or to any increase in pension by virtue of this section, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1982 he shall
be paid such pension or such increase in pension, as the case may be, only
with effect on and from the date of publication of the said Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette and he shall not be entitled to any arrears of such
pension.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 10 of 1982) (With effect from 9th March, 1982).](2-B) (i) Where any
person entitled to pension under this section [dies or disappears leaving his
family] [Substituted for 'dies' by Act No. 21 of 2011, dated 24.9.2011,
Published dated 26.9.2011.], the family of such person shall be entitled to
receive fifty percent of such pension subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed.(ii)[] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2007
(Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2007) (With effect from 1st April, 2007).] If there is
any increase in pension by virtue of this section, the family referred to in
clause (i) shall also be entitled to receive fifty percent of such increase in
pension with effect from the date from which such increase in pension under
this section is given effect to.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-
section, in the case of person who is entitled to pension under this sub-
section 'family' means -(i)wife in the case of a male person or husband in the
case of a female person;(ii)son who has not attained the age of twenty one
years and unmarried daughter who has not attained the age of twenty four years
including such son and daughter adopted legally;(iii)father and mother in the
case of unmarried person;Sub-section (2-BB) including explanation thereunder,
sub-section (2-C) and sub-section (2-CC) including the Explanation thereunder
shall be omitted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
2010.(2-BB) Where any person entitled to pension under sub-section (1) died
before the 1st day of April 1999, the family of such member shall be entitled
to receive a family pension of rupees three thousand per mensem.Explanation. -
[For the purposes of this sub-section, the word "family" shall have the same
meaning assigned to it in sub-section (2-B).] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2007) (With effect from
1st April, 2007).][(2-C) Where, on or after the 15th day of November 1996, any
Member of the Legislative Assembly dies before the expiry of the term of his
office, the family of such member shall be entitled to receive a family
pension of rupees [four thousand per mensem] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 2007) (With effect from
1st April, 2007).].] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980) (with effect from 13th March 1980).][(2-CC)]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 6
of 2008) (With effect from 1st October, 2007).](i)Where, before the 15th day
of November 1996, any member of the Legislative Assembly died before the
expiry of term of his office.(ii)Where, on or before the 31st day of October
1986, any member of the Legislative Council died before the expiry of the term
of his office; the family of such member shall be entitled to receive a family
pension of rupees [four thousand per mensem] [Substituted for the words 'three
thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Second Amendment) Act, 2008 (Tamil Nadu Act 47 of 2008) (with effect from 1st
April, 2008).].Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the word
"family" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in sub-section (2-B).(3)[
The State Government may make rules providing for the conditions and
restrictions subject to which such pension may be granted:] [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980)
(With effect from 13th March, 1980).]Provided that no such pension shall be
paid to any person for the period during which such person was or is in
receipt of any salary or any emoluments other than Travelling allowance either
from any State or the Central Government or from any Company or statutory body
owned or controlled by any State or the Central Government and if any such
income was or is received the payment of pension shall be suspended for that
period:[Provided further that - (a) no such pension shall be paid to any
person for the period during which such person was or is in receipt of pension
for having been a Member of [any other State Legislature, or honorarium either
from any State or the Central Government] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1982) (With effect from 9th March,
1982).] or from any company or statutory body owned or controlled by any State
or the Central Government and if the amount of such pension, or honorarium is
equal to, or in excess of, the pension to which he is entitled under sub-
section (1);(b)where the amount of such pension or honorarium is less than the
pension to which he is entitled under sub-section (1), such person shall be
entitled to receive only the difference as pension under that sub-
section.][Explanation I. - [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 2010.]] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second
Amendment) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1980) (With effect from 13th March,
1980).]Explanation II. - [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries
(Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of 1999) (With effect from 1st April,
1999)].Explanation III. - For purpose of this section, salary includes salary
received under this Act and salary received as -(i)a Member of the Parliament
or any other State Legislature.(ii)a Minister or Deputy Minister of the
Government of India or any other State.(iii)The Chairman or Deputy Chairman of
the Council of State of the Legislative Council of any other State.(iv)The
Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the House of the People or of the Legislative
Assembly of any other State.

### 12C. [ Free bus pass to former Members. [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries (Third Amendment) Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1994) (with effect
from 1st April, 1994).]

(1)Every person, who had been a Member of the Legislative Assembly or the
Legislative Council or both, but had ceased to be such Member shall be
provided with one free non-transferable bus pass [which shall entitle him to
travel either singly ]or with his or her spouse or with any other companion at
any time within any part of the State of Tamil Nadu by any bus run and
operated by any Transport Corporation owned by the State Government.(2)The bus
pass referred to in sub-section (1) shall be issued by such authority and in
such manner as may be prescribed vide Act 57 of 1994.]

### 13. [ Relinquishment of Salaries and Allowances and cancellation thereof.
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 24
of 1979) (with effect from 5th May, 1979).]

(1)Any person entitled to any salary or allowance under this Act, may at any
time during the term of his respective office, relinquish the whole or any
portion of such salary or allowance payable to him.(2)Any relinquishment made
by any person under sub-section (1) may be cancelled by him.(3)Every
relinquishment or cancellation made under sub-section (1) or subsection (2)
shall be made in writing and shall take effect on the date specified therein.]

### 13A. [ [Repealed.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1994)]]

-

### 14. Power of state Government to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of the
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published, in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular date shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after
it is made, be placed on the Table of the [legislative Assembly] [Vide Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987 (With effect from 1st November 1986).] and
if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed on the next
session of the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in any
such rule or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule should not be made,
the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such, modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.(4)[ A rule may be made under sub-section (1) so as to
have retrospective effect on and from a date not earlier than 1st November
1967.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 1970) (With effect from 3rd October, 1970).](5)[ Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (4) the State Government may make rules in
respect of payment of house rent under Sections 3, 4, 6 and 6-A, so as to have
retrospective effect on and from the date not earlier than the 4th July 1986.]
[Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Second Amendment) Act, 1986 (Tamil Nadu
Act 69 of 1986).]

### 15. Saving.

\- Nothing in this Act shall prevent a retired Government servant from drawing
his pension in addition to any salary or allowance to which he may be entitled
under this Act.

### 16. Regularisation of certain charges and payments.

(1)All charges incurred up to the commencement of this Act (whether before or
after the commencement of the Constitution) in respect of the accommodation
provided in any hospital maintained by the State Government for, or on the
medical treatment of, any Minister or any member of his family shall be deemed
to have been properly incurred.(2)All payments made on or after the 26th day
of January 1950 and up to the commencement of this Act by way of Travelling or
daily allowance to the Speaker and the Chairman shall be deemed to have been
properly made.

### 17. Repeal of Tamil Nadu Act IX of 1937. Special Provisions.

\- The Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries and Removal of Disqualifications Act,
1937 is hereby repealed.(1)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in the
principal Act amended by the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act,
1971, the compensatory allowance to a Member of Legislative Assembly or of the
Legislative Council, who does not hold any of the offices referred to in
sections 3 to 6 and in sub-section (1) of Section 6-A of the principal Act on
the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 1971 shall be paid on and from 1st October 1971.] [Vide Tamil Nadu
Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1971) (With
effect from 1st October, 1971).](2)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in the
principal Act as amended by the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 1975, the telephone allowance shall be paid on and from the 1st April
1975 to a Member of the Legislative Assembly or of the Legislative Council,
who does not hold any of the offices referred to in sections 3 to 6-A on the
date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment)
Act, 1975.] [Vide Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1975 (Tamil
Nadu Act 35 of 1975) (With effect from 1st April 1975).]

