## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Town Panchayats (Establishment) Rules, 1988

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Town Panchayats (Establishment) Rules, 1988

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-TOWN-PANCHAYATS-ESTABLISHMENT-RULES-1988 of 1988

  * Published on 23 March 1989 
  * Commenced on 23 March 1989 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 March 1989.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Town Panchayats (Establishment) Rules, 1988Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 205, Rural Development, dated 23rd March, 1989

## Part I – Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(a)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Town Panchayats (Establishment)
Rules, 1988.(b)They shall come into force on the date of publication of these
rules in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context
-(1)Appointed to a service. - A person is said to be "appointed to a service"
when in accordance with these rules, or in accordance with the rules
applicable at the time, as the case may be, he discharges for the first time
the duties of a post borne on the cadre of Town Panchayat Service or commences
the probation, instruction or training prescribed for members
thereof.Explanation. - The appointment of a person holding a post borne on the
cadre of one service to hold additional charge of a post borne on the cadre of
another service or to discharge the current duties thereof does not amount to
appointment to the latter service;(2)Approved candidate. - "Approved
candidate" means candidate whose name appears in an authoritative list of
candidates approved for appointment to any service, class or
category;(3)Approved Probationer. - "Approved probationer" in a service, class
or category means a member of that, service, class or category who has
satisfactorily completed his probation and awaits appointment as a full member
of such service, class or category.(4)Backward Classes. - "Backward Classes"
means the communities mentioned in Schedule I to this part;Explanation. -
Persons who belong to the State of Tamil Nadu and who belong to one of the
communities mentioned in Schedule I alone shall be treated as Backward Classes
and persons belonging to other States shall not be treated as Backward Classes
in this State even though they may belong to one of the communities mentioned
in Schedule I.(5)Discharge of a Probationer. - "Discharge of a probationer"
means in case the probationer is a full member or an proved probationer of
another service/class or category reverting him to such service, class or
category and in any other case dispensing with his services;(6)Duty. - A
person is said to be "on duty" as a member of service -(a)"when he is
performing the duties of a post borne on the cadre of such service or is
undergoing the probation, instruction or training prescribed for such
service;(b)when he is on joining time; or(c)when he is absent from duty during
vacation or on authorised holidays or on casual leave taken in accordance with
the instructions regulating such leave issued by the State Government having
been on duty immediately before and immediately after such absence;(d)when he
has compulsorily to wait for orders of porting on return from leave".(7)"Full
member" of a service means a member of that service who has been appointed
substantively to a permanent post borne on the cadre thereof:(8)Member of a
service. - "Member of a service" means a person who has been appointed to that
service and who has not retired or resigned, been removed or dismissed, been
substantively transferred or induced to another service, or been discharged
otherwise than for want of a vacancy. He may be a probationer, an approved
probationer or a full member of that service;(9)Probationer. - "Probationer"
in service means a member of that service who has not completed his
probation;(10)Promotion. - "Promotion" means the appointment of a member of
any category or grade of the service or class of service to a higher category
or grade of same service or class:(11)Recruited Direct. - A candidate is said
to be "recruited direct" to a service, class, category or post when, at the
time of his first appointment, he is not in the service of the town
panchayat:Provided that for the purposes of this definition a person shall be
deemed to be not in the service of the town panchayat -(a)if a period of five
years has not elapsed since his first appointment to a service; or(b)if he
belongs to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward
Classes;(12)Recruited by Transfer. - A candidate is said to be "recruited b.y
transfer" to the service -(a)if, at the time of his first appointment thereto,
he is either a full member or an approved probationer in any other service,
the rule for which prescribe a period of probation for member thereof; or(b)in
case at the time of his first appointment thereto, he is the holder of a post
which has been included in another service but for which no probation has been
prescribed, if he has put in that post satisfactory service for a total period
of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.Explanation. -
Where the rules provide for recruitment to that service or to any class or
category thereof by transfer from any specified service, class or category, a
candidate need not, for the purposes of such recruitment, be a full member or
an approved probationer in the service, class or category so specified,
provided he is a full member or an approved probationer in any other service,
class or category;(13)Scheduled Castes. - "Scheduled Castes" means the
communities mentioned in Part A of Schedule II to this Part;Explanation. - No
person who professes a religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be
a member of a Scheduled Caste;(14)"Scheduled Tribes" means the communities
mentioned in Part B of Schedule II to this Part;(15)Service. - "Service" means
a group of persons classified as a separate service;Note. - Where the context
so requires, "service" means the period during which a person holds a post or
a lien on a post or is a member of a service as above defined.(16)Town
panchayats. - "Town panchayats" shall mean and include township.

## Part II – General Rules

### 1\. Scope of the General Rules. - The rules in this part shall apply to
the holders of all posts in the town panchayat service, whether temporary or
permanent (other than provincialised categories in town panchayats) appointed
thereto before, on or after the date specified in sub-rule (b) of rule 1 in
Part I.

### 2\. Application of rules. - These rules shall apply to all members of the
establishment under town panchayats (other than the provincialised categories
in town panchayats) whether permanent, temporary of officiating, whose pay or
the maximum pay of the posts held by them exceeds Rs.720 per mensem and who
are not paid from contingencies.

### 3. Approved Candidates. - (a) All first appointments to a service or class
or category, whether by direct recruitment or by recruitment by transfer or by
promotion shall be made by the appointing authority from a list of "approved"
candidates". Such list shall be prepared in the prescribed manner by the
appointing authority or any other authority empowered in the special rules in
that behalf. Where the candidates in such list are arranged in their order of
preference, appointments to the service shall be made in such order:

Provided that the list of approved candidates for appointment by promotion and
by recruitment by transfer to all the categories of posts in the service shall
be prepared annually against the estimated number of vacancies expected to
arise during the course of a year. The estimate of vacancies shall be prepared
taking into account the total number of permanent posts in a-category, the
number of temporary posts in existence; the anticipated sanction of new posts
in the next year; the recruitment of leave reserves and anticipated vacancies
due to retirement and promotion, etc., in the course of the year and the
number of candidates already in position in that category. The list of
approved candidates shall be in force for a period of one year only and shall
lapse at the end of the year. The candidates whose names were included in the
previous list, but were not appointed shall be considered if eligible, for
inclusion in the list for the next year along with their seniors, if any,
whose names were not included in the previous list either because they were
found not suitable or because they were not qualified when the previous list
was drawn up. For preparing the lists, it shall be sufficient to consider the
claims of all the candidates, senior to the junior most candidate proposed for
inclusion in the list.Explanation. - (a) The period of one year validity for
the list of approved candidates shall be reckoned from the date of approval of
the panel by the competent authority.(b)Where a candidate's name has been
included in the list of approved candidates for more than one class or
category the appointing authority who proposes to appoint such a candidate
first shall require him to elect the class or category to which he wishes to
be appointed. On such election, the candidate's name shall be removed from the
list or lists of approved candidates for the class or category to which he
does not wish to be appointed.

### 4. Compliance as to age by Direct Recruitment. - (a) No person whose age
exceeds twenty eight years or who does not possess the prescribed
qualification shall be appointed to any post in superior service under a town
panchayat.

(b)A certificate of age, health and vaccination shall, save in the case of
temporary appointments under rule 15 be obtained by the Executive authority
from every person on his first appointment by direct recruitment to a post in
superior service. Such certificate shall ordinarily be one issued by a
Government Assistant Surgeon.Explanation - For the purpose of this and the
other rules posts in superior service shall mean the posts which are
classified as superior in Annexure I to this Part.

### 5. Debarred and dismissed servants of Government and Local Bodies not to
be employed. - No person who has been dismissed from the service of the
Central or State Government or of any local authority or who has been removed
from such service on account of insolvency or who has been debarred from
employment in the service of the Central or State Government shall be
entertained in service, except with the previous sanction of the Director of
Town Panchayats.

### 6. Retention or Re-appointment of a person convicted of an offence
involving moral turpitude. - No officer or servant of a town panchayat who is
convicted of offence involving moral turpitude shall be retained in the
service of the town panchayat and no person so convicted shall be appointed to
any post in its service, except with the special sanction of the Director of
Town Panchayats.

### 7. Unit for Appointment, Reversion and Discharge of probationers or
Approved probationers or full members. - For purpose of appointment, reversion
or discharge for want of vacancies and re-appointment of probationers and
approved probationers and appointment as full member, each town panchayat
shall constitute a separate unit and where a separate service has been
constituted under Chapter II of Part III the Revenue District concerned shall
be the Unit.

### 8. Appointment Authority. - The appointing authority for the posts shall
be the executive authority of the town panchayat concerned, or the authority
specified in Part III.

### 9. Language Qualification. - No person shall be eligible for appointment
to any post either by direct recruitment or by recruitment by transfer or by
promotion unless he possesses an adequate knowledge of Tamil.

Explanation. - For the purpose of these rules, a person with an adequate
knowledge of Tamil shall mean a person (i) who has acquired knowledge in Tamil
in the High School course; or (ii) who has passed the second class language
test in Tamil:Provided that where a person appointed to any post by transfer
or by promotion has not acquired an adequate knowledge of Tamil he should pass
the second class language test in Tamil, within a minimum period of four years
from the date of his appointment. If he fails to pass the test within the
prescribed period he shall not be eligible to draw increments in the time
scale of pay applicable to him until he passes the test:Provided further that
a language test of the standard for VIII Standard, shall be prescribed for
those whose educational qualification is above VIII Standard but below
S.S.L.C. and for those who do not possess an adequate knowledge of the
official language of the State of Tamil Nadu as specified below:

Item of syllabus | Maximum marks | Minimum marks for pass | Aggregate marks for a pass | Duration of  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
Dictation of half a page typed matter. | 60 | 24 |  | 30  
Part II Reading | 40 | 26 | 50 | 30  
  
Provided also that an oral test of the Standard for standard VIII shall be
prescribed for those whose educational qualification is below VIII Standard
and for those who do not possess an adequate knowledge of Tamil to find out
whether a person is able to converse freely and fluently in Tamil and the test
shall be conducted by the appointing authorities.

### 10. Reservation of Appointments. - (a) In making appointments by direct
recruitments to the posts under town panchayats, out of every fifty vacancies
in the same category of posts twenty-five vacancies shall be reserved for the
Backward Classes specified in Schedule I to the rules and nine vacancies shall
be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes specified in
Schedule II to these rules, and the remaining sixteen vacancies shall be
filled on the basis of merit.

(b)The claims of members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes or
the Backward Classes shall also be considered or the sixteen vacancies other
than those reserved under sub-rule (a); when a candidate belonging to
Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe or Backward Class is selected for appointment
on the basis of merit to a non-reserved vacancy, the number of posts reserved
for Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes or for Backward Classes, as the
case may be, shall not in any way be effected.(c)If a qualified and suitable
candidate belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes or
Backward Classes is not available for selection for appointment in the turn
allotted for them in the cycle, the turn so allotted, to the Backward Classes
shall lapse and the vacancy shall be filled by the next turn in the order of
rotation; but the turn so reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
shall, however, not lapse and the number of candidates to be selected in that
recruitment shall be reduced by the number of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes candidates not available for selection against the turn reserved for
them; the unfilled vacancies reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes shall be carried over to the next recruitment; and selection for
appointment to the post in the next recruitment shall be made first for the
carried over turns and then the normal rotation shall be followed. If
qualified Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribe candidates are not available even
then, the carried over turns shall lapse and the vacancy shall be filled by
the next turn in the order of rotation.(d)Selection for appointment under this
rule shall be made in the order of rotation specified in Appendix I to these
rules.(e)The rule of reservation is applicable to categories of posts, the
cadre strength of which is ten and above.

### 11. Probation. - (a) Every appointment to a post in superior service shall
from the date on which he/she joins duty be on probation for a total period of
two years on duty within a continuous period of three years:

Provided that a person appointed to the basic service shall, from the date on
which he/she joins duty be on probation for a total period of one year on duty
within a continuous period of two years.(b)A probationer in any post who has
been or may be deputed for military duty shall be entitled to count towards
the period of probation in such post the period spent by him on military duty.

### 12. Termination of probation. - (a) At any time before the expiry of the
period of probation the appointing authority may in his discretion, for
reasons to be recorded in writing terminate the probation of any person and
revert him to his permanent post if he is already a permanent officer or
servant or to a lower post, if he is not a permanent officer or servant but he
is a probationer or an approved probationer in such lower post and if there is
a vacancy in such lower post or if a person junior to him is holding such
lower post, or discharge him from the service of the town panchayat in other
cases:

Provided that an opportunity to show cause against the termination of
probation shall be given to the persons concerned after the appointing
authority has arrived at a provisional conclusion regarding termination of
probation.

### 13. Declaration of Probation. - At the end of the prescribed period of
probation or of the period of probation as extended under rule 14 the
appointing authority shall consider the probationer's suitability for
confirmation in the grade for which he was selected. If the appointing
authority decides that the probationer is suitable for confirmation he shall,
as soon as possible issue an order declaring the probationer to have
satisfactorily completed his period of probation on the date of expiry of the
prescribed or extended period of probation. If no such order is issued within
six months from the date on which he is eligible for such declaration, the
probationer shall be deemed to have satisfactorily completed his probation on
the date of expiry of the prescribed or extended period of probation except in
cases where serious charges are pending.

### 14. Extension of probation. - If at the end of prescribed period of
probation, the appointing authority considers that the probationer is not
suitable for confirmation, he may extend his probation by a period, which in
no case shall be longer than one year from the date of expiry of the period of
probation prescribed in rule 11.

### 15. Temporary appointment. - (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in
these rules or in any other rules, where it is necessary in the public
interest or for administrative reasons to fill immediately a vacancy in a post
and there would be delay in making such appointment in accordance with these
rules or any other rules governing such appointment the appointing authority
may, for reasons to be already recorded in writing temporarily appoint a
person otherwise than in accordance with the said rules.

(b)A person appointed under sub-rule (a) shall not be regarded as probationer
or be entitled only by reason of such appointment to any preferential claim to
a future appointment. Such person shall be replaced as soon as possible by a
candidate qualified to hold the post under the rules;Provided that in respect
of appointments to the post specified in Part III of the rules the previous
approval of the appropriate authority specified therein shall be obtained when
the period of appointment exceeds three months. As soon as any such post falls
vacant and an unqualified person is appointed the appointing authority
concerned shall promptly intimate the fact to the said appropriate
authority:Provided further that in respect of any post, other than those
specified in Part III of these rules the previous approval of the Director of
Town Panchayat shall be obtained when the period of appointment exceeds three
months:Provided also that the appointment made under this sub-rule shall not
exceed one year at a time.(c)A person appointed under sub-rule (a) shall be
paid either his substantive pay or the minimum pay in the time scale of pay
applicable to the post, as the case may be, whichever is higher. The period of
service rendered in the post under sub-rule (a) shall not count for increments
in the post.(d)The services of a person appointed under sub-rule (a) are
liable to be terminated at any time without notice and without reason being
assigned.

### 16. Seniority. - The seniority of a person in a service, class or category
or grade shall unless he has been reduced to a lower rank as a punishment, be
determined by the rank obtained by him in the list of approved candidates
drawn up by the appointing authority, subject to the rule of reservation where
it applies, the date of commencement of his probation shall be the date on
which he joins duty irrespective of his seniority.

The seniority of a person in a service, class, category or grade shall where
the normal method of recruitment of that service, class, category or grade is
not solely by direct recruitment or by recruitment by transfer and by
promotion, unless the individual has been reduced to a lower rank as
punishment, be determined with reference to the date on which he is appointed
to the service, class, category or grade:Provided that, where the junior
appointed by a particular method of recruitment happens to be appointed to a
service, class, category or grade, earlier than the senior appointed by the
same method of recruitment, the senior shall be deemed to have been appointed
to the service, class, category or grade on the same day on which the junior
was so appointed:Provided further that the benefit of the above proviso shall
be available to the senior only for the purpose of fixing inter-se
seniority:Provided also that there persons appointed by more than one method
of recruitment are appointed or deemed to have been appointed to the service,
class, category or grade on the same day, their inter-se seniority shall be
decided with reference to their age.

### 17. Confirmation. - A person who has completed his period of probation on
a post shall be confirmed at the earliest opportunity according to his
seniority as determined with reference to the date of first appointment. When
the date by which seniority is determined is the same in the case of two or
more persons, their inter-se seniority shall be determined by the order of
reference, if any, previously laid down in their class. If no such order is
laid down or in the case of doubt, seniority shall be determined by the
appointing authority.

### 18. Promotion to Selection and Non-Selection post. - (a) Promotion to
selection posts shall be made on grounds of qualifications and merits,
seniority being considered only where the qualifications and merits are
approximately equal.

(b)Promotion to non-selection posts shall be made in accordance with strict
seniority except: -(i)Where a senior does not possess the qualifications
prescribed for holding the higher posts or is definitely proved to be
incompetent to hold such post; or(ii)Where on account of his proved serious
misconduct it is considered undersirable to promote him.

### 19. Conditions of service similar to that of Government servant. - Save as
otherwise provided in these rules, or in any other rules in force for the time
being, the conditions of service of the members of the establishment under
Town Panchayats shall be the same as those of Government servants of similar
standing and status in respect of the following matters, namely: -

(i)Salary and allowances;(ii)Leave and leave allowances;(iii)Travelling
allowance;(iv)Superannuation and retirement; and(v)Refusal of leave
preparatory to retirement and grant of such leave after retirement.Any powers
assigned to Government and the Head of the department in the provisions
applicable to such Government servants shall be exercised by the Director of
Town Panchayats and the appointing authority respectively.

### 20. Security to be furnished in certain cases. - (a) Security shall be
taken from the members of the establishment specified below for amount not
being less than that indicated against each:

(i)Store keepers and clerks - Rs.500.(ii)Bill collectors, warrant officers and
tractor drivers - Rs.750.(b)The Security compensatory allowance shall be paid
only to those who tender their security deposit in cash; the security deposit
received in other forms like bank guarantees, N.S.C., N.D.C. bond, etc., need
not be accepted and the security compensatory allowance be allowed at the
rates prescribed from the date on which full amount of security deposit is,
obtained in cash.

### 21. Age of retirement. - No officer or servant of a Town Panchayat in
superior service shall be retained in its service after he has attained the
age of 58 years. A person in basic service shall not be retained in service
after he has completed the age of 60 years:

Provided that an officer or a servant of a Town Panchayat shall be allowed to
retire at the end of the month in which he has attained the age of 58/60 years
irrespective of the date on which he has actually attained the age of 58/60
years.

### 22. Compulsory retirement. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules, the appropriate authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in
the public interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire a member of
the service by giving him notice of not less than three months, in writing, or
three months pay and allowances in lieu of such notice after he has attained
the age of fifty years and (fifty five years in the case of basic servants) or
after he has completed Thirty years of qualifying service.

Explanation I. - In this rule, the expression "appropriate authority", means,
the authority which has the power to make substantive appointments to the post
of the service from which the member of the service is required to
retire.Explanation II. - For the purpose of this rule, the three months notice
may be given before the member of the service attained the age of fifty years,
provided that the retirement takes place after he has attained that
age.Explanation III. - In computing the notice period of three months the date
of service of the notice shall be included.

### 23. Maintenance of service Book. - (a) A service book shall be maintained
in such form as maybe laid down by the Government from time to time for every
officer or servant of a Town Panchayat wno subscribes to the Provident Fund
establishment and maintained by the Town Panchayat.

(b)The date of birth of an officer or servant of the Town Panchayat already
entered in his service book shall not be altered except with the previous
sanction or under the direction of the Director of Town Panchayats. The
procedure for making alterations in the date of birth shall be the same as in
rule 49 of Part II of the General Rules relating to Tamil Nadu State and
Subordinate Service.

### 24. Executive Authority to be responsible for the maintenance of service
book. - The executive authority shall be responsible for the correct and up to
date maintenance of the service book of every officer or servant of the Town
Panchayat and he shall record an annual certificate of verification in the
service book as early as possible after the end of every year.

### 25. Statement of permanent post to be furnished by the executive
authority. - The executive authority shall, early in April in each year
prepare a detailed statement of all permanent posts under the Town Panchayat
existing on the 1st April of every year and forward it to the auditor
appointed under section 141 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958, not later
than the 15th April.

### 26. Consequences of resignation. - An Officer or servant of a-Town
Panchayat shall if he resigns his appointment, forfeit not only the services
rendered by him in the particular post held by him at the time of resignation
but all his previous service under the town panchayat or any other local
authority.

The re-appointment of such persons to any post under the town panchayat shall
be treated in the same way as a first appointment to such post and all rules
governing such appointment shall apply, and on such re-appointment, he shall
not be entitled to count any portion of his previous service for any benefit
or concession admissible under any rule or order.

### 27. Pecuniary loss to be made good. - When a member of the establishment
under a town panchayat is found guilty of any negligence, fraud, breach of
rules or order, in consequence of which pecuniary loss has been caused to the
town panchayat the competent authority may, in addition to any other
punishment which may be inflicted in respect of such negligence or breach,
order that the whole or portion of the loss shall be made good by such officer
or servant.

### 28. Power of Government to relax rule or regulation in respect of
establishment of Town Panchayats. - No rule or regulation made under the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958), shall be construed to
limit or abridge the power of the Government to deal with the case of any
officer or servant of a town panchayat or any candidate for appointment to the
service of a town panchayat in such manner as may appear to them to be just
and equitable:

Provided that where any such rule or regulation is applicable to the case of
any such officer or servant of a Town Panchayat or to any candidate for
appointment to the service of a town panchayat, the case shall not be dealt
with in any manner less favourable to such officer or servant of the Town
Panchayat or to the candidate for appointment to the service of the town
panchayat, as the case may be, than that provided by the rule or regulation.

### 29. Savings. - Nothing contained in this rule shall, unless a contrary
intention is expressly indicated therein, operate to deprive any such person
of any right or privilege to which he is entitled by or under any rule
applicable to him prior to the making of such rule.

## I

Backward ClassesList of Classes of citizens who are Backward Classes, Most
Backward Classes and Denotified Communities(G.O. Ms. No. 28, Backward Classes
and Most Backward Classes Welfare, dated the 19th July 1994). - Under clause
(a) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of
appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu
Act 45 of 1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby notifies the lists of
classes of citizens who are socially and educationally Backward including the
Most Backward Classes and the Denotified Communities specified in the Schedule
below as Backward Classes of Citizens: -[Published in Part II-Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 19th July 1994.]

## Schedule 2

I. List of Backward Classes:

### 1\. Agamudayar including Thozhu or Thuluva Vellala.

### 2\. Agaram Vellan Chettiar.

### 3\. Alwar, Azhavar and Alavar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah
Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 4\. Servai (except Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts).

### 5\. Ansar.

### 6\. Arayar, Nulayar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 7\. Archakarai Vellala.

### 8\. Aryavathi (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 9\. Ayira Vaisyar.

### 10\. Badagar.

### 11\. Billava.

### 12\. Bondil.

### 13\. Boyas (except Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, The Nilgiris, Salem,
[Dharmapuri] [Substituted for the words and Dharmapuri by G. O. Ms. No. 78,
BC, MBS&MW, dated 4th August 2005.] and Krishnagiri Districts).

Pedda Boyar (except Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts), Oddars (except
Thanjavur, Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth, Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, Madurai and
Dindigul-Anna Districts).Kaloddars (except Chengalpattu-MGR, Ramanathapuram,
Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Madurai, Dindigul Anna, Pudukottai,
Tiruchirapalli, Tirunelveli-Kattabomman, Chidambaranar and Salem
Districts).Nellorepet Oddars (except North Arcot-Ambedkar and Tiruvannama-lai-
Sambuvarayar Districts).Sooram'ari Oddars (except Salem District).

### 14\. Chakkala (except Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar,
Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai, Tiruchirapalli,
Madurai, Dindigul-Anna and The Nilgiris Districts).

### 15\. Chavalakarar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman Districts).

### 16\. Chettu or Chetty (including Kottar Chetty, Elur Chetty, Pathira
Chetty, Valayal Chetty, Pudukkadai Chetty) (in Kanniyakumari District and
Shencottah Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman Districts).

### 17\. Chowdry.

### 18\. Converts to Christianity from Scheduled Castes irrespective of the
generation of conversion for the purpose of reservation of seats in
Educational Institutions and for seats in Public Services.

### 19\. C.S.I, formerly S.I.U.C. (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah
Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 20\. Donga Dasaris (except Chengalpattu-MGR, Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai,
Chennai and Salem Districts).

### 21\. Dekkani Muslims.

### 22\. Devangar, Sedar.

### 23\. Dombs (except Pudukottai and Tiruchirapalli Districts).

Dommars (except Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai, North Arcot-
Ambedkar and Tiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts).

### 24\. Dudekula.

### 25\. Enadi.

### 26\. Ezhavathy (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 27\. Ezhuthachar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 28\. Ezhuva (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 29\. Gangavar.

### 30. Gavara, Gavarai and Vadugar (Vaduvar) (other than Kamma, Kapu, Balija
and Reddi).

### 31. Gounder.

### 32. Gowda (including Gammala, Kalali and Anuppa Gounder.)

### 33. Megde.

### 34. Idiga.

### 35. Illathu Pillaimar, Illuvar, Ezhuvar and illathar.

### 36. Jhetty.

### 37. Jogis (except Chengalpattu-MGR, Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, South Arcot-
Vallalar, Villupuram-Ramasami Padayachiyar, North Arcot-Ambedkar and
Tiruvannamalai - Sambuvarayar Districts).

### 38. Kabbera.

### 39. Kaikolar, Sengunthar.

### 40. Kaladi (except Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Rama-
nathapuram, Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth,
Pudukottai and Tiruchirapalli Districts).

### 41. Kalari Kurup including Kalari Panicker (in Kanniyakumari District and
Shencottah Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 42. Kalingi.

### 43. Kallar including Easanattu Kallar, Gandarvakottai Kallars (except
Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth and Pudukottai Districts), Kootappal Kallars
(except Pudukottai and Tiruchirapalli Districts), Piranmalai Kallars (except
Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Dindigul-
Anna, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth Districts),
Periyasooriyur Kallars (except Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts).

### 44. Kaliar Kula Thondaman.

### 45. Kalveli Gounder.

### 46. Kambar.

### 47. Kammalar or Viswakarma, Viswakarmala (including Thattar, Porkollar,
Kannar, Karumar Kollar, Thacher, Kal Thacher, Kamsala and Viswabrahmin).

### 48. Kani, Kanisu, Kaniyar, Panikkar.

### 49. Kaniyala Vellalar.

### 50. Kannada Saineegar, Kannadiyar (Throughout the State) and Dasapal-
anjika (Coimbatore, Periyar and The Nilgiris Districts).

### 51. Kannadiya Naidu.

### 52. Karpoora Chettiar.

### 53. Karuneegar (Seer Karuneegar, Sri Karuneegar, Sarattu Karuneegar,
Kaikatti Karuneegar, Mathuvazhi Kanakkar, Sozhi Kanakkar and Sunnambu
Karuneegar).

### 54. Kasukkara Chettiar.

### 55. Katesar, Pattamkatti.

### 56. Kavuthiyar.

### 57. Kerala Mudali.

### 58. Kharvi.

### 59. Khatri.

### 60. Kongu Vaishnava.

### 61. Kongu Vellalars (including Vellala Gounder, Nattu Gounder, Naram-
bukkatti Gounder, Tirumudi Vellalar, Thondu Vellalar, Pala Gounder, Poosari
Gounder, Anuppa Vellala Gounder, Karumba Gounder, Padaithalai Gounder,
Chendalai Gounder, Pavalankatti Vellala Gounder, Pala Vellala Gounder, Sanku
Vellala Gounder and Rathinagiri Gounder).

### 62. Koppala Velama.

### 63. Koteyar.

### 64. Krishnanvaka (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 65. Kudikara Vellalar.

### 66. Kudumbi (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 67. Kuga Vellalar.

### 68. Kunchidigar.

### 69. Labbais including Rowthar and Marakayar (whether their spoken language
is Tamil or Urdu).

### 70. Lambadi.

### 71. Latin Catholics (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 72. Lingayat (Jangama).

### 73. Mahratta (non-Brahmin) (including Namdev Mahratta).

### 74. Malayar.

### 75. Male

### 76. Maniagar.

### 77. Mapilla.

### 78. Maravars (except Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai,
Ramanathapuram, Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Tirunelveli-
Kattabomman and Chidambaranar District) including Karumaravars, Appanad
Kondayamkottai Maravar (except Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar,
Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Dindigul-Anna Districts) and Sembanad Maravars
(except Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar and Ramanathapuram
District).

### 79. Moondrumandai Enbathunalu (84) Ur. Sozhia Vellalar.

### 80. Mooppan.

### 81. Muthuraja, Muthuracha, Muttiriyar, Muthiriyar, Mutharaiyar.

### 82. Nadar, Sannar and Gramani (including Christian Nadar, Christian Shanar
and Christian Gramani).

### 83. Nagaram.

### 84. Naikkar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of Tirunel-
veli-Kattabomman District).

### 85. Nangudi Vellalar.

### 86. Nanjil Mudali (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 87. Odar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of Tirunelveli-
Kattabomman District).

### 88. Odiya.

### 89. Oottruvalanattu Vellalar.

### 90. O.P.S. Vellalar.

### 91. Ovachar.

### 92. Paiyur Kotta Vellalar.

### 93. Pamulu.

### 94. Panar (except in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District where the community is a Scheduled Caste).

### 95. Panisaivan (including Virakodi Vellala.)

### 96. Kathikarar in Kanniyakumari District.

### 97. Pannirandam Chettiar or Uthama Chettiar.

### 98. Parkavakulam (including Surithimar, Nathamar, Malayamar, Moopa-nar and
Nainar).

### 99. Perike (including Perike Balija).

### 100. Perumkollftr (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 101. Podikara Vellalar.

### 102. Pooluva Gounder.

### 103. Poraya.

### 104. Pulavar (in Coimbatore and Periyar Districts).

### 105. Pulluvar or Pooluvar.

### 106. Pusala.

### 107. Reddy (Ganjam).

### 108. Sadhu Chetty (including Telugu Chetty, Twenty-four Manai Telugu
Chetty).

### 109. Sakkaravar or Kavathi (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk
of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 110. Salivagana.

### 111. Saliyar, Padmasaliyar, Pattusaliyar, Pattariyar and Adhaviyar.

### 112. Savalakkarar.

### 113. Senaithalaivar, Senaikudiyar and Illaivaniar.

### 114. Sheik.

### 115. Sourashtra (Patnulkarar).

### 116. Sozhia Vellalar (including Sozna Vellalar, Vetrilaikarar,
Kodikalkarar and Keeraikarar).

### 117. Srisayar.

### 118. Sundaram Chetty.

### 119. Syed.

### 120. Tnogana Veerakshatriya.

### 121. Tholkollar (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tinmelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 122. Tholuva Naicker and Vetalakara Naicker.

### 123. Thoraiyar.

### 124. Thoriyar.

### 125. Ukkirakula Kshatriya Naicker.

### 126. Uppara, Uppillia and Sagara.

### 127. Urali Gounder (except Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai District) and
Orudaya Gounder or Oorudaya Gounder (in Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Coimba-tore,
Periyar, Tiruchirappalli, Pudukottai and Salem Districts).

### 128. Urikkara Nayakkar.

### 129. Vallambar.

### 130. Valmiki.

### 131. Vaniyar, Vania Chettiar (including Gandla, Qanika, Telikula and
Chekkalar).

### 132. Veduvar and Vedar (except in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah
Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District where the community is a Scheduled
Caste).

### 133. Veerasaiva (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 134. Velar.

### 135. Vellan Chettiar.

### 136. Veluthodathu Nair (in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District).

### 137. Vokkaligar (including Vakkaligar, Okkaligar, Kappiliyar, Kappiliya,
Okkaliga Gowda, Okkaliga, Gowda, Okkaliya Gowder, Okkaliya Gowda.)

### 138. Wynad Chetty (The Nilgiris District).

### 139. Yadhava (including Idaiyar, Telugu Speaking Idaiyar known as Vaduga
Ayar or Vaduga Idaiyar or Golla and Asthanthra Golla.)

### 140. Yavana.

### 141. Yerukula.

### 142. Converts to Christianity from any Hindu Backward Classes Community or
Most Backward Classes Community or Denotified Communities except the Converts
to Christianity from Meenavar, Parvatharajakulam, Pattanavar, Sembadavar,
Mukkuvar or Mukayar and Paravar.

### 143. Orphans and destitute children who have lost their parents before
reaching the age often and are destitutes; and who have nobody else to take
care of them either by law or custom; and also who are admitted into any of
the schools or orphanages rim by the Government or recognised by the
Government.

II. List of Most Backward Classes:

### 1\. Ambalakarar.

### 2\. Andipandaram.

### 3\. Bestha, Siviar.

### 4\. Bhatraju (other than Kshatriya Raju).

### 5\. Boyar, Oddar.

### 6\. Dasari.

### 7\. Dommara.

### 8\. Eravallar (except in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli Kattabomman District where the Community is a Scheduled Tribe).

### 9\. Isaivellalar.

### 10\. Jambuvanodai.

### 11\. Jangam.

### 12\. Jogi.

### 13\. Kongu Chettiar (in Coimbatore and Periyar Districts only).

### 14\. Koracha.

### 15\. Kulala (including Kuyavar and Kumbarar).

### 16\. Kunnuvar Mannadi.

### 17\. Kurumba.

### 18\. Kuruhini Chetty.

### 19\. Maruthuvar, Navithar, Mangala, Velakattalavar, Velakatalanair and
Pronopakari.

### 20\. Mond Golla.

### 21\. Moundadan Chetty

### 22\. Mahendra, Medara.

### 23\. Mutlakampatti.

### 24\. Narikoravar.

### 25\. Nokkar.

### 26\. Vanniakula Kshatriya (including Vanniyar, Vanniya, Vannia Gounder,
Gounder or Kander, Padaychi, Palli and Agnikula Kshatriya).

### 27\. Paravar (except in Kanniyakumari District and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District where the Community is Scheduled Caste)
(including Converts to Christianity).

### 28\. Meenavar (Parvatharajakulam, Pattanavar, Sembadavar) (including
Converts to Christianity).

### 29\. Mukkuvar or Mukayar (including Converts to Christianity)

### 30\. Punnan Vettuva Gounder.

### 31\. Pannayar (other than Kathikarar in Kanniyakumari District).

### 32\. Sathatha Srivaishnava (including Sathani, Ghattadi and Chattada Sri-
vaishnava).

### 33\. Sozhia Chetty.

### 34\. Telugupatty Chetty.

### 35\. Thottia Naicker (including Rajakambalam, Gollavar, Sillavar, Thocka-
lavar and Thozhuva Naicker).

### 36\. Thondaman.

### 37\. Valaiyar (including Chettinad Valayars).

### 38\. Vannar (Salaivai Thozhilalar) (including Agasa, Madivala, Ekali,
Rajakula, Veluthadar and Rajaka) (except in Kanniyakumari District and
Shencottah Taluk of Tirunelveli-Kattabomman District where the community is a
Scheduled Caste).

### 39\. Vettaikarar.

### 40\. Vetttiva Gounder.

### 41\. Yogeeswarar.

III. List of Denotified Communities:

1\. Attur Kilnad Koravars |  Salem, South Arcot Vallalar, Villupuram-RamasamyPadayachiyar, Ramanathapuram, Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar andKamarajar Districts.  
---|---  
2\. Attur Melnad Koravars. | Salem District.  
3\. Appanad Kondayamkottai Maravar. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamara-jar,Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Dindigul-Anna Districts.  
4\. Ambalakarar. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth,Tiruchira-palli and Pudukottai Districts.  
5\. Ambalakkarar. | Suriyanur, Tiruchirapalli District.  
6\. Boyas. |  Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, The Nilgiris, Salemand Dharmapuri Districts.  
7\. Sattu Tarkas. |   
8\. C.K. Koravars. |  South Arcot-Vallalar and Villupuram-Rama-samyPadayachiyar Districts.  
9\. Chakkala. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamara-jar,Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai,Tiruchirapalli, Madurai, Dindigul-Anna and The NilgirisDistricts.  
10\. Changayampudi Koravars. |  North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
11\. Chettinad Valayars. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar andRamanathapuram Districts.  
12\. Dombs. | Pudukottai and Tiruchirapalli Districts.  
13\. Dobba Koravars. | Salem District.  
14\. Dommars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai,North Arcot-Ambedkar and Tiruvannama-lai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
15\. Donga Soya. |   
16\. Donga Ur.Korachas. |   
17\. Devagudi Talayaris. |   
18\. Dobbai Korachas. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
19\. Dabi Koravars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth,Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, North Arcot Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
20\. Donga Dasaris. |  Chengalpattu-M.G.R., Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai,Madras and Salem Districts.  
21\. Gorrela Dodda Soya. |   
22\. Gudu Dasaris. |   
23\. Gandarvakottai Koravars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth,Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, South Arcot-Vallalar andVillupuram-Ramasamy Padayachiyar Districts.  
24\. Gandarvakottai Kallars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth and PudukottaiDistricts.  
25\. Inji Koravars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Tiruchirapalliand Pudukottai Districts.  
26\. Jogis. |  Chengalpattu-MGR, Madras, South Arcot-Val-lalar,Villupuram Ramasamy Padayachiyar, North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
27\. Jamba vanodai. |   
28\. Kaladis. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar,Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Thanjavur, NagaiQuaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai and Tiruchirapalli Districts.  
29\. Kal Oddars. |  Chengalpattu-MGR, Ramanathapuram, PasumponMuthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Madurai, Dindigul-Anna,Pudukottai, Tiruchirapalli, Tirunelveli- Kattabomman,Chidambaranar and Salem Districts.  
30\. Koravars. |  Chengalpattu-MGR, Ramanathapuram, PasumponMuthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, NagaiQuaid-e-Mil-leth, Tiruchirapalli,Tirunelveli-Kattabom-man,Chidambaranar, Madras, Madurai,Dindigul-Anna and The Nilgiris Districts.  
31\. Kalinji Dabikoravar. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth and PudukottaiDistricts.  
32\. Kootappal Kallars. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
33\. Kala Koravars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth, Tiruchirapalliand Pudukottai Districts.  
34\. Kalavathila Boyas. |   
35\. Kepmaris. |  Chengalpattu-MGR, Pudukottai and TiruchirapalliDistricts.  
36\. Maravars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai,Ramanathapuram, Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamarajar,Tirunelveli Kattabomman and Chidambaranar Districts.  
37\. Monda Koravars. |   
38\. Monda Golla. | Salem District.  
39\. Mutlakampatt. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
40\. Nokkars. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
41\. Nellorepet Oddars. |  North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
42\. Oddars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth,Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, Madurai and Dindigul-Anna Districts.  
43\. Pedda Boyas. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
44\. Ponnai Korava |  North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
45\. Piramalai Kallars. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamara-jar,Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Dindigul Anna, Pudukottai, Thanjavur andNagai Quaid-e-Milleth Districts.  
46\. Peria Suriyar Kallars. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
47\. Padayachi. |  Vellayan Kuppam in South Arcot-Vallalar Districtand Tennore in Tiruchirapalli District.  
48\. Punnan Vettuva Gounder. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
49\. Servai. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
50\. Salem Melnad Koravars. |  Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Coimbatore, Periyar,Pudukottai, Tiruchirapalli, Salem, North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambu-varayar Districts.  
51\. Salem Uppu Koravars. | Salem District.  
52\. Sakkaraithamadai Koravars. |  North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
53\. Saranga Palli Koravars. |   
54\. Sooramari Oddars. | Salem District.  
55\. Sembanad Maravars. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar,Kamarajar andRamanathapuram Districts.  
56\. Thalli Koravars. | Salem District.  
57\. Thelungapatti Chettis. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
58\. Thottia Naickers. |  Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, Kamara-jar,Ramanathapuram, Chengalpattu-MGR, Thanjavur,Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth, Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai,Tirunelveli-Kattabomman, Chidambaranar, Salem, NorthArcot-Ambedkar, Tiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar, Coimbatore andPeriyar Districts.  
59\. Thogamalai Koravars or Kepmaris. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
60\. Uppukoravars or Settipalli Kovavars. |  Thanjavur, Nagai-Quaid-e-Milleth, Pudukottai,Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, North Arcot-Ambedkar andTiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar Districts.  
61\. Urali Goundars. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
62\. Wayalpad or Nawalpeta Korachas. |   
63\. Vaduvarpatti Koravars. |  Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Ramanathapuram, PasumponMuthuramalinga Thevar, Kamara-jar, Tirunelveli-Kattabomman,Chidambaranar, Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
64\. Valayars. |  Madurai, Dindigul-Anna, Tiruchirapalli,Pudukottai, Periyar and Coimbatore Districts.  
65\. Vettaikarar. |  Thanjavur, Nagai Quaid-e-Milleth and PudukottaiDistricts, Salem District.  
66\. Vetta Koravars. | Salem District  
67\. Varaganeri Koravars. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
68\. Vettuva Gounder. | Tiruchirapalli and Pudukottai Districts.  
  
## II

## Part A – Scheduled Castes

1\. Throughout the State: -  
---  
1. | Chakkiliyan  
2. | Kuravan, Sidhan  
3. | Nayadi  
4. | Pallan  
5. | Paraiyan, Parayan (Sambavar)  
6. | Valluvan  
2\. Throughout the State except Kanyakumaridistrict and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli district: -  
1. | Adi-Andhra  
2. | Adi-Dravida  
3. | Adi-Karnataka  
4. | Ajila  
5. | Arunthathiyar  
6. | Baira  
7. | Bakuda  
8. | Bandi  
9. | Bellara  
10. | Chalavadi  
11. | Chamar or Muchi  
12. | Chandala  
13. | Cheruman  
14. | Devendrakulathan  
15. | Dom, Dombara Paidi or Pano  
16. | Godagali  
17. | Godda  
18. | Gosangai  
19. | Holaya  
20. | Jaggali  
21. | Jambuvulu  
22. | Kadaiyan  
23. | Kailadi  
24. | Kanmpalan  
25. | Koosa  
26. | Kudumban  
27. | Madari  
28. | Madiga  
29. | Maila  
30. | Mala  
31. | Mavilan  
32. | Moger  
33. | Mundala  
34. | Nelakeyava  
35. | Pagadai  
36. | Pambada  
37. | Panchama  
38. | Penniandi  
39. | Puthirai Vannan  
40. | Raneyar  
41. | Samagara  
42. | Samban  
43. | Separi  
44. | Semman  
45. | Thoti  
46. | Tiruvalluvar  
3\. In the Nilgiris District: -  
| Kanakkan or Padanna  
4\. In Coimbatore and Salem Districts: -  
1 | Pannadi  
2. | Vathiriyan  
5\. In Kanyakumari District and Shencottah taluk ofTirunelveli district: -  
1. | Ayyanavar  
2. | Bharatar  
3. | Domban  
4. | Kakkalan  
5. | Kavara  
6. | Kottan (Koodan)  
7. | Mannan  
8. | Padannan  
9. | Palluvan  
10. | A Paravans  
11. | Pathiyan  
12. | Perumannan  
13. | Pulayan or Cheramar  
14. | Thandan  
15. | Ulladan  
16. | Uraly  
17. | Vallon  
18. | Vannan  
19. | Velan  
20. | Vetan  
21. | Vettuvan  
6\. In Thanjavur district: -  
1. | Koliyan  
2. | Vettiyan  
  
## Part B – Scheduled Tribes

1\. Throughout the State: -  
---  
1. | Kadar  
2. | Irular  
2\. Throughout the State except KanyakumariDistrict and Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli District: -  
1. | Adiyan  
2. | Aranadan  
3. | Kammara  
4. | Kattunayakkan  
5. | Konda Kapus  
6. | Konda Reddis  
7. | Koraga  
8. | Kola  
9. | Kudiya or Melakudi  
10. | Kurichchan  
11. | Kurumans  
12. | Mahamalasar  
13. | Malasar  
14. | Malayekandi  
15. | Mudugey Muduvan  
16. | Pallivan  
17. | Paniyan  
18. | Pulayan  
19. | Sholaga  
20. | Toda  
3\. In North Arcot, Salem and Tiruchirappalli Districts:-  
| Malayali  
4\. In Coimbatore and Tirunelveli Districts (exceptShencottah taluk)  
| Kanian or Kanyan  
5\. In the Nilgiris District:-  
| Kurumbas  
6\. In Kanyakumari District and Shencottah talukof Tirunelveli district: -  
1. | Eravallan  
2. | Hill Pulayas  
3. | Kanikaran or Kanikkar  
4. | Kichu Velan  
5. | Malaikkuravan  
6. | Malai Ardyan  
7. | Malai Pandaram  
8. | Malai Vedan  
9. | Malayan  
10. | Malayarayar  
11. | Mannan  
12. | Muthuvan  
13. | Palliyan  
14. | Palliyar  
15. | Ulladan (Hill dwellers)  
16. | Uraly  
17. | Vishavan

