## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003

## Act 12 of 2003

  * Published on 1 January 2003 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of Electricity Act, 2003(Tamil Nadu Act
12 of 2003)An Act to consolidate and rationalise the laws relating to the levy
of tax on consumption or sale of electricity in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-
fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Tax on Consumption or Sale of
Electricity Act, 2003.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the State
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:(1)"actual user of
power" means one who is not a consumer but uses power out of captive
generating plant;(2)"captive generating plant" means a power plant set up by
any person or association of persons or any Co-operative society to generate
electricity primarily for his own use or for the use of members, and includes
the power plants that are permitted to sell the surplus power so
generated.(3)"Director" means the Director of Electricity Tax appointed by the
State Government;(4)"company" means a company registered under the Companies
Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) and includes anybody Corporate under a
Central, State or Provincial Act.(5)"consumer" with its grammatical variations
and cognate expression means any person who is supplied with electricity on
payment of charges, or free of cost or otherwise by a licensee or by the
Government or by any other person engaged in the business of supplying
electricity to the public under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (Central Act
10 of 1910) or any other law for the time being in force and includes:(i)a
licensee who consumes electricity whether generated by himself or supplied to
him by any other licensee; and(ii)actual user of power or any other person who
consumes electricity generated by himself;Explanation I. - Where a licensee
consumes electricity, whether generated by himself or supplied to him, such
licensee shall be deemed to be a consumer only in respect of the electricity
so consumed.Explanation II. - Where a licensee or other person consumes energy
for purposes connected with the construction, maintenance and operation of the
generating transmitting and distributing system, such licensee or person shall
not be deemed to be a consumer in respect of the energy so
consumed;(6)"electricity" means electrical energy;(7)"energy charge" means the
amount charged (whether as energy charge or other charge) by a licensee for
the supply of electricity to a consumer before deduction of rebate, if any,
allowed by the licensee for payment on or before such date as may be specified
by the licensee, but does not include -(i)meter charges;(ii)interest on
delayed payment;(iii)fuel surcharge; or(iv)fuse off call charges and
reconnection chargesExplanation-I. - If electricity is supplied to any person
free of charge or at a concessional rate (other than tariff concession), the
energy charge would mean the tariff fixed by the Tamil Nadu Electricity
Regulatory Commission in its Tariff Order to similar consumer.Explanation-II.
- "other charge" shall include demand charge and power factor
surcharge.(8)"gross charge" means the aggregate amount of energy charge, fuel
surcharge and other charges, if any, made by the licensee for the supply of
electricity;(9)"generating company" means any company or body corporate or
association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not or artificial
juridical person, which owns or operates or maintains a generating
station.(10)"licensee" means any person licensed under part II of the Indian
Electricity Act, 1910, (Central Act 10 of 1910) to supply electricity and
includes any person who has obtained the sanction of the State Government
under section 28 of that Act, the State Government when it is engaged in the
business of supplying electricity, the generating company as defined in clause
(4-A) of section 2 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Central Act 54 of
1948), the Electricity Board and the captive generating plant;(11)"local
authority" means:(i)any Municipal Corporation established under any law for
the time being in force; or(ii)any Municipal Council constituted under the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (5 of 1920); or(iii)any District
Panchayat or any Panchayat Union Council or any Village Panchayat constituted
under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(12)"net
charge" means the amount of gross charge that remains after deduction
therefrom of any rebate referred to in clause (7) of this section or refund of
fuel surcharge or other charges, if any.(13)"supply" in relation to
electricity means the sale of electricity to a licensee or
consumer.(14)"tariff" means a rate of tariff leviable upon the consumption of
electricity in the State supplied by the licensee and as fixed by the Tamil
Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission;(15)"unit" means one kilowatt hours of
energy.(16)words and expressions used but not defined in this Act shall have
the meaning assigned to them in the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, (Central Act
10 of 1910) Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Central Act 54 of 1948) and the
Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998 (Central Act 14 of 1998).

### 3. Tax on consumption or sale of electricity.

(1)Save as otherwise provided in this Act, every licensee and every person
other than a licensee shall pay every month to the Government in the
prescribed manner, a tax on the electricity sold or consumed during the
previous month at the rates specified hereunder:(a)In the case of licensees
other than captive generating plants, the rate shall be not less than 5% and
not more than 10% of the net charge, as may be notified by the
Government:Provided that no tax shall be paid on sale of electricity for
agricultural purposes and hut service connections;(b)In the case of licensees
who are captive generating plants, the rate shall be not less than 10 paise
and not more than 20 paise per unit of electricity on the consumption for own
use; and shall be not less than 5% and not more than 10% on the net charge on
the sale of surplus electricity as may be notified by the Government:Provided
that no tax shall be paid on the sale of electricity to the Board.(c)In the
case of a person other than a licensee, the rate shall be not less than 10
paise and not more than 20 paise per unit of electricity on the consumption
for own use as may be notified by the Government;(2)The Government may pay
such amount as may be prescribed as collection charge to every person
collecting electricity tax under this section:Provided that such amount shall
not exceed 1% of the electricity tax collected by such person.

### 4. Electricity sold for consumption to Government local authority or
Railway Company not liable to tax.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no electricity tax shall be
payable under section 3, on the sale of electricity, by a licensee to:(a)any
Government for consumption by that Government, save in respect of premises
used for residential purposes;(b)(i)any local authority, save in respect of
premises used for residential purposes;(ii)Railway administration as defined
in the Railways Act, 1989 (Central Act 24 of 1989), save in respect of
premises used for residential purposes.

### 5. Registration.

(1)Every person, other than a licensee or the State Government, who has
installed or proposes to install a generating plant for generation of
electricity for his own consumption, shall register his name with such officer
as the Government may appoint in this behalf.(2)The application for
registration shall be made in such manner and in such form and on payment of
such fee as may be prescribed.(3)The officer appointed in this behalf may, on
receipt of an application and after such enquiry as he considers necessary,
grant to the applicant a certificate of registration for such plant, for such
period and on such conditions as may be prescribed.

### 6. Licensee to reimburse himself from consumer in certain cases.

(1)Any licensee may with the previous sanction of the Government and subject
to such conditions as they may impose, recover from any person or class of
persons to whom electricity is sold, the electricity tax which falls to be
paid by the licensee in respect of the electricity so sold, or any part of it
as may be determined by the Government.Explanation. - Save as provided in
section 4 of this Act, the electricity tax recoverable from any person under
this section shall not be deemed to be part of the electricity charges charged
by the licensee.(2)Licensee may for the purpose of sub-section (1) exercise
the powers conferred on a licensee by sub-section (1) of section 24 of Indian
Electricity Act, 1910 for the recovery of any charge or sum due in respect of
energy supplied by him.

### 7. Recovery of Electricity Tax.

\- Any electricity tax due under this Act which remains unpaid:(a)shall be
deemed to be in arrears and thereupon interest at the rate prescribed by the
Government, from time to time, shall be payable on such electricity tax;
and(b)shall, together with any interest payable under clause (a) be
recoverable either as an arrear of land revenue or by deduction from any
amount payable by the Government to the licensee.

### 8. Obligation of licensees to keep books of account and to submit return
Every licensee and every person other than a licensee.

(a)keep books of account in the prescribed form; and(b)submit returns showing
the units of electricity supplied and the amount of the electricity tax
payable in respect thereof, to the Director in such form and within such time
as may be prescribed:Provided that every person other than a licensee, who has
registered his name under section 5 shall quote the registration number in all
books of accounts and returns submitted to the Director.

### 9. Assessment.

(1)If no return in respect of any period is submitted by a licensee or a
person required to submit return under section 8 or if the return submitted by
such licensee or person appears to the Director to be incorrect or incomplete
the Director shall, after giving such licensee or person as the case may be, a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, proceed in such manner as may be
prescribed to assess to the best of his judgment the amount of electricity tax
payable under this Act by such licensee or person.(2)The amount of electricity
tax assessed under sub-section (1) for a period less the sum, if any, already
paid in respect of the said period, shall be paid by the licensee or the
person by such date as maybe specified in a notice issued by the Director in
this behalf and the date to be specified shall be ordinarily not less than 30
days from the date of service of such notice.(3)No assessment under this
section shall be made after the expiry of four years.Explanation. - For the
purpose of this section, "year" means the year commencing on the first day of
April and ending on the last day of March.

### 10. Appeal.

(1)Any person may in the prescribed manner appeal to the Government against
any order of assessment of Electricity Tax within sixty days or such further
period as may be allowed by the Government for reasons shown to their
satisfaction from the date of receipt of a notice of demand issued after such
order of assessment.Provided that no appeal against an assessment of
electricity tax shall be entertained by the Government unless they are
satisfied that such amount of electricity tax as the appellant may admit to be
due from him has been paid.(2)The Government in disposing of any appeal under
sub-section (1) may:(a)confirm, modify or annul the assessment of electricity
tax; or(b)set aside the assessment of electricity tax and direct the Director
to make a fresh assessment after such further inquiry as may be directed.

### 11. Interest payable by Government.

\- The Government shall in the prescribed manner, pay a simple interest at the
rate not exceeding four per cent per annum as may be prescribed in this
behalf, for each calendar month of delay in making refund to a licensee the
amount of electricity tax paid in excess which arises from an order passed on
appeal under section 10.

### 12. Electricity Tax Inspecting Officer.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint the Electricity Tax Inspecting
Officers to inspect the prescribed books of account kept under section
8.(2)Every Inspecting Officer appointed under this section shall be deemed to
be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code,
1860 (45 of 1860).

### 13. Powers of Electricity Tax Inspecting Officer.

(1)Subject to the provisions of any rules made by the State Government in this
behalf, an Inspector may:(i)require production for inspection of such books
and records as may be necessary for ascertaining or verifying the amount of
electricity tax leviable under the Act.(ii)enter and search any premises where
electricity is, or is believed to be supplied, for the purpose of:(a)verifying
the statements made in the books of account kept, and returns submitted, under
section 5,(b)testing the reading of meters,(c)verifying the particulars
required in connection with the levy of electricity tax.(iii)exercise such
powers and perform such other functions as may be necessary for carrying out
the purposes of this Act or the rules made there under.(2)All searches made
under sub-section (1) shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.

### 14. Exemption and reduction of tax.

\- The Government may, by notification, make an exemption or reduction in rate
in respect of the electricity tax payable under this Act on energy sold for
consumption by or in respect of any:(i)institution or class of
persons;(ii)place of public worship, public burial or burning ground or other
place for the disposal of the dead;(iii)premises declared by the State
Government to be used exclusively for purposes of public charity;(iv)vessel
whether seagoing or inland.(2)[ The Government may, by notification, make an
exemption or reduction in rate in respect of the electricity for own use by
any captive generating plant.(3)The Government may, by notification, cancel
any notification issued under sub-section (2)] [Inserted by Act 5 of 2008
(w.e.f. 18.02.2008).]

### 15. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for:(a)the time and manner of payment of the
electricity tax under section 3;(b)the form of the books of accounts to be
kept and the times at which, the form in which and officers to whom the
returns under section 8 shall be submitted;(c)the powers and duties of
Inspecting Officers;(3)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(4)Every rule or order made under this Act shall, as soon as
possible, alter it is made, be placed on the table of the Legislative
Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification
in any such rule or order or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule or
order should not be made, the rule or order shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or order.

### 16. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by an order published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act as appears to them necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.

### 17. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence punishable under this Act has been committed by a company,
every person, who, at the time the offence was committed, was in-charge of,
and was in-charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of
the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be
guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:Provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall render
any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained
in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a
Company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent
or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section:(a)"company" means
any body corporate and includes a firm, society, trust or other association of
individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to:(i)a firm means a partner in the
firm(ii)a society, trust or other association of individuals means the person
who is entrusted under the Rules of the society, trust or other association
with the management of the affairs of the society, trust or other association,
as the case may be.

### 18. Protection of Action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this
Act.

### 19. Penalties.

\- If any person:(a)liable under section 8 to keep books of account or to
submit returns, fails to keep or submit the same in the manner prescribed;
or(b)intentionally obstructs an inspecting officer appointed under section 12
in the exercise of his powers or the performance of his duties under this Act
or the rules made thereunder; or(c)contravenes any rule made under this Act;he
shall be punished with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

### 20. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Electricity Duty Act, 1939 and the Tamil Nadu Electricity
(Taxation on Consumption) Act, 1962 is hereby repealed.Provided that such
repeal shall not affect:(a)the previous operation of the said Acts or anything
duly done or suffered thereunder;(b)any right, privilege, obligation or
liability, acquired, accrued or incurred under the said Acts;(c)any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against
the said Act;(d)any investigation, legal proceeding (including assessment
proceeding) or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation,
liability, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid and any such investigation,
legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any
such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as i f this Act had not
been passed;(2)Notwithstanding such repeal:(a)anything done or any action
taken or purported to have been done or taken including any rule,
notification, inspection order or notice made or issued or any direction given
under the repealed laws, shall so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.(b)any duty levied under the repealed
Tamil Nadu Electricity Duty Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act 5 of 1939) and the rules
made thereunder during the period prior to the commencement of this Act, but
not collected, may be recovered in the manner provided under the repealed Act
and rules made thereunder.(c)any tax levied under the repealed Tamil Nadu
Electricity (Taxation on Consumption) Act, 1962 (Tamil Nadu Act 4 of 1962) and
the rules made thereunder during the period prior to the commencement of this
Act, but not collected, may be recovered in the manner provided under the
repealed Act and the rules made thereunder.(3)For the removal of doubts it is
hereby declared that nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as
preventing any person from claiming refund of any tax or duty paid by him in
excess of the amount due from him under the repealed Acts and the rules made
thereunder.

### 21. Act to be subject to Article 288.

\- This Act shall have effect subject to the provisions of Article 288 of the
Constitution.

