## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property)
Rules, 2000

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property)
Rules, 2000

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-ACQUISITION-AND-TRANSFER-OF-IMMOVABLE-PROPERTY-
RULES-2000 of 2000

  * Published on 17 August 2000 
  * Commenced on 17 August 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 August 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property) Rules,
2000Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No, 209, Rural Development
(C-4), dated 17th August 2000 - No. SRO-A-70 (b)/2000Published in Part III -
Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
21st August 2000.G. O. Ms. No, 209, Rural Development (C-4), dated 17th August
2000 - No. SRO-A-70 (b)/2000. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause
(xix) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the Rules relating to
Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Properties, the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Acquisition and
Transfer of Immovable Property) Rules, 2000.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Form" and
"Schedule" shall mean the Forms and Schedules appended to these rules.

### 3. Condition for acquisition of immovable property.

(1)Every panchayat shall acquire any immovable property subject to the
conditions that -(a)the property, if intended for any purpose other than
roads, bridges, culverts or quarries, is approved by the Deputy Director of
Public Health and Preventive Medicine of the district concerned or any person
authorised by him as suitable from the public health and sanitary point of
view for the purpose for which it is intended;(b)the property is also approved
by the Engineer of the Government department specified by the Government, from
time to time, as suitable for the purpose for which it is intended in cases
when the estimated cost exceeds ten thousand rupees;(c)the property, if the
value exceeds ten thousand rupees and if it is intended for educational
purposes, is also approved by the Chief Educational Officer of the
district;(d)the property, if its value exceeds ten thousand rupees and if it
is intended for dispensaries, is approved by the Joint Director of Medical
Services of the district concerned also;(e)the property, shall not be acquired
otherwise than under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act I of 1894),
unless the previous approval of the Collector has been obtained therefor;(f)in
the case of lands acquired otherwise than under the said Act, a valuation
certificate is obtained from the Revenue Department and that no amount in
excess of such valuation shall be paid without obtaining the specific approval
of the Collector in that behalf;(g)in the case of buildings, a valuation
certificate and a certificate of structural stability are obtained from the
Engineer of the Government department as prescribed by the Government and that
no amount in excess of such valuation shall be paid without obtaining the
specific approval of the Collector in that behalf; and(h)in every case where
the consideration for the property is not less than two thousand rupees, an
encumbrance certificate is obtained from the Registration Office in respect of
such property and examined by the legal adviser of the panchayat concerned
unless the nature of the transaction is such as will.(2)The deed transferring
the property to the panchayat shall be in the appropriate Forms in Schedule I,
with such variations as circumstances may require.(3)The provisions of sub-
rules (1) and (2) shall not apply to a case, where the panchayat has to
purchase immovable property brought to sale in the execution of a Court decree
obtained by it.

### 4. Transfer otherwise than by lease of immovable property vesting in but
not belonging to a panchayat.

(1)Immovable property vesting in but not belonging to a panchayat shall not be
transferred or charged in contravention of the conditions subject to which
such property became vested in the panchayat.(2)The deed of transfer shall be
in the appropriate Form in Schedule II, with such variations as circumstances
may require.

### 5. Transfer otherwise than by lease of immovable property belonging to a
village panchayat or panchayat union council.

(1)A panchayat shall not, without the previous sanction of the Inspector, make
or sanction any transfer, except by way of lease, of any immovable property
belonging to it, or create or sanction the creation of any charge upon any
such property. If the value of the property to be transferred or the amount
for which the charge to be created exceeds fifty thousand rupees, the previous
sanction of the Government shall also be obtained for such transaction.(2)The
deed of transfer shall be in the appropriate Form in Schedule II with such
variations as circumstances may require.

### 6. Transfer by lease of immovable property belonging to a panchayat.

(1)A panchayat may lease out any immovable property belonging to it:Provided
that no such lease shall be valid in case the period of the lease exceeds
three years or where the lessee is permitted to put up any building or
structure whether of masonry, bricks, wood, mud or any other material unless
the sanction of the Collector has been obtained therefor.(2)The lease-deed
shall be in Form III (a) in Schedule III with such variations as circumstances
may require.

### 7. Transfer by lease of immovable property vested in but not belonging to
a panchayat.

(1)A panchayat may lease out any property vested in but not belonging to the
panchayat other than road sides and street margins:Provided that no lease
shall be granted -(a)in contravention of the conditions subject to which such
property became vested in the panchayat; or(b)for a period exceeding twelve
months without the previous sanction of the Collector:Provided further that no
such lease shall be valid if the lessee is permitted to put up any building or
structure whether of masonry, bricks, wood, mud or any other material, unless
the sanction of the Collector has been obtained therefor.(2)The lease-deed
shall be in the Form III (a) in Schedule III with such variations as
circumstances may require.

### 8. Lease of road sides and street margins.

(1)Leases of road sides and street margins vested in a panchayat shall be
subject to the following certificates and control: -(i)Every panchayat shall
require that every application for a lease shall furnish information as to the
use to which the land will be put and the period for which a lease is
required. If any structure is proposed to be constructed thereon, information
as to the materials to be used in the construction shall also be
furnished.(ii)The lease may be granted by the panchayat if the structure is to
be constructed of temporary materials such as palmyrah or coconut leaves,
bamboo or other matting or gunny cloth or other similar materials or which are
of such a nature as to be movable daily, and if the period of lease does not
exceed twelve months. A fee shall be levied and collected in advance for every
lease.(iii)No lease for a structure made of materials other than those
mentioned in item (ii) or for a period exceeding twelve months, shall be
granted by a panchayat except with the previous approval of the Collector who,
in granting approval, may lay down such conditions as he may consider
necessary subject to which the lease may be granted by the panchayat. The
panchayat shall embody such conditions in the lease before it is granted. It
must be expressly provided in every case that amount of the lease shall be
paid to the panchayat in advance so long as the lease is in force and that in
default of payment of such amount, the lease is liable to be cancelled.(iv)No
lease shall be granted ordinarily for a period exceeding three years at a
time. The approval of the Collector shall not be necessary for a renewal of a
lease granted under this rule.(v)Every lease under item (ii) or (iii) shall
expressly provide that the lease is liable to be terminated at any time within
the period of the lease without payment of compensation to the lessee if, in
the opinion of the panchayat or of the Collector, it is necessary in the
public interest to remove any structure erected on the land.(vi)No road margin
shall be leased out for cultivation.(2)The lease-deed shall be in Form III(b)
in Schedule III with such variations as circumstances may require.

### 9. Publication of proposed transfers and leases.

(1)In every case of transfer falling under rules 4,5,6 or 7, the panchayat
shall publish a notice of the proposed transfer, giving full particulars of
the property to be transferred, the name of the proposed transferee or lessee
and the consideration for the transfer or the rent reserved under the lease
-(a)in the District Gazette, if the consideration for the transfer exceeds ten
thousand rupees; and(b)by affixture in a conspicuous place in the village
where the property lies -(i)at the offices of the village panchayat, panchayat
union council, district panchayat and of the Collector;(ii)at the village
chavadi of the village in which the property is situated; and(iii)on the
property to be transferred.(2)In every case where such transfer is to be made
by public auction, a notice with full particulars of the property to be
transferred shall be published -(a)in the District Gazette and in one or two
prominent local Tamil newspapers, circulated within the jurisdiction of the
village panchayat, if the consideration for the transfer exceeds ten thousand
rupees;(b)in the manner specified in clause (b) of sub-rule (1); and(c)by tom-
tom in suitable places.

### 10. Transfer and leases to be subject to condition of transferees or
lessees paying assessment, ground rent, peshkash or quit rent to Government.

(1)Except in cases falling under sub-rule (3), no transfer of any immovable
property made by the village panchayat shall be valid unless it be a condition
thereof that the transferee shall be liable to pay to the Government such
assessment, ground-rent, peshkash or quit-rent, as the Collector may determine
to be payable in respect of the property and that the said assessment, ground-
rent, peshkash or quit-rent, is subject to revision, from time to time, in
accordance with the rules in force at the time of such revision except in
respect of quit-rent on enfranchised inam lands and peshkash on lands in
proprietary villages acquired by the panchayat by private
negotiation.(2)Nothing contained in this rule shall affect the right of the
Government to recover from the panchayat, the assessment, ground-rent,
peshkash or quit-rent leviable on lands not transferred by sale or exchange or
otherwise permanently alienated.(3)In cases where the assessment, ground-rent,
peshkash or quit-rent leviable on the land after transfer is already being
paid by the panchayat and the land is not transferred by sale or exchange
leased in perpetuity or otherwise permanently alienated, the village panchayat
shall continue to pay such assessment, ground-rent, peshkash or quit-rent and
the liability shall not be imposed on the transferee.

## I

[See rule 3(2)]Form I(a)Transfer by Sale to a Village Panchayat or Panchayat
Union Council or District Panchayat by a Private PersonThis indenture made
the...........day of........year of..........between son
of................residing at...........(hereinafter called the "vendor" which
expression shall where the context so admits include his heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives and assigns) of the One Part and the
village panchayat/panchayat union council, district panchayat
of........constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called the "purchaser" which expression shall
where the context so admits include its successors and assigns) of the Other
Part;Whereas, the vendor is well and sufficiently entitled to the land and
premises described in the Schedule hereunder;And Whereas, the purchaser in
exercise of its powers, has agreed with the vendor to purchase the said land
and premises intended to be hereby granted, conveyed and assigned subject to
the quit-rent (if any), payable in respect of the same but otherwise free from
encumbrances at the prices of rupees;Now, This Indenture Witnesses that in
pursuance of the said agreement and in consideration of the sum of
rupees......... paid to the vendor by the purchaser on or before the execution
of these presents (the receipt whereof the vendor doth hereby acknowledge) he,
the vendor doth hereby grant, convey and assign unto the purchaser all that
piece or parcel of land situated in........ and more particularly described in
the Schedule hereunder written and which together with the message or tenement
erected thereon is commonly called or known as ............. together with all
buildings, godowns, trees, commons, hedges, ditches, fences, ways, waters,
water-courses, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages and appurtenances
whatsoever to the said piece or parcel of land message and premises or any of
them in anywise appertaining or heretofore occupied or enjoyed therewith and
all the estate right, title, interest, property claim and demand whatsoever of
the vendor into and upon the same premises To Have And To Hold the said piece
or parcel of land message and premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned
unto the purchaser forever and the vendor doth hereby covenant with the
purchaser that he the vendor now hath good right to grant, convey and assign
the premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned unto the purchaser in
manner aforesaid and that the purchaser shall and way at all times hereafter
peaceably and quietly possess and enjoy the said premise free from all
encumbrances whatsoever and receive the rents and proof its thereof without
any lawful eviction, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever from or by the
vendor or any other person or persons and further that he, the vendor and all
persons having lawfully or equitably claiming any estate or interest in the
said premises or any of them or any part thereof from under or in trust for
the vendor or from or under any of his ancestors shall and will, from time to
time, and at all times hereafter at the request and cost of the purchaser do
execute and register or cause to be done, executed and registered all such
acts, deeds and things whatsoever for further and more perfectly assuring the
said premises and every part thereof into the purchaser in manner aforesaid as
shall or may be reasonably required.The Schedule above referred toAll that
piece or parcel of land and premises situated in the village/town of.........
in the registration sub-district of.... in the registration district
of........And bounded on the north by........, on the south by......on the
east by......and on the west........ by ............bearing Re-survey
No......... and old Survey No........ and containing on the whole by
admeasurement................(be the same more or less).Signed, sealed and
delivered by the above named in. the presence of.In Witness whereof the vendor
hath hereinto set his hand and seal the day and year first above written.Form
1(b)Transfer by Lease to a Panchayat by a Private PersonThis Indenture Made
The............day of..............year of............. between ...........,
son of............... residing at............and carrying on business
at.........(hereinafter called the "lessor" which expression where the context
admits shall include his heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives and assigns) of the One Part and the village
panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat of...........constituted
under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).
(hereinafter called "the lessee" which expression where the context admits
shall include its successors in office and assigns) of the Other Part;
Witnesseth As Follows: -

### 1\. In consideration of the rent hereby reserved and of the covenants by
the lessee (herein contained the lessor demises unto the lessee All that piece
or parcel of land together with the building and premises known
as...........situate in the registration sub-district of............... in the
registration district.........bearing S. No.......... and more particularly
described in the schedule hereunder for the term of..............years from
the......day of................ Paying therefor in advance the monthly rent of
Rs..............clear of all deductions the first of such payments to be made
on the.............. day of................;

### 2\. The lessee covenants with the lessor as follows:-

(1)To pay the reserved rent on or before the first day of each month in
advance and in manner aforesaid.(2)To bear, pay and discharge all existing and
future taxes, charges, assessments and outgoing payable in respect of the said
premises.(3)To keep the exterior and interior of the demised premises and all
additions thereto, the boundary wall and fences thereof, the drains, soil and
other pipes sanitary and water apparatus, electric fittings and fixtures
thereof in good and tenantable repair and condition.(4)Not to make or permit
to be made under any circumstances any alterations in or additions to the
demised building without the previous consent in writing of the lessor
Provided Always that if the lessee is permitted to make any alterations, by
the lessor, the lessee shall not be entitled to any compensation
therefor.(5)To permit the lessor with or without workmen, or others at all
reasonable times on giving one day's previous notice to enter upon the demised
premises and to view the condition thereof and upon notice being given by the
lessor to repair within one month from the service of the notice in accordance
therewith.(6)Not to assign underlet or part with the possession of the demised
premises or any part thereof without first obtaining the written consent of
the lessor.(7)To yield up the demised premises with all fixtures and additions
thereto at the determination of the tenancy in good and tenantable repair and
condition in accordance with the covenants herein contained.

### 3\. The lessor covenants with the lessee as follows:-

(i)That the lessee paying the rent hereby reserved and observing and
performing the several covenants and stipulations herein on its part contained
shall peacefully hold and enjoy the demised premises during the said term
without any interruption by the lessor or any person right-fully claiming
under or in trust for him.(ii)To carry out all repairs to main walls roof and
foundations due to fair wear and tear, the decision of the Executive Engineer
for the time being of .... division as to the necessity for such repairs being
final.

### 4\. Provided Always and it is hereby expressly agreed by and between: the
parties hereto as follows: -

(1)If the rent hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be unpaid for
fourteen days after becoming payable (whether formally demanded or not) or if
any covenant on the lessee's part herein contained shall not be performed or
observed then and in any of the said cases it shall be lawful for the lessor
at any time thereafter to re-enter upon the demised premises or any part
thereof in the name of the whole and thereupon this demise shall absolutely
determine but without prejudice to the right of action of the lessor in
respect of the breach of any of the lessee's covenants herein contained.(2)If
the lessee shall desire to determine the present demise and shall give to the
lessor three calendar month's previous notice in writing of such desire then
immediately on the expiration of the three calendar months the present demise
and everything herein contained shall cease and be void but without prejudice
to the remedies of either party against the other in respect of any antecedent
claim or breach of covenant.(3)That the lessor will on the written request of
the lessee made within three calendar months before the expiration of the term
hereby granted to the lessee a lease of the demised premises for the further
term of............. years and containing the like covenants and provisos as
are herein contained except the including a covenant for renewal.The Schedule
above referred to..........................All That piece or parcel of land
and premises situated in the village/town of........ in the registration sub-
district of........ in the registration district of and bounded on the north
by.............on the south by.........., on the east by.......and on the west
by........, bearing Re-survey No.............and Old Survey No........ and
containing on the whole by admeasurement....... (be the same more or
less).Signed, sealed and delivered by the above named in the presence
of:Signed by the executive authority/commissioner/secretary of the village
panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat...........in the presence
of The common seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat was hereinto affixed in the presence of........In Witness
whereof............the lessor hath hereinto set his hand and seal and the
common seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat of.........the lessee was hereinto affixed the day and year first
above written.Form I-(c)Transfer by Mortgage to a Panchayat by a Private
PersonThis Indenture made the ............... day of......year,
of.......between son of........ residing at......(hereinafter called "the
mortgager" which expression shall where the context so admits include his
heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives and assigns) of the
One Part And the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat
of......... constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the mortgagee" which expression shall
where the context so admits include its successors and assigns) of the Other
Part;Whereas, the mortgagor is well and truly entitled to and possessed of the
piece or parcel of land and premises described in the schedule hereunder;And
Whereas, the mortgagee has agreed to lend the mortgagor the sum of Rs.......on
having the repayment thereof in the manner hereinafter appearing;Now, This
Indenture Witnesseth that in consideration of the sum of Rs.........on or
before the execution of these presents paid to the mortgagor by the mortgagee
(the receipt whereof the mortgagor doth hereby acknowledge) he, the mortgagor
doth hereby give, grant and assign into the mortgagee an usufructuary mortgage
of all that piece or parcel of land situate in........and more particularly
described in the schedule hereunder written and which together with the
message or tenement erected therein is commonly called or known
as..............Together with all buildings godowns trees, Commons, hedges,
ditches, fences, ways, waters, water courses, liberties, privileges,
easements, advantages and appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel
of land message and premises or any of them in anywise appertaining or
heretofore or hereafter to be occupied or enjoyed therewith and all the estate
right, title, interest, property, claim and demand whatsoever of the mortgagor
into and upon the same premises To Have And To Hold The said piece or parcel
of land message and premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned or
expressed so to be unto the mortgagee forever subject to the proviso for
redemption hereinafter contained. The mortgagor hereby declares that he has
put the mortgagee, in possession of the mortgaged property and that the
mortgagee shall continue in such possession of the property until the said sum
of Rs.............is repaid to the mortgagee and that the mortgagee shall
appropriate the rents and profits accruing from the property in lieu of the
interest due in respect of the mortgage money.And the mortgagor doth hereby
covenant with the mortgagee that he, the mortgagor will as long as any money
shall remain due on the security of these presents keep all the messages and
buildings now existing or hereafter to be erected on the said premises
hereinbefore expressed to be hereby granted, conveyed and assigned in good and
substantial repair and insured against loss or damage by fire in the sum of
Rs.........at the least in some office or offices approved by and in the name
of the mortgagee and will duly and punctually pay all premiums and sums of
money necessary for such purpose and for keeping such insurance on foot and
also all quit-rent assessment rates, taxes and other outgoing for the time
being payable in respect of or charged upon the said premises or any of them
and bill forthwith deliver to the mortgagee the policy or policies of
insurance and the receipt for every sum payable as aforesaid and that if
default be made in keeping the said buildings so repaired or in effecting or
keeping on foot such insurance or in payment of any such quit-rent, assessment
rates, taxes and other outgoing as aforesaid or in so delivering any policy or
policies or receipt as aforesaid it shall be lawful for but not incumbent upon
the mortgagee to put the said premises in proper and substantial repair or (as
the case may be) to insure and keep insured the said buildings in any sum not
exceeding the amount aforesaid and to pay the premiums and all expenses
incurred in so doing or (as the case may be) any such quit-rent assessment,
rates, taxes of other outgoings as aforesaidAnd further that the mortgagor
will forthwith repay to the mortgagee all such premiums expenses and other
moneys with interest thereon at the rate of....... per cent per annum from the
time of each payment and that until repayment the premises hereby mortgaged
shall stand charged with the amount to be repaid and interest thereon at the
rate aforesaid and that all moneys received in respect of any insurance shall
at the option of the mortgagee be applied either in reinstating or restoring
the buildings insured or in or towards payment of the moneys for the time-
being on the security on these presents and the mortgagor doth hereby covenant
with the mortgagee that he, the mortgagor now hath power to give and grant
this usufructuary mortgage unto the mortgagee and it is hereby expressly
agreed and declared that on payment at any time by the mortgagor to, the
mortgagee of the said sum of Rs.......and all other moneys, if any, due under
these presents the mortgagee shall at the request and cost of the mortgagor
recover and reassign into the mortgagor or as he may direct all and singular
the plot or piece of land and premises hereby expressed to be granted,
conveyed or assigned.The Schedule above referred to...........All That piece
or parcel of land and premises situated in the village/town of............in
the registration sub-district of.......in the registration district
of.......... and bounded on the north by............on the south
by...........on the east by, and on the west by.............bearing Re-survey
No.............and Old Survey No.........and containing on the whole by
admeasurement ..........(be the same more or less).Signed, sealed and
delivered by the above named in the presence of:In Witness Whereof Mortgagor
hath hereunto set his hand and seal the day and year first above written.Form
I-(d)Transfer of Gift to A Panchayat by A Private PersonThis Indenture Made
The ............ day of......... one thousand nine hundred and .............
Between .........son of .....residing at......... (hereinafter called the
"Donor" which expression shall where the context admits include his heirs,
executors, administrators, legal representatives and assigns) of the ONE PART
and the village panchayat/ panchayat union council/district panchayat of
.............constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the donee" which expression shall where
these context admits include its successors and assigns) of the Other
Part;Whereas, the donor is well and sufficiently entitled free from
encumbrances to the piece or parcel of land and premises hereinafter described
and intended to be hereby granted, conveyed and assigned;And Whereas, the
donor has agreed to transfer the said piece or parcel of land and premises to
the donee as a gift subject to the payment by the donee of all existing and
future taxes, charges, assessments and ground rent in respect of the same and
the donee has agreed to accept the same subject to such conditions;And
Whereas, the said piece or parcel of land and premises is of the value of
Rs.......... for the purpose of stamp duty;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth that
the donor doth hereby give, grant, convey and assign unto the donee who hereby
accepts the same All That piece or parcel of land bearing Survey
No..............situated in the village of............ in the registration
sub-district of......... in the registration district of............and more
particularly described in the Schedule hereunder written Together with all
buildings, trees commons, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages and
appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel of land, buildings and
premises or any of them in anywise appertaining or heretofore occupied or
enjoyed therewith And all the estate right, title, interest, property, claim
and demand whatsoever of the donor into and upon the same premises To Have To
Hold the said piece or parcel of land and premises hereby granted, conveyed
and assigned unto the donee forever and the donor doth hereby covenant with
the donee that the donor now hath good right to grant, convey and assign the
premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned unto the donee in the manner
aforesaid and that the donee shall and may at all times hereafter peaceably
and quietly possess and enjoy the said premises free from all encumbrances
whatsoever without any lawful eviction, interruption, claim or demand
whatsoever from or by the donor or any person claiming under or in trust for
him and further that the donor and all persons having or lawfully or equitably
claiming any estate or interest in the said premises or any part thereof from
under or in trust for the donor or from or under any of his ancestors shall
and will from time to time and at all times hereafter at the request and cost
of the donee do execute and register or cause to be executed and registered
all such acts, deeds and things whatsoever for further and more perfectly
assuring, the said premises and every part thereof into the donee in the
manner aforesaid or as shall or may be reasonably required.The Schedule above
referred to..........All That piece or parcel of land premises situated in the
village of .........in the registration sub-district of...........in the
registration district of.........and bounded on the north by.......... , on
the south by............ on the east by..........and on the west
by......bearing Re-survey No..........and Old Survey No .........and
containing on the whole by admeasurement (be the same more or less).Signed,
sealed and delivered by the above named in the presence of.........Signed by
the executive authority/commissioner/secretary of........village
panchayat/panchayat union council/ district panchayat in the presence
of..........The common seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union
council/district panchayat was hereunto affixed in the presence
of..............In Witness whereof the donor hath hereunto set his hand and
seal and the common seal of the village panchayat/ panchayat union
council/district panchayat of..........the donee was hereunto affixed the day
and year first above written.

## II

[See rules 3(2) and 5(2)]Form II-(a)Transfer by Sale by a Panchayat to a
Private PersonThis Indenture made the.......... day of........... year of
.........Between the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat of..........constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the vendor" which expression
shall where the context admits include its successors and assigns) of the One
Part and......... son of............ residing at (hereinafter called which
expression shall where the context admits include his heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives and assigns) of the Other Part;Whereas,
the vendor is possessed of and entitled to the piece or parcel of land and
premises described in the schedule hereto and has agreed with the purchaser
for sale to him of the same subject to the quit-rent (if any) payable in
respect of the same but otherwise free from encumbrances, for the sum of
Rs.........And Whereas, the Collector of..............district by an order
No.........dated the ........ has sanctioned the sale of the property
hereinafter contained;And Whereas, the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by
an order No............ dated the.......... sanctioned the sale, of the
property hereinafter contained;And Whereas, due notice of the sale of the
property hereinafter contained has been given in accordance with the
provisions of the rules relating thereto;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth that
in pursuance of the said agreement and in consideration of the sum of
Rs..........paid to the vendor by the purchaser on or before the execution of
these presents (the receipt whereof the vendor doth hereby acknowledge) the
vendor as beneficial owner and in pursuance of every statutory and other
authority hereunto enabling it doth hereby grant, convey and assign unto the
purchaser. All That Piece or parcel of land situated in and more particularly
described in the schedule hereunder written and which together with the
message or tenement erected thereon is commonly called or known as............
Together with all buildings, godowns, trees, commons, hedges, ditches, fences,
ways, waters, watercourses, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages and
appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel of land message and
premises or any of them in anywise appertaining or heretofore occupied or
enjoyed therewith and all the estate right, title interest, property-claim and
demand whatsoever of the vendor into and upon the same premises To Have And To
Hold the said piece, or parcel of land message and premises hereby granted,
conveyed and assigned and to the purchaser forever and the vendor doth hereby
covenant with the purchaser that the vendor how hath good right to grant,
convey and assign the premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned into the
purchaser in manner aforesaid and that the purchaser shall and may at all
times hereafter peaceably and quietly possess and enjoy the said premises free
from all encumbrances whatsoever and receive the rents and profits thereof
without any lawful eviction, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever from or
by the vendor or any other person or personsAnd further that the vendor and
all persons having or lawfully or equitably claiming any estate or interest in
the said premises or any of them or any part thereof from under or in trust
for the vendor shall and will from time to time and at all times hereafter at
the request and cost of the purchaser do execute and register or cause to be
executed and registered and all such acts, deeds and things whatsoever for
further and more perfectly assuring the said premises and every part thereof
unto the purchaser in the manner aforesaid as shall or may be reasonably
required and the purchaser doth hereby covenant with the vendor that he the
purchaser as aforesaid will at all times hereafter pay all assessments and
taxes that may be reasonably required and the purchaser doth hereby upon the
said premises hereby conveyed by the Government of Tamil Nadu under any rules
that are now or may hereafter be in force for the levy of assessments and
taxes on lands and premises of a like nature.The Schedule above referred toAll
That piece or parcel of land situated in the village/town of.......in the
registration sub-district of.......... in the registration district
of...........bearing Re-survey No...........and Old Survey No..........bounded
on the north by..............on the south by............on the east by
........... and on the west by........... and containing by
admeasurement............or thereabouts.Signed by the executive
authority/commissioner/secretary............of village panchayat / panchayat
union council /district panchayat in the presence of:The Common seal of the
village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat was hereunto
affixed in the presence of:Signed, Sealed and delivered by the above named in
the presence of:In Witness Whereof the common seal of the village of the
village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat
of.................... was hereunto affixed and..........has hereunto affixed
his hand and seal the day and year first above written.Form II-(b)Transfer by
Exchange by a Village Panchayat/panchayat Union Council/ District Panchayat to
a Private PersonThis Indenture made the ............ day of........ year
of............ Between the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat of.......constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) hereinafter called village "the panchayats" which
expression shall where the context admits include its successors and assigns)
of the One Part and........ son of.........residing at........(hereinafter
called "the party" which expression shall where the context admits include his
heirs, executors, administrators, legal representative and assigns) of the
Other Part;Whereas, the panchayat is well and truly entitled to and possessed
of the piece or parcel of land more particularly described in the first
schedule hereunder together with the buildings thereon free from encumbrances
and the party is also well and truly entitled to and possessed of the piece or
parcel of land more particularly described in the second schedule hereunder
together with the building thereon free from encumbrances.And Whereas, the
panchayat and the party hereto have agreed to effect such exchange as is
hereinafter contained of the said pieces or parcels of land more particularly
described in the first and second schedules hereunder respectively;And
Whereas, the Collector of district by an order No........ , dated
the............ has sanctioned the exchange of the properties in the manner
hereinafter contained;And Whereas, the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by
an order No...... , dated the........ sanctioned the exchange of the
properties in the manner hereinafter contained;And Whereas, due notice of the
exchange in the manner hereinafter contained has been given in accordance with
the provisions of the rules relating thereto;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth
that in consideration of the conveyance by the party hereinafter contained the
panchayat in pursuance of every statutory and other authority hereunto
enabling it doth hereby grant, convey and assign unto the party all that piece
or parcel of land of the value of Rs............ or thereabouts situated in
............ and more particularly described in the first schedule hereunder
written and coloured on the map or plan marked 'A' hereunto annexed Together
with all buildings, trees, commons, hedges, ditches, fences, ways, waters,
water-courses, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages and appurtenances
whatsoever to the said piece or parcel of land and premises or any of them in
anywise appertaining or heretofore occupied or enjoyed therewith And all the
estate, right, title, interest, property claim and demand whatsoever of the
panchayat into and upon the same premises To Have And To Hold the said piece
or parcel of land and premises hereby granted and assigned or expressed so to
be unto the party forever and the party doth hereby covenant with the
panchayat that he, the party, will at all times hereafter pay the assessment
or ground rent of.........or such other amount as the Collector of........
may, from time to time, determine and any other ground-rent assessment and
taxes that are or may from time to time be levied upon the said piece or
parcel of land or premises by the Central Government or the Government of
Tamil Nadu or by any local or other authority.And This Indenture Further
Witnesseth that in consideration of the conveyance by the panchayat
hereinbefore contained the party doth hereby grant, convey and assign unto the
panchayat all that piece or parcel of land of the value of....... rupees or
thereabouts situated in...............and being more particularly described in
the second schedule hereunder written and coloured on the map or plan marked
'B' hereto annexed Together with all buildings, trees, commons, hedges,
ditches, fences, ways, waters, water courses, liberties, privileges,
easements, advantages and appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel
of land and premises or any of them in anywise appertaining or heretofore
occupied or enjoyed therewith and, all the estate, right, title, interest,
property-claim and demand whatsoever of the party into and upon such last-
mentioned premises To Have And To Hold the said piece or parcel of land and
premises lastly hereinbefore expressed to be hereby granted, conveyed and
assigned unto the panchayat forever and the panchayat doth hereby covenant
with the party that the panchayat will at all times, hereafter pay the
assessments and taxes that are or may, from time to time, be levied upon the
said piece or parcel of land or premises by the Central Government or the
Government of Tamil Nadu or by any local or other authority and the Parties
Hereto Mutually Covenant and agree each with other of them that
notwithstanding any act, deed or thing done or executed or knowingly suffered
to the contrary they now have good right to grant, convey and assign,
respectively the said premises expressed to be hereby granted, conveyed and
assigned in manner aforesaid and that either party shall and may at all times
hereafter peacefully and quietly possess and enjoy such last-mentioned
premises and receive the rents and profits thereof without any lawful
eviction, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever from or by the other party
or any person or persons lawfully or equitably claiming from under or in trust
for the said party and that free from all encumbrances whatsoever made or
suffered by either party or any person or persons lawfully or equitably
claiming as aforesaid.And Further, that the parties and all persons having or
lawfully or equitably claiming any estate or interest in the said premises or
any part thereof from under or in trust for any of the parties shall and will*
from time to time, and at all times hereafter at the request and cost of the
other party do execute and register or cause to be executed and registered all
such acts, deeds and things whatsoever for-further and more perfectly assuring
such last-mentioned premises and every part thereof unto the other party in
manner aforesaid as shall or may be reasonably required.The First Schedule
above referred to........All that piece or parcel of land and premises
coloured in the plan marked "A" attached hereto and situate in the village
of:.....in the registration sub-district of.......in the registration district
of......bearing Re-survey No............and Old Survey No........ bounded on
the north by Re-survey No...........on the east by Re-survey No............on
the south by............and on the west by............and containing by
admeasurement........... or thereabouts.The common seal of the panchayat
of.............was hereunto affixed in the presence of:Signed by the Executive
Authority/Commissioner/Secretary of......... village panchayat /panchayat
union council/district panchayat in the presence of:Signed, sealed and
delivered by the above named in the presence of:In Witness Whereof, the common
seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council /district panchayat was
hereunto affixed and hath hereunto set his hand and seal the day and year
first above written.The Second Schedule above referred to.......All that piece
or parcel of land and premises coloured......in the plan marked "B" attached
hereto and situate in the village of.....in the registration sub-district of
in the registration district of............... and bounded on the north
by......... on the south by..........on the east by.........and on the west
by.........bearing Survey No. ......... ..................and containing on
the whole by admeasurement............or thereabouts.Signed by the Executive
Authority/Commissioner/Secretary of the village panchayat /panchayat union
council/district panchayat of.......in the presence of.......Signed, sealed
and delivered by the above-named in the presence of:The common seal of the
village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat was hereunto
affixed in the presence of:In Witness Whereof the common seal of the village
panchayat/panchayat union council /district panchayat of............ the donor
was hereunto-affixed and the donee hath hereunto set his hand and seal the day
and year first above written.Form II-(c)Transfer by Mortgage by Village
Panchayat/panchayat Union Council/district Panchayat to a Private PersonThis
Indenture made the ............ day of............... year of............
between the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat
of......constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the mortgager" which expression shall where
the context so admits include its successors and assigns) of the One Part And
Son of..............residing at............... (hereinafter called "the
mortgagee" which expression shall where the context so admits include his
heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives and assigns) of the
Other Part.Whereas, the mortgager is well and truly entitled to and possessed
of the piece or parcel of land and premises described in the schedule
hereunder;And Whereas, the mortgagee has agreed to lend the mortgager the sum
of Rs...........on having the repayment thereof with interest at the rate
hereinafter mentioned secured in manner hereinafter appearing;And Whereas, the
Collector of .........district by an order No............, dated the........
has sanctioned the mortgage of the properties in manner hereinafter
contained;*And Whereas, the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by an order
No............, dated the............. sanctioned the mortgage of the
properties in the manner hereinafter contained;And Whereas, due notice of the
mortgage in manner hereinafter contained has been given in accordance with the
provisions of the rules relating thereto;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth that
in consideration of the sum of Rs...........on or before the execution of
these presents paid to the mortgager by the mortgagee (the receipt whereof the
mortgager doth hereby acknowledge) the mortgager doth hereby covenant with the
mortgage that the mortgager will on demand pay to the mortgagee the sum of
Rs..........with interest thereon at the rate of Rs...........per cent per
annum;And This Indenture Also Witnesseth that for the same consideration the
mortgage doth hereby give and grant unto the mortgage a simple mortgage of All
That piece or parcel of land situated in........... and more particularly
described in the schedule hereunder written and which together with the
message or tenement erected thereon is commonly called or known as
..........Together with all buildings, godowns, trees, commons, hedges,
ditches, fences, ways, waters, water-courses; liberties, privileges,
easements, advantages and appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel
of land message and premises or any of them in anywise appertaining heretofore
or hereafter to be occupied or enjoyed therewith AND all the estate, right,
title, interest, property-claim and demand whatsoever of the mortgager., into
and upon the same premises AND the mortgager doth hereby covenant with the
mortgagee that the mortgager will so long as any money shall remain due on the
security of these presents keep all the messages and buildings now existing or
hereafter to be erected on the said premises hereinbefore expressed to be
hereby granted, conveyed and assigned in good and substantial repair and
insured, against loss or damage by fire in the sum of Rs..... at the least in
some office or offices approved by and in the name or names of the mortgagee
and will duly and punctually pay all premiums and sums of money necessary for
such purpose and for keeping such insurance on foot and also all quit-rent
assessment rates taxes and other outgoings for the time being payable in
respect of or charged upon the said premises or any of them and forthwith
deliver to the mortgagee the policy or policies of insurance and the receipt
for every sum payable as aforesaid or in so delivering any policy or policies
or receipt as aforesaid it shall be lawful for but not incumbent upon the
mortgagee to enter into and upon the said premises and put the same into
proper and substantial repair or (as the case may be) to insure and keep
insured the said buildings in any sum hot exceeding the amount aforesaid and
to pay the premiums and all expenses incurred in so doing or (as the case may
be) any such quit-rent assessment rates taxes or other out-goings as aforesaid
AND further that the mortgager will forthwith repay to the mortgagee all such
premiums, expenses and other moneys with interest thereon at the rate
aforesaid from the time of each payment and that until repayment the hereby
mortgaged premises shall stand charged with, the amount to be repaid and
interest thereon at the rate aforesaid and that all moneys received in respect
of any insurance shall at the option of the mortgagee be applied either in
reinstating or restoring the buildings insured or in or towards payment of the
moneys for the time being owing on the security of these presents and the
mortgager doth hereby covenant with the mortgagee that the mortgager now hath
power to give and grant a simple mortgage unto the mortgagee AND it is hereby
expressly agreed and declared that should the properties described in the
schedule here-under prove insufficient when sold to satisfy the amount due
under this mortgage the mortgager will be personally liable for the amount for
the time being due and owing under this mortgage.The Schedule above referred
toAll that piece or parcel of land and premises situated in the village
of.......... in the registration sub-district of...... in the registration
district of.......and bounded on the north by.........., on the south
by...........on the east by.........., and on the west by.............bearing
Re-survey No..........and Old Survey No...........and containing on the whole
by admeasurement...........(be the same more or less)Signed by the Executive
Authority/Commissioner/Secretary....... of the village panchayat/panchayat
union council/district panchayat of..........in the presence of:The common
seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat....... was hereunto affixed in the presence of.........In Witness
whereof the common seal of the mortgager hath hereunto been affixed the day
and year first above written.Form II-(d)Transfer by Gift by a Village
Panchayat/panchayat Union Council/district Panchayat to a Private PersonThis
Indenture made the ............ day of........... year of..............
Between the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat
of.........constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the donor" which expression shall where
the context so admits include its successor and assigns) of the One Part
and................,son of.......... residing at (hereinafter called "the
donee" which expression shall where the context so admits include his heirs,
executors, administrators and legal representatives and assigns) of the Other
Part;Whereas, the donor is well and sufficiently entitled free from
encumbrances to the piece of land and premises hereinafter described and
intended to be hereby granted, conveyed and assigned;And Whereas, the donor
has agreed to transfer the said piece of land and premises to the donee as a
gift to be used for the purposes of..............subject to the payment by the
donee of all existing and future taxes, charges, assessments and ground-rent
in respect of the same and the donee has agreed to accept the said piece of
land and premises subject to the said conditions;And Whereas, the said piece
of land and premises is of the value of Rs....... for the purpose of stamp
duty;And Whereas, the Collector of....... /district by an order No......... ,
dated the......... ...has sanctioned the gift of the property hereinafter
contained;And Whereas, due notice of the gift in manner hereinafter contained
has been given in accordance with the provisions of the rules relating
thereto;And Whereas, the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by an order
No.........., dated the............have sanctioned the gift of the property
hereinafter contained;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth that the donor doth
hereby give grant, convey and assign unto the donee who hereby accepts the
same All That piece or parcel of land bearing survey No............, in the
registration sub-district of................... in the registration district
of......... and more particularly described in the schedule hereunder written
Together with all buildings, trees, commons, hedges, ditches, fences, ways,
waters, watercourses, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages and
appurtenances whatsoever to the said piece or parcel of land, buildings and
premises or any of them in anywise appertaining or heretofore occupied or
enjoyed therewith And all the estate, right, title, interest, property claim
and demand whatsoever of the donor into and upon the same premises to have and
to hold the said piece or parcel of land and premises hereby granted, conveyed
and assigned unto the donee forever and the donor doth hereby covenant with
the donee that the donor now hath good right to grant, convey and assign the
premises hereby granted, conveyed and assigned unto the donee in the manner
aforesaid.And that the donee shall and may at all times hereafter peaceably
and quietly possess and enjoy the said premises free from all encumbrances
whatsoever without any lawful eviction, interruption, claim or demand
whatsoever from or by the donor And further that the donor and all persons
having or lawfully or equitably claiming any estate or interest in the said
premises or any part thereof from under or in trust for the donor shall and
will, from time to time, and at all times hereafter at the request and cost of
the donee do execute and register or cause to be executed and registered all
such acts, deeds and things whatsoever for further and more perfectly assuring
the said premises and every part thereof unto the donee in manner aforesaid or
as shall or may be reasonably required and the donee doth hereby covenant with
the donor that he will at all times hereafter bear, pay and discharge all
existing and future taxes or charges, assessments payable in respect of the
aforesaid land and premises inclusive of, the ground-rent or assessment of
Rs.........any other sum that may, from time to time, be levied as such upon
the piece or parcel of land by the Collector of the district on behalf of the
Central Government or the Government of Tamil Nadu.The Schedule above referred
to...........All that piece or parcel of land and premises situated in the
village of.......... in the registration sub-district of......... in the
registration district of ........ and bounded on the north by............,on
the south by.............on the east by............., and on the west
by............bearing Survey No............ and containing on the whole
........... by admeasurement or thereabouts.Signed by the executive
authority/commissioner/secretary........... of the village panchayat
/panchayat union council/district panchayat of.......... in the presence
of.............Signed, sealed and delivered by the above named in the presence
of:The common seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat was hereunto affixed in the presence of:In Witness whereof the
common seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district
panchayat of................... the donor was hereunto affixed and the donee
hath hereunto set his hand and seal the day and year first above written.

## III

[See rules 6(2), 7(2), 8(2)]Form III-(A)[See rules 6(2), 7(2)]Transfer by
Lease of Own Lands to Private Persons by Village Panchayat/panchayat Union
Council/district PanchayatThis Indenture made the............ day
of..........Between the village panchayat /panchayat union council/district
panchayat of...........constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the lessor" which expression
where the context admits shall include its successors and assigns) of the One
Part And............ son of........ residing at............ and carrying on
business as ......... (hereinafter called "the lessee" which expression where
the context admits shall include his heirs, executors and administrators,
legal representatives and permitted assigns) of the Other Part;Whereas, the
lessee has applied to the lessor for a lease of the property more particularly
described in the first schedule hereunder for the period and at the rate of
rent and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter contained;And
Whereas, the lessor has agreed to grant a lease of the said property in a
manner hereinafter contained;And Whereas, the Collector...............by an
order.........No......., dated.........has sanctioned the lease of the
property on and subject to the special conditions contained in the second
schedule hereunder;And Whereas, the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by an
order No........., dated the......sanctioned the transfer by lease of the
properties in the manner hereinafter contained;And Whereas, due notice of the
lease of the property has been given in accordance with the provisions of the
rules relating thereto;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth -

### 1\. That in consideration of the rent hereby reserved and of the covenants
by the lessee herein contained the lessor demises unto the lessee All that
piece or parcel of land together with the building and premises known
as........ situate in the registration sub-district of..........in the
registration district of........bearing Survey No.........for the term
of.......years from the.........Paying thereof in advance the monthly rent of
Rs.............clear of all deductions the first of such payments to be made
on the..........

### 2\. The lease covenants with the lessor as follows: -

(1)To pay the reserved rent on or before the first day of each month in
advance and in manner aforesaid.(2)To bear, pay and discharge all existing and
future charges, assessments and out goings payable in respect of the said
premises inclusive of the ground-rent of ...........or any other sum that may,
from time to time, be levied as such upon the piece or parcel of land by the
Collector of the .........district on behalf of the Central Government or the
Government of Tamil Nadu.(3)To keep the exterior and the interior of the
demised premises and all additions thereto and the boundary walls and fences
thereof and the rains soil and other pipes and sanitary and water apparatus
and electric fittings and fixtures thereof in good and tenantable repair and
condition.(4)Not to make or permit to be made under any circumstances any
alterations in or additions to the demised buildings without the previous
consent in writing of the lessor or its duly authorised officers Provided
Always that if the lessee is permitted to make any alterations by the lessor
or its duly authorised officers the lessee shall not be entitled to any
compensation therefor.(5)To permit the lessor and its authorised officers,
agents with or without workmen or others at all reasonable times on giving on
day's previous notice to enter upon the demised premises and to view the
condition thereof and upon notice being given by the lessor or his authorised
officers to repair within one month from the service of the notice in
accordance therewith.(6)To observe and fulfil the terms and conditions
prescribed by the Inspector and contained in the second schedule
hereunder.(7)Not to assign, underlet or part with the possession of the
demised premises or any part thereof without first obtaining the written
consent of the lessor or its authorised officers.(8)To yield up the demised
premises with all fixtures and additions thereto at the determination of the
tenancy in good tenantable repair and condition in accordance with the
covenants herein contained.

### 3\. The lessor covenants with the lessee as follows: -

(1)The lessee paying the rent hereby reserved and observing and performing the
several covenants and stipulations herein on his part contained shall
peaceably hold, enjoy the demised premises during the said term without any
interruption by the lessor or any person right fully claiming under or in
trust for him.(2)To carry out all repairs to main walls, roof and foundations
due to fair reasonable wear and tear, the decision of the Executive Engineer
for the time being of.......... division as to the necessity for such repairs
being final.

### 4\. Provided Always and it is hereby expressly agreed by and between the
parties hereto as follows: -

(1)If the rent hereby reserved, or any part thereof shall be unpaid for
fourteen days after becoming payable (whether formally demanded or not) or if
any covenant on the lessees part herein contained shall not be performed or
observed or if the lessee or other person in whom for the time being the term
hereby created shall be vested shall become insolvent then and in any of the
said cases it shall be lawful for the lessor or its authorised officers at any
time thereafter to re-enter upon the demised premises or any part thereof in
the name of whole and thereupon this demise shall absolutely determine but
without prejudice to the right of action of the lessor in respect of the
breach of any of the lessee's covenants herein contained.(2)If at any time it
appears to the Collector or the lessor (whose decision shall be final) that it
is necessary in the public interest to determine the lease, it shall be lawful
for the said Collector or the lessor forthwith to cancel this lease by notice
in writing addressed to the lessee at his last known place of residence and
thereupon this demise shall absolutely determine and the lessee shall not be
entitled to any compensation whatsoever in respect of such determination
except a proportionate abatement of any rent that may have been paid by the
lessee in advance.The First Schedule above referred to.........All That piece
or parcel of land and premises situated in the village/town of .............
in the registration sub-district of in the registration district of.......and
bounded on the north by.............on the south by......... on the west
by........... and on the east by.........bearing Survey No........and Door
No..........and containing on the whole by admeasurement.........be the same
more or less.The Second Schedule above referred toConditions imposed by the
Collector.......of the district............Signed by the executive
authority/Commissioner/secretary of..................... panchayat/panchayat
union council/ district panchayat in the presence of:The common seal of the
village panchayat / the panchayat union council / district panchayat
of.....was hereunto..........affixed in the presence of:Signed, sealed and
delivered by the above named in the presence of:In Witness whereof the common
seal of the village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat
of............. the lessor was hereinto affixed and the issue hath hereunto
set his hand and seal the day and year first above written.Form III-(b)[See
rule 8(2)]Transfer by Lease of Vested Lands to the Private Person by the
Village Panchayat/panchayat Union Council/district PanchayatThis Indenture
made the.............day of...........Between the village panchayat/panchayat
union council/district panchayat of.........constituted under the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) (hereinafter called "the
lessor" which expression where the context admits shall include, its
successors and assigns) of the One Part and ........... son of (hereinafter
called "the lessee" which expression where the context admits shall include
his heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives and permitted
assigns) of the Other Part;Whereas, the lessee has applied to the lessor for a
lease of the property more particularly described, in the first schedule
hereunder for the period and at the rate of rent and subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter contained;And Whereas, the lessor has agreed to grant a
lease of the said property in manner hereinafter contained;*And Whereas, the
Collector of........... district by an order No..........,dated....... has
sanctioned the lease of the property on and subject to the special conditions
contained in the second schedule hereunder (*retain if necessary);And Whereas,
the Government of Tamil Nadu have also by an order No........., dated
the...... sanctioned the transfer by lease of the property in the manner
hereinafter contained;And Whereas, due notice of the lease of the property has
been given in accordance with the provisions of the rules relating
thereto;Now, This Indenture Witnesseth As follows: -

### 1\. In consideration of the rent hereby reserved and of the covenants by
the lessee herein contained the lessor demises unto the lessee all that piece
of land forming part of the road-side/street margin and more particularly
described in the schedule attached hereto for a term of years from
the......... paying therefor in advance the rent of Rs.......... for each year
clear of all deductions the first of such payments to be made on the day
of.......

### 2\. The lessee covenants with the lessor as follows:-

(a)To pay the reserved rent on before the 1st day of each year in advance and
in the manner aforesaid.(b)To bear, pay and discharge all existing and future
taxes, charges, assessments and outgoing payable in respect of the demised
land (inclusive of the ground-rent of Rs...... or any other sum that may, from
time to time, be levied as such upon the piece or parcel of land by the
Collector of the.........district on behalf of the Central Government or the
Government of Tamil Nadu).(c)To keep, the demised land in good
condition.(d)Not to make or permit to be made under any circumstances any
alterations in or additions to the demised land without the previous consent
to writing of the lessor or its duly authorised officer provided always that
if the lessee is permitted to make any alterations by the lessor or its duly
authorised officers, the lessee shall not be entitled to any compensation
therefor.(e)To permit the lessor and its authorised officers or agents with or
without workmen at all reasonable times on giving one day's previous notice to
enter upon the demised land and to view the condition thereof.(f)To use the
demised land only for the purposes for which it is leased.(g)Not to assign or
under-let or part with the possession of the demised land or any part thereof
without first, obtaining the written consent of the lessor or its authorised
officers.(h)To yield up the demised land in good condition in accordance with
the covenants herein contained.

### 3\. The lessor covenants with the lessee that the lessee paying the rent
hereby reserved and observing and performing the several covenants and
stipulations herein on his part contained shall peaceably hold and enjoy the
demised land during the said term without any interruption by the lessor or
any person rightly claiming under or in trust for the lessor.

### 4\. The lease is liable to be terminated at any time within the period of
the lease without payment of any compensation to the lessee, if, in the
opinion of the lessor or of the District Collector, it is necessary in the
public interest to remove any structure erected on the demised land.

### 5\. If the rent hereby reserved or any part thereof is not paid, whether
formally demanded or not, in accordance with the stipulation herein contained
or if any covenant on the lessees part herein contained shall not be performed
or observed or if the lessee or other persons in whom for the time being the
term hereby erected shall be vested shall become insolvent, then and in any of
the said cases, it shall be lawful for the lessor or its authorised officers
at any time thereafter to re-enter upon the demised land or any part thereof
in the name of the whole and thereupon this demise shall absolutely determine
but without prejudice to the right of action of the lessor in respect of the
breach of any of the lessees covenants herein contained.

### 6\. If either party shall desire to determine the present demise and shall
give to the other party three calendar months previous notice in writing of
such desire then immediately on the expiration of the three calendar months
the present demise and everything, herein contained shall cease and be void
but without prejudice of the remedies of either party against the other in
respect of any antecedent claim or breach of covenant.

### 7\. On the expiry of the period for which the, lease is granted unless the
lease is renewed by the lessor or when the lease is terminated under clause 4,
the lessee is bound to remove all the structures existing on the demised land.
If the lessee fails to remove the structure within three months from the date
on which the lease expired or within three months from the date of the receipt
of a notice under clause 4 whichever is earlier the lessor shall be at liberty
to cause the same to be removed without notice to the lessee and the lessee
hereby makes himself liable for the cost of such removal and the lessee shall
not claim any compensation for the structure so removed or for any damage or
loss caused by such removals.

The First Schedule above referred to.......All That piece or parcel of land
and premises situated in the village of............. in the registration sub-
district of...........in the registration district of......... and bounded on
the north by .............., on the south by ..........on the west
by............, and on the east by...........bearing survey No..........and
Door No.............and containing on the whole by admeasurement be the same
more or less.The Second Schedule above referred toConditions imposed by the
Collector of........district.Signed by the executive
authority/commissioner/secretary to...........village panchayat /panchayat
union council/district panchayat in the presence of.The common seal of the
village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat was hereunto
affixed in the presence of.............Signed, sealed and delivered by the
above named in the presence of:In witness whereof the common seal of the
village panchayat/panchayat union council/district panchayat of the lessor was
hereunto affixed and the lessee hereunto set his hand and seal the day and
year first above written.

