## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Co-Operative State Land development bank failed wells fund
Rules, 1974

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Co-Operative State Land development bank failed wells fund Rules,
1974

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-CO-OPERATIVE-STATE-LAND-DEVELOPMENT-BANK-FAILED-WELLS-FUND-
RULES-1974 of 1974

  * Published on 1 April 1968 
  * Commenced on 1 April 1968 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 April 1968.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Co-Operative State Land development bank failed wells fund Rules,
1974

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Co-operative State Land
Development Bank Failed Wells Fund Rules, 1974.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Circle Deputy
Registrar" means the Deputy Registrar having jurisdiction over the Circle in
which the Primary Land Development Bank is situated;(b)"Fund" means the fund
established under Rule 3;(c)"Government Security" means, a security created
and issued by the Central Government or by the State Government for the
purpose of raising a public loan and having any of the forms prescribed under
sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (Central Act XVIII
of 1944);(d)"Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;(e)"Primary Land
Development Bank" means a Co-operative Land Development Bank registered or
deemed to be registered under the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961) and admitted as a member of the State Land
Development Bank;(f)"Registrar" means the Registrar of Co-operative Societies
for the State of Tamil Nadu;(g)"Small Farmer" means an agriculturist
considered as such by the Primary Land Development Bank while sanctioning the
loan to him according to the orders in force;(h)"State Land Development Bank"
means the Tamil Nadu Co-operative State Land Development Bank
Limited;(i)"Well" means dug well, dug-cum-bore well, filter point or tube-
well;

### 3. Removal of the eyes of deceased persons.

\- There shall be established a fund known as "Failed Wells Fund" to tire
credit of which shall be paid-(i)a sum equivalent to 10% of annual net profit
of the State Land Development Bank.(ii)Such sums as may be contributed by
Government from time to time.(iii)The interests accruing from the investment
of the amount standing to the credit of the Fund.

### 4. Power to make rules.

\- The amount standing to the credit of the fund shall be with the State Land
Development Bank and shall except so far as it has been or is required to be
disbursed under these rules be invested in Government securities or in such
other manner as may be prescribed by the Registrar.

### 5.

The fund shall be applied for provision of subsidy to the members of Primary
Land Development Bank, for sinking of new wells on or after 1st April, 1968
and which have failed.

### 6.

A well shall be deemed to have failed in the following circumstances:-(i)The
well should have been put up only in compliance with the clearance from the
Directorate of Ground Water, the condition relating to spacing between wells
and the approved estimates. This condition will not, however, apply to cases,
for which loans were sanctioned between 1.4.1968 and 1.11.1971.(ii)A dug well
should have been dug up to the depth according to the estimates, provided that
it shall not be necessary to dig up to the depth referred to above if after
the commencement of the well work bona fide and in good faith hard rock or
fresh rock devoid of any fracture joint fault or fissures had been encountered
and or poor quality of water (not suitable for irrigation was met with
according to competent technical opinion) or loose formation of soil has been
met with, necessitating the discontinuance of the work to avoid further
infructuous expenditure. When the well has been dug up to the estimated depth
it should yield no water or the yield should be less than 5000 gallons per
day. If the yield of water is less than 5,000 gallons per day the well shall
be deemed to be failed well.In the case of dug-cum-bore well in the hard rock
areas, it shall be deemed to be a fa i lure if the yield of water from the
well is less than 5,000 gallons per day even though it has been sunk up to the
estimated depth and in the case of a dug-cum-bore well in sedimentary depth it
should be deemed to be a failure if the yield of water is less than 2,000
gallons per hour even from the well has been sunk up to the estimated depth
and also in cases where the well work could not be completed for technical
reasons such as encountering of hard rock, loose formation of soil,
etc.(iii)In the case of a filter point or shallow tube-well and medium tube
well or deep tube-well, the well shall be deemed to be a failure, if the yield
of water from the well is below 2,000 gallons per hour or 3000 gallons per
hour respectively, even though the well has been sunk up to the estimated
depth also in cases when the well work has been stopped halfway for technical
reasons such as encountering of hard rock etc., with reference to the
technical opinion of Agriculture Department.(iv)If the water discharged by the
well is found to be not suitable for cultivation according to competent
technical opinion at any time during the currency of the loan, tire well maybe
deemed to have failed. The competent technical authority for this purpose will
be as fixed by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies.(v)The well may be
deemed to have failed-(i)If after the execution of the dug well work in
accordance with the specifications in the estimate it has collapsed any time
during the currency of the loan unfit for cultivation.(ii)If the well had
collapsed while under construction and rendered unfit for cultivation for
reasons beyond the control of the borrower such as heavy rains, floods etc. In
cases where the original estimate was deviated from and the well had
collapsed, a Failed Wells Team should certify, on inspection, that the
collapse of the well was not on account of such deviation.

### 7.

(a)(i)The subsidy under the Failed Wells Fund may be made available to all
small and marginal farmers and groups of small and marginal farmers (including
Lift Irrigation Co-operatives) as well as others.(ii)The quantum of subsidy
maybe up to 90% of the value of work done or 90% of the loan amount disbursed
whichever is less, in the case of small farmers or marginal farmers (including
Lift Irrigation Co-operative Societies) and up to 75% of the value of work
done or 75% of the loan amount disbursed, whichever is less, in the case of
others, less subsidy or refund which-The borrower received or has become
entitled to from any other source or agency in connection with the sinking of
the well. Besides, 90% of the interest payable by the borrowers from the date
of disbursement of loan till the date of actual credit of subsidy to loan
account may be provided as subsidy in the cases of small farmers, or marginal
farmers or groups of marginal farmers (including Lift Irrigation Co-operative
Societies) and 75% in the case of others. In the case of a dug well which
collapsed or caved in for reasons beyond the control of the borrower such as
heavy rains, floods, etc., or where the water was found unsuitable for
cultivation at any lime during the currency of the loan, as contemplated under
Rule 6, the quantum of subsidy maybe up to 90% of the loan outstanding
excluding the annual instalment or instalments payable by the borrowers on the
date of collapse or caving in or on the date on which the water was rendered
unsuitable for irrigation as the case may be; in the case of small farmers or
marginal farmers or groups of marginal farmers (including Lift Irrigation Co-
operative Societies) and up to 75% of the loan outstanding excluding the
annual instalment or instalments payable by the borrowers in the case of
others less the subsidy or refund which the borrower received or had become
entitled to from any other source or agency in connection with the sinking of
the wells:Provided that in any individual case, other than Lift Irrigation Co-
operative Societies, the quantum of subsidy shall be limited to Rs. 10,000
under principal: Provided however, in the case of small farmers and marginal
farmers belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes the entire cost
excluding the farmer's personal labour in the investment will be given as
subsidy.(b)(i)An application for assistance from the fund shall be made by the
borrower of the primary land development bank in such form and in such manner
as may be presented by the Registrar.(ii)The application shall be made through
the primary land development bank concerned within 3 months from the date of
completion of the well or from the date of collapse or caving in of the well.
Provided that in the case of wells for which loans have been sanctioned
between 2.11.1971 and 30.4.1974 and which have failed as per Rule 6, the
application should have been made before 31.7.1974 and in the case of loans
sanctioned from 1.2.1968 to 1.11.1971 and which have failed as per Rule 6, the
application should be made before 31.12.1979. Provided further that the Joint
Registrar of the region concerned may relax this time-limit if he is satisfied
that there is valid reason for no t preferring the claim within the said
period.

### 8.

A team consisting of the Deputy Registrar, the Manager of the branch of the
State Land Development Bank or District Technical Cell and the Engineer of the
Agricultural Engineering Department shall issue the cases coming under Rule 6
(iv), the team shall issue its certificate only on the basis of competent
technical opinion. The application for subsidy shall be disposed of by the
Circle Deputy Registrar. In case of difference of opinion, the decision of the
Regional Joint Registrar shall be binding on the Circle Deputy Registrar in
the disposal of the application. In cases where the filter point or tube-well
is sunk by the Department of Agriculture and declared by that department as a
failure, there will not be any further inspection by the team mentioned above.
The Circle Deputy Registrar shall consider the application for subsidy for
such wells on the strength of the certificate and yield test report, if any,
furnished by that Department.The State Land Development Bank should arrange to
conduct yield test at its cost in the first instance. If the well is a
failure, the cost of such test may be adjusted from out of the subsidy payable
to the borrower, and if proved otherwise the cost of the test maybe recovered
from the borrower along with the dues.

### 9.

On receipt of the sanction order from the Circle Deputy Registrar, the State
Land Development Bank shall draw from the fund and credit the amount to the
respective loan account under intimation to the Primary Land Development Bank
which in turn shall credit the amount as contemplated under Rule 7(a) (ii) to
the loan account Of the member concerned. The balance of the loan account
shall be recovered from the member concerned in usual annual instalments
within the balance period available as per the original mortgage deed.The
subsidy eligible as per rule (both principal and interest) may be paid to the
borrower in the following cases:-(i)If the loan had been fully cleared, the
entire subsidy sanctioned may be paid to the borrower.(ii)If on the day of
adjustment of subsidy, the loan outstanding is less than the sanctioned
subsidy, the amount of subsidy available after adjustment may be paid to the
borrower.

### 10.

(a)The payment from this fund shall be exgratiated. Any person aggrieved by
the order of the Circle Deputy Registrar sanctioning or rejecting the
application referred to in the Rule 8, shall make an appeal within 3 months
from the date of receipt of communication sanctioning or reducing or rejecting
the claim, to the Joint Registrar of the region concerned whose decision shall
be final.The Joint Registrar of the concerned region may admit an appeal
preferred after the said period of three months, if he is satisfied that the
appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the said
period.

### 11.

After the end of each financial year, the Registrar shall forward to
Government, in such form as may be prescribed by them a statement of the
accounts relating to the fund and shall also at the same time a report on the
assistance granted from the fund.

### 12.

The Registrar may require, a primary land development bank-(a)to keep or
continue in its books all claims in respect of the debts, in respect of which
relief is required and to take or continue to take such steps as may be
necessary or expedient to recover such debts, notwithstanding the fact that
assistance has been or may be granted in respect of such debts;(b)to credit to
the failed wells fund any recovery which may be made in respect of any debt in
consideration of which assistance has been given from the fund.

