## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays)
Rules, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Rules,
1959

## Act 1931 of 1959

  * Published on 1 January 1959 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Rules,
1959Published vide Notification No. S.R.O. No. A-1931 of 1959S.R.O. No. A-1931
of 1959. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of
section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival
Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu) Act XXXIII of 1958), the Governor of Tamil
Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments
(National and Festival Holidays) Rules, 1959.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act,
1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958);(b)"Form" means a Form appended to these
Rules; and(c)"Section" means a section of the Act.

### 3. Specifications of festivals by Inspector.

(1)Every employer shall, within thirty day from the date on which the Act
comes into force, in the case of an industrial establishment existing on such
date and within thirty days from the date of commencement of work in the case
of any new industrial establishment, send in duplicate together with a copy of
the notice mentioned in sub-rule (2) to the Inspector having jurisdiction over
the area in which the industrial establishment is situated, his proposal for
the specification of festivals in Form No. I:Provided that in the case of any
industrial establishment, the Inspector may, if he thinks fit, extend the
period within which the proposal for the specification of the festivals should
be sent.(2)The employer shall, on the day on which he sends to the Inspector
the proposal mentioned in sub-rule (1), display in the premises of the
industrial establishment in such manner as can be readily seen and read by the
employees a notice in Form No. II specifying the period within which
objections or suggestions of the employees referred to in sub-rule (3) shall
be sent to the Inspector:Provided that the employer may consult the employees
before formulating his proposal mentioned in sub-rule (1).(3)Objections or
suggestions, if any, to the proposal of the employer shall be sent to the
Inspector having jurisdiction over the area in which the industrial
establishment is situated by the employees or by the trade unions representing
the employees within a period of 15 days from the date on which the notice
mentioned in sub-rule (2) is displayed in the premises of the industrial
establishment.(4)The Inspector shall, after considering the proposal of the
employer and the objections and suggestions, if any, of the employees received
within the period specified in sub-rule (3), specify the five festivals for
which holidays are to be allowed under section 3.(5)The festivals specified by
the Inspector under sub-rule (4) shall be communicated to the employer in Form
No. III. The employer shall, within seven days of receipt of the
communication, exhibit in his industrial establishment a copy thereof in such
manner as can be readily seen and read by the employees.

### 4. Change of the festivals specified.

(1)The employer or a majority of the employees or any trade union representing
a substantial number of employees in any industrial establishment in respect
of which festivals have been specified under section 3, may, at any time,
apply to the Inspector for a change in all or any of the festivals so
specified.(2)The application for changing the specified festivals shall be
sent to the Inspector having jurisdiction over the area in which the
industrial establishment is situated in Form No. IV in duplicate.(3)The
provisions of rule 3 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the change of festivals
under this rule.(4)The change made by the Inspector in the specified festivals
under this rule shall be communicated to the employer in Form No. II in
duplicate.The employer shall, within seven days of receipt of the
communication, exhibit in his industrial establishment a copy thereof in such
manner as can be readily seen and read by the employees. The festivals so
changed by the Inspector shall take effect from the 1st day of calendar year
immediately following the year in which such change is effected.(5)[ The
festivals for which holidays are to be allowed as specified by the Inspector
under sub-rule (5) of rule 3 or under sub-rules (1), (2), (3) and (4), as the
case, may be shall not be changed or any change given effect to by the
employer, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of sub-rules (1),
(2), (3) and (4).] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 528, Labour and Employment, dated
the 9th June 1976.]

### 5. Statement to be sent to the Inspector and displayed in the industrial
establishment under section 4.

(1)The statement to be sent to the Inspector by the employer under section 4
shall be in Form No. V and shall be sent by registered post so as to reach the
Inspector before the commencement of each calendar year in which two holidays
are to be allowed.(2)Every employer shall exhibit simultaneously in his
industrial establishment a copy of the statement referred to in sub-rule (1)
in such manner as can be readily seen and read by the employees of that
industrial establishment and shall maintain it in a legible condition.

### 6. Calculation of daily average wage for the purpose of clause (i) of sub-
section 3(3) of section 5.

\- For the purpose of clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 5, the daily
average of the wages of an employee mentioned in that sub-section shall be
calculated by dividing the total wages earned by him during the period of
twelve working days immediately preceding the holiday concerned by the number
of days he actually worked during that period.

### 6A. Manner of service of notice under sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of
subsection (2) of section 5.

\- The notice under sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section
5 shall be in Form V-A and the notice shall be served-(i)by giving or
tendering the said notice to employee; or(ii)if the employee is not found, by
leaving such notice at his last known place of abode, or by giving or
tendering the same to some adult member of his family.(2)The signature of the
person to whom the notice is given or tendered together with the date on which
and the hour at which it was so given or tendered shall be obtained on a
duplicate copy of the notice.

### 7. Maintenance of registers and records.

(1)Every employer shall maintain, a register in Form No. VI.(2)Every employer
shall maintain a visit book in which the Inspector visiting the industrial
establishment may record his remarks regarding any defects that may come to
light at the time of his inspection and shall produce it whenever required to
do so by the Inspector:Provided that no separate visit book need be maintained
where the employer maintains such a book with reference to the Tamil Nadu
Shops and Establishments Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1947), the
Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948), or the Plantations Labour
Act, 1951 (Central Act LXIX of l951).(3)The register and notices required to
be maintained and exhibited under these rules shall be in English or in
Tamil.(4)The records relating to a calendar year shall be preserved till the
end of the subsequent calendar year.

### 8. Penalty.

\- A contravention of sub-rule (1), (2), (3) and (4) of rule 3, sub-rule (4)
of rule 4 or rule 5,6 or 7 by the employer shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to fifty rupees.Form No. I[See sub-rule (1) of rule
3]From............................(Name and address of the
employer.)To(Designation and address of the Inspector having jurisdiction over
the area in which the industrial establishment is situated).Sir,I propose that
the following festivals may be specified under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958), in respect of my industrial establishment, namely,
(a) ...............at (b)...............

Serial number | Description of festivals  
---|---  
1 | …....................................  
2 | …....................................  
3 | …....................................  
4 | …....................................  
5 | …....................................  
  
### 2\. The total number of employees in the above industrial establishment
is...........

### 3\. A notice in Form No. II has been exhibited in the above industrial
establishment on the .............A copy of the notice aforesaid is enclosed.

### 4\. The names of the trade unions which claim to represent my employees
are To my knowledge, there is no trade union representing the employees (c).

Date:Yours faithfully,Signature of the employer.Note. - Here enter the name of
the industrial establishment.(a)(b)Here enter the full address of industrial
establishment.(c)Delete portion not applicable to the industrial
establishment.Form No. II[See sub-rule (2) of rule 3]Notice(a)I have proposed
to the...................that the following festivals mentioned in column (2)
of the statement below may be specified festivals mentioned in column (3) of
the statement below may be specified in lieu of the festivals already
specified and mentioned in Column (2) thereof under section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958
(Tamil Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958), in respect of this industrial
establishment.Statement

Serial number | Description of the festivals |  *Description of festivals proposed forspecification in lieu of that/those mentioned in column (2)  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
4 |  |   
5 |  |   
  
### 2\. Any employee of this industrial establishments or trade unions
representing the employee of this industrial establishment may send to the
above-mentioned Inspector objections or suggestions, if any, to the proposal
mentioned above.

### 3\. The objection or suggestion should reach the above-mentioned Inspector
within a period of fifteen days from the date on which this notice is
displayed in the premises of the industrial establishment.

Date on which the notice is exhibited.Signature of the employer.Note. - (a)
Here enter the designation and address of the Inspector having jurisdiction
over the area in which the Industrial establishment is situated."Delete
whichever is not applicable.This form shall be completed in ink in block
letters or typed.Form No. III[See sub-rule (5) of rule 3 and sub-rule (4) of
rule 4]Proceedings of.........(a).........Under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Industrial Establishment (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958), I specify the festivals mentioned in column (2) of
the statement below for which holiday/s festival/s mentioned in column (3) of
the statement below, in lieu of the festivals mentioned in Column (2) thereof
which was/were specified for the industrial establishment in proceedings No
dated the for which holidays shall be granted every year to the employee in
the industrial establishment namely (b) at (c)Statement

Serial number | Description of the festivals | *Description of festivals proposed in lieu of that/those mentioned in column (2)  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
4 |  |   
5 |  |   
  
DateSignature of the InspectorNote. - (a) Here enter designation of the
Inspector having jurisdiction over the area in which in industrial
establishment is situated.(b)Here enter the name of the industrial
establishment.(c)Here enter the full address of the industrial
establishment.*Delete whichever is not applicable.This form shall be completed
in ink in block letters or typed.Form No. IV[See sub-rule (2) of rule
4]To(Designation and address of the Inspector having jurisdiction over the
area in which the industrial establishment is situated.)Sir,Reference.- Your
proceedings-No..............dated.......I, the employer of the industrial
establishment, namely, we, the employees in the industrial establishment,
namely,I, the Secretary of the trade union representing a* at** at
*substantial number of employees in the industrial establishment,
namely,propose that the festival/festivals mentioned in column (3) of the
statement below may be specified under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial
Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXXIII of 1958), in respect of the above industrial establishment at
..........in lieu of the festival/festivals mentioned in column (2) which
was/were specified in the proceedings cited.Statement

Serial number | Description of the festivals |  *Description of festival/festivals proposed forspecification in lieu of that/those mentioned in column (2)  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
4 |  |   
5 |  |   
  
### 2\. The total number of employees in the above industrial establishment is

### 3\. #A notice in Form No. II has been exhibited in the above industrial
establishment on the A copy of the notice aforesaid is enclosed.

A copy of the application has been sent to the employer of the above mentioned
industrial establishment by pre-paid registered post on the same date on which
this is sent to you.

### 4\. $The names of the trade unions which claim to represent the employee
are

There is no trade union representing the employes.Date:Yours
faithfully,Signature of the employerSignature of the employeesSignature of the
Secretary of the trade union representing a substantialnumber of
employees.Note. - (1) This form shall be filled in ink in block letters or
typed.(2)Against reference, the number and date of the Proceedings in which
the festivals were specified shall be given.(3)'Here enter the full name of
industrial establishment.(4)\- Here enter the full address of the industrial
establishment.(5)$ Delete the portion which is not applicable to the
industrial establishment.(6)# Delete whichever is not applicable.Form No.
V[See sub-rule (1) of rule 5]Statement Showing the Holidays Allowed under
Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival
Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958)Name and address of the
employer.Name and address of the industrial establishment.No. ............and
date of the Proceedings of the Inspector.

Serial number | Description of the festivals | Days, dates and months of the year on of holidays which the National and festival holidays are allowed under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act of XXXIII 1958)  
---|---|---  
(1) |  |   
1 |  |   
2 |  |   
3 |  |   
4 |  |   
5 |  |   
6 |  |   
7 |  |   
8 |  |   
  
Date:Signature of the employer.Note. - This form shall be completed in ink in
block letters or typed.Form No. V-A(See rule 6-A)Notice to the employee under
sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section (5). - Under sub-
clause (i) of clause (a) sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Tamil Nadu
Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958), the following employee is hereby required to work on
which is a holiday allowed under section 3 of the Act. He is further required
to give his option in writing whether he prefers to be paid for such holiday
on which he works -(i)twice the wages; or(ii)wages for such day and to avail
himself of a substituted holiday with the wages on any other day.Dated
at..........the...........day of.............19ToSri (Here enter the name of
the employee).Copy to the Inspector.Signature of the employer.Form No. VI[See
sub-rule (1) of rule 7]Register of National and Festival Holidays

Serial number | Name of the employee | Ticket number or father's name |  Days, dates and months of the year on whichNational and festival holidays are remarks allowed under section3 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National andFestival Holidays) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIII of 1958)  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 1.2. 3.4. 5. 6. 7. 8.  
|  |  |   
  
To be marked as follows:-'H' for Holidays allowed'W/D' for work on double
wages.'W/H' for work with substituted holiday.'N/E' if not eligible for the
wages.

