## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislature Leaders of Opposition and Government Whips
Travelling Allowance Rules, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislature Leaders of Opposition and Government Whips Travelling
Allowance Rules, 1984

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATURE-LEADERS-OF-OPPOSITION-AND-GOVERNMENT-WHIPS-
TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-RULES-1984 of 1984

  * Published on 19 January 1984 
  * Commenced on 19 January 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 January 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislature Leaders of Opposition and Government Whips Travelling
Allowance Rules, 1984In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of
section 9, read with section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act,
1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:-

### 1.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Legislature Leaders of Opposition
and Government Whips Travelling Allowance Rules, 1984.(2)The rules hereby made
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th January 1984.

### 2.

These rules shall apply only to the journeys undertaken by the Leader of
Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the Opposition in the
Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly and
the Government Whip in the Legislative Council for attending the functions
organised by the State Government or by any office of any department of that
Government in the performance of his functions as an officer of such
department, within the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 3.

The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the
Opposition in the Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the
Legislative Assembly and the Government Whip in the Legislative Council shall
be eligible for travelling allowance for one journey from their usual place of
residence to the place of function organised by the State Government or by any
officer of any department of that Government in the performance of his
functions as an officer of such department and back therefrom.

### 3A. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 556, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 30th May 1996 (with effect from the 30th May 1996).]

The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and the Chief
Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly may undertake journey by a taxi
engaged by the District Collectors for which the expenditure will be met from
Government funds by the District Collectors according to the powers delegated
to them.]

### 4.

For journeys of the nature described in rule 2, performed by the Leader of the
opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the Opposition in the
Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative Assembly and
the Government Whip in the Legislative Council travelling and daily allowances
shall be admissible at the rates and upon the conditions as applicable to
Ministers and specified in the Tamil Nadu Ministers Travelling Allowance
Rules, 1951, as amended from time to time.

### 5.

The headquarters of the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly,
the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, the Chief Government
Whip in the Legislative Assembly and the Government Whip in the Legislative
Council, shall during a session, be deemed to be at the place fixed for a
meeting of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly or the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Council, as the case may be, under Article 174 of the Constitution, and at all
other times be deemed to be at their usual place of residence.

### 6.

The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the
Opposition in the Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the
Legislative Assembly and the Government Whip in the Legislative Council may
present bills for travelling allowance without the counter-signature of the
controlling officer. They shall specify in the travelling allowance bill, the
nature of the function for which the journey was performed.

### 7.

The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of the
Opposition in the Legislative Council, the Chief Government Whip in the
Legislative Assembly and the Government Whip in the Legislative Council shall
be entitled to take with them during their journeys their Personal Assistant
and one peon and they shall also be entitled to travelling allowance for such
journeys in accordance with the Travelling Allowance Rules applicable to
Government Servants drawing the same pay.

