## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Employees Conduct) Rules, 2001

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Employees Conduct) Rules, 2001

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-EMPLOYEES-CONDUCT-RULES-2001 of 2001

  * Published on 15 February 2001 
  * Commenced on 15 February 2001 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 February 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Employees Conduct) Rules, 2001Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 51, Rural Development (C-4), dated 15th February
2001 - No. SRO-A-II(a)/2001G.O. Ms. No. 51, Rural Development (C-4), dated
15th February 2001 - No. SRO-A-II(a)/2001. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 102 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the Rules relating to
Personal Conduct of Officers and Servants of Panchayat Union Councils, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules: -

### 1. Short title and application.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Employee's Conduct)
Rules, 2001.(2)They shall apply to all person appointed to panchayat services
and posts in connection with the affairs of all panchayat institutions whether
on duty or on leave.Unless otherwise provided, these rules shall not apply to
the Commissioner of the panchayat Union and the Secretary of the District
Panchayat and the Government servants working in panchayats;The power of the
panchayat under these rules shall be exercisable even when the employee is
outside India whether on duty, leave or foreign service.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(i)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(ii)"close
relation", in relating to a panchayat employee, includes, father, step-father,
mother, step-mother, husband, wife, son, adopted son, daughter, brother, step-
brother, sister, step-sister, wife's father, wife's mother, husband's father,
husband's mother, brother's wife, sister's husband, daughter's husband and
son's wife. All other expression used in these rules shall have the same
meaning as in the Act;(iii)"members of the family", in relation to a panchayat
employee includes, -(a)the wife or husband as the case may be, of the
panchayat employee whether residing with the panchayat employee or not, but
does not include a wife or husband, as the case may be, separated from the
panchayat employee by a decree or order of a competent Court;(b)son or
daughter or step-daughter of the panchayat employee and wholly dependent on
him, but does not include a child or step-child who is no longer in any way
dependent on the panchayat employee or of whose custody the panchayat employee
has been deprived by or under any law;(c)any other person related, whether by
blood or marriage, to the panchayat employee or to the panchayat employee's
wife or husband and wholly dependent on the panchayat employee;(iv)"panchayat
employee" means any person appointed by the panchayat in connection with the
affairs of the panchayat, who may be officer or servant.

### 3. Gifts.

(1)A panchayat employee shall avoid accepting lavish hospitality or frequent
hospitality from any individual having official dealings with him or from
industrial or commercial firms, organisation, etc.(2)Save as otherwise
provided in these rules, no panchayat employee shall except with the previous
sanction of the respective panchayat, accept or permits his wife, or any other
member of his family to accept from any person any gift:Provided that the
sanction of panchayat shall not be necessary for the acceptance of.(a)gifts
from a personal friend of a value not exceeding one thousand rupees on special
occasions such as weddings, anniversaries, funerals and religious functions
when the making or giving or receiving of such gifts is in conformity with the
prevailing religious or social customs;(b)gifts from close relations of a
value not exceeding five thousand rupees on special occasions, such as
weddings, anniversaries, funerals and religious functions when the making or
receiving of such gifts is in conformity with the prevailing religious or
social customs:Provided that a report shall be made to the respective
panchayat if the value of any such gift exceeds rupees one thousand or five
thousand, as the case may be, within one month of the acceptance of such
"gift".Explanation. - (1) The expression "gift" shall include free transport,
boarding, lodging, other service or any other pecuniary advantage when
provided by any person other than close relations or personal friend having no
official dealings with the panchayat employee. A casual meal, lift or other
social hospitality shall not be deemed to be a gift.(2)If any question arises
as to whether any gift is one which can be accepted without the permission of
the panchayat employee is in any doubt whether a gift offered to him one which
can be accepted without the permission of the panchayat, a reference shall be
made to the panchayat by such panchayat employee and the decision of the
panchayat thereon shall be final.(3)No panchayat employee shall enter into any
transaction with any private person or firm or company engaged in any business
or profession, for the purchase of costly second hand goods such as vehicles
for conveyance, furniture and electrical domestic appliances at a favourable
price, which may tend to result in favouritism or patronage being shown to the
panchayat employee or which may render such panchayat employee under an
obligation to such private person or firm or company and which may be
construed as a subtle form of corruption.Explanation. - Nothing in this sub-
rule shall prevent any panchayat employee from entering into any transaction
with any person or firm or company for the purchase of second hand articles at
the normal or prevailing market rate of such second hand article.

### 4. Dowry.

\- No panchayat employee shall, -(i)give or take, abet the giving or taking of
dowry; or(ii)demand, directly or indirectly, from the parents or guardian of a
bride or bride groom, as the case may be, any dowry.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this rule, dowry has the same meaning as in the Dowry Prohibition
Act, 1961 (Central Act 28 of 1961).

### 5. Public demonstrations in honour of panchayat employee.

\- No panchayat employee shall, expect with the previous sanction of the
panchayat, receive any complimentary or valedictory address or accept any
testimonial or attend any meeting or entertainment held in his honour, or in
the honour of any other panchayat employee or Government employee:Provided
that nothing in this rules shall apply to, -(i)a farewell entertainment of a
substantially private and informal character held in honour of a panchayat
employee or any other panchayat employee on the occasion of his retirement or
any person who has recently quitted the service of any panchayat; or(ii)the
acceptance of simple and inexpensive entertainments arranged by public bodies
or institutions; or(iii)the sitting for or acceptance of a copy of a group
photograph if the employee of his office on the occasion of his transfer or
retirement.

### 6. Subscriptions.

(1)(a)Save as provided in sub-rule (3), no panchayat employee shall, except
with the previous sanction of the panchayat, ask for or accept contributions
to, or otherwise associate himself with the raising of, any fund or other
collections in cash or in kind in pursuance of any object whatever.(b)Where,
however, a service association applies for previous sanction of the panchayat,
the association shall specify the particular person(s) who will collect funds,
if such sanction is granted.(2)Permission may, after due consideration, be
accorded in all cases where the support the institution concerned by way of
grants or otherwise.(3)In the case of Flag Day collections and any other
collections authorized by the Government, panchayat employee may participate
on a voluntary basis.

### 7. Investment, lending and borrowing.

(1)No panchayat employee shall, speculate in any stock, share or other
investment.Explanation. - The habitual purchase or sale or both of shares,
securities or other investments shall be deemed to be speculation within the
meaning of this sub-rule.(2)No panchayat employee shall make, or permit any
member of his family or any person acting on his behalf to make, any
investment which is likely to embarrass or influence him in the discharge of
his official duties.(3)If any question arises as to whether any transactions
is of the nature referred to in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), the decision of
the concerned panchayat therein shall be final.(4)No panchayat employee, shall
save in the ordinary course of business with a bank, a firm or a public
limited company of standing, duly authorized to conduct banking business
either himself or through any member of his family or any other person acting
on his behalf -(i)lend or borrow money, as principal or from any person within
the local limit of his authority or with whom he is likely to have official
dealings, or otherwise place himself, under any pecuniary obligation to such
person; or(ii)lend money to any person at interest or in a manner whereby
return in money or in kind is charged or paid:Provided that a panchayat
employee may, give to or accept from, a relative or personal friend, a purely
temporary loan of a small amount free of interest, or operate a credit account
with a bona fide tradesman or make an advance of pay to his private
employee:Provided further that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply in respect
of any transaction entered into by a panchayat employee with the previous
sanction of the concerned panchayat;(iii)No panchayat employee shall, either
himself or, through any member of his family any other person acting on his
behalf, expect with in the previous faction of the panchayat, lend or borrow
money to or from any private individual any amount exceeding Rs. 10,000
(Rupees ten thousand only).(iv)When a panchayat employee is appointed or
transferred to a post of such nature as would involve him in the breach of any
of the provisions of sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (4), he shall forthwith report
the circumstances to the Executive Authority, Commissioner or Secretary, as
the case any may be, and shall, thereafter, act in accordance with such order,
as may be made by the panchayat.(5)Panchayat employee may become members of,
and make deposits in, non-agricultural co-operative societies including the
Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Banks and Urban Co-operative Banks.(6)Panchayat
employee may place deposits, in, and purchase debentures and bonds of,
institutions and Companies who float such bonds and debentures for public
offer.

### 8. Movable, immovable and valuable property.

\- No panchayat employee shall, except after notice to the concerned panchayat
acquire or dispose of any immovable property by lease, mortgage, purchase,
sale, gift, exchange or otherwise either in his own name or in the name of any
dependent member of his family.Such a notice will be necessary even where any
immovable property is acquired by any member of the family of the panchayat
employee out of the panchayat employee:Provided that the previous sanction of
the concerned panchayat shall be obtained in any such transaction is with
person having official dealings with the panchayat employee:Provided further
that the previous sanction of the panchayat shall not be necessary for the
acquisition of immovable property in respect of house-site assigned by the
Government to the panchayat servant.Explanation. - A panchayat employee is not
required to give notice to the concerned panchayat or seek prior permission
from the concerned panchayat for acquisition or disposal of immovable
properties by the members of his family under sub-rule (1), if the immovable
property is acquired from the resources of the panchayat employee
concerned.(2)Every panchayat employee, for the construction or extension or
acquisition of a house shall-report to the concerned panchayat in the manner
-(i)before starting the construction or extension or entering into
organization of a house either from out of loan nor part-final withdrawal from
the Provident Fund, he shall obtain of the panchayat in Form I or II, as the
case may be;(ii)after completing the construction or extension, the share
report to the concerned panchayat;(iii)Every panchayat employee shall, if he
is a member of the Hindu undivided family and the share of the panchayat
employee is the cost of repairs made to the undivided property of the joint
family, out of the joint fund exceeds Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only)
intimate the fact to the concerned panchayat as and when such repair are
brought to his notice.(3)No panchayat employee shall encroach upon the
panchayat lands or Government lands.(4)A panchayat employee who enters in to
any transaction concerning any movable property exceeding Rs. 15,000 (Rupees
fifteen thousand) in value (whether by way of purchase or sale) shall report
to the one month from the date of every such transaction:Provided concerned
panchayat with in the previous sanction of the concerned panchayat shall be
obtained if any such transaction is with a person having official dealings
with the panchayat employee:Provided further that a panchayat employee who is
about to quit the local limits of his official authority, may, with put
reference to the concerned panchayat dispose of any of his movable property by
circulating lists of it among the public generally or by causing it to be sold
by public auction.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, the
expression "movable property" include the following property, namely:
-(a)Jewellery, Insurance Policies, Share certificate and
debentures;(b)Motorcars, Motorcycles, or any other means of conveyance;
and(c)Refrigerators, Color Televisions, Video Cassette Recorder,
Computer;(5)The concerned panchayat shall dispose of the application seeking
the sanction/permission referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2) and with in the
period of two months from the date of receipt of such application from the
panchayat employees. If any clarifications or particulars are sought for from
the panchayat employee, the said period of two months shall be reckoned from
the date of receipt such clarifications or particulars. Where no order
according to such sanction or granting such permission is issued within the
said period of two months, it shall be deemed that the concerned panchayat has
accorded the sanction of granted the permission on the expiry of the said
period of two months and the panchayat employee can acquire or dispose the
immovable property, purchase or sale the movable property or commence the
construction/extension of the house.(6)Every panchayat employee shall submit a
return of his assets and liabilities as on the 31st December before the 31st
March every year and thereafter at an interval of five years on or before the
31st day of March of the year immediately following the year to which the
return relates giving the full particulars in the format specified in Form HI
appended to these rules:Provided that every panchayat employee shall within
three months of his first appointment to service or post, submit his return of
assets and liabilities as on his entry into services in the form specified in
Form-IV.Explanation. - In all returns, the value of immovable property worth
less than Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) may be added and shown as lump
sum. The value of articles of daily use such as clothes, utensils, crockery,
books, etc. need not be included in such return. The movable or immovable
properties acquired by the members of the family of a panchayat employee
solely with their own resources need not be included in such returns.(7)The
return mentioned in sub-rule (6) shall be handled as a secret document and the
provision of rule (11) shall as far as may be apply to the said return
also.(8)The panchayat which maintains the personal files and Record Sheets
shall maintain registers group wise in respect' of all panchayat employee
working under its administrative control showing all immovable properties held
by each of them and shall revise them with reference to the particulars
furnished by the panchayat employee in subsequent returns as prescribed in
sub-rule (6).(9)Any attempt to mislead and any failure to give full and
correct information shall render the panchayat employee concerned liable to
severe disciplinary action.(10)Sanction shall, on no account be accorded for
the purchase of land for any commercial purpose in any part of India, by a
person employed, or concerned, in the collection of revenue.(11)The
restrictions on the acquisitions and possession of immovable property shall
apply in the acquisition and possession of any personal interest in such
property and to the acquisition and possession of such property by a panchayat
employee in the name of any other person but not to the acquisition or
possession of an interest as trustee, executor or administrative
only.(12)Except in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Government,
no panchayat land shall be sold or granted on lease to any panchayat employee,
whether in permanent or temporary employment.(13)A panchayat employee shall
not be allowed to acquire land, except house site for ready built house, for
any other purpose within the revenue district in which he is serving.

### 9. Private trade or employment.

(1)No panchayat employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the
panchayat, engage himself directly or indirectly in any trade or business or
undertake any employment:Provided that a panchayat employee may, without such
sanction, undertake honorary work of a social or charitable nature or
occasional work of literary, artistic of scientific character, participate in
sports activities subject to the condition that his official duties do not
thereby suffer, but he shall not undertake, or shall discontinue such work, if
so directed by the panchayat.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule
(1), no panchayat employee shall undertake any part-time employment.(3)Every
panchayat employee shall, if any member of his family is engaged in a trade or
business or owns or manages an insurance agency or commission agency, report
the fact to the concerned panchayat:Provided that, if it is found that the
trade or business is of such a nature that the association of a member of the
panchayat employees family in that trade or business can embarrass either the
panchayat employee concerned or the concerned panchayat, the panchayat
employee shall not permit the said member of his family to continue his
association with the trade or business in question.Explanation. - Canvassing
by a panchayat employee in support of any trade, business, Insurance agency or
commission agency engaged in, owned or managed by any member of his family
shall be deemed to be a breach of this sub-rule.(4)No panchayat employee
shall, except with the previous sanction of the panchayat, take part in the
registration, promotion or management of any bank or company registered under
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Central Act 10 of 1949) or the Companies
Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956), or any other law for the time being in
force.(5)No panchayat employee shall accept a paid employment in any company,
mutual benefit society or co-operative society or act as agency, whether paid
by salary or commission to any insurance company or society.(6)Panchayat
employee shall be at liberty to take part in the promotion of cooperative
societies but no panchayat employee shall, except with the sanction of the
panchayat hold office in any co-operative society or any committee appointed
for the management of its affairs, unless the society is composed wholly of
panchayat employees or partly of panchayat employees and partly of employees
of other local bodies and his official duties shall not thereby suffer and he
shall, within a period of one month of his taking part in such activities,
report to the panchayat giving details of the nature of his
participation.(7)No panchayat employee shall engage himself in the activities
of a "tout".Explanation. - In the said sub-rule "tout" shall have the same
meaning as in section 3 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (Central Act 18
of 1879).

### 10. Insolvency and habitual indebtedness.

\- A panchayat employee shall endeavour to avoid habitual indebtedness or
insolvency. If a panchayat employee is adjudged or declared insolvent or has
incurred debts aggregating a sum which in ordinary circumstances, he could not
repay within a period of two years or if part of his salary is frequently
attached for debt, has been continuously so attached for a period of two years
or is attached for sum which, in ordinary circumstances which with the
exercise of ordinary diligence he could not have foreseen or over which he has
no control and had not preceded from, extravagant or dissipated habits. A
Panchayat employee who becomes the subject of a legal proceeding for
insolvency shall forthwith report the full facts to the panchayat in which he
is employed.

### 11. Unauthorised communication of information.

\- No panchayat employee shall, except in accordance with any general or
special order of the panchayat or in the performance in good faith of the
duties assigned to him, communicate directly or any official document or any
part thereof or information to any other panchayat employee or any other
person to whom he is not authorized to communicate such document or
information.

### 12. Connection with Press, Television or Radio.

(1)No panchayat employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the
panchayat, own wholly or in part or conduct or participate in the editing or
managing of any news paper or other periodical publication.(2)No panchayat
employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the panchayat or in a
bona fide discharge of his duties, contribute any article or write any letter
either unanimously or in his own name or in the name of any other person to
any news paper or other periodical publications:Provided that such sanction
shall be required if such contribution or writing is of a purely literary,
artistic or scientific character.(3)No panchayat employee shall, except with
the previous sanction of the panchayat participate in a television programme
or radio broadcast:Provided that no such sanction shall be required if such
television programmer or radio broadcast, is of a purely literary, artistic or
scientific character.(4)A panchayat employee who is invited or who wishes to
participate in a television programme or to delivery a radio broadcast talk
and has to obtain the previous sanction under sub-rule (3) shall intimate the
panchayat the particular relating to the television programme or the subject
of the radio broadcast talk and if so required shall submit the full material
relating to the television programme or the full text of the television
programme or the radio broadcast talk for their approval before participating
in the television programme or before the radio broadcast talk is
delivered.(5)The provisions of sub-rules (3) and (4) shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the playing of prepared "recitals" or gramophone records.(6)In
respect of television programme or radio broadcasts, the powers of the
panchayat shall be exercised by the Executive Authority of the village
panchayat or Commissioner of the panchayat union council or Secretary of the
District panchayat, as the case may be.

### 13. Criticism of panchayat and Government.

(1)No panchayat employee shall in any radio broadcast or in any document
published anonymously or in the name of any other person or in any
communication to the press or in any public utterance make any statement of
fact or opinion, -(i)which has effect of an adverse criticism of any current
or recent policy or action of the Central Government or a State Government, or
a panchayat; or(ii)which is capable of embarrassing the relations between the
State Government and any other Government or panchayat; or(iii)which is
capable of embarrassing the relations between the Central Government and the
Government of any foreign State: Provided that in the case of panchayat
employee nothing contained in this rule apply to bona fide expression of views
by him as an office bearer of any recognized association of panchayat
employees for the purpose of safeguarding the conditions of service of
panchayat employee or for securing an improvement thereof.(2)A panchayat
employee shall not, except in the discharge of his official duties, preside
over or take part in the organization of, or occupy a prominent position at,
or address any non-official meeting or conference at which it is likely that
speeches may be or resolutions may be proposed or passed criticizing the
action of the Government and panchayat or requesting the Government and
panchayat to take certain action other than to make grants admissible under
the Government/panchayat rules or orders in support of educational or similar
institutions.(3)A panchayat employee who intends to publish any document or to
make any communication to the press or to deliver any utterance containing
statements in respect of which any doubt as to the application of the
restrictions imposed by this rule may arise, shall submit to the panchayat a
copy of draft of the documents which he intends to publish or of the utterance
which he intends to deliver and shall thereafter act in accordance with such
orders as may be passed by the panchayat.

### 14. Evidence before committee or any other authority.

(1)Save as provided in sub-rule (3), no panchayat employee shall, except with
the previous sanction of the panchayat, give evidence in connection with any
enquiry conducted by any person, committee or authority.(2)Where any sanction
has been accorded under sub-rule (1), no panchayat employee giving such
evidence shall criticize the policy or any action of the Central Government or
of a State Government or any local body institutions.(3)Nothing contained in
this rule shall apply to evidence given in any judicial enquiry or evidence
given at any department enquiry.

### 15. Taking part in politics and election and position of panchayat
employees in relation to election.

(1)No panchayat employee shall be a member of, or otherwise associated with
any political party or any organization in respect of which there is reason to
believe that the organization has a political aspect, nor shall he take part
in, subscribe in aid of, or assist in any political aspect, nor shall he take
part in, subscribe in aid of, or assist in any political movement or
activities. He shall also not only maintain political neutrality, but shall
also appear to do so. He shall also avoid giving room for any suspicion that
he is favouring any political party or any candidate in elections.(2)It shall
be the duty of every panchayat employee to endeavour to prevent any member of
his family from taking part in subscribing in aid of, or assisting in any
other manner, any movement or activity which is, or tends directly or
indirectly to be, subversive of any Government or local body as established,
and where a panchayat employee is unable to prevent a member of his family
taking part in, or subscribing in aid of or assisting in any other manner, any
such movement or activity, he shall make a report to that effect to the
concerned panchayat.(3)If any question arises whether a party is a political
party or whether any organization takes part in politics or whether any
movement or activity falls within the scope of this rule, the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be final.(4)No panchayat employee shall canvas or
otherwise interfere or use his influence in connection with or take part in,
an election to any Legislature or Local Authority:Provided that, -(i)a
panchayat employee qualified to vote at such election may exercise his right
to vote but where he does so he shall, give no manner in which he proposes to
vote or voted:(ii)a panchayat employee shall not be deemed to have contravened
the provisions of this rule by reason only that he assist in the conduct of an
election in due performance of a duty imposed on him by or under any law for
the time being in force.Explanation. - (1) Nothing contained in this sub-rule
shall be deemed to prohibit the wife/husband of panchayat employee or any
other member of his family living with or in any way dependent on him by or
under any law for the time being in force.Explanation. - (2) The display by a
panchayat employee on his person, vehicles or residence of any electoral
symbol shall amount to using his influence in connection with an election with
the meaning of this rule.(5)Seditious propaganda or the expressing of disloyal
sentiments by a panchayat employee shall be regarded as sufficient ground for
dispensing with his services.(6)A panchayat employee proposing or seconding
the nomination of candidate at an election or acting as a polling agent shall
be deemed to have committed a breach of this rule.

### 16. Prohibition of membership of any communal organisation, etc.

(1)No panchayat employee shall be a member of, or be otherwise associated
with, any organization -(a)which promotes or attempts to promote on grounds of
religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any
other ground whatever, disharmony of feeling of enmity, hatred or ill will
between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or
communities; or(b)whose activities are prejudicial to the maintenance of
harmony between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or
castes or communities and which disturbs or is likely to disturb the public
tranquillity; or(c)which organizes any exercise, movement, drill or other
similar activity intending that the participants in such activity shall use
criminal force or violence or knowing it to be likely that the participants in
such activity will use or be trained to use criminal force or violence against
any religious, racial, language or regional group or caste or community and
such activity for any reason whatsoever causes or is likely to cause or is
likely to cause fear or alarm or a feeling of insecurity amongst members of
such religious, racial, language or regional group or caste or community.(2)If
any question arises whether any organization falls under sub-rule (1), the
decision of the Inspector thereon shall be final.

### 17. Vindication of acts and character of panchayat employee.

(1)No panchayat employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the
concerned panchayat, have recourse to the press for the vindication of any
official act which has been the subject matter of adverse criticism or an
attack of defamatory character.Explanation. - Nothing in this rule shall be
deemed to prohibit a panchayat employee from vindicating his private character
or any act done by him in his private capacity and where any action for
vindicating his private character or any act done by him in private capacity,
the panchayat employee shall submit a report to the panchayat regarding such
action.(2)No panchayat employee shall, except with the previous sanction of
the panchayat, accept from any person or body of person compensation of any
kind for any malicious prosecution brought against him or for any defamatory
attack made on his public acts or character unless such compensation has been
awarded by a competent Court.

### 18. Membership of Service association.

\- No panchayat employee shall be a member, representative or office bearer of
any association representing or purporting to represent panchayat employees
unless such association satisfies the following conditions, namely:
-(a)Membership of the association shall be confined to a distinct class of
panchayat employees and shall be open to all panchayat employees of that
class;(b)The association shall not, in any way, be connected with any
political party or organisation or engage in any political activity;(c)The
association shall not, in any way, be connected with, or affiliated to -(i)any
association which does not; or(ii)any federation of association, which do not
satisfy conditions (a) and (b).(d)The association shall, -(i)issue or maintain
any periodical, except in accordance with any general or special order of
Government;(ii)except with the previous sanction of the panchayat, publish any
representation on behalf of its members whether in the press or
otherwise;(iii)in respect of any election to a legislative body whether in
India or elsewhere, or to a local authority or body, -(a)pay or contribute
towards any expenses incurred in connection with his candidature by a
candidate for such election;(b)By any means support the candidature of any
person for such election; or(c)Undertake or assist in the registration of
election or the selection of a candidate for such election;(iv)maintain or
contribute towards the maintenance of any member of legislative body whether
in India or elsewhere or any member of a local authority or body;(v)pay, or
contribute towards the expenses of any trade union which has constituted a
fund under section 16 of the Indian Trade Union Act, 1926 (Central Act 16 of
1926).

### 19. Employment under or with near relatives in service and employment of
relatives in firms enjoying panchayat patronage.

(1)No panchayat employee shall, in the discharge of his official duties, deal
with any matter or give or sanction any contract to any undertaking or any
other person if any member of his family or close relation is employed in the
undertaking or under that person or if he or any member of his family or close
relation is interested in such matter or contract in any other manner and the
panchayat employee shall refer every such matter or contract shall there after
be disposed of according to the instructions to the authority to whom the
reference is made.

### 20. Canvassing of non-official or other out side influence.

\- No panchayat employee shall bring or attempt to bring any political or
other out side influence to bear upon superior authority to further his
interests in respect of matters pertaining to his service under the
panchayats.

### 21. Bigamous marriage.

(1)(i)No panchayat employee shall, enter into or contract, a marriage with a
person having a spouse living; and(ii)No panchayat employee having a spouse
living shall enter into or contract a marriage with any person:Provided that
the panchayat may permit a panchayat employee to enter into or any such
marriage as is referred to in clause (i) or cause (ii) if they are satisfied
that -(a)such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to
such panchayat employee and the other party to the marriage; and(b)There are
other grounds for so doing.(2)No panchayat employee involve himself, in any
act involving moral turpitude on his part including any unlawful act, which
may cause embarrassment or which may bring discredit to Government or local
body.

### 22. Integrity and devotion to duty.

(1)Every panchayat employee shall at all times, maintain absolute integrity
and devotion to duty and shall do nothing which is unbecoming of an employee
of a panchayat.(2)Every panchayat employee shall take all possible steps to
ensure integrity and devotion to duty by all panchayat employees for the time
being under his control and authority:(i)No panchayat employee shall, in the
performance of his official duties or in the exercise of powers conferred on
him, act otherwise than in his best judgment, except when he is acting under
the direction of his official superior.(ii)The direction of the official
superior shall, ordinarily, be in writing. Oral directions to subordinates
shall be avoided. Where the issue of oral direction becomes unavoidable, the
official superior to confirm it in writing.(iii)A panchayat employee who has
received oral directions from his official superior shall seek confirmation of
the same in writing as early as possible, where upon it shall be the duty of
the official superior to confirm it in writing immediately thereafter.(iv)No
panchayat employee shall, in the performance of his official duties or in the
exercise of powers conferred on him evade the responsibility devolving
legitimately on him and seek instruction from or approval of a superior
authority when such instruction or approval is not necessary as the scheme of
distribution of powers and responsibilities.Explanation. - A panchayat
employee who habitually fails to perform a task assigned to him within the
time set for the purpose and with the quality of performance excepted of him
shall be deemed to be lacking in devotion to duty within the meaning of sub-
rule (1).

### 23. Panchayat servant not be found drunk while attending office.

\- A panchayat employee - (a) shall strictly abide by any law relating to
consumption of liquor or intoxicating drugs in force in any area in which he
may happen to be for the time being;(b)shall not be found drunk or under the
influence of liquor while attending office or appearing in a public place.

### 24. Strikes.

\- No panchayat employee shall engage himself in strike or in incitements
thereto in similar activities.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, the
expression "similar activities" shall be deemed to include the absence from
work or neglect of duties without permission and with the object of compelling
something to be done by his superior officers or the panchayat or any
demonstrative fast usually called "hunger strike" for similar purposes.

### 25. Procession and meetings.

\- No panchayat employee shall conduct any procession or hold or address any
meeting in any part of any open ground adjoining any local body office or
inside any office premises -(a)during office hours on any working day;
and(b)outside office hours or on holidays save with the prior permission of
the Executive Authority or Commissioner or Secretary, as the case may be.

### 26. Anti secular or social disharmony activity and demonstration.

\- No panchayat employee shall engage himself or participate in any activity
which is anti-secular or which tends to create disharmony in society or in any
demonstration which is prejudicial to the interest of the sovereignty and
integrity of India, the security of the State, public order, decency or
morality or which involves contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an
offence.

### 27. Joining of association by panchayat employees.

\- No panchayat employee shall be or continue to be a member of an association
the objects or activities of which are prejudicial to the interest of the
sovereignty and integrity of India or public order of morality.

### 28. Obtaining of No Objection Certificate before applying for passport or
undertaking any foreign trip.

\- No panchayat employee shall, except after obtaining No Objection
Certificate from the concerned Inspector, apply for grant or renewal of
passport or undertake trip to a foreign country. While applying for such No
Objection Certificate, information regarding the purpose of the visit, the
duration of stay and the names of countries proposed to be visited shall be
furnished.

### 29. Interpretation.

\- If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules, it
shall be referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be
final.AppendixForm I[See rule 8(2)(1)]Form of Report Application For
Permission of The Panchayat For The Building of or Addition To A HouseSir,This
is to report you that I propose to build a house or to make an addition to my
house. This is to request that permission may be granted to me for the
building of the house or making addition to my house. The estimated cost of
land and materials for the construction or extension of the house is given
below, -Land:(1)Local (Survey numbers, Villages districts,
State)(2)Area(3)CostBuilding Materials, etc.:(1)Bricks
(Rate/quantity/cost)(2)Cement (Rate/quantity/cost)(3)Iron and Steel
(Rate/quantity/cost)(4)Timber (Rate/quantity/cost)(5)Sanitary Fittings
(cost)(6)Electrical Fittings (Cost)(7)Any other special fittings
(cost)(8)Labour Charges(9)Other charges, if any.Total Cost of Land and
Buildings:

### 2\. The construction will be supervised by himself. The construction will
be....... *I do not have any official dealings with him in the past. I
have/had official dealings with the contractor and the nature of dealings with
him is/was as under: -

### 3\. The cost of the proposed construction will be met as under: -

(i)Own savings(ii)Loans (Advances with full details)(iii)Other source with
details.*Strike out portion not applicable.Form II[See rule (8)(2)(i)]Form of
Report/application for Permission for Acquisition of
HouseTo..............Sir,This is to report you that I propose to acquire a
ready built house at................ This is to request that permission may be
granted to me for the acquisition of the house. The particulars of the house
to be acquired and its estimated cost are given below: -(1)Location of the
house (Plot No. Survey No. Village, Taluk, District and State)(2)Area(3)Name
of the seller(4)Address and occupation of the Seller(5)Cost of the house(6)The
cost of the house will be met as under:(i)Personal Savings(ii)Loans/Advances
with full details(iii)Other sources with full details.Valuation ReportI/We
hereby certify that I/we have valued the
house.........of..............that..........to be purchased by
Thiru/Thirumathi.................and I/we give below the value at which I/we
estimate the cost of the house under the following headings: -

| Heading | Cost  
---|---|---  
1. | Approximate value of plot |   
2. | Area and Approximate value of building |   
3. |  Approximate value of Electrical, sanitary andother fittings and fixtures |   
| Total cost of the buildings |   
  
Date:Signature of the valuation Authority.Form III[See rule 8(6)]Statement of
Immovable Property Held by Panchayat Employee (E.G. Lands, House, Shops, Other
Buildings, Etc.)

Serial Number | Description of property |  Precise location (Name) of District-Taluk andvillage) in which the property is situated and also itsinstinctive, etc. |  Area of land (in case of land and building)(Square metre/ha) | Nature of land (in case of landed property) | Extent of interest. |  If not in own name, state in whose name heldand his/her relationship, if any, to the panchayat | Date of acquisition  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
How acquired (whether by purchase, mortgage,lease inheritance, gift or otherwise) and name with details ofpersons from whom acquired (address and connection of thepanchayat if any, with the person/persons concerned (please seenote 1 below) | Value of the property (see Note-2 below) | Sources of Income | Details of payments |  Particulars of sanction of prescribedauthority, if any | Total income from the property | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14) | (15)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date:(1)For purpose of column (9), the term "lease" would mean a lease of
immovable property from year to year or for any term exceeding one year or
reserving a yearly rent. Where, however, the lease of immovable property is
obtained from a person having official dealings with the panchayat employee,
such a lease should be shown in this column irrespective of the term of the
lease, whether it is short-term or long-term, and the periodicity of the
panchayat of rent.(2)In column (10) should be shown: -(a)where the property
has been acquired by purchase, mortgage or lease, the price or premium paid
for such acquisition;(b)where the property has been acquired by lease, the
total annual rent thereof also; and(c)where the acquisition is by inheritance,
gift or exchange, the approximate value of the property so acquired.Form
IV[See rule 8(6)]Return of Assets and Liabilities Held by Panchayat Employee

### 1\. Name of panchayat employee in full (in block letters)

### 2\. Service to which he belongs

### 3\. Total length of service up-to-date

### 4\. Present post held

### 5\. Total length, income from all sources during the Calendar year
immediately preceding the last day of January 20........

### 6\. Declaration

I hereby declare that the return enclosed, are complete, true and correct as
on .......... to the best of my knowledge and belief, in respect of
information due to be furnished by me under the provisions of rule 8 of the
Tamil Nadu panchayat Employees Conduct Rules, 2001.Date:Signature.Note. - This
return shall contain particulars of all assets and liabilities of the
panchayat employee, either in his own name or in the name of any other person.

