## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Special Provisions)
Act, 1996

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Special Provisions)
Act, 1996

## Act 23 of 1996

  * Published on 24 August 1996 
  * Commenced on 24 August 1996 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 August 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Special Provisions) Act,
1996(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1996)Received the assented by the President on the
24th August, 1996.Whereas under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Hindu
Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the
Temple Administration District Committees and the Temple Administration Board
have been empowered to appoint non-hereditary trustees in respect of religious
institutions;And, Whereas, in exercise of the said powers, the Temple
Administration District Committees and the Temple Administration Board have
appointed non-hereditary trustees to the religious institutions;And Whereas,
discontent has been voiced on a large scale by the general public in the
matter of appointment of trustees and their functioning;And whereas, in views
of the general feeling of the public and in public interest, and for the
proper maintenance and administration of the religious institutions, it is
considered necessary to remove the non-hereditary trustees so appointed and
fill up the vacancies;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State
of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-seventh year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments (Special Provisions) Act, 1996.(2)It shall be deemed to have come
into force on the 26th day of June 1996.

### 2. Non-hereditary trustees to cease to hold office.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959) (hereinafter
referred to in this Act as the 1959 Act), every non-hereditary trustee of
every religious institution appointed under any of the provisions of the 1959
Act and holding office as such on the 26th day of June 1996 shall cease to
hold such office on such date.(2)On and from the 26th day of June 1996, the
functions of the Board of Trustees or of the trustee, as the case may be, of
any religious institutions shall, until the vacancy is filled up in accordance
with the provisions of the 1959 Act, be performed-(a)by the hereditary trustee
or trustees, if any, of such institution, and(b)if there is no hereditary
trustee of such institution, by the executive officer or if the Government so
direct, by a fit person, who shall be an officer of the Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Administration Department, not below the rank of
Inspector, appointed by the Commissioner or by any officer not below the rank
of Assistant Commissioner, authorised by the Commissioner in this
behalf.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in the 1959 Act,-(a)any non-
hereditary trustee who ceases to be such non-hereditary trustee under sub-
section (1) shall handover, within a period of ten days from the 26th day of
June 1996, or within such further time as may be granted by the Commissioner,
any records, accounts and properties of the religious institutions, which are
in, or have come into, his possession or control, to the hereditary trustee,
executive officer or the fit person, as the case may be, referred to in sub-
section (2);(b)if any such non-hereditary trustee fails to comply with the
provisions of clause (a), he shall, on conviction by a Metropolitan Magistrate
or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class, be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees or with both;(c)the Magistrate referred to in clause (b),
may, pending the conclusion of the trial, appoint a Receiver to take
possession of the records, accounts and properties of the religious
institution from such non-hereditary trustee and the remuneration, if any,
paid to the Receiver and other expenses incurred by him shall be paid out of
the income of the religious institution concerned.

### 3. Filling up of vacancies of the office of non-hereditary trustees.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 63 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu
Religious and Charitable Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 46
of 1991), any existing vacancy and every vacancy occurring in the office of
non-hereditary trustees under section 2, shall be filled up in accordance with
the provisions of the 1959 Act within a period of one year from the 26th day
of June 1996 or within such further period not exceeding six months as the
State Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.

### 4. Repeals.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Special
Provisions) Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 3 of 1996) is hereby
repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken
under the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Special
Provisions) Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 3 of 1996) shall be deemed
to have been done or taken under this Act.NotificationsNomination of certain
persons as non-official members of the advisory committee under the Tamil Nadu
Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act[(G. O. Ms. No. 279, Tamil
Development-Culture and Religious Endowments (RE4-2), dated the 19th September
2006)] [Published in Part II-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 19th September 2006.]No. II(2)/TDCRE/486(g)/2006. -
In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the
Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby nominates the following persons
as non-official members of the Advisory Committee:-Non-Official Members

1 |  Thiru Kundrakudi Athena Karthar, ThavathiruPon-nambala Adigalar | Kundrakudi  
---|---|---  
2 |  Thiruppananthal Madadhipathy, ThavathiruMuthu-kumaraswamy Thambiran | Thiruppananthal  
3 |  Thiru Thiruvavaduthurai AthenaKarthar,Thavathiru Sivaprakasa Pandara Sannathi | Thiruvavaduthurai  
4 | Shrimath Andavan Swamygal | Srirangam  
5 | Thiru Santhalinga Ramaswamy Adigal | Perur  
6 | Thirumathi Soundaram Kailasam | Chennai  
7 | Thirumathi A.S. Ponnammal | Ex-MLA  
8 | Thiru Karumuthu-Kannan | Madurai  
9 | Thiru S.V Balasubramaniam | Bannariamman Sugar Mills Ltd.

