## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of Buildings and Use of Land)
Act, 1978

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of Buildings and Use of Land)
Act, 1978

## Act 16 of 1978

  * Published on 17 March 1978 
  * Commenced on 17 March 1978 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 March 1978.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of Buildings and Use of Land)
Act, 1978(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1978)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of Buildings and Use of Land) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1978). - Consequent on the location of the Atomic Power
Station at Kalpakkam near Mahablipuram in Chengalpattu district, it has been
considered necessary to restrict or arrest the further growth of population in
and around the area of the Reactor site, with a view to avert serious damage
to persons and property in the event of any nuclear accident. Therefore, it
has been decided to undertake separate legislation for controlling the
erection or re-erection of buildings and the use of land in any nuclear
installation area. The proposed Act will apply to the Kalpakkam nuclear
installation area in the first instance and can be extended to any other
nuclear installation area notified by the Government.2\. The Bill seeks to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1, page 73 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 29th December
1977.Received the assent of the Governor on the 17th March 1978 and published
in Part-IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary,
dated 21st March 1978.An Act to provide for the control of the construction of
buildings and the use of land in the neighbourhood of any nuclear installation
in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows : -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of
Buildings and Use of Land) Act, 1978.(2)It extends to the whole of the State
of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force in respect of a nuclear installation
and the area within 4.8 kilometers from any portion of the boundary of any
such nuclear installation on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"building" includes
-(a)a house, out-house, stable, cattle-shed, cow-house, latrine, godown, shed,
hut, wall (other than a boundary wall not exceeding eight feet in height),
roofed enclosure and any other such structure, whether wholly or partially
constructed of masonry, bricks, mud, wood, metal or any other material
whatsoever;(b)a structure on wheels or simply resting on the ground without
foundation; and(c)a tent, van and any other structure used for human
habitation or used for keeping or storing any article or goods;(2)a person
shall be deemed "to re-erect a building", if he -(a)makes any material
alteration to, or enlargement of, building, or(b)converts into a dwelling
place any building not originally constructed for that purpose, or(c)converts
into two or more dwelling places a building originally constructed as a single
dwelling place, or(d)converts two or more dwelling places into a large number
of such places, or(e)converts into a factory, workshop or godown or into a
stable, cattle-shed or cow-house any building originally constructed as a
dwelling place, or(f)makes any alteration which is likely to affect pre-
judicially the stability or safety of a building, or the condition of building
in respect of its drainage, sanitation or hygiene, or(g)makes any alteration
to a building which increases or diminishes its height or the area covered by
it or the cubic capacity thereof, or which reduces the cubic capacity of any
room therein;(3)"exclusion area", in relation to a nuclear installation, means
such area, within 1.6 kilometers from any portion of the boundary of such
installation, as may be specified by the Government by
notification;(4)"Government" means the State Government;(5)"nuclear
installation" means the atomic power stations at Kalpakkam in the Chingleput
district and includes the Reactor Research Centre and Centralised Waste
Management Facility at Kalpakkam and any other place notified by the
Government in this behalf wherein other facilitates connected with research
and development in nuclear energy in Kalpakkam are provided or any other
nuclear installation notified in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette by the
Government in this behalf;(6)"nuclear installation area", in relation to a
nuclear installation, means the exclusion area and the sterilised area in
relation to such nuclear installation;(7)"nuclear installation local
authority", in relation to any nuclear installation and nuclear installation
area, means the nuclear installation local authority constituted under section
3 for the nuclear installation and having jurisdiction under this Act over the
nuclear installation area;(8)"sterilised area", in relation to nuclear
installation, means such area within 4.8 kilometers from any portion of the
boundary of such nuclear installation, as may be specified by the Government
by notification, but not including the exclusion area.

### 3. Constitution of nuclear installation local authority.

(1)For every nuclear installation, the Government shall, by notification,
constitute a nuclear installation local authority for the purpose of
controlling the erection or re-erection of buildings and the use of land in
the unclear installation area.(2)The notification under sub-section (1) shall
specify, -(i)the date on which it shall take effect;(ii)the name of the
nuclear installation local authority;(iii)the persons who shall be its
members; and(iv)the term of office of its members of other than the ex-officio
members, if any.(3)The Government shall appoint one of the members of the
nuclear installation local authority to be its Chairman and another member to
be its Secretary.

### 4. Bar of application of certain Acts.

(1)The Government may, by notification, direct that the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act of V of 1920) the
[Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu act XXXV of 1958)] [See now the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).], the Tamil Nadu
Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939) or any other enactment
for the time being in force in the State of Tamil Nadu and relating to public
health or local self government shall not apply to the nuclear installation
area or shall apply thereto only to such extent and subject to such
modification and restrictions as may be specified in such notification.(2)In
particular, the notification under sub-section (1) may authorise the nuclear
installation local authority or its Chairman or Secretary to perform any duty
or exercise any power assigned to a municipal council, a panchayat union
council or a panchayat, or to its Chairman or Panchayat or to any authority or
officer under the provisions of the Act so applied, subject to such control as
may be specified in such notification.

### 5. Prohibition of use of land, etc., in exclusion area except for certain
purposes.

\- No person other than the Government or the Central Government or any local
authority shall use or cause to be used any land in the exclusion area for any
purpose including agricultural purpose, or carry out any agricultural,
building, engineering, mining or other operation in or over or under any land
in such area or make any material change in the use of any building or land in
such area:Provided that no local authority shall use or cause to be used any
land in the exclusion area for any purpose including agricultural purpose or
carry out any agricultural, building, engineering, mining or of the operation
in or over or under any land in such area or make any material change in the
use of any building or land in such area without the prior approval of the
nuclear installation local authority:Provided further that the continuance of
the use of any building or land for the purpose and to the extent for which it
was being used on the date on which such area is notified as exclusion area
under clause (3) of section 2 may be permitted by the nuclear installation
local authority by general or special order for such period and upon such
terms and conditions as may be prescribed.

### 6. Prohibition of erection or re-erection of building, etc., without
license.

\- No person other than the Government or the Central Government or any local
authority shall -(a)erect or re-erect a building on any land; or(b)put to use
any agricultural and to any non-agricultural purpose; or(c)carry out any
engineering, mining or other operation on any land; within the sterilised area
without a licence of the nuclear installation local authority and except in
accordance with the terms and conditions specified in such licence:Provided
that no local authority shall erect or re-erect building on any land or put to
use any agricultural land to non-agricultural purpose or carry out any
engineering, mining or other operations on any land within the sterilised area
without the prior approval of the nuclear installation local authority.

### 7. Application for licence.

(1)An application for a licence under section 6 shall be in such form, contain
such particulars and be accompanied by such plans and fee as may be
prescribed.(2)The applicant shall also furnish to the nuclear installation
local authority any further information or plans which it may require, within
such time as may be fixed by it.

### 8. Grant of licence.

(1)On receipt of an application under section 7, the nuclear installation
local authority may grant a licence subject to such terms and conditions as it
may think fit to impose or refuse to grant the licence:Provided that the
licence shall not be refused unless the applicant has been given an
opportunity of making his representations.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), the nuclear
installation local authority may, in granting a licence under sub-section (1)
for the erection or re-erection of a building impose conditions in respect of
all or any of the following matters, namely : -(a)the free passage or way to
be left in front of the building;(b)the open space to be left about the
building to secure free circulation of air and the prevention of fire and to
facilitate scavenging;(c)the ventilation of the building, the minimum cubic
area of the room and the number and height of the storeys of which the
building may consist;(d)the provision and position of drain, latrines,
urinals, and cess-polls or other receptacles for rubbish or filth;(e)the level
and width of the foundation, the level of the lowest floor, and the stability
of the structure;(f)the line of frontage, with neighbouring buildings if the
building abuts on a street;(g)the means of egress from the building in case of
fire;(h)the materials to be used for, and the method of construction of,
external and partition walls, rooms, floors, fire-places and chimneys;(i)the
height and slope of the roof above the upper most floor on which human beings
are to live or cooking is to be done; and(j)any other matter affecting the
ventilation and sanitation of the building.(3)In granting or refusing to grant
a licence under sub-section (1), the nuclear installation local authority
shall have regard to the following matters, namely : -(a)the possibility of
the erection or re-erection of building, the non-agricultural purpose which
the land is to be used or the carrying out of any engineering, mining or other
operation, -(i)creating unfavourable conditions in the environment of the
nuclear installation resulting in accidental release of radioactivity into the
atmosphere; or(ii)resulting in consequent growth of population around the
nuclear installation; and(b)such other matters as may be prescribed.(4)The
licence granted under sub-section (1) for the erection or re-erection of a
building shall specify the purpose for which the building is to be used.

### 9. Power to cancel or suspend licence.

(1)The nuclear installation local authority may, at any time, cancel or
suspend any licence granted under section 8, if -(a)such licence has been
obtained by fraud, misrepresentation or suppression of material particulars;
or(b)the holder of the licence has contravened any of the provisions of this
Act or any rules made thereunder or any of the terms or conditions subject to
which the licence was granted.(2)Before cancelling or suspending the licence
under sub-section (1), the nuclear installation local authority shall give the
holder of the licence an opportunity of making his representations.

### 10. Lapse of licence.

\- Every licence granted under section 8 shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date on which it is granted and if the erection or re-erection
of the building or the user of agricultural and for non-agricultural purpose,
or the engineering, mining or other operation for which the licence is
granted, is not commenced within the said period, it shall not be commenced
thereafter unless the nuclear installation local authority on application made
therefor has extended the period.

### 11. Penalties.

(1)Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 5 shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.(2)Whoever, within the
sterilised area, begins, continues or completes the erection or re-erection of
a building, or puts to use any agricultural land to non-agricultural purpose
or carries out any engineering, mining or other operation -(a)without licence;
or(b)without complying with any of the terms or conditions of the licence;
or(c)when a licence has been refused; or(d)after the licence granted has
ceased to be available by virtue of section 10,shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees.(3)Whoever, within the sterilised
area -(a)uses any building erected or re-erected for a purpose other than that
specified in the licence;(b)puts to use any agricultural land to non-
agricultural purpose other than the purpose for which the use of the land was
permitted under the licence, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees.

### 12. Penalty for subsequent offence.

\- Whoever, after having been convicted of an offence under this Act,
continues to commit such offence, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one hundred rupees for each day after the previous date of
conviction during which he continues so to offend.

### 13. Offences by companies.

(1)If the person committing an offence under this Act is a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributed to, any neglect on the part of, any director,
manager, secretary or other officer the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also deemed to be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded again and punished accordingly.Explanation. -
For the purposes of this section, -(a)"company" means anybody corporate and
includes a firm, society or other association of individuals,
and(b)"director", in relation to, -(i)a firm means a partner in the firm,(ii)a
society or of the association of individuals, means the person who is
entrusted under the rules of the society or other association, with the
management of the affairs of the society or other association, as the case may
be.

### 14. Power to stop work.

(1)The nuclear installation local authority may, at any time by notice in
writing, direct the owner, lessee or occupier of any land in the nuclear
installation area -(a)to stop the user of any building or land for any
purpose; or(b)to stop the erection or re-erection of any building on such
land; or(c)to alter or demolish within such time as may be specified in the
notice, any building or any part thereof; or(d)to stop the user of any
agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose; or(e)to stop the building,
engineering, mining or other operation,if in the opinion of such authority the
user of the building or land, the erection or re-erection of the building or
part thereof or the user of any agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose
or the carrying out of the building, engineering, mining or other operation is
in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, the rules made
thereunder or of the terms and conditions subject to which any licence or
permission is granted under this Act.(2)If any direction given under sub-
section (1) is not complied with, within the time specified therefor in the
notice, the nuclear installation local authority may have such direction
carried into effect at its cost and have the amount thereof recovered from the
defaulter as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 15. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by -(a)any order or decision of the nuclear
installation local authority under this Act; or(b)any direction issued under
section 14,may appeal to the District Collector within such time and in such
manner as may be prescribed:Provided that the District Collector may, in his
discretion, allow further time not exceeding one month for the filing of such
appeal, if he is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not
filing the appeal in time.(2)On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1),
the District Collector shall, after giving the appellant an opportunity of
being heard, dispose of the appeal as expeditiously as possible.(3)The
District Collector may stay the operation of the order or decision or
direction of the nuclear installation local authority, pending the exercise of
his powers under this section.

### 16. Revision.

(1)The Government may, either suo motu or on application made by any person
aggrieved by any order, decision or direction of the nuclear installation
local authority or the District Collector, call for and examine the record of
and proceeding under this Act to satisfy themselves as to the regularity of
such proceeding or the correctness, legality or propriety of an order or
decision made or direction issued therein and if, in any case, it appears to
the Government that any such order, decision or direction should be modified,
annulled, reversed or remitted for re-consideration, they may pass orders
accordingly:Provided that where under this Act an appeal lies and no appeal is
preferred, no application by way of revision shall be entertained at the
instance of the person who could have appealed.(2)No order under sub-section
(1) shall be made to the prejudice of any person unless he has had a
reasonable opportunity of making his representation.(3)The Government may stay
the operation of any such order, decision or direction pending the exercise of
their power under sub-section (1) in respect thereof.(4)Every application to
the Government for the exercise of their powers under this section shall be
made within two months from the date on which the order, decision or direction
to which the application relates was communicated to the applicant:Provided
that the Government may, in their discretion, allow further time not exceeding
one month for the making of any such application if they are satisfied that
the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application in time.

### 17. Bar of compensation.

\- No compensation shall be claimed by any person for any damage or loss
sustained by him in consequence of -(a)the refusal to grant any licence or
permission by the nuclear installation local authority; or(b)any condition
subject to which any such licence or permission is granted; or(c)any direction
issued under section 14; of(d)any order passed by the District Collector under
section 15 or by the Government under section 16; or(e)the operation of any of
the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.

### 18. Civil Courts not to decide questions under this Act.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction including jurisdiction under section
6 of the Specific Relief Act, 1973 (Central Act 47 of 1963) to decide or deal
with any question which is by or under this Act required to be decided or
dealt with by any authority or officer mentioned in this Act.

### 19. Finality of orders passed under this Act.

(1)Any order passed or decision taken by any authority or officer in respect
of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall, subject only
to appeal or revision, if any, provided under this Act, be final.(2)No such
order or decision shall be liable to be questioned in any Court of law.

### 20. Act to override other laws.

(1)The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other Act, law, custom, usage or
contract.(2)Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), the provisions of
this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other Act.

### 21. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :
-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be
prescribed;(b)the rules of business of the nuclear installation local
authority;(c)the form of application for licence and the information and plan
to be furnished either along with such application or subsequently;(d)the
matters that the nuclear installation local authority should take into
consideration while granting permission under the proviso to section 5 or
while granting or refusing a licence under section 8;(e)the time within which
and the manner in which appeal under section 15 may be preferred; and(f)the
fees which may be charged in respect of any application made, appeal
preferred, or proceeding taken, under this Act.(3)(a)All rules made under this
Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they
are expressed to come into force on a particular day shall come into force on
the day on which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this
Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day,
come into force on the day on which they are published.(4)Every rule made or
notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after it is
made or issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws and Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session
in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly
agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws and Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such
rule or notification or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the
words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws and Order,
1987.] that the rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification.

