## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963

## Act 31 of 1963

  * Published on 28 January 1964 
  * Commenced on 28 January 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 January 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963(Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963)Statement
of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 1963). - When the Madras Iruvaram Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Bill, (L.A. Bill No. 2 of 1962) and the Madras Minor
Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Bill, 1962 (L.A. Bill No. 3 of
1962), are passed into law, in the course of implementation of the Acts, the
question whether any non-ryotwari area in the State of Madras is or is not an
existing inam estate, a part village inam estate, a minor inam or a whole inam
village in Pudukkottai will arise for consideration. It has been decided that
a separate legislation may be undertaken providing a machinery to determine
such questions, as, in the absence of such a machinery, ordinary civil suits
will have to be filed for the determination of the questions resulting in
delay. The Bill seeks to give effect to this decision.Published in Part IV-
Section 3, pages 265-266 of the Fort. St. George Gazette Extraordinary dated
the 14th August 1963.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Madras Inams
(Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1967(Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1967). - Under sub-
section (1) of section 5 of the Madras Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963 (Madras
Act 31 of 1963), the time limit for application for determining the question
whether any non-ryotwari area is or is not an existing inam estate or part
Village inam estate or a minor inam or a whole inam village in Pudukottai is
three months from the notified date in respect of eases governed by the Madras
Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 26
of 1963) and three months from the date of publication in the District Gazette
of a copy of the notification under sub-section (5) of section 1 of the Madras
Minor inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 30
of 1963) in respect of cases governed, by that Act. In addition to this, the
Settlement Officer can allow further time not exceeding thirty days in his
discretion. The first batch of inam estates under Madras Act 26 of 1963 was
notified on the 15th April 1965. The validity of Madras Acts 26,27 and 30 of
1963 was questioned in a number of writ petitions before the High Courts A
Division Bench of the High Court in its judgment dated the 24th June 1966
upheld the validity of all the three Acts and observed that the character of
each grant would have to be decided under Madras Act 31 of 1963. In a few
cases, the High Court observed that the authorities under Madras Act 31 of
1963 would take a liberal view if there is a question of limitation. Cases
have also come to the notice of Government where parties were not able to file
applications under Madras Act 31 of 1963 as the time-limit has already
expired. The Government have examined the question and have decided that the
time-limit may be prescribed by rules made by the Government and that the Act
should be suitably amended for the purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect
to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 51-52 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 15th July 1967.Received the
assent of the President on 28th January 1964 and first published in the Fort
St. George Gazette on 5th February 1964.An Act to provide for the
determination of questions whether any non-ryotwari area in the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment), Order, 1969.] is or is not an existing inam estate, apart village
inam estate, a minor inam or whole inam village in Pudukkottai.Be it enacted
by the Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment), Order, 1969.] in the
Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Supplementary) Act,
1963.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint:[Provided that in respect of the transferred territory,
it shall come into force on a date to be appointed by the State Government
which date shall be after the publication of the Tamil Nadu Inams
(Supplementary) Amendment At, 1968 ([Tamil Nadu] [This proviso was added by
section 2(f) of the Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1968
(Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1968).] Act 8 of 1968), in the [Fort St. George Gazette.]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.]](3)It applies to all non-ryotwari
areas in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment), Order, 1969.][xxx] [The words 'except
the Kanyakumari district and Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district'
were omitted by section 2(H) of the Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Amendment
Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1968).].

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"existing inam
estate" shall have the same meaning as in clause (4) of section 2 of the Inam
Estates Abolition Act;(b)"Inam Estates Abolition Act" means the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 26 of 1963);(c)"minor inam" shall have the same
meaning as in clause (9) of section 2 of the Minor Inams Abolition
Act;(d)"Minor Inams Abolition Act" means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act 26 of 1963);(e)"part village inam estate" shall have the same meaning as
in clause (11) of section 2 of the Inam Estates Abolition Act;(f)"Settlement
Officer" means a Settlement Officer appointed under section 3;(ff)[
"Transferred territory" means the Kanyakumari district and the Shen-cottah
taluk of the Tirunelveli district;] [This clause was inserted by section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of
1968).](g)"Tribunal" means a Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area and
constituted under section 4;(h)"whole inam village in Pudukkottai" means a
whole inam village in the merged territory of Pudukkottai, but not including
the whole inam villages specified in Schedule I to the Inam Estates Abolition
Act.

### 3. Appointment of Settlement Officers.

(1)The State Government shall appoint as many Settlement Officers as may be
necessary for the purposes of this Act.(2)Each Settlement Officer shall have
such jurisdiction and over such areas as the State Government may, by
notification, from time to time, determine.

### 4. Constitution of Tribunals.

(1)The State Government shall constitute as many Tribunals as may be necessary
for the purposes of this Act.(2)Each Tribunal shall consist of one person only
who shall be a judicial officer not below the rank of a Subordinate
Judge.(3)Each Tribunal shall have such jurisdiction and over such areas as the
State Government may, by notification, from time to time, determine.(4)Every
Tribunal shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) when trying a suit or
when hearing an appeal.

### 5. Determination of questions whether any non-ryotwari area is or is not
an existing inam estate, etc.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Estates Land Act, 1908
(Tamil Nadu Act I of 1908) or in any other law for the time being in force,
any person interested may, [within such period as may be prescribed]
[Substituted for the words, brackets and figures 'within three months from the
notified date as defined in clause (10) of section 2 of the Inam Estates
Abolition Act or from the date of publication in the District Gazette, under
sub-section (5) of section 1 of the Minor Inams Abolition Act, under sub-
section (5) of section 1 of the Minor Inams Abolition Act, of a copy of the
notification under sub-section (4) of the said section 1' by section 2(a) of
the Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1967 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of
1967).], make an application to the Settlement Officer for a declaration that
the non-ryotwari area specified in the application is or is not-(i)an existing
inam estate; or(ii)a part village inam estate; or(iii)a minor inam; or(iv)a
whole inam village in Pudukkottai:Provided that the Settlement Officer may, in
his discretion, allow further time [not exceeding such period as may be
prescribed] [Substituted for the words 'not exceeding thirty days' by section
2(b) of the Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1967 (Tamil Nadu
Act 14 of 1967).] for the making of any application under this section.(2)On
receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the Settlement Officer shall,
after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the applicant, to the State
Government if the State Government is not the applicant, to the landholder or
the inamdar, as the case may be, and if the applicant is the landholder or the
inamdar, as the case may be, to the person in occupation of the land in the
area concerned, and after publishing the notice in the prescribed manner in
the village and after giving the parties who appear before him an opportunity
to be heard and to adduce their evidence, give his decision whether the non-
ryotwari area concerned is an existing inam estate, or a part village inam
estate, or a minor inam or a whole inam village in Pudukkottai

### 6. Appeal.

(1)Against the decision of the Settlement Officer under sub-section (2) of
section 5, the State Government, or any person aggrieved by such decision may,
within three months from the date of the decision, appeal to the
Tribunal:Provided that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further time
not exceeding two months for the filing of any such appeal.(2)In deciding an
appeal under this section, the Tribunal shall follow such procedure as may be
prescribed.

### 7. Revision by High Court.

\- The Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Court subordinate to the High Court
for the purposes of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908), and its orders shall be liable to revision by the High Court
under the provisions of that section.

### 8. Decision under this Act to be binding.

\- Every decision of the Settlement Officer, subject to any decision of the
Tribunal or of the High Court, and every decision of the Tribunal subject to
any decision of the High Court shall be binding on all persons claiming an
interest in any land in the non-ryotwari area concerned notwithstanding that
any such person has not preferred any application or filed any statement or
adduced any evidence or appeared or participated in the proceedings before the
Settlement Officer, the Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be.

### 9. Defect not to invalidate decision of Settlement Officer, Tribunal, etc.

\- .No decision of the Settlement Officer or of the Tribunal or of the High
Court shall be invalid by reason of any defect in the form of any notice
issued by him or it or in the manner of publication of such notice.

### 10. Jurisdiction of Civil and Revenue Courts barred in certain matters.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no Civil or Revenue Court
and no Tribunal constituted under any other law shall have jurisdiction-(a)to
adjudicate upon any question whether any non-ryotwari area is or is not an
existing inam estate or a part village inam estate or a minor inam or a whole
inam village in Pudukkottai; or(b)in respect of any matter which the
Settlement Officer or the Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act to
determine.

### 11. Settlement Officer to give decision in certain cases referred to him.

(1)Where in any suit or appeal or other proceeding pending before any Court
(other than the High Court) or other authority, any question is in issue
whether a particular area is or was an existing inam estate or a part village
inam estate or a minor inam or a whole inam village in Pudukkottai, such
question shall be referred to the Settlement Officer for
determination.(2)Notwithstanding any reference made to the Settlement Officer
under subsection (1), the Court or other authority which made the reference
may pass such interim orders in respect of the suit, appeal or other
proceeding as are allowed by law.(3)Any reference under sub-section (1) shall
be deemed to be an application under sub-section (1) of section 5 and the
provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply accordingly.(4)The
decision of the Settlement Officer or of the Tribunal or of the High Court, as
the case may be, under this section shall be communicated to the Court or
other authority which made the reference and, thereupon, such Court or
authority shall proceed to dispose of the case.

### 12. Decision under [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1956 to be
binding.

\- In cases in which, before the notified date a Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word ',Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
(Supplementary) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1956), has
given a finding under that Act that a particular area is an inam village which
became an estate by virtue of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land
(Third Amendment) Act, 1936 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVIII of 1936), that
finding shall be final and shall be binding for the purposes of this Act.

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed
by this Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by the Settlement
Officer and the Tribunal;(c)the application of the provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) to proceedings before the
Settlement Officer;(d)the fees to be paid in respect of applications and
appeals under this Act;(e)the transfer of proceedings from one Settlement
Officer or Tribunal to another.(3)All rules made under this Act shall be
published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.] and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular
day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(4)Every
rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be
placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in
making any modification in any such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule should not be made, the rule shall,
thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

