## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2009

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2009

## Act 30 of 2009

  * Published on 12 August 2009 
  * Commenced on 12 August 2009 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 August 2009.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2009(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
2009)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning
Committee Act, 2009 (30 of 2009). - Article 243-ZE of the Constitution
inserted by the Constitution (Seventy-Fourth Amendment) Act, 1992 provides for
the constitution of the Metropolitan Planning Committee in every metropolitan
area that may be specified as such by the Governor by notification under
clause (c) of Article 243-P of the Constitution to prepare draft development
plan for such area as a whole. As per the said Article, the Metropolitan
Planning Committee has to prepare the said draft development plan taking into
consideration the plans prepared by the various local bodies within the
metropolitan area. It would also take into consideration the matters of common
interest between the municipalities and panchayats, including co-ordinated
spatial planning of the area, sharing of water and other physical and natural
resources, the integrated development of infrastructure and environmental
conservation. The plan would encompass the objectives and priorities of the
Governments both Central and State and the financial investments likely to be
made by the Agencies of the Governments.2\. The said Article further provides
that, it will be for the State Legislature to provide, by Law, the matters
relating to the composition of such Metropolitan Planning Committees, and the
manner of filling the seats of such Committees, and of choosing Chairperson of
such Committees, including the function of the said Committees subject to the
condition that not less than two-thirds of the total members of the Committees
shall be elected by and from amongst the elected members of the Municipalities
and Chairpersons of the Panchayats in the Metropolitan area. The Government
have, therefore, decided to enact a Law for constitution of the Metropolitan
Planning Committees and for all the other purposes, incidental to the
constitution of such Committees, as aforesaid.3\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 22nd June 2009.Received the
assent of the Governor on the 12th August 2009 and published in Part IV -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 17th
August 2009.An Act to provide for the constitution of Metropolitan Planning
Committee in every Metropolitan area in the State of Tamil Nadu for
preparation of draft development plan for the Metropolitan area.Be it enacted
by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixtieth Year of
the Republic of India as follows : -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning Committee Act,
2009.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Constitution"
means the Constitution of India;(b)"District" means a revenue district of the
State of Tamil Nadu;(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"Metropolitan area" means an area having a population of ten
lakhs or more, comprised in one or more districts and consisting of two or
more municipalities or panchayats or other contiguous areas, as may be
specified by the Government by notification to be a Metropolitan area for the
purposes of this Act;(e)"Municipality" means an institution of self-government
constituted under Article 243-Q of the Constitution;(f)"Panchayat" means a
panchayat constituted under Article 243-B of the Constitution;(g)"Population"
means the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the
relevant figures have been published.

## Chapter II  
Constitution of Metropolitan Planning Committee, its Functions and Matters
Related Thereto

### 3. Metropolitan Planning Committee.

(1)There shall be constituted in every Metropolitan area a Metropolitan
Planning Committee (hereinafter referred to as the committee) consisting of
such number of members, including a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson, as the
Government may determine, to prepare a draft development plan for the
Metropolitan area as a whole:Provided that not less than two-thirds of the
members of the committee shall be elected by, and from amongst, the elected
members of the municipalities and Presidents of the panchayats in the
Metropolitan area in proportion to the ratio between the population of the
municipalities and of the panchayats in that area.(2)The representation in the
committee of the Government of India and the State Government and of such
organizations and institutions as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the
functions assigned to the committee shall be such as may be notified by the
Government, from time to time.(3)The committee shall perform such functions
relating to planning and coordination for the Metropolitan area as the
Government may, by notification, assign to it.(4)The committee shall, in
preparing the draft development plan, -(a)have regard to -(i)the plans
prepared by the Municipalities and the panchayats in the Metropolitan
area;(ii)matters of common interest between the Municipalities and the
panchayats, including co-ordinated spatial planning of the area, sharing of
water and other physical natural resources, the integrated development of
infrastructure and environmental conservation;(iii)the overall objectives and
priorities set by the Government of India and the State Government;(iv)the
extent and nature of investments likely to be made in the Metropolitan area by
agencies of the Government of India and of the State Government and other
available resources, whether financial or otherwise;(b)consult such
institutions and organizations as the Government may, by order, specify.(5)The
chairperson of every committee shall forward the development plan, as
recommended by the committee, to the Government.

### 4. Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, other members, not being elected
members, term of office and filling up of vacancy.

(1)The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other members, not being elected
members, of every committee shall be appointed by the Government.(2)The term
of office and other conditions of service of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and other members, not being elected members, of the committee
shall be such as may be prescribed.(3)Any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, or any other member, not being an elected
member, of the committee shall be filled by fresh appointment by the
Government.

### 5. Election of members of committee.

\- The manner of election of members of the committee and all matters related
thereto shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 6. Term of office of, and allowance for, elected members of committee.

\- The elected members of the committee shall hold office for a term of five
years from the date of their election, and shall receive such allowance for
attending the meeting of the committee or any sub-committee thereof as may be
prescribed;Provided that every such member shall, on his ceasing to be an
elected member of a municipality or President of a panchayat, as the case may
be, cease to be a member of the committee notwithstanding that the term of
five years has not expired, and the vacancy shall be filled by election in the
manner prescribed.

### 7. Validation.

\- No act or proceeding of the committee shall be invalid or called in
question by reason of any vacancy, initial or subsequent, in, or defect in the
constitution of the committee.

### 8. Meeting of committee.

(1)The committee shall meet at such places and at such times, and shall
observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at
its meeting (including the quorum for a meeting), as may be prescribed.(2)The
Chairperson or, if, for any reason, he is unable to attend any meeting, the
Vice-Chairperson or, if, for any reason, both are unable to attend any
meeting, any other member elected by the members present, shall preside at the
meeting.

### 9. Sub-committees.

(1)The committee may constitute, for such purpose as it may think fit, as many
sub-committees consisting wholly of members of the committee or wholly of
other persons or partly of members of the committee and partly of other
persons as it may consider necessary or expedient.(2)The members of a sub-
committee, not being members of the committee, shall be paid such fees and
allowances for attending the meetings thereof as may be prescribed.

## Chapter III  
Miscellaneous

### 10. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as
appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulties:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

### 11. Power to give directions.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
committee as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this Act
and it shall be the duty of the committee to comply with such directions.

### 12. Authority to assist Metropolitan Planning Committee.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for time
being in force, the Government may, by notification, appoint any authority
constituted under section 11, including the Metropolitan Development Authority
established under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act,
1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972), to assist the Metropolitan Planning
Committee in preparation of draft development plan and the authority so
appointed shall also act as the office of the Metropolitan Planning Committee.

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule, notification or order made or issued under this Act
shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or in the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in any such rule, notification or order, or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule, notification or order should not be made or
issued, the rule, notification or order shall, thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule, notification or order.

## Chapter IV  
Amendments to the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919

### 14. Amendment of section B.

(1)In section 3 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil
Nadu Act IV of 1919) (hereafter referred to as the 1919 Act), clause (13-AA)
shall be omitted.(2)Omission of section 27-B. - Section 27-B of the 1919 Act
shall be omitted.

