## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance Act, 1981

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance Act, 1981

## Act 43 of 1981

  * Published on 21 July 1981 
  * Commenced on 21 July 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 July 1981.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance Act, 1981(Tamil Nadu Act 43 of
1981)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence
Allowance Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1981). - It has been reported to
Government that out of the 1,675 establishments for which Standing Orders
under the Industrial Establishment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (Central Act XX
of 1946) have been certified, 1,631 establishments have not yet amended their
Standing Orders to provide for payment of subsistence allowance to employees
during the period of their suspension. The progress made by establishments in
amending the Standing Orders providing for subsistence allowance has been far
from satisfactory. Further, Government have also been receiving
representations that incorporation of the provisions relating to subsistence
allowance in the Model Standing Orders in every industrial establishment is a
cumbersome process, and that a separate legislation might be thought of to
make it obligatory on the part of the managements to pay subsistence allowance
to the employees during the period of their suspension in any enquiry.2\.
Government have accordingly decided to undertake legislation to make it
obligatory on the Managements to pay subsistence allowance to the employees
during the period of their suspension, pending enquiry.3\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above said object.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 29th January 1981.Received
the assent of the President on the 21st July 1981 and Published in Part II -
Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 25th
July 1981.An Act to provide for the payment of subsistence allowance to
employees during the period of suspension.Be it enacted by the Legislature of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India as
follows: -

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance Act,
1981.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"employee" means
any person employed in, or in connection with the work or activities of, any
establishment to do any skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled manual,
supervisory, technical, clerical or any other kind of work or activities for
hire or reward, whether the terms of employment be expressed or implied, but
does not include any such person -(i)who is employed mainly in a management or
administrative capacity; or(ii)who, being employed in a supervisory capacity,
[draws wages exceeding three thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem]
[Substituted for the expression 'draws wages exceeding five hundred rupees per
mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance (Amendment) Act, 1999
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1999).] or exercises, either by the nature of the duties
attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions
mainly of a managerial nature;(b)"employer" means the owner of an
establishment and includes any person entrusted with the supervision and
control of employees in such establishment;(c)"establishment" means any place
where any industry, trade, business, undertaking, manufacture, occupation or
service is carried on, and with respect to which the executive power of the
State extends, but does not include -(i)any office or department of the
Central or the State Government; or(ii)a railway administration; or(iii)any
mine or oil field; or(iv)any major port; or(v)any public sector undertaking of
the Central Government.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause "any
public sector undertaking of the Central Government" means an establishment
owned, controlled or managed by -(1)the Central Government or a department of
the Central Government;(2)a Government company as defined in section 617 of
the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956) and owned or controlled by the
Central Government;(3)a Corporation established by or under a Central Act,
which is owned, controlled or managed by the Central Government;
-(d)"Government" means the State Government;(e)"industry" means an industry as
defined in section 2(j) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act XIV
of 1947);(f)"period of suspension" includes the period taken to obtain
permission where such permission of the authority under sub-section (1) of
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act: XIV of 1947), is
necessary before the employment of an employee is validly
terminated;(g)"suspension" means an interim decision of an employer as a
result of which an employee is debarred temporarily from attending to his
office and performing his functions in the establishment on the ground that
-(1)an enquiry into grave charges against him is contemplated or is pending or
no final order after the completion of the enquiry has been passed; or(2)a
complaint against him of any criminal offence is under investigation or trial
or the complaint has not been finally disposed of;(h)"wages" shall have the
same meaning as in clause (rr) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (Central Act XIV of 1947).

### 3. Payment of subsistence allowance.

(1)An employee who is placed under suspension shall, during the period of such
suspension, be entitled to receive payment from the employer as subsistence
allowance, an amount equal to fifty percentum of the wages which the employee
was drawing immediately before suspension, for the first ninety days reckoned
from the date of such suspension:Provided that where the period of suspension
exceeds ninety days, but does not exceed one hundred and eighty days, the
employee shall be entitled to receive, after the said period of ninety days, a
subsistence allowance equal to seventy-five percentum of the wages which the
employee was drawing immediately before his suspension:Provided further that
where the period of suspension exceeds one hundred and eighty days, the
employee shall be entitled to receive wages in full which the employee was
drawing immediately before his suspension:Provided also that where the enquiry
or criminal proceeding is prolonged beyond the period of ninety days for
reasons directly attributable to the employee, the subsistence allowance
shall, for the period exceeding ninety days, be reduced to fifty percentum of
the wages, which the employee was drawing immediately before his
suspension.(2)An employee shall not be entitled to receive any subsistence
allowed if he accepts any other employment during the period of his suspension
in any establishment other than the establishment where he had been working
immediately before his suspension.(3)An employee shall not, in any event, be
liable to refund or forfeit any part of the subsistence allowance admissible
to him under sub-section (1):Provided that where the employee is exonerated of
the charge based on which his suspension was ordered, the subsistence
allowance paid to him for any period shall be adjusted against the full wages
admissible to him for the period of suspension.(4)The subsistence allowance
under sub-section (1) shall be paid by the employer to the employee on the
date or dates on which the wages due to the employee, but for his suspension,
would have become payable.

### 4. Recovery of money due from an employer.

\- Where any money is due to an employee from an employer under this Act, the
employee himself or any other person authorised by him in this behalf, or in
the case of the death of the employee, his legal representative may, without
prejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an application to the Government
in such manner as may be prescribed for the recovery of money due to him, and
if the Government, after giving the employer an opportunity of being heard, in
such manner as may be prescribed, are satisfied that any money is so due, [the
Government shall issue a certificate for that amount together with such amount
of compensation as the Government may think fit] [Substituted for the
expression 'they shall issue a certificate for that amount' by Tamil Nadu
Payment of Subsistence Allowance (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1997).] to the Collector who shall proceed to recover the same in the same
manner as an arrear of land revenue:Provided that every such application shall
be made within one year from the date on which the money became due to the
employee from the employer:Provided further that any such application may be
entertained after the expiry of the said period of one year, if the Government
are satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the
application within the said period.[Provided also that the amount of
compensation under this section shall not exceed fifty percent of the amount
of subsistence allowance or two hundred and fifty rupees whichever is less.]
[Added by Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence Allowance (Amendment)Act, 1997
(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1997).]

### 5. Saving of certain rights and privileges.

\- Nothing in this Act shall effect any right or privilege to which any
employee is entitled on the date of commencement of this Act under any law for
the time being in force or under any contract, custom or usage which is more
favourable to him than any right or privilege conferred upon him by this Act.

### 6. Power to grant exemption.

\- The Government may, if they think fit so to do, in the public interest, by
notification exempt, subject to such conditions, if any as may be specified in
such notification, from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this
Act, any class or classes of establishments, for such period or periods and
for such reasons as may be specified in the said notification.

### 7. Delegation of powers of Government.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise any authority or officer
subordinate to them to exercise all or any of the powers vested in them by
this Act and may, in like manner, withdraw such authority.(2)The exercise of
any powers delegated under sub-section (1) shall be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed or as may be specified in the
notification and also to control and revision by the Government or by such
officer as may be empowered by the Government in this behalf. The Government
shall also have power to control and revise the act or proceedings of any
officer so empowered.

### 8. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused
by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of
this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 9. Penalties.

\- Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act or any rule made thereunder
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months or with fine which shall not be less than one thousand rupees or with
both.

### 10. Exemption of occupier or manager from liability in certain cases.

\- Where the occupier or manager of an establishment is charged with an
offence punishable under this Act, he shall be entitled, upon complaint duly
made by him and on giving to the prosecutor not less than three clear days
notice in writing of his intention so to do, to have any other person whom he
charges as the actual offender brought before the Court at the time appointed
for hearing the charge, and if, after the commission of the offence has been
proved, the occupier or manager of the establishment, as the case may be,
proves to the satisfaction of the Court -(a)that he has used due diligence to
enforce the execution of this Act, and(b)that the said other person committed
the offence in question without his knowledge, consent or connivance,that
other person shall be convicted of the offence and shall be liable to the like
punishment as if he were the occupier or manager of the establishment, and the
occupier or manager, as the case may be, shall be discharged from any
liability under this Act in respect of such offence:Provided that in seeking
to prove as aforesaid, the occupier or manager of the establishment, as the
case may be, may be examined on oath, and his evidence and that of any witness
whom he calls in his support shall be subject to cross-examination on behalf
of the person he charges as the actual offender and by the prosecutor:Provided
further that, if the person charged as the actual offender by the occupier or
manager cannot be brought before the Court at the time appointed for hearing
the charge, the Court shall adjourn the hearing, from time to time, for a
period not exceeding three months and if by the end of the said period, the
person charged as the actual offender cannot still be brought before the
Court, the Court shall proceed to hear the charge against the occupier or
manager and shall, if the offence be proved, convict the occupier or manager.

### 11. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
except upon a complaint in writing made by an officer generally or specially
authorised in this behalf by the Government.(2)No Court inferior to that of a
Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class shall try
any offence punishable by or under this Act.

### 12. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for -(a)all matters expressly required
or allowed by this Act to be prescribed;(b)the manner in which, and the
conditions subject to which, the subsistence allowance is payable; and(c)the
restrictions and conditions subject to which powers under this Act may be
delegated.

### 13. Rules and notifications to be placed before the Legislature.

(1)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(2)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both
Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or notification or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the
expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

