## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen Through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Rules, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen Through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Rules, 1984

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-EXHIBITION-OF-FILMS-ON-TELEVISION-SCREEN-THROUGH-VIDEO-
CASSETTE-RECORDERS-AND-CABLE-TELEVISION-NETWORK-REGULATION-RULES-1984 of 1984

  * Published on 30 January 1984 
  * Commenced on 30 January 1984 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 January 1984.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen Through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Rules, 1984Published vide
Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 285, Home (Cinemas), Dated 30th January
1984Published in Part III-Section 1 (a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 30th January 1984 (pages 1 to 30).

## Part I – General

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television
Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and Cable Television Network
(Regulation) Rules, 1984.

### 2. Application.

\- These rules shall apply to all the existing premises in the State of Tamil
Nadu, where films are exhibited on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorder or through Cable Television Network and the premises in the State of
Tamil Nadu where a Video Library is kept, and to those which come into
existence after the publication of these rules in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(a)"Building" means a building which is constructed with stone, mud,
brick, mortar, cement or other non-inflammable material;(b)"Form" means the
form appended to these rules;(c)"Local authority" means -(a)a Municipal
Corporation constituted under any law for the time being in force; or(b)a
Municipal Council constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities
Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920); or(c)a township committee constituted
under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of
1920) or the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 [(Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958)]
[Now, this Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Panchayat
Act, 1994.] or the Mettur Township Act, 1940 (Tamil Nadu Act XI of 1940) or
the Courtallam Township Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1954) or the
Bhavanisagar Township Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1954) or under any
other law for the time being in force; or(d)a Panchayat Union Council or a
Panchayat constituted under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 [(Tamil Nadu
Act XXXV of 1958).] [Now this Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).](e)[ Act means the
Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 1984).] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B),
Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]

### 4. Decision of the Government to be final.

\- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules otherwise
than in connection with the prosecution for an offence, the question shall be
referred to the Government, whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 5. Display of rules and licences.

\- The rules and the licence issued under this [Act] [Substituted for the word
'Ordinance' by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B), Department, dated the
11th November 1991.], printed in large type, together with the name and
address of the licensee affixed thereto, shall be displayed in some
conspicuous place at the principal entrance at a height of not more than 1.25
metres (one and a quarter metres) from the floor, so that any person entering
the licensed premises including the Video Library may acquaint himself with
such rules, and on noticing any breach of them, may report the same to the
licensing authority.

### 6. Age limit.

\- No person, other than a company or an association of persons, shall be
entitled to obtain or hold any licence under the [Act] [Substituted for the
word 'Ordinance' by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B), Department, dated
the 11th November 1991.] unless such person has attained the age of twenty
years.

### 7. Applicability of Electricity Act.

\- The licensee shall comply with such of the provisions of the Indian
Electricity Act, 1910 [(Central Act IX of 1910)] [Now this Act has been
repealed and re-enacted as the Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of
2003).] and of the rules made thereunder as are applicable to the premises.

### 8. Production of licence and plan on demand.

\- The licence issued under this [Act] [Substituted for the word 'Ordinance'
by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B), Department, dated the 11th November
1991.] and the plan and description attached thereto shall be produced by the
licensee on demand by any Police Officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector
or by the licensing authority or by the Chief Electrical Inspector or by the
Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, or by any person authorised by
them in this behalf.

### 9. Smoking prohibited.

\- Smoking shall not be permitted within the place of the exhibition of film
on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders [or through Cable
Television Network] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B),
Department, dated the 11th November 1991.] and in places where Video Libraries
are located.

### 10. Premises and equipment to be insured.

\- Every licensee shall insure the licensed premises, the equipments and the
Video Cassette against the risk of fire so that the licensed place and the
Video Library are run without fire hazards.

### 11. Records in proof of ownership to be produced.

\- If the applicant for the licence is the owner of the site, building and
equipment, he shall produce to the licensing authority the necessary records
relating to his ownership and possession thereof. If he is not the owner, he
shall, to the satisfaction of the licensing authority, produce documentary
evidence to show that he is in lawful possession of the site, building and
equipment.

## Part II – Approval of Location of The Site For Exhibition of Film on
Television Screen Through Video Cassette Recorders

### 12. No objection certificate.

(1)Every person who intends to apply for permission under section 7, shall
make an application to the licensing authority in Form A for no objection
certificate. The application in Form A shall be accompanied by a plan of the
proposed site drawn to scale and shall clearly indicate the surrounding roads
and the buildings which exist up to a distance of 200 metres of the proposed
site, schools, hospitals, temples, mosques, churches or other places of public
worship being clearly indicated.(2)A fee of [Rs. 1,000 (rupees one thousand
only)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema - B) Department, dated
the 11th November 1991.] shall be paid in respect of each application and a
treasury receipt for the amount of the fee shall also be submitted along with
the application under sub-rule (1).[If the application is not filed after the
fees has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so remitted may be
refunded to the applicant. The application for such refund shall, however, be
made by the applicant within one month from the date of remittance.] [This
paragraph was added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-ll) Department, dated
the 8th November 1993.](3)A copy of the application in Form A referred to in
sub-rule (1) shall be sent to the local authority concerned, which shall
forward it to the licensing authority, together with a copy of its resolution
recording its objections, if any, to the site and to the installation of the
machinery equipment.(4)A copy of the application shall also be sent in the
case of the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], to the
Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] and elsewhere to the Superintendent of Police concerned who
shall remit it to the licensing authority with objections, if any, from the
traffic point of view.

### 13. Calling for objections.

(1)On receipt of the application for no objection certificate, the licensing
authority shall scrutinise the same and ensure whether the application
contains all the necessary required information.(2)If the licensing authority
considers that the applicant has not complied with any of the rules or the
application is found to be defective, he may, after giving the applicant an
opportunity of being heard, reject the application.(3)If the application is
complete in all respect prima facie and it is found to comply with all the
relevant rules, the licensing authority shall cause a notice in Form B both in
English and in Tamil to be displayed in the notice board of the licensing
authority and the local authority concerned intimating the fact of receipt of
the application and calling for objections, if any, from the public. All
objections shall be filed in writing before the licensing authority within
fifteen days from the date of display of this notice. Any objection filed
after this period shall be liable to be summarily rejected.

### 14. Grant of no objection certificate.

(1)After considering the application, with reference to the matters specified
in sub-section (1) of section 6 and the objections of the local authority, the
police or the public, the licensing authority shall grant a no objection
certificate in Form C or may refuse lo grant it. The orders of the licensing
authority in granting or refusing to grant a no objection certificate shall be
communicated to the applicant and to the objections, if any, who have filed
objections before the licensing authority.(2)The no objection certificate so
granted by the licensing authority shall be valid for a period of one year. If
within this period, the no objection certificate is not utilised for obtaining
a licence in Form G, a fresh no objection certificate shall be applied
for:Provided that the licensing authority, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, may extend the period of validity of the no objection certificate
upto a maximum period of one year beyond the date of end of the original
validity.(3)Any person aggrieved by the order of the licensing authority in
granting or refusing to grant a no objection certificate or refusing to extend
the validity of the no objection certificate, may prefer an appeal to the
Commissioner for Land Administration.

### 14A. [ Distance between places. [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 2592, Home
Department, dated the 18th October 1985.]

(a)No exhibition of film on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders
shall be allowed in a place, if the distance to the nearest permanent and
semi-permanent cinema located in the same local area or in an adjacent village
panchayat or town or in the cities of [Chennai], Madurai and Coimbatore is
less than two kilometres.(b)No exhibition of film on Television Screen through
Video Cassette Recorder shall be allowed in a place, if the distance to the
nearest touring cinema located in the same local area or in an adjacent
village panchayat or town or in the cities of [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).], Madurai and Coimbatore is less than 1.609 kilometres.(c)The
distance between any two places where exhibition of film on Television Screen
through Video Cassette Recorder is made shall be not less than two
kilometres:Provided that nothing contained in clauses (a) to (c) shall apply
to any exhibition of film on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder
for domestic purposes to the family members of the household only.Explanation.
- (1) For the purpose of this rule, the expression 'local area' means the area
within the jurisdiction of the municipal council or a panchayat or a revenue
village.(2)The distance between the place where exhibition of film on
Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder is made and the permanent
cinema, semi-permanent cinema, touring cinema, or a place where exhibition is
made, as the case may be, shall be reckoned along the shortest pathway, lane,
street, road or any other route from the cabin room of the cinema concerned to
the entrance to the place or between the entrances of two places where
exhibition of film on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder is
made.]

## Part III – Approval of Plan of the Building

### 15. Contents of application for permission.

(1)On receipt of the "No Objection Certificate" referred under rule 14, the
applicant shall submit an application for approval of the plan of the building
existing or proposed to be constructed in the approved site. Such application
shall be accompanied by -(a)complete plans, elevation and sections of the
premises in triplicate and of all erections or holdings thereon drawn
correctly to a scale of one centimetre to a metre and showing the position of
the electrical machinery, as prepared by an Engineer holding a degree in Civil
Engineering recognised by the University Grants Commission or by a holder of a
Diploma in Civil Engineering with experience for a period of not less than ten
years in building construction;(b)a plan (in single line) of the wiring in
duplicate, a copy of which shall also be sent to the Chief Electrical
Inspector.

### 16. Consultation with the Executive Engineer and Electrical Inspector.

\- On receipt of the plan in triplicate, the licensing authority shall, after
consulting the Executive Engineer and the Chief Electrical Inspector to
Government, approve or refuse to approve the plan of the building. The
licensing authority shall send one copy of the approved plan of the building
to the concerned local authority. In case the licensing authority refuses
approval, the reasons for the same shall be recorded by him.

## Part IV – Permission for the Building Constructed and Issue of Licence

### 17. Electrical and structural soundness certificates.

(1)On commencement of construction, the applicant shall notify the Executive
Engineer to enable him to issue the certificate of structural soundness under
sub-rule (4).(2)On completion of the building according to the approved plan,
the applicant shall obtain-(i)a certificate in Form D from the Chief
Electrical Inspector;(ii)a certificate from the Executive Engineer.(3)The
Chief Electrical Inspector's Certificate in Form D shall be valid for a period
of three years:Provided that, for reasons to be recorded in writing, the
officer granting the certificate may reduce the period of validity of the
certificate to any shorter period.(4)The Executive Engineer's certificate
regarding structural soundness of the building shall be valid for a period of
three years:Provided that, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, the
officer granting the certificate, may refuse to issue such certificate or
grant the certificate for a shorter period, with certain conditions.(5)The
applicant, if aggrieved by an order of the Executive Engineer refusing to
grant a structural soundness certificate, shall have the right to refer the
matter to the Superintending Engineer concerned whose technical opinion
thereon shall be final.

### 18. Application for permission.

\- After obtaining the certificates referred to in rule 17, the applicant
shall submit his application in Form E for permission to the licensing
authority. The application shall be accompanied by -(1)the certificates issued
by the Executive Engineer and Chief Electrical Inspector;(2)evidence of having
insured the place wherein exhibition of films on the Television screen Video
Cassette Recorder is proposed.

### 19. Grant of permission.

\- On receipt of the application for permission together with the certificates
referred to in rule 17 and after satisfying himself, the licensing authority
may issue to the applicant a permission under section 7 in Form E or refuse to
issue such a permission. The licensing authority, may also impose any special
conditions to be fulfilled in the permission. A copy of the plans and drawings
referred to in rule 15 shall be attached to the permission. A copy of the
order shall be communicated to the applicant and to the persons, if any, who
have filed objections before the licensing authority.Licence

### 20. Application and grant of licence.

\- Every person who has obtained the permission under section 7 read with rule
19 may apply for a licence referred to in sub-section (1) of section 3 for
exhibition of cinematograph film on Television screen through Video Cassette
Recorder. Such application shall be in Form F and shall be made in triplicate.
[Such application shall be accompanied by a treasury receipt for the payment
of a fee of rupees one thousand.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-
II) Department, dated the 8th November 1993.][If the application is not filed
after the fee has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so remitted
may be refunded to the applicant. The application for such refund shall,
however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date of
remittance.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated
the 8th November 1993.](2)On receipt of an application for a licence under
sub-rule (1), the licensing authority shall after satisfying itself in regard
to the matters referred to in subsection (1) of section 6 and after making
such inquiry as he deems fit may grant the licence for exhibition of film on
Television screen through Video Cassette Recorder.(3)The licence shall be in
Form G and shall be subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions,
specified therein. The licence shall be valid for the period covered by the
Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule
17.(4)Where the licensing authority is satisfied that any of the matters
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 6 have not been complied with, he
may refuse to grant the licence under section 6:Provided that before refusing
to grant the licence, the licensing authority shall give to the applicant, a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.[(4-A) A duplicate of a licence shall be
granted on payment of a fee of rupees five.] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 484,
Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 27th March 1989.](5)The letter of
consent referred to in section 9 shall be in Form N.(6)Such letter of consent
shall be displayed conspicuously on the outer cover of the Video Cassette
tape.

### 20A. [ Licence for exhibition of films through Cable Television Network.]
[Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th
November 1991.]

(1)Every application for a licence for exhibition of films through Cable
Television Network under sub-section (1-A) of section 3 shall be in Form O and
shall be made in triplicate. [Such application shall be accompanied by a
treasury receipt for the payment of a fee of rupees one thousand] [Added by G.
O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 8th November
1993.].[If the application is not filed after the fee has been remitted into
the treasury, the entire fee so remitted may be refunded to the applicant. The
application for such refund shall, however, be made by the applicant within
one month from the date of remittance.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home
(Cinema-II) Department, dated the 8th November 1993.](2)On receipt of an
application for a licence under sub-rule (1), the licensing authority shall
consult the local authority concerned.(3)On receipt of the report from the
local authority referred to in sub-rule (2) and having regard to the matters
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 6 and after satisfying itself as to
the matters referred to in sub-section (4) thereof, the licensing authority
may grant the licence for exhibition of films through the Cable Television
Network.(4)The licence shall be in Form P and shall be subject to such terms,
conditions and restrictions specified therein.(5)A duplicate of a licence
shall be granted on payment of a fee of Rs.5 (Rupees five only).(6)Where the
licensing authority is satisfied that having regard to the report of the
authorities referred to in sub-rule (2) and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, he may refuse to grant the licence under sub-section (1-A) of section
3:Provided that before refusing to grant licence, the licensing authority
shall give to the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.Keeping of
Video Library

### 21. Licence for keeping Video Library.

(1)Every application for licence for keeping Video Library under sub-section
(1) of section 4 shall be in Form H and shall be made in triplicate. [Such
application shall be accompanied by a treasury receipt for the payment of a
fee of rupees one thousand.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-II)
Department, dated the 8th November 1993.][If the application is not filed
after the fee has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so remitted
may be refunded to the applicant. The application for such refund shall,
however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date of
remittance.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated
the 8th November 1993.](2)On receipt of an application for licence under sub-
rule (1), the licensing authority shall consult the local authority
concerned.(3)On receipt of the report from the authority referred to in sub-
rule (2) and having regard to the public interest referred to in sub-section
(2) of section 6 and after satisfying itself as to the matters referred to in
sub-section (4) thereof, the licensing authority may grant the licence for
keeping a Video Library.(4)The licence shall be in Form J and shall be subject
to such terms, conditions and restrictions specified therein.(5)Where the
licensing authority is satisfied that having regard to the report of the
authorities referred to in sub-rule (2) and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, he may refuse to grant the licence under sub-section (1) of section
4:Provided that before refusing to grant the licence, licensing authority
shall give to the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

## Part V – Renewals

### 22. Renewal of licence.

(1)Every application for the renewal of the licence for exhibition of film on
Television screen through Video Cassette Recorder [or through Cable Television
Network] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the
11th November 1991.] and for Video Library shall be made one month before the
expiry of the period for which the licence was granted:[Provided that the
licensing authority may admit an application for renewal of the licence till
the last date of expiry of licence on payment of an additional fee of Rs. 250
(Rupees two hundred and fifty only).] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1628, Home
(Cinema-II) Department, dated the 25th October 1996.](2)Such application shall
be accompanied by -(i)a treasury receipt for the payment of a fee of rupees
[one thousand] [Substituted for 'rupees fifty' by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home
(Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.];(ii)evidence of having
insured the place of exhibition of the film on the Television screen through
the Video Cassette Recorder [or through Cable Television Network] [Inserted by
G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]
or the Video Library; and(iii)in the case of application for exhibition of
film on Television screen through Video Cassette Recorder, evidence from the
Commercial Tax Authorities that there is no tax due under the Tamil Nadu
Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939).[If the application is
not filed after the fee has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so
remitted may be refunded to the applicant. The application for such refund
shall, however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date of
remittance.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1649, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated
the 8th November 1993.](3)[ A copy of the application relating to the renewal
of licence for exhibition of film on Television screen through Video Cassette
Recorders and for Video Library shall be sent simultaneously to the Chief
Electrical Inspector and the Executive Engineer, Public Works Department.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th
November 1991.]

### 23. Inspection by Chief Electrical Inspector.

\- For every renewal of the electrical installation and fire precautionary
measures shall be inspected by the Chief Electrical Inspector or by an officer
deputed by him, who will certify that the installations continue to be
maintained in proper working conditions according to the rules.

### 24. Inspection by licensing authority.

\- On receipt of the Chief Electrical Inspector's certificate duly renewed,
the licensing authority or an officer authorised by him in this behalf shall
inspect and satisfy that all the rules are observed before the licence is
renewed.

### 25. Structural boundaries.

(1)For every renewal of certificate of structural soundness of the building,
the licensee shall at least one month prior to the date of expiry of the
period specified in that certificate of structural soundness, make an
application to the Executive Engineer.(2)On receipt of the application
referred to in sub-rule (1), the Executive Engineer or an officer deputed by
him, shall, after an inspection of the building, issue or refuse to issue such
certificate.(3)The provisions of rule relating to the issue of the certificate
of structural soundness shall apply mutatis mutandis to the renewal of such
certificate.(4)The proceedings of the Executive Engineer issuing or refusing
to issue the structural soundness certificate shall be sent to the licensing
authority with a copy to the applicant.

### 26. Grant of temporary licence.

(1)If on an application for the renewal of a licence made under rule 22, the
licensing authority does not, for any reason, before the date of expiry of the
licence, either renew and return the licence or refuse to renew the same, he
shall grant a temporary licence in Form K, provided that the Chief Electrical
Inspector's certificate continues to remain valid.(2)Such temporary permit
shall be subject to the conditions of the licence sought to be renewed and
shall be valid for a period of one month from the date of the grant thereof
and may be renewed by the licensing authority for further period of one month
at a time, provided that the temporary permit shall cease to be valid and
shall be surrendered to the licensing authority on the applicant receiving the
licence duly renewed or on his receiving an order refusing to renew the
licence:Provided that the temporary permit shall be surrendered to the
licensing authority on demand made at any time in that behalf.(3)No fees shall
be levied for the grant of such temporary permit.(4)The temporary permit
shall, during the period of its validity, be deemed to be a licence for the
purpose of these rules.(5)If the licensing authority is satisfied, either on a
reference made to it in this behalf or otherwise that the licensee, has,
without reasonable cause failed to comply with any of the provisions of this
[Act] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the
11th November 1991.] or any of the rules made thereunder or any of the terms
and conditions laid down in the licence or any of the restrictions imposed by
the licensing authority in writing, either in the licence or in a separate
order or direction subject to which the licence has been granted, then,
without prejudice to any other penalty to which the licensee may be liable
under this [Act] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B)
Department, dated the 11th November 1991.], the licensing authority may, after
giving the licensee an opportunity of showing cause, revoke or suspend the
licence.

### 27. [Transfer or Assignment of licence in Form G, Form J and Form P]
[Marginal heading was substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B)
Department, dated the 11th November 1991.].

\- When a licensee desires to transfer or assign his licence to some other
person, he shall together with the person to whom he desires to make the
transfer or assignment, make a joint application in writing to the licensing
authority setting forth the reasons for the proposed transfer or assignment
and giving the particulars required in Form L.

### 28. Transfer to legal heirs.

\- Where the licensee is dead, any of his legal heirs may, within a period of
six months from the date of the death of the licensee, make an application to
the licensing authority for the transfer of the licence in his name, giving
the particulars required in Form L.

### 29. Fee for transfer or assignment.

\- For the transfer or assignment of a licence, a fee shall be charged as
follows: -(a)When an application is made under rule 27 - [Rupees one thousand
only] [Substituted for 'rupees fifty only' by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home
(Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.].(b)When the application
is made under rule 28 - [Rupees five hundred only] [Substituted for 'rupees
twenty-five only' by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the
11th November 1991.].

### 30. Contents of application for transfer.

\- Every application for transfer or assignment of a licence shall be
accompanied by -(a)treasury receipt for the payment of fees at the rates
prescribed in rule 29.(b)the licence along with a copy of the instrument, if
any, proposed to be executed by the applicants in respect of the transfer or
assignment of the licence.Explanation. - In the case of an application made by
any of the legal heirs of the deceased licensee, the applicant shall send the
consent statement obtained from all the other legal heirs of the deceased
licensee for the transfer or assignment of the licence in his favour.

### 31. Display of application.

\- On receipt of the application, the licensing authority shall cause a notice
to be displayed in the notice board of the offices of the licensing authority
and the local authority concerned of the fact of receipt of the application
with such details as may be considered necessary and call for objections, if
any, from the public in regard to the request contained in the application.
All objections should be filed in writing before the licensing authority
within 15 days from the date of publication in the notice board. Any objection
filed after this period shall be summarily rejected.

### 32. Approval for transfer or assignment.

\- The licensing authority shall consider the status, antecedents and previous
experience of the parties to the application concerned and the objections of
the public, if any, make an order either approving or refusing to approve the
transfer or assignment of the licence. A copy of the order shall be
communicated to the applicant and the persons, if any, who have filed
objections before the licensing authority.

### 33. Endorsement in the licence.

\- If the licensing authority makes an order approving the transfer or
assignment of the licence, he shall make necessary entries in the licence and
return it to the person in whose favour the licence has been transferred or
assigned.

### 34. Refusal to transfer or assignment.

\- If the application raises doubts or suspicion of trafficking in licence or
involves transfer or assignment to a person, who in the opinion of the
licensing authority is not in any way qualified and eligible for the grant of
a new licence, the application shall be rejected.

### 35. Appeal against refusal to transfer or assignment.

\- Any person aggrieved by the decision of the licensing authority approving
or refusing to approve the transfer or assignment of a licence may appeal to
the Commissioner of Land Administration. The rules relating to appeal in
regard to grant or refusal of licence shall apply to such appeals.

### 36. Revision.

\- An application for revision shall lie to the Government against the order
of the Commissioner of Land Administration in such cases. The rules relating
to revision in regard to the grant or refusal of licence shall apply to such
application of licence for revision.

### 37. Application for transfer of no objection certificate to the legal
heirs.

(1)Where the holder of a no objection certificate dies, any of his legal heirs
may make an application in Form M to the licensing authority before the expiry
of the period of validity of no objection certificate for the transfer of the
no objection certificate.(2)Every application for transfer or assignment of no
objection certificate shall be accompanied by-(a)the no objection certificate
in original; and(b)in cases where an application is made by one or more of the
legal heirs of the deceased holder of no objection certificate, the
consent/statement obtained from all the other legal heirs for the transfer or
assignment of the no objection certificate in his or their favour.(3)Where one
of the joint holders of the no objection certificate dies, any of the legal
heirs of the deceased holder of the no objection certificate may make an
application in Form H to include his name as a joint holder of no objection
certificate in the place of deceased. If none of the legal heirs makes such
application, the no objection certificate issued in the joint names will be
deemed to have lapsed on the date of death of one of the holders of no
objection certificate and surviving holder of the no objection certificate
will have to make an application afresh for grant of no objection certificate
independently or jointly. Such application by the surviving holder shall be
disposed of according to the provisions made in these rules.(4)The provisions
of the rules relating to transfer or assignment of licence shall mutatis
mutandis apply to the transfer of no objection certificate.

### 38. Joint application.

(1)If the holder of a no objection certificate desires to transfer or assign
his no objection certificate to some other person or persons, he may, with the
person to whom he desires to transfer or assign his no objection certificate,
shall jointly make an application in writing in Form M to the licensing
authority which granted the no objection certificate, setting forth the
reasons for the proposed transfer or assignment before the period of expiry of
validity of the no objection certificate.(2)Every application for transfer or
assignment or no objection certificate shall be accompanied by -(a)the no
objection certificate in original; and(b)sworn affidavits by the no objection
certificate holder and the transferee or assignee to the effect that no
consideration in financial or any other terms has passed between them for the
transfer.(3)The provisions of the rules relating to transfer or assignment of
licence shall mutatis mutandis apply to the transfer of the no objection
certificate.

## Part VI – 39. Appellate authority.

\- The-Commissioner of Land Administration shall be the appellate authority to
which an appeal under section 13 against the order or decision of the
licensing authority shall be preferred. Such appeal shall be preferred within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the order or decision appealed
against:Provided that the appellate authority may admit an appeal preferred
within a period of two months after the expiry of the period of thirty days
aforesaid, if sufficient cause is shown for not preferring the appeal within
the prescribed period:Provided further that in computing the periods
aforesaid, the time taken for obtaining a certified copy of the order appealed
against shall be excluded.

### 40. Contents of appeal.

(1)An appeal preferred under rule 39 shall be submitted in duplicate in the
form of a memorandum setting forth concisely the grounds of objection, to the
order or decision which is the subject of appeal, and shall be accompanied by
the original or a certified copy of the order or decision appealed
against.(2)The appeal shall be signed by the appellant or by his authorised
agent and presented to the appellate authority in person or by agent at any
time during the office hours on any working day or sent by registered post
acknowledgement due. The authorisation of the agent to present appeals shall
be in writing and shall accompany the appeal unless the agent holds a power of
attorney.

### 41. Fees for appeal.

(1)A fee of rupees two hundred shall be paid in respect of each appeal and the
memorandum of appeal shall be accompanied by a treasury receipt for the amount
of the fee due on the appeal. No Court-fee stamp need be affixed to the
memorandum of appeal.(2)If an appeal is not filed after the fee has been
remitted into the treasury, the entire fee so remitted may be refunded to the
appellant. The application for such refund shall, however, be made by the
appellant within one month from the date of remittance.

## Part VII – Revision

### 42. Application for revision.

(1)Every application for revision under section 14 shall be preferred within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of the appellate
authority:Provided that the Government may admit an application for revision
preferred within a period of two months after the expiry of the period of
thirty days aforesaid, if sufficient cause is shown for not preferring the
application for revision within the prescribed period:Provided further that in
computing the periods aforesaid, the time taken for obtaining a certified copy
of the order of the appellate authority shall be excluded.(2)An application
for revision preferred under sub-rule (1) shall be submitted in duplicate in
the form of a memorandum setting forth concisely the grounds of objection to
the order which is the subject of revision and shall be accompanied by the
original or a certified copy of the order of the appellate authority.(3)The
application for revision shall be signed by the petitioner or by his
authorised agent and presented to the Government at any time during the office
hours on any working day or sent by registered post acknowledgement due. The
authorisation of the agent to present the application for revision shall be in
writing and' shall accompany the application for revision unless the agent
holds a power of attorney.(4)A fee of rupees two hundred shall be paid in
respect of each application for revision and the memorandum of application for
revision shall be accompanied by a treasury receipt for the amount of the fee
due on the application for revision. No Court-fee stamp need to be affixed to
the memorandum of application for revision.(5)If an application for revision
is not filed after the fee has been remitted into the treasury, the entire fee
so remitted may be refunded to the applicant. The application for such refund
shall, however, be made by the applicant within one month from the date of
remittance.

## Part VIII – Premises and Buildings

### 43. Level of buildings.

\- Every person who constructs, re-constructs or alters or adds to a building
shall comply with the following requirements:-The ground floor or the lowest
floor of the building shall be at such a level as will allow of the effectual
drainage of that floor. It shall, ordinarily, be not less than half a metre
above the ground or site level.

### 44. Requirements as to road frontage.

\- Every building where an exhibition of film on Television screen through
Video Cassette Recorder is carried on shall be provided with -(1)means for the
effectual drainage of storm water sullage and sewage from the premises and
sufficient and suitable sanitary conveniences for the use of the occupants of
the building.(2)a road frontage on the public through fare upon which the site
of such building abuts.(3)at least on three of its sides with an open space of
not less than 6.10 metres in width or of such greater width as may be required
by the licensing authority for parking the number of cars which would be
normally attracted and for the purpose of the free movement of persons and for
facilitating rescue operations in times of emergency:Provided that in the case
of a building where the licensee has provided adequate parking space for
vehicles either in the basement or ground floor over which the place of
exhibition is located or in the vicinity of the building acceptable to the
licensing authority, there shall be an open space of not less than 3.5 metres
on all sides of the building except on the rear side for the free movement of
persons and to facilitate rescue operations in times of emergency.

### 45. Requirements as to drainage and sanitary conveniences.

\- The licensee shall provide suitable means of drainage to the building and
also sanitary conveniences of such description and design as may be
recommended by the Executive Engineer, who has to issue the structural
soundness certificate of the building, for the exclusive use of each sex
separately and shall cause the same to be maintained in good order and
sanitary condition.

### 46. Fire resisting materials.

(1)The floor, roof, ceiling, private boxes, balconies, galleries, tiers,
partitions and every room, lobby, corridor and passage intended for the use of
the public shall be constructed of fire resisting materials.(2)No panelling of
walls with wood and other combustible materials for decorative and other
purposes in the building shall be permitted:Provided that in building in which
such panelling has already been effected, the combustible materials with which
the panelling has been effected shall be. treated with fire resistant paints.

### 47. Doors.

\- All outside doors for the use of the public shall be made to open outwards
and internal doors shall be so fitted as not to obstruct, when open, any
gangway, passage, stairway or landing, such doors when open should engage on
an automatic spring.

### 48. Ventilation.

\- The licensee shall provide sufficient and approved artificial means.of
ventilation whenever required by the licensing authority. Artificial means of
ventilation shall include provision of exhaust fans.

### 49. Electrical installation not to be altered without approval.

\- No addition to, or alteration of, any point of the electrical installation
within the premises shall be made without the prior sanction of the licensing
authority.

### 50. Compliance with instructions.

\- The Chief Electrical Inspector or any officer deputed by him inspecting an
installation shall, if he discovers any defect therein, issue written orders
to the owner or person in charge for the rectification of the defects and
prescribe reasonable time within such orders should be carried out.

## Part IX – Maintenance of Premises

### 51. The licensee shall cause.

(1)All windows and other means of ventilation in the building to be maintained
in good order.(2)Every part of such building or place to be maintained in
proper sanitary condition.(3)The walls of the buildings to be hot lime washed
at least once in every six months or to be painted once in every two years or
more often, if so prescribed.

### 52. Restriction on admission of persons.

(1)The licensing authority shall fix the actual number of persons to be
admitted to each class of accommodation provided in the place of exhibition.
The number shall be arrived at by calculating at the rate of 20 persons per 10
square metres of floor area, in respect of that portion of the premises which
is provided with chairs having backs and arms.(2)In calculating the floor area
under sub-rule-(1), the area of the entrances, the passages, gangways and the
stair cases shall be excluded and no part of the premises from which a person
can watch the exhibition of films shall be excluded.

### 53. Rate of admission to be fixed.

(1)The licensing. authority shall fix the actual rates of admission to
accommodation provided in the place of exhibition after taking into account
the proposals of the licensee, the amenities provided in the place of
exhibition, the prevailing rates of admission in similar places of exhibition
in similar localities within his jurisdiction and any other relevant
factor.(2)The rates prescribed for admission in the place of exhibition shall
be clearly indicated by means of a board or otherwise.(3)The licensing
authority may, on application by the licensee, alter the rates of admission if
there has been any change in the amenities provided either in that
accommodation or generally in the place of exhibition or for any other valid
reasons.

### 54. Revision by Commissioner of Land Administration.

\- The Commissioner of Land Administration may, either suo motu or on
application by the licensee, revise the order of the licensing authority under
rules 35(1) and 36(1) after giving the licensee an opportunity of being heard.

### 55. Seating accommodation.

\- The following provisions shall be observed in providing seating
accommodation: -(1)Chairs shall be battened together in complete lengths.(2)In
all cases, there shall be an intervening space of at least 35 centimetres
between the back of one seat and the front of the seat immediately behind
measured between perpendiculars.

### 56. Provision for electricity.

\- In the premises, sufficient number of approved electric lights fed from an
independent source or sources which are automatically switched on in case of
failure of main lighting shall be provided in the place of exhibition,
gangways, passages and exits.

### 57. Provision for fire-extinguishers.

(1)In the place of exhibition, sufficient number of portable fire-
extinguishers of soda acid type and of the ten litre size shall be installed
at an adequate height from the ground to the satisfaction of the licensing
authority. A record regarding the maintenance of portable extinguishers shall
be maintained.(2)The licensee shall -(i)once in every three months empty the
container of each portable fire-extinguisher provided in the licensed
premises, clean its nozzles and working parts, stir the liquids in it and top
it up, immediately record the date of having done so on a slip of paper and
paste the same on the outside of such container.(ii)once in every year
discharge each portable fire-extinguisher provided in the licensed premises
and re-charge it and' immediately record the date of such re-charge in durable
paint on the external surface of container of the fire-
extinguisher.(3)Sufficient number of buckets with water shall be provided in
the licensed promises. Buckets shall be painted in red with the word "FIRE"
printed on them in large block letters in local vernacular.Form AApplication
For No Objection Certificate[See rule 12(1)]

1. | Full name of the applicant. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Address of theapplicant.Village........Taluk........District........ |   
3. | Give details of your status. |   
4. |  (i) Have you been regularly paying taxes andother dues payable by you to the State Government ? |   
|  (ii) Are you in arrears in respect of any suchtax or dues ? |   
|  (iii) If so, is the matter under appeal orotherwise under consideration of the authorities ? |   
5. |  Have you any previous experience in the line ofexhibiting of film on Television Screen through Video CassetteRecorder ? If so, give full details. |   
6. |  Do you possess now orhave you ever possessed before any place licensed under the[Act] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]?If so, give full details of the places and theperiods. |   
7. |  Have you ever been convicted of an offence underclause (a) or clause (c) of section 14 of the Tamil NaduEntertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) ? If so,give full details. |   
8. |  Have you ever been allowed to compound any suchoffence under the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act ? If so, givefull details. |   
9. |  Details of the site for which you require thelicence, survey number or numbers, village, taluk and district. |   
10. |  Have you included all the survey numbers whichare required for a direct access to the public road ? |   
11. |  Do you own the site ? If so, attach documentsrelating to ownership along with true copies. |   
12. |  Have you taken the site on lease ? If so, attachthe lease deed with a true and also copies of the records toprove ownership of lessor. |   
13. |  Have you attached a site plan draw to scale ofnot less than 1 cm. to 15 metres covering an area upto 200 metresfrom the boundaries of proposed site showing - |   
|  (1) the position of the proposed premises inrelation to any adjacent premises and to the public through fareupon which the site on such premises abuts; |   
|  (2) thatched sheds, if any, in theneighbourhood; and |   
|  (3) nearby schools, etc., temples, etc.,exhibition of film on Television Screen through Video CassetteRecorder ? |   
14. |  (i) Is the site suitable for exhibition of filmon Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder ? |   
|  (ii) To your knowledge, has it ever beenlicensed before ? If so, give details. |   
15. |  Give the names, places and distance by publicroad of the proposed site to the nearest place of exhibition. |   
|  (1) Exhibition of film on Television Screenthrough Video Cassette Reorder. |   
| (2) School or College, etc. |   
| (3) Hospital. |   
| (4) Temple or other religious institutions. |   
16. |  Is your exhibition of film in Television Screenthrough Video Cassette Recorder likely to serve the needs of anyparticular locality, if so, how? |   
17. |  What are the other places licensed forexhibition of film in Television Screen through Video CassetteRecorder in the locality say for around 8 kilometres from thesite ? |   
18. |  What is the approximate population of thelocality say for around 8 kilometres from the site ? |   
19. |  Considering the number of places alreadylicensed in the locality is there any need for another exhibitionof film on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder ? |   
  
Date:Signature.Certified that all the above particulars are true to the best
of my knowledge and belief.Signature.Form BNotice Calling For Objections[See
rule 13 (3)]Whereas Thiru ........ son of ......... aged ......... residing at
(address) ........... has applied to me on..........for the grant of a no
objection certificate to exhibit film on Television Screen through Video
Cassette Recorder at a site measuring about...........(areas) and bearing
Survey number .......... of village, ............
taluk,..............district, belonging to him and in his possession belonging
to..............and taken by him on lease for a period of.......years
from........Notice is hereby given that any person having any objection to the
grant of a no objection certificate as aforesaid on the grounds of non-
compliance by the applicant with any of the provisions of the [Tamil Nadu
Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and
Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1984)]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th
November 1991.] or with any of the rules made thereunder should file his
objection in writing with the licensing authority within 15 days of the
publication of this notice.Any objection filed after this period shall be
liable to be summarily rejected.

Place: |  | (Signed)  
---|---|---  
Date: |  | Designation.  
|  | Licensing Authority.  
  
Note. - Where more than one person is the applicant, full details of all the
applicants may be given and the form may be suitably altered.Form CNo
Objection Certificate[See section 14(1)]Under rule 13 in Part II of the [Tamil
Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder
and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Rules, 1984] [Substituted by G. O.
Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.], the
Collector of .......... /Commissioner of Police, [Chennai] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil
Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] hereby grants the certificate that there is no
objection to Thiru..........son of ......... resident of .......... village,
............ taluk, ........ district exhibiting film on Television Screen
through Video Cassette Recorder in the land belonging to Thiru........The site
where the exhibition of film is to be located is specified below:(Please give
here the description of the site as in Form A)The no objection certificate is
valid for a period of one year from the date hereof and if within the period
the proposed exhibition is not put up, a fresh no objection certificate should
be applied for.The no objection certificate is also subject to the following
special conditions:
-................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................Dated
......... this ......... day of 20...................SealCollector of
/Commissioner of Police, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).].Note. - The no objection certificate shall cover not only the survey
number or survey numbers of the plot or plots on which the exhibition is
proposed to be located, but also the survey number or survey numbers of the
plot or plots which is proposed to be used as access.[form D] [Form 'D' was
substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 801, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 14th
July 1993.][See rule 17(2)]Government of Tamil Nadu Electricity Department
Office of the Chief Electrical Inspector, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).].Certificate No ....... dated. ...............Certificate of The
Electric Installation:Fire-Fighting Appliances and Fire Precautionary
MeasuresUnder rule 17 in Part IV of the Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on
Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorder and Cable Television Network
(Regulation) Rules, 1984, I certify that the electrical installation of the
place of exhibition known as.....................which Thiru .............. is
the managing proprietor and Thiru ............ is the person-in-charge at
............ on is in order.

### 2\. I also certify that the rules regarding the fire-fighting appliances
and fire precautionary measures in the licensed premises under rule 57 in Part
IX have been complied with.

### 3\. The certificate is valid for a period of from .......... to
............ but is liable to revocation within that period.

Signature of Officer.Form EPermission Under Section 7 of The [Tamil Nadu
Exhibition of Films on Television Screen Through Video Cassette Recorders and
Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No.
801, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 14th July 1993.][See rule
19]Permission under section 7 of the [Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on
Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and Cable Television
Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1984)] [Substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 801, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 14th July 1993.] read
with rule 12 of the [Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen
through Video Cassette Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation)
Rules, 1984] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 801, Home (Cinema-II) Department,
dated the 14th July 1993.] is hereby granted in favour of ........... * to use
any place for the exhibition of film on Television screen through Video
Cassette Recorder to use any site for constructing building thereon for the
exhibition of film on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders to
construct or reconstruct any building for such exhibition of film to install
any machinery in any place where such exhibition of films are proposed to be
given:Subject to the terms and conditions specified
below:**......................................................................................................................................................................................Licensing
Authority.Strike out which is not necessary*Here enter the name of the
person.**Here enter the terms and conditions.Form FApplication For Licence For
Exhibition of Video Film[See rule 20(1)]

1 | Full name of the applicant.  
---|---  
2 |  Address of theapplicant.Village..............Taluk..........District..........  
3 | Give details of your status.  
4 |  (i) Have you been regularly paying taxes andother dues payable by you to the State Government ?  
|  (ii) Are you in arrears in respect of any suchtax or dues ?  
|  (iii) If so, is the matter under appeal orotherwise under consideration of
the authorities ?  
5 |  Have you previous experience in the line ofgiving exhibition of films on Television Screen through VideoCassette Recorders ? If so, give full details.  
6 |  Do you possess now or have you ever possessedbefore any place licensed under the[Tamil Nadu Exhibition ofFilms on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders andCable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]? If so, givefull details of the place and the periods.  
7 |  Details of the building for which you requirethe licence, survey number or numbers, village, taluk, district.  
8 |  Have you included all the survey numbers whichare required for a direct access of the public road ?  
9 |  Do you own the building ? If so, attachdocuments relating to ownership along with true copies.  
10 |  Have you taken the building on lease ? If so,attach the lease deed with a true and also copies of the recordsto prove ownership of lessor.  
11 |  If your Video Cassette Recorder likely to servethe needs of any particular locality ? If so, how ?  
12 |  What are the other places licensed for keepingVideo Cassette Recorder in the locality, say for, around 8kilometres from the site ?  
13 |  What is the approximate population of thelocality, say for, around 8 kilometres from the site ?  
14 |  Considering the number of places alreadylicensed in the locality, is there any need for another VideoCassette Recorder Licence ?  
  
Signature.Certified that all the above particulars are true to the best of my
knowledge and belief.Signature.Form GLicence For Exhibition of Films on
Television Screen Through Video Cassette Recorders[See rule 20(3)]

Name and address of licensee. |   
---|---  
If the licensee is not the owner of the place ofbuilding, the name and address of the owner thereof. |   
Situation of the place of building. |   
Area of the place or building in square metres. |   
Whether the place or building is to be usedduring the day or during the night or both. |   
Date of last inspection by the Chief ElectricalInspector or officer authorised by him. |   
Special condition, if any, on which the licenceis granted. - |   
Period for which the licence is to be in force. |   
Fees paid:(Actual) number ofpersons permitted in each part of the auditorium:In the First ClassInthe............................PersonsInthe............................PersonsInthe............................PersonsInthe............................PersonsInthe............................PersonsTotal |   
  
Details of Punishments

Number and date of Proceeding of the LicensingAuthority | Offence committed | Nature of punishment  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
Conditions of LicenceThis licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
[Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 1984)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department,
dated the 11th November 1991.] and the rules made thereunder. It is also
subject to the following conditions. The terms and conditions of the licence,
as inserted, may be modified or added to at any time during the currency of
the licence: -

### 1\. This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants or agent
from taking out any other licence required by or otherwise complying with any
other law or rule, by-law made thereunder.

### 2\. (a) The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited any film
other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition
by the authority constituted under section 4 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952,
and which when exhibited displays the prescribed mark of that authority, and
has not been altered or tampered with in any way since such mark was affixed
thereto.

(b)The licensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited in the place in
respect of which this licence is given to any person who is not an adult any
film which has been certified by an authority constituted under section 4 of
the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVI of 1952) as suitable for public
exhibition restricted to adults.Explanation. - This condition shall not be
construed as prohibiting the exhibition of a film, in respect of which an "A"
certificate has been granted to children in arms below the age of three.(c)The
licensee shall not display or cause to be displayed, any photograph, picture
or poster which depicts or represents or purports to represent a scene, or
shot which has been excised from any film under the orders of the Central
Board of Film Censors or the Central Government.(d)There shall be prominently
exhibited at each public entrance whenever the premises are open to the
public, a notice indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and
figures -(i)the title of each film to be shown on that day, other than
trailers and advertisement film;(ii)the approximate times of commencement and
closing of each such films as indicated below: -

Morning show | Matinee show | First show | Second show  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
Show begins at | ............ | ............ | ............  
Duration in minutes | ............ | ............ | ............  
Advertisement shorts | ............ | ............ | ............  
Documentary Newsreel | ............ | ............ | ............  
Main feature | ............ | ............ | ............  
Interval | ............ | ............ | ............  
Trailers | ............ | ............ | ............  
Total Duration | ............ | ............ | ............  
Show ends at approximately | ............ | ............ | ............  
  
(iii)whether each such film has received an "A" or "U" certificate from the
Central Board of Film Censors; and(iv)whether persons below the age of 18
years, other than children below the age of three years will be admitted or
not.(e)The nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the
Central Board of Film Censors, shall clearly be indicated by the letter "U" or
"A" in any advertisement of the film displayed at the premises.(f)The licensee
shall put up at his cost at prominent places on the premises advertisement
boards indicating the penal provisions in the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax
Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939), in respect of a person found in the
theatre without a ticket or pass.

### 2\. (i) External loud speakers in any exhibition of film as a source of
attraction shall be prohibited.

(ii)The sound inside the theatre shall be kept at the optimum level that is
really necessary for comfortable hearing and shall not be too loud or noisy.

### 3\. The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement slides relating to sexual
diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorders or purporting to assist the
childless in begetting children.

### 4\. The licensee shall not permit obscene or objectionable posters or
pictorial publicity material to be displayed in the licensed premises.

### 5\. The grant of this licence is subject to any orders that may be passed
by the State Government under section 8 of the Act.

### 6\. The actual rates of payment for admission to the different classes in
the licensed premises shall be as indicated below and these rates shall not be
altered during currency of this licence without an order in writing by the
licensing authority permitting such increase.

Class of accommodation | Actual rates of admission  
---|---  
I Class | ........  
........ | ........  
........ | ........  
  
### 7\. The licensing authority and any subordinate duly authorised by him in
that behalf and any police officer deputed to keep order during any
entertainment in the licensed premises shall, at all times, have free access
to the said premises in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are
fulfilled.

### 8\. The licensee shall comply with such directions as the State Government
may, by general or special order, given as to the manner in which approved
films shall be exhibited in the course of any performance.

### 9\. The licensee shall also comply with such directions as the licensing
authority may give in regard to the exhibition of slides in each performance.

### 10\. No firework shall be used as an adjunct to a place of exhibition.

### 11\. The licensee shall not, without the permission of the licensing
authority, assign, sub-let or otherwise transfer the licence or the licensed
premises; nor shall the licensee without permission as aforesaid allow any
other person during the period of currency of the licence, to exhibit films in
the licensed premises.

### 12\. The licensed premises shall not be kept open before..............or
after...........on any day without obtaining special permission, in writing,
from the licensing authority in respect of such day. The hour fixed by the
licensing authority with due regard to local conditions (but not earlier than
12 midnight and not later than 1.30 a.m.) should be entered.

### 13\. The licensee shall conduct not more than four shows, within the
maximum permitted exhibition time in a day:

Provided that on local festival days or public holidays, one special show per
day over and above the four shows, may be permitted by the licensing authority
subject to the condition that for conducting a special show on public holidays
and Sundays, the licensee shall intimate the licensing authority in advance
and in respect of conducting a special show on local festival days, the
licensee shall obtain prior permission of the licensing authority.

### 14\. The licensee shall ensure that no dispute arising out of ownership or
possession of the site, building or equipment is likely to cause any breach of
the -peace at any time.

### 15\. The licensee shall provide a suitable cycle stand for the cycles that
may reasonably be expected to be brought and arrange for taking care of them.
He shall also make necessary arrangements to look after the cars, scooters and
motor cycles which are brought to the licensed premises.

### 16\. The licensee shall not use the licensed premises for any purpose
other than that for which it has been licensed under the [Tamil Nadu
Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and
Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1984)]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, the dated 11th
November 1991.], and the rules made thereunder, which may on merits accord
such permission for individual performance and the proceeds thereof are to be
devoted solely to philanthropic, religious, charitable, social, political or
literary purposes.

### 17\. The licensee shall, in respect of each film in his possession,
produce when demanded by any police officer not below the rank of a Sub-
Inspector or a Tahsildar of the Revenue Department, a letter of consent from
the person who is the first owner of the copyright of the cinematograph film
under section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (Central Act XIV of 1957) and in
each such copyright has been assigned under section 18 of the said Act, from
the assignee of such copyright.

### 18\. This licence shall be subject to cancellation or suspension for the
breach of any of these conditions or of the special conditions specified on
the reverse.

Dated this the .......... day of .........Signature and seal of
Commissioner/Collector.Form HApplication for Licence for Keeping Video
Library[See rule 21(1)]

1. | Full name of the applicant.  
---|---  
2. |  Address of theapplicant.Village: Taluk: District: Taluk: District:  
3. | Give details of your status.  
4. |  (i) Have you been regularly paying taxes andother dues payable by you to the State Government ?  
|  (ii) Are you in arrears in respect of such taxor dues ?  
|  (iii) If so, is the matter under appeal orotherwise under consideration of
the authorities.  
5. |  Have you any previous experience in the line ofkeeping a Video Library ? If so, give full details.  
6. |  Do you possess now or have you ever possessedbefore any place licensed under the Tamil Nadu Exhibition ofFilms on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders andCable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7of 1984) ? If so, give full details of the places and theperiods.  
7. |  Details of the building for which you requirethe licence, survey number or numbers, village, taluk, district.  
8. |  Have you included all the survey numbers whichare required for a direct access to the public road ?  
9. |  Do you own the building ? If so, attachdocuments relating to ownership along with true copies.  
10. |  Have you taken the building on lease ? If so,attach the lease deed with a true and also copies of the recordsto prove ownership of lessor.  
11. |  Is your Video Library likely to serve the needsof any particular locality ? If so, how ?  
12. |  What are the other places licensed for keepingVideo Library in the locality, say for, around 8 kilometres from? the site ?  
13. |  What is the approximate population of thelocality, say for, around 8 kilometres from the site ?  
14. |  Considering the number of places alreadylicensed in the locality is there any need for another VideoLibrary ?  
  
Signature.  
---  
Certified that all the above particulars are true to the bestof my knowledge
and belief.  
Signature.  
  
Form JLicence for Keeping A Video Library[See rule 21(4)]

1. | Name and address of licensee. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  If the licensee is not the owner of the place ofbuilding, the name and address of the owner thereof. |   
3. | Situation of the place or building. |   
4. | Area of the place or building in square metres. |   
5. |  Materials of which the roof, side walls, galleryand staircase are made. |   
6. |  Whether the place or building is to be usedduring the day or during the night or both. |   
7. | Period for which the licence is to be in force. |   
  
Conditions of LicenceThis licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
[Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 1984)] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department,
dated the 11th November 1991.] and the rules made thereunder. It is also
subject to the following conditions. The terms and conditions of the licence,
as inserted, may be modified or added to at any time during the currency of
the licence: -(1)This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants or
agents from taking out any other licence required by or otherwise complying
with any other law or rules or by-law made thereunder.(2)The licensing
authority and any subordinate duly authorised by him in that behalf and any
police officer deputed to keep order shall, at all times, have free access to
the said premises in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are
fulfilled.(3)The licensee shall, in respect of each film in his possession,
produce when demanded by any police officer not below the rank of a Sub-
Inspector or a Tahsildar of the Revenue Department a letter of consent from
the person who is the first owner of the copyright of the cinematograph film,
under section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (Central Act XIV of 1957) and in
case such copy right has been assigned under section 18 of the said Act, from
the assignee of such copyright.(4)The licensee shall not possess any film
other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition
by the authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952
(Central Act XXXVI of 1952),and which, when exhibited displays the prescribed
mark of that authority and has not been altered or tampered with in any way
since such mark was affixed thereto.Dated the .......... day of...........Seal
of the Commissionerof Police/Collector.[Form K] [Form K was substituted by G.
O. Ms. No. 935, Home (Cinema-II) Department, dated the 26th June
1993.]Temporary Licence For Exhibition of Films on Television Screen Through
Video Cassette Recorders and Cable Television Network and To Keep Video
Library[See rule 26]Whereas.............(full name and address) has applied
for renewal of his licence and the said licence has been retained in my office
pending disposal of his application. He is hereby permitted temporarily to
exhibit films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders/Cable
Television Network and to keep Video Library under the Tamil Nadu Exhibition
of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders and Cable
Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1984) for a
period of one month from the date ........ subject to the provisions of rule
48 in Para V of the Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen
through Video Cassette Recorders and Cable Television Network (Regulation)
Rules, 1984.Dated the day of.........Seal of the Commissioner of
Police/Collector.Form LApplication For Transfer or Assignment of Licence in
[Form G, Form J and Form P] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-
II) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.][See rules 27 and 28]Section
ILicenseePerson to whom the licence is to be transferred or assigned:

1. | Full name of the applicant. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Address of theapplicant.Village: Taluk: District: |   
3. | Age. |   
4. |  (a) Status, antecedents and previous experienceof the applicant.Note. - The applicant should furnish herein,among other things, particulars of taxes or other dues toGovernment and whether in respect of any assessment for tax, thematter is under consideration with the authorities of theGovernment. |   
|  (b) Whether the applicants have not beenconvicted of an offence under clause (a) or clause (c) of section14 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu ActX of 1939), and if so, particulars of such conviction. |   
5. | Period of validity of the licence. |   
6. |  Is the application for transfer or assignment inrespect of the place of exhibition ? |   
7. |  Is the application for transfer or assignment ofthe licence ? (Here give details of the period for which thelicence is proposed to be transferred or assigned theconsideration fixed for the transaction, etc.) |   
8. |  What are the reasons for the proposed transferor assignment of the licence ? |   
  
Signature of the applicant.Section II

1. | Full name of applicant. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Address of theapplicant:Village: Taluk: District: |   
3. | Age of the applicant. |   
4. |  (a) Status,antecedents and previous experience of the applicant.Note. - The applicant should furnish herein,among other things, particulars of taxes or other dues toGovernment and whether in respect of any assessment for tax, thematter is under consideration with the authorities of theGovernment. |   
|  (b) Whether the applicants have not beenconvicted of an offence under clause (a) or clause (c) of section14 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu ActX of 1939), and if so, particulars of such conviction. |   
5. | (a) Name of the deceased licensee. |   
| (b) Date on which the licensee died. |   
6. |  (a) Particulars about all the legal heirs to thelicensee. |   
| Name of legal heirs: |   
| Age: |   
| Relationship to licensee: |   
|  (b) On what basis the applicant claims to belegal heirs of the licensee ? |   
7. |  Is the application for transfer in respect ofthe place of exhibition ? |   
8. | Period of validity of the licence. |   
9. |  Has the applicant obtained the consent of allother legal heirs, in writing, for the transfer of the licence inhis/her name ? (Consent statement to be attached.) |   
  
Signature of applicant (s).Form MApplication For Transfer or Assignment of No
Objection Certificate[See rules 37 and 38]

1. | Full name(s) of the applicant(s). |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Address(es) of theapplicant(s).Village: Taluk: District: |   
3. | Age of the applicant (s). |   
4 |  The nexus between the no objection certificateholder (s) and the applicant (s). |   
5. |  Reasons for the applicant(s) choice by the noobjection certificate holder. |   
|  (a) Details ofstatus, antecedents and previous experience, if any, of theapplicant (s).Explanation. - Theapplicant (s) should furnish herein, among other things,particulars of taxes and other dues to Government and whether inrespect of any assessment for tax the matter is underconsideration with the authorities of Government.(b) Whether theapplicant/any of the applicants been convicted or compounded forany offence under clause (a) or clause (b) (i) of sub-section (1)of section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Entertainments Tax Act, 1939(Tamil Nadu Act X of 1939) and, if so, particulars of suchconviction / compounding.(c) If died, the date on which the holder/jointholder of the no objection certificate died. |   
6. |  (a) Particulars aboutall the legal heirs to the deceased holder of the no objectioncertificate.Name of heirs:Age:Relationship to thedeceased holder of no objection certificate:(b) On what basis the applicant (s) claim (s) tobe legal heir (s) of the deceased holder/joint holder of the noobjection certificate ? |   
7. |  Whether the application is for transfer orinclusion of another person in the capacity of a joint holder ofthe no objection certificate in respect of a place of exhibition. |   
8. |  Number and date of proceedings of the licensingauthority granting the no objection certificate and the period ofvalidity of the no objection certificate: |   
9. |  Has/Have the applicant(s) obtained the consentof all other legal heirs in writing for the transfer of the noobjection certificate in his/her name ? (Consent statement to beattached.) |   
  
Signature of applicant (s)Enclosure:(1)Original no objection
certificate.(2)Sworn affidavits as prescribed in rule 60(2)(b).Form NForm of
Letter of Consent[See rule 20(5)1I..........son of.......company/firm being
the first owner of the copyright of cinematograph film under section 17 of
[the Copyright Act, 1957 (Central Act XIV of 1957)] [Substituted by G. O. Ms.
No. 1982, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.] assigns,
claiming through the first copyright owner of the cinematograph film do hereby
give the consent for the exhibition of a film titled as* .......... in Video
Cassette tape for exhibiting it on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorder [and Cable Television Network] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 1982, Home
(Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.] for keeping of such film
in the Video Library.Signature of the owner/Assignee of copyright.*Here enter
the name of Cinematograph Film.[Form O] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1982, Home
(Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]Application For Licence
For Exhibition of Film Through Cable Television Network[See rule 20-A(l)]

1. | Full name of the applicant. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  Address of theapplicant.Village: Taluk: District: |   
3. | Give details of your status. |   
4. |  (i) Have you beenregularly paying taxes and other dues payable by you to the StateGovernment ?(ii) Are you inarrears in respect of any such tax or dues ?(iii) If so, is the matter under appeal orotherwise under consideration of the authorities ? |   
5. |  Have you any previous experience in the line ofoperation of Cable Television Network ? If so, give full details. |   
6. |  Do you possess now or have you ever possessedbefore, any place licensed under the[Tamil Nadu Exhibition ofFilms on Television Screen through Video Cassette Recorders andCable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 7of 1984) ? If so, give full details of the place and periods.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1682, Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.] |   
7. |  Details of the building for which you requirethe licence, survey number or numbers, village, taluk, district. |   
8. |  Have you included all the survey numbers whichare required for a direct access to the public road ? |   
9. |  Do you own the building ? If so, attachdocuments relating to ownership along with true copies. |   
10. |  Have you taken the building on lease ? If so,attach the lease deed with a true copy and also copies of therecords to prove ownership of lessor. |   
11. |  Number of connections to be given throughcables. |   
12. |  Is your Cable Television Network likely to servethe needs of any particular locality ? If so, how ? |   
13. |  What are the other places licensed for operationof Cable Television Network in the locality, say for around 8kilometres from the site ? |   
14. |  What is the approximate population of thelocality, say for, around 8 kilometres from the site ? |   
15. |  Considering the number of places alreadylicensed in the locality, is there any need for another CableTelevision Network? |   
  
Date:Signature.Certified that all the above particulars are true to the best
of my knowledge and belief.Signature.[Form P] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 1682,
Home (Cinema-B) Department, dated the 11th November 1991.]Licence For
Exhibition of Film Through Cable Television Network[See rule 20-A(4)]

1. | Name and address of licensee. |   
---|---|---  
2. |  If the licensee is not the owner of the place orbuilding, the name and address of the owner. |   
3. | Situation of the place or building. |   
4 | Area of the place or building in square metres. |   
5. |  Materials of which the roof, side walls, galleryand staircase are made. |   
6. |  Whether the place or building is to be usedduring the day or during the night or both. |   
7. |  Number of connections to be given throughcables. |   
8. | Period for which the licence is to be in force. |   
  
Conditions of LicenceThe licence is granted subject to the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through Video Cassette
Recorders and Cable Television Net Work (Regulation) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
7 of 1984) and the rules made thereunder. It is also subject to the following
conditions. The terms and conditions of the licence, as inserted, may be
modified or added to, at any time during the currency of the licence: -(1)This
licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants or agents from taking out
any other licence required by or otherwise complying with any other law or
rules or by-law made thereunder.(2)The licensing authority or any subordinate
duly authorised by him in that behalf or any police officer deputed to keep
order shall, at all times, have free access to the said premises in order to
see whether the conditions of the licence are fulfilled.(3)The licensee shall,
in respect of each film in his possession, produce when demanded by any police
officer not below the rank of an Inspector or a Tahsildar of the Revenue
Department, a letter of consent from the person who is the first owner of the
copyright of the cinematograph film under section 17 of the Copyright Act,
1957 (Central Act XIV of 1957) and in case such copyright has been assigned
under section 18 of the said Act, from the assignee of such copyright.(4)The
licensee shall not possess any film other than a film which has been certified
as suitable for public exhibition by the authority constituted under section 3
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952) and which when
exhibited displays the prescribed mark of that authority and has not been
altered or tampered with in any way since such mark was affixed thereto.(5)No
obscene, pornographic scenes shall be exhibited.(6)Number of connections to be
given through cables shall be restricted to [five hundred] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. No.646, Home (Cinema II) department, dated the 6th May 1992.] from
the place of operation from where connections are being
originated.(7)Underground cable connections shall be prohibited.(8)The licence
shall be subject to cancellation or suspension for the breach of any of these
conditions and restrictions or of the special conditions specified on the
reverse.(9)The licensee shall maintain a list of films shown in the preceding
month.Dated this ............. day of.................SealCommissioner of
Police/Collector.

