## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Right of Children to free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Right of Children to free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-RIGHT-OF-CHILDREN-TO-FREE-AND-COMPULSORY-EDUCATION-
RULES-2011 of 2011

  * Published on 8 November 2011 
  * Commenced on 8 November 2011 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 November 2011.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Right of Children to free and Compulsory Education Rules,
2011Published vide Notification No. G.O.(Ms) No. 173, dated 08.11.2011,
G.O.(Ms.) No. 120, School Education Department, dated 24.04.2010, School
Education (C2) DepartmentThe Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education Act, 2009 (Central Act 35 of 2009) has come into effect from 1st
April 2010. The Act provides for Free and Compulsory Education to all children
including disabled children of the age of 6 to 14 years. Every child of the
age of 6 to 14 years shall have a right to free and compulsory admission,
attendance and completion of education in a neighbourhood school. The Act
outlines the various duties and responsibilities of the appropriate
Government, Local Bodies, Schools and Parents. Section 38 of the said Act
provides that the appropriate Government may by notification make rules for
carrying out the provisions of the said Act.

### 2. The draft guidelines have been prepared by the School Education
Department on the lines of the model guidelines issued by Ministry of Human
Resource Development, Government of India. The same has been approved by the
Government. It is requested to publish the appended notification in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazettee at the earliest.

From the Additional Secretary, Government of India, Ministry of Human Resource
Development, New Delhi D.O.No.l-8/09-EE-4, Dated: 7.6.2010 and 21.12.2010.From
the Chairman, Advisory Committee on Free and Compulsory Education Act,
Chennai-6, Letter dated: 03.11.2010,01.03.2011, 17.03.2011 and 19.04.2011%In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 38 of the Right
of Children to Free mid Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Central Act 35
of2009), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-Part-I
Preliminary

### 1. Short title.

\- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Right of Children to Free and
Compulsory Education Rules, 2011.

### 2\. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Central Act 35
of 2009);(b)"Anganwadi" means an Anganwadi Centre established under the Social
Welfare Department, Government of Tamil Nadu;(c)"appointed date" means the
date on which the Rules come into force as notified in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette;(d)"Assistant Elementary Education Officer" means an
officer in charge of elementary education in all schools having classes I to V
and I to VIII in Block level;(e)"District Education Officer" means an officer
in charge of secondary education in all schools having classes VI to X and VI
to XII;(f)"Form" means a form appended to these rules;(g)"Head Teacher"
includes the Headmaster, Headmistress and Principal of the school;(h)"Pupil
Cumulative Record" means the record of the progress of the child based on
comprehensive and continuous evaluation;(i)"School mapping" means assessment
of the availability of schooling facilities for elementary education based on
norms and standards specified in the Schedule to the Act in terms of location,
infrastructure, teachers and distance matrix between schools and habitations
and includes planning, school location for the purpose of section 6 of the Act
to overcome social, developmental and geographical barriers and geographical
distance. It also includes maps of all the schools in the State using new and
emerging technologies including Geographic Information System, prepared by the
authorised agencies.(j)"Schedule" means the Schedule to the Act.(2)All other
words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall
have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

## Part II – Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education

### 3. Special training.

(1)The School Management Committee of the school shall identify the children
requiring special training and organize such training in the following
manner:-(a)The special training shall be based on specially designed, age
appropriate learning material, approved by the academic authority specified in
sub-section (1) of section 29.(b)It shall be provided in classes held in the
premises of the school, or through classes organized in places identified by
the Head Teacher.(c)It shall be provided by teachers working in the school, or
by teachers specially appointed for the purpose.(d)The duration shall be for a
minimum period of three months which may be extended, based on periodical
assessment of learning progress, for a maximum period not exceeding two
years.(2)The child shall, upon admission in a class appropriate to his age
after special training, continue to receive special attention by the teacher
to enable him to successfully integrate with the rest of the class,
academically and emotionally.(3)In case the child is admitted in an age
appropriate class in an unaided school, the management of the school shall
provide the special training to the child so admitted.

## Part III – Duties of State Government, Local Authority

### 4. Area or limits of neighbourhood.

(1)The area or limits of neighbourhood within which a school shall be
established by the State Government is,-(a)a distance of one kilometre in
respect of children in classes I to V;(b)a distance of three kilometres in
respect of children in classes VI to VIII:Provided that where it is not
possible to establish a school within such area or limits, the State
Government or the local authority shall make adequate arrangements, such as
free transportation and residential facilities, for providing elementary
education to the children in that area:Provided further that in places with
high population density, the State Government shall establish more than one
school having regard to the number of children in the age group of 6-14 years
in such places based on the child census conducted by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan or
the local authority.Wherever required, the State Government or the local
authority shall upgrade existing schools with classes I to V to include
classes from VI to VIII.In places with difficult terrain, risk of landslides,
floods, or lack of proper roads and approach from their homes to the school,
the State Government or the local authority shall locate its school in such
manner as to avoid such dangers, by reducing the area or limits specified
under sub-rule (1).(2)For children from small hamlets, as identified by the
State Government or the local authority, where no school exists within the
area or limits of neighbourhood specified under sub-rule (1), the State
Government or the local authority shall make adequate arrangement such as free
transportation and residential facilities for providing elementary education
in a school, in relaxation of the area or limits specified in sub-rule (1).The
local authority, in consultation with the Assistant Elementary Education
Officer or the District Education Officer concerned, shall identify the
neighbourhood school where children can be admitted and make such information
public through the notice board of the local authority and office of the
Education Officer concerned. The basis of the identification of the
neighbourhood school shall be the school mapping carried out by the State
Government or the local authority under sub-rule (2) of rule 5.In respect of
children with disability, which prevents them from accessing the school, the
State Government or the local authority shall make appropriate and safe
transportation arrangements to enable them to attend school and complete
elementary education.(3)The State Government or the local authority shall
ensure that access of children to the school is not hindered on account of
social and cultural factors.

### 5. Free text books and uniforms.

(1)A child attending a school of the State Government or local authority
referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (n) of section 2, a child attending a
school referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (n) of section 2 in pursuance
of clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 12, and a child attending a school
referred to in sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 in pursuance of
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12 shall be entitled to free
textbooks, writing materials and uniforms:Provided that a child with
disability shall also be provided free special learning and support
material.For the purpose of determining and for establishing neighbourhood
schools, the State Government or the local authority shall undertake school
mapping, and also identify all children, including children in remote areas,
children with disabilities, children belonging to disadvantaged group,
children belonging to weaker section and children referred to in section 4.The
State Government or the local authority shall ensure that no child is
subjected to caste, class, religious or gender abuse in the school.For the
purpose of clause (c) of section 8 and clause (c) of section 9, the State
Government and the local authority shall ensure that a child belonging to
weaker section or a child belonging to disadvantaged group is not segregated
or discriminated against, in the classroom, during midday meals, in the play
grounds and in the use of common drinking water and toilet facilities.

### 6. Submission of proposals by the State Government to Central Government
for financial assistance.

\- The State Government shall prepare annual estimates of capital and
recurring expenditure for the implementation of the provisions of the Act
based on the existing level and standard of its education system and forward
Stale specific proposals to the Central Government for obtaining as grants-in-
aid of revenues, referred to in sub-section (3) of section 7.

### 7. Maintenance of records of children by Local Authority.

(1)Every local authority shall maintain a record of all children in its
jurisdiction, through a household survey from their birth till they attain the
age of 14 years and of children with disabilities till they attain the age of
18 years and shall maintain such other particulars in respect of each child so
as to monitor his enrolment, attendance, learning achievement and transition
to next higher classes.The record, referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be
updated annually.The record referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be maintained
transparently and kept in a manner accessible to the general public.(4)The
record referred to in sub-rule (1) shall in respect of every child
include,-(a)name, sex, date of birth, place of birth;(b)name, address,
occupation of parent or guardian;(c)school or anganwadi centre that the child
attends;(d)present address of the child;(e)class in which the child is
studying and if education is discontinued the cause for such
discontinuance;(f)whether the child belongs to weaker section;(g)whether the
child belongs to disadvantaged group;(h)whether the child requires special
facilities or residential facilities on account of (i) migration and sparse
population; (ii) age appropriate admission; and (iii) disability.

## Part IV – Responsibilities of Schools and Teachers

### 8. Admission of children belonging to weaker section and disadvantaged
group.

(1)The school referred to in sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall
ensure that children admitted in pursuance of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of
section 12 shall not be segregated from the other children in the classrooms
nor shall their classes be held at places and timings different from the
classes held for other children.(2)The school referred to in sub-clause (iv)
of clause (n) of section 2 shall ensure that children admitted in pursuance of
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12 shall not be discriminated from
the rest of the children in any manner pertaining to entitlements and
facilities such as textbooks, uniforms, library and Information, Communication
and Technology facilities, extra-curricular and sports.(3)The areas or limits
of neighbourhood specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 4 shall apply to admissions
made in pursuance of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12:Provided that
the school may, for the purpose of filling up the requisite percentage of
seats for children referred to in clause (c) of subsection (1) of section 12
extend these areas or limits with the prior approval of the State Government.

### 9. Reimbursement of per-child expenditure by the State Government for the
purpose of sub-section (2) of section 12.

(1)The per-child expenditure shall be the expenditure incurred by the State
Government for a child in the Government School or the fee fixed by the
Committee constituted under the Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection
of Fee) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2009) in respect of the school where
the child is admitted whichever is less.(2)(a)The school specified in sub-
clause (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall, in the month of July, submit to
the local authority, a list of students admitted in the school, who are
provided free and compulsory elementary education for reimbursement of per-
child expenditure by the State Government.(b)If any child leaves or absents
himself for a period exceeding thirty days or leaves the school in the middle
of the academic year, the same has to be intimated to the local authority and
claim has to be made accordingly.(3)The local authority shall sanction the
reimbursement amount for each academic year in two installments, namely in the
months of September 3nd March after verifying or cause to be verified the
enrollment of those students in the school.(4)Every school referred to in sub-
clause (iv) of clause (n) of section 2 shall maintain a separate bank account
in respect of the amount received by it as reimbursement under sub-section (2)
of section 12.(5)Subject to the provisions contained in the proviso to clause
(a) of section 8 and clause (a) of section 9, the reimbursement shall be made
through electronic clearance system in the separate bank account maintained by
the school for the purpose.

### 10. Documents as proof of age for admission.

\- In cases where the parent or guardian of the child is unable to produce the
birth certificate of the child issued under the Births, Deaths and Marriages
Act, 1886 (Central Act VI of 1886), any one of the following documents shall
be deemed to be proof of age of the child for the purpose of admission in a
school:-(a)Hospital or Auxiliary Nurse and Midwife (ANM) register
record;(b)Anganwadi record;(c)Declaration of the age of the child by the
parent or guardian.

### 11. Extended period for admission.

(1)The extended period for admission in a school shall be six months from the
date of commencement of the academic year.(2)Where a child is admitted in a
school after the extended period, he shall be eligible to complete studies
with the help of prescribed training, as determined by the State Government.

### 12. Recognition to school.

(1)Every school, other than a school specified in sub-clauses (i) and (iii) of
clause (n) of section 2 established before the commencement of the Act shall
make a self declaration within a period of six months from the date of coming
into force of these rules, in Form I to the competent authority, as specified
below, regarding its compliance or otherwise with the norms and standards
prescribed in the Schedule and fulfillment of the following conditions,
namely:-(a)the school is rim by a society registered under the Tamil Nadu
Societies Registration Act,1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975) or a public trust
constituted under any law for the time being in force;(b)the school is not run
for profit by any individual, group or association of individuals or any other
persons;(c)the school conforms to the values enshrined in the
Constitution;(d)the school buildings or other structures or the lands are used
only for the purpose of education and skill development;(e)the school is open
to inspection by any officer authorised by the State Government or the
competent authority;(f)the school furnishes such reports and such information
as may be required by the local authority from time to time and complies with
such instructions of the State Government or the local authority as may be
issued to secure the continued fulfillment of the condition of recognition or
the removal of deficiencies in the working of the school.(2)Every self
declaration received in Form I shall be placed by the competent authority in
public domain within fifteen days of its receipt.(3)The competent authority
shall within three months of the receipt of such self declaration cause on-
site inspection of such schools to verify as to whether the norms and
standards and the conditions mentioned in sub-rule (1) are fulfilled.(4)After
the inspection referred to in sub-rule (3) is carried out, the inspection
report shall be placed by the competent authority in public domain and the
schools found to be conforming to the norms, standards and the conditions
shall be granted certificate of recognition by the competent authority in Form
II within a period of 30 days from the date of inspection.(5)The schools,
which do not conform to the norms, standards and conditions mentioned in sub-
rule (1) shall be listed by the competent authority through a public order.
Such schools may request the competent authority for an on-site inspection for
grant of recognition at any time within the next three months.(6)The schools
which do not conform to the norms, standards and conditions mentioned in sub-
rule (1) even thereafter,shall cease to function.(7)Any person who intends to
establish a school shall apply to the competent authority in Form-I for
obtaining a certificate of recognition. The applicant shall, in addition to
the norms and standards specified in the Schedule, fulfill the following
conditions before making an application for such recognition:-(a)Fee
Structure. - The applicant shall give a declaration that the school will
collect the fee fixed by the Committee constituted under the Tamil Nadu
Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of
2009). %(b)Minimum Infrastructure Facilities. - (i)The school seeking
recognition shall comply with the norms and standards regarding the land and
other requirements stipulated in the Schedule.(ii)The school shall also comply
with the norms and standards notified by the State Government under any other
law regarding infrastructure facilities including land and buildings.(c)Other
Facilities. - (i) Number of teachers to be employed in the school, nature of
building and the facilities to be provided in the building, teaching learning
equipment, library, play material, games and sports equipments that should be
made available in the school shall be in accordance with the norms and
standards specified in the Schedule.(ii)Every school shall ensure the supply
of protected drinking water and also ensure that lavatory and urinal
facilities are provided in the schools as per the criteria to be specified by
the competent authority.Explanation. - For the purpose of rules 12 and 13,
'competent authority' means,-

(i) |  the Joint Director, Directorate of ElementaryEducation. |  in the case of schools having classes I to V orschools having classes 1 to VIII  
---|---|---  
(ii) | the Chief Educational Officer of the District. |  in the case of schools having classes L.K.G. toV  
(iii) |  the Joint Director (Secondary Education),Directorate of School Education. |  in the case of minority schools having classesI to X or VI to X  
(iv) | the Chief Educational Officer of the District. |  in the case of non-minority schools havingclasses I to X or VI to X.  
(v) |  the Joint Director, Directorate of in theMatriculation schools. | case of Matriculation Schools  
(vi) |  the Joint Director (Secondary Education),Directorate of School Education. | in the case of Anglo Indian schools.  
  
### 13. Withdrawal of recognition.

(1)Where the competent authority on its own motion or on any representation
received from any person, has reason to believe and to be recorded in writing,
that a school recognised under rule 12 has violated one or more of the
conditions for grant of recognition or has failed to fulfill the norms and
standards specified in the Schedule, shall,-(a)issue a notice to the secretary
/ correspondent of the school by registered post specifying the violations of
the condition for grant of recognition and seek his written explanation within
one month;(b)in case the explanation is not found to be satisfactory or no
explanation is received within the stipulated time, he shall cause an
inspection of the school, to be conducted by a Committee of 3 or 5 members
comprising of educationists and Government representatives, which shall make
due inquiry and submit its report, along with its recommendations to the
competent authority. On consideration of the said report, if the competent
authority is of the view that the recognition may be withdrawn, shall, after
affording an opportunity of being heard to the school, pass orders
thereon.(2)If the competent authority passes an order of withdrawal of
recognition, it shall be operative from the immediately succeeding academic
year. The said order shall also specify the neighbourhood schools to which the
children of that school shall be admitted.

## Part V – School Management Committee

### 14. Composition and functions of the School Management Committee.

(1)A School Management Committee (hereinafter in this rule referred to as the
Committee) shall be constituted in every school, other than an unaided school,
with not less than nine members within its jurisdiction, within six months of
the appointed date, and reconstituted every two years:Provided that, no member
other than an ex-officio member shall serve as a member of the Committee for
more than two terms.'(2)Seventy five percent, of the strength of the said
Committee shall be from amongst parents or guardians of children, with
proportionate representation to the parents or guardians of children belonging
to disadvantaged group and weaker section.(3)The remaining twenty five
percent, of the strength of the said Committee shall be from amongst the
following persons, namely:-(a)one third members from amongst the elected
members of the local authority, to be decided by the local authority;(b)one
third members from amongst teachers from the school, to be decided by the
teachers of the school;(c)one third members from amongst local educationists
or children in the school, to be decided by the parents in the said
Committee.(4)Fifty percent of the members of the Committee shall be
women.(5)The quorum of the meeting of the committee shall be not less than
fifty percent of the total members of the Committee.(6)To manage its affairs,
the Committee shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson from among the
parent members. The Head teacher of the school or where the school does not
have a head teacher, the senior most teacher of the school, shall be the ex-
officio Member-Convenor of the Committee meeting. In the case of an aided
school, the School Manager / Correspondent / Secretary or his nominee from the
School Committee shall be the chairperson.(7)The Committee shall meet atleast
once in two months in the school premises and the minutes and decisions of the
meeting shall be properly recorded and made available to the public.(8)The
Convenor of the Committee meeting shall be competent to invite not more than
three persons as Special invitees to offer advice on specific issues such as
child protection, health and nutrition and child psychology. Such persons
shall not form part of the quorum and shall not be eligible to vote.(9)In
addition to the functions specified in sub-section (2) of section 21, the
Committee shall,-(a)communicate in simple and creative ways to the population
in the neighbourhood of the school, the rights of the child as enunciated in
the Act, as also the duties of the State Government, local authority, school
parent and guardian;(b)ensure the implementation of clauses (a) and (e) of
section 24 and section 28;(c)monitor that teachers are not burdened with non
academic duties other than those specified in section 27;(d)ensure the
enrolment and continued attendance of all the children from the neighbourhood
in the school;(e)monitor the maintenance of the norms and standards prescribed
in the Schedule.(f)bring to the notice of the local authority any denial of
the rights of the child, denial of admission and timely provision of free
entitlements as per section 3(2).(g)identify the needs, prepare a plan, and
monitor the implementation of the provisions of section 4.(h)monitor the
identification and enrolment of, and facilities for learning by disabled
children, and ensure their participation in, and completion of elementary
education.(i)monitor the implementation of the Mid-day meal programme in the
school.(j)ensure that no child is subjected to physical or mental
harassment.(k)any money received by the Committee for the discharge of its
functions under this Act, shall be kept in a separate account, to be made
available for audit every year.(l)prepare and submit an annual account of
receipts and expenditure of the school to the local authority within three
months from the date of expiry of every financial year.

### 15. Preparation of School Development Plan.

(1)The Committee shall prepare a School Development Plan for every three year
period comprising of three annual sub plans:Provided that the first such plan
shall be prepared at least three months before the end of the financial year
in which the Committee is first constituted under the Act.(2)The School
Development Plan shall contain the following details:-(a)Estimates of class-
wise enrollment for each year.(b)Requirement, over the three year period, of
the number of additional teachers, including Head teachers, subject teachers
and part time teachers, separately for classes I to V and classes VI to VIII,
calculated, with reference to the norms specified in the Schedule.(c)Physical
requirement of additional infrastructure and equipments over the three year
period, calculated, with reference to the norms and standards specified in the
Schedule.(d)Additional financial requirement over the three year period, year-
wise, in respect of (b) and (c) above, including additional requirement for
providing special training facility specified in section 4, entitlements of
children such as free text books and uniforms, and any other additional
financial requirement for fulfilling the responsibilities of the school under
the Act.(e)Existing infrastructure facilities such as buildings, laboratory,
library, toilets, drinking water, furniture, equipment, play ground.(3)The
School Development Plan shall be signed by the Chairperson / Vice Chairperson
and Convenor of the Committee and submitted to the local authority before the
end of the financial year in which it is prepared.

## Part VI – Teachers

### 16. Acquiring minimum qualification.

(1)The State Government shall provide adequate teacher education facilities to
ensure that all teachers in schools referred to in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of
clause (n) of section 2, who do not possess the minimum qualifications; as
laid down by the academic authority authorised by the Central Government at
the time of commencement of the Act, to acquire such minimum qualifications
within a period of five years from the commencement of the Act.(2)For a
teacher, of any school referred to in sub-clause (iv) of clause (n) of section
2, who does not possess the minimum qualifications as laid down by the
academic authority authorised by the Central Government at the time of
commencement of the Act, the management of such school shall enable such
teacher to acquire such minimum qualifications within a period of five years
from the commencement of the Act.

### 17. Salary and allowances and conditions of service of teachers.

(1)The salary and allowances and terms and conditions of service of teachers
of schools referred to in sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (n) of section 2
shall be as laid down by the State Government from time lo time*. In the case
of teachers in unaided schools referred to in sub clause (iv) of clause (n) of
section 2, the salary and allowances and terms of conditions of service shall
be in accordance with the regulations and guidelines issued by the State
Government from time to time.(2)In particular and without prejudice to sub-
rule (1), the terms and conditions of service shall take into account the
following namely:-(a)adherence to the conduct rules and code of professional
ethics for school teachers in force.(b)accountability of teacher to the School
Committee; and(c)provisions enabling long term stake of teachers in the
teaching profession.

### 18. Duties to be performed by teachers.

\- In addition to the duties specified in clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section
(1) of section 24, a teacher shall perform the following duties assigned to
him, namely:-(a)participation in training programmes;(b)participation in
curriculum formulation, and development of syllaby, training modules and text
book development.(c)maintain pupil cumulative record for every child.

### 19. Maintaining pupil-teacher ratio.

\- The sanctioned strength of teachers in a school shall be notified by the
State Government or the local authority, as the case may be, within a period
of eighteen months from the appointed date:Provided that the State Government
or the local authority, as the case may be, shall within six months of the
said notification, redeploy teachers of schools having strength in excess of
the sanctioned strength prior to the notification.

### 20. Curriculam and Evaluation Procedure.

(1)While laying down the curriculum and evaluation procedure for elementary
education, the academic authority shall,-(a)formulate the relevant and age
appropriate syllabus and text books and other learning materials;(b)develop in
- service teacher training design;(c)prepare guidelines for putting into
practice comprehensive and continuous evaluation;(d)develop performance
indicators for the individuals and institutions along with accountability
criteria towards children's learning levels;(e)undertake periodic performance
appraisal of individuals and institutions; and(f)commission and undertake
researches / studies on policies, programmes, curriculum, learning outcomes of
children, etc.(2)The academic authority shall design and implement a process
of holistic school quality assessment on a regular basis.

### 21. Award of completion certificate.

\- The certificate of completion of elementary education shall be awarded in
Form-Ill within a month of the completion of elementary education. The said
certificate shall be accompanied by the Pupil Cumulative Record.AppendixForm
ISelf Declaration Cum Application for Grant of Recognition of School(See sub-
rule (1) of rule 12)ToThe
............................................(Competent authority)(Name of
District)Sir,I forward herewith a self declaration regarding compliance with
the norms and standards prescribed in the Schedule to the Right of Children to
Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (Central Act 35 of 2009) and an
application in the prescribed proforma for the grant of recognition to
.......................... (Name of the School) with effect from the
commencement of the academic year 20.......Yours
faithfully,Enclosure:Place:Date:Secretary / CorrespondentA. School Details:-

1 | Name of School |   
---|---|---  
2 | Academic Session |   
3 | District |   
4 | Postal Address |   
5 | Village/City |   
6 | Taluk |   
7 | Pincode |   
8 | Phone No with STD Code |   
9 | Fax No. |   
10 | E-mail address, if any |   
11 | Nearest Police Station |   
  
B. General Information:-

1 | Year of Foundation |   
---|---|---  
2 | Date of First Opening of School |   
3 | Name of Trust / Society/Managing Committee |   
4 |  Whether Trust / Society/Managing Committee isregistered |   
5 |  Period until which Registration of Trust /Society/Managing Committee is valid |   
6 |  Whether there is a proof of non-profitablecharacter of the Trust / Society / Managing Committee supportedby the list of members with their address on an affidavit in copy |   
7 |  Name/official address of the Manager/ President/ Chairman of the school |   
| Name |   
| Designation |   
| Address |   
| Phone | (O)(R)  
8 |  Total Income & Expenditure during last 3years surplus /deficit |   
| Year | Income | Expenditure | Surplus/deficit  
|  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |   
  
C. Nature and area of school:

1 | Medium of Instruction |   
---|---|---  
2 |  Whether Tamil is taught as a language for allstudents? |   
3 |  Type of School (Specify entry & exitclasses) |   
4 |  If aided, the name of agency and percentage ofaid |   
5 | If School Recognised |   
6 | If so, by which authority * Recognition number |   
7 |  Does the school has its own building or is itrunning in a rented building? If it is on the rented buildingwhether the lease deed is registered? (Please attach copythereof). |   
8 |  Whether the school buildings or other structuresor the grounds are used only for the purpose of education andskill development? |   
9 | Total land area of the School (in square feet). |   
10 |  Total built in area of the school (in squarefeet). |   
  
D. Enrollment Status:-

Sl. No | Class | No. of Section | No. of Students  
---|---|---|---  
Boys | Girls | Total  
1 | Pre K.G |  |  |  |   
2 | L.K.G |  |  |  |   
3 | U.K.G |  |  |  |   
4 | I |  |  |  |   
5 | II |  |  |  |   
6 | III |  |  |  |   
7 | IV |  |  |  |   
8 | V |  |  |  |   
9 | VI |  |  |  |   
10 | VII |  |  |  |   
11 | VIII |  |  |  |   
  
E. Infrastructure Details and Sanitary Conditions:-

SI. No | Room | Numbers | Average Size (in square feet).  
---|---|---|---  
1 | Classroom |  |   
2 | Office room-cum-store room-cum-Headmaster Room |  |   
3 | Kitchen-cum-Store |  |   
  
F. Other Facilities:-

1 | Whether all facilities have barrier free access |   
---|---|---  
2 | Teaching Learning Material (attach list) |   
3 | Sports & Play equipments (attach list) |   
4 |  Facility books inLibrary• Books (Numberof books)• Periodical / Newspapers / Journals |   
5 | Type and number of drinking water facility |   
6 | Sanitary Conditions |   
| (i) Type of western closets & urinals |   
|  (ii) Number of urinals/lavatories separately forBoys |   
|  (iii) Number of urinals/lavatories separatelyfor Girls |   
  
G. Particulars of teaching staff:-

### 1\. Teachers in classes I to VIII only (details of each teacher
separately).

1 | Teacher Name | : |   
---|---|---|---  
2 | Father / Spouse Name | : |   
3 | Date of Birth | : |   
4 | Academic Qualification | : |   
5 | Professional Qualification | : |   
6 | Date of Appointment | : |   
7 | Class assigned | : |   
8 | Teaching experience | : |   
9 | Trained or untrained | : |   
10 | Scale of pay | : |   
11 | Gross salary per month | : |   
  
### 2\. Headmaster / Principal

| Headmaster/Principal Name | : |   
---|---|---|---  
| Father / Spouse Name | : |   
| Date of Birth | : |   
| Academic Qualification | : |   
| Professional Qualification | : |   
| Date of Appointment | : |   
| Class assigned | : |   
| Teaching experience | : |   
| Trained or untrained | : |   
| Scale of pay | : |   
| Gross salary per month | : |   
  
H. Curriculum and Syllabus

1 |  Details of curriculum & syllabus followed in eachclass(Upto VIII) |   
---|---|---  
2 | System of Pupil Assessment |   
3 |  Whether pupils of the school are required to take any Boardexam upto class VIII? |   
  
I. School Fee

Sl. No. | Class | Fee  
---|---|---  
1 | Pre K.G |   
2 | J.K.G |   
3 | U.K.G |   
4 | I |   
5 | II |   
6 | III |   
7 | IV |   
8 | V |   
9 | VI |   
10 | VII |   
11 | VIII |   
  
J. Neighbourhood area for the purpose of rule 4:K. Certified that the school
complies with the Fire Safety Rules, Municipal laws and traffic regulations.L.
Certified that the school has also submitted information in this data capture
format of District Information System of Education with this applicationM.
Certified that the school is open to inspection by any officer authorized by
the State Government or the competent authority.N. Certified that the school
undertakes to furnish such reports and information required by the competent
authority from time to time and comply with such instructions of the State
Government or the competent authority as may be issued to secure the continued
fulfillment of the condition of recognition or the removal of deficiencies in
working of the school.O. Certified that records of the school pertinent to the
implementation of this Act shall be open to inspection by any Officer
authorized by the State , Government or the competent authority at any time,
and the school shall furnish all such information as may be necessary to
enable the Central and / or State Government/Local Body or the Administration
to discharge its or his obligations to Parliament / Legislative Assembly of
the State/ Panchayat/Municipal Corporation, as the case may
be.(Signature)Secretary/Correspondent..................................
SchoolPlace:Date:Form IICertificate of Recognition(See sub-rule(4) of rule
12)Gram: E-Mail:Phone: Fax:Office of
.........................................................................
(Competent authority)(Name of District)No..Dated :ToThe Secretary/
Correspondent /Manager,................................................
School.Sir/Madam,Sub: Recognition Certificate for the school under sub-rule
(4) of rule 12 of the Tamil Nadu Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education Rules, 2011.With reference to your application dated
.................................... and subsequent school-inspection in this
regard, I hereby convey the grant of recognition to the
........................................... (name of the school with address)
for class ................................... to class
.................................................... for the period from
...................................... to
............................................The recognition Code Number
allotted to your school is
...................................................................The above
recognition is subject to the following conditions:-(1)The grant of
recognition is not extendable and does not in any way imply any obligation to
recognize beyond class VIII.(2)The school shall abide by the provisions of the
Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 and the Tamil
Nadu Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011.(3)The
school shall admit in pre-school / class I to the extent of 25 % of the
strength in each class, children belonging to weaker section and disadvantaged
group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory elementary
education till its completion.(4)The school shall maintain a separate bank
account for the purpose of reimbursement.(5)The school shall not collect any
capitation fee and subject the child or his or her parent or guardian to any
screening procedure.(6)The school shall not deny admission to any
child,-(a)for lack of age proof if such admission is sought subsequent to the
extended period prescribed for admission.(b)on the ground of religion, caste
or race, place of birth or any of them.(7)The school shall ensure that,-(i)no
child admitted shall be held back in any class or expelled from school till
the completion of elementary education in a school;(ii)no child shall be
subjected to physical punishment or mental harassment.(iii)no child is
required to pass any board examination till(iv)the completion of elementary
education;(v)every child completing elementary education shall be awarded a
certificate as laid down under rule 21.(vi)inclusion of students with
disabilities/special needs as per provision of the Act(vii)the teachers are
recruited with minimum qualifications as laid under section 23(1) of the
Act.Provided that the teachers who, at the commencement of this Act do not
possess minimum qualifications shall acquire such minimum qualifications
within a period of 5 years;(viii)the teacher performs his duties specified
under subsection (1) of section 24 of the Act; and(ix)the teacher shall not
engage himself for private teaching activities.(8)The school shall follow the
syllabus on the basis of curriculum laid down by appropriate authority.(9)The
school shall maintain the standards and norms as specified in section 19 of
the Act.(10)No unrecognized classes shall run within the premises of the
school or outside in the name of school.(11)The school building or other
structures and the grounds are used only for the purposes of education and
skill development(12)The school is run by a society registered under the Tamil
Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975), or a public
trust constituted under any law for the time being in force;(13)The school is
not run for profit to any individual, group or association of individuals or
any other persons;(14)The accounts should be audited and certified by a
Chartered Accountant and proper accounts statements should be prepared. A copy
each of the Statements of Accounts should be sent every year to the competent
authority granting recognition.(15)The recognition Code Number shall be quoted
for any correspondence with the competent authority(16)The school shall
furnish such reports and information as may be required by the competent
authority from time to time and shall comply with such instructions of the
State Government or the competent authority as may be issued to secure the
continued fulfillment of the condition of recognition or the removal of
deficiencies in working of the school;(17)The recognition shall be withdrawn
if any contravention of the provisions of the Act, Rules or the conditions of
recognition are found and proved.Competent authority.Form IIICertificate of
Completion(See rule 21)It is hereby certified that
...........................................................................................................................................................................
S/o Thiru. ...........................................................
residing at ............................................. Door No, .
............................................. Village, has successfully
completed class VIII in......................................... School at
................................................... (place) during the year
..........................................................The Pupil Cumulative
Record of .................................................... (Name of the
Student) is enclosed herewith.Head Master / Principal
..................................... (Name of the school)Place: Date:

