## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Licensing of Pigs and Destruction of Unlicensed or
Infected Pigs) Rules, 1996

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Licensing of Pigs and Destruction of Unlicensed or
Infected Pigs) Rules, 1996

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-LICENSING-OF-PIGS-AND-DESTRUCTION-OF-UNLICENSED-
OR-INFECTED-PIGS-RULES-1996 of 1996

  * Published on 23 August 1996 
  * Commenced on 23 August 1996 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 August 1996.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Licensing of Pigs and Destruction of Unlicensed or
Infected Pigs) Rules, 1996Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 174,
Rural Development (C-l), Dated the 23rd August 1996 - No. SRO A-101/96G.O. Ms.
No. 174. - In exercise of powers conferred by clause (xxxii) of sub-section
(2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21
of 1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Licensing of Pigs and
Destruction of Unlicensed or Infected Pigs) Rules, 1996.(2)They extend to all
areas declared as Panchayat Villages under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).(3)They shall come into force
at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(b)"Collector"
means the Collector of revenue district;(c)"Detention charges" means the
charges calculated at the rates specified in these rules and includes the
feeding and other charges spent by the Executive Authority towards the
detention of the pigs;(d)"Executive authority" means a person notified as such
by the Government under Section 83;(e)"Half year" means the period of six
months commencing from the month of April and ending with September or from
the month of October and ending with March of a year;(f)"Infected pig" means
whether licenced or not under these rules, which in the opinion of the
Executive authority will be a cause for spreading of diseases like
encephalitis or any other communicable diseases for the spreading of which
pigs are considered as carriers.

### 3. Issue of public notice.

\- Every panchayat may, and if so directed by the Collector, shall publish a
notice in the Official Gazette of the district in English and Tamil that
unlicensed or infected pigs staying within the panchayat limits specified in
the notice will be destroyed after the date specified in such notice.

### 4. Taking of licence.

\- When a notice under rule 3 has been published, the owner or custodian of
every pig within the limits of the panchayat shall, within fifteen days from
the date of such publication of notice take out from the Executive authority
of the panchayat, a licence badge showing the following particulars and such
other particulars, if any, as the Collector may prescribe, on payment of a
licence fee not exceeding five rupees per pig for the half year in which such
notice was given.(1)Name of the panchayat (in a abbreviated form if the name
is too long);(2)Number of the licence issued; and(3)Particulars of the year
and half year, for which the licence is issued.The badge shall be fixed to any
one of the ear of the pig for the purpose of inspection and verification by
the Executive Authority of the panchayat or any person authorised by
him:Provided that the Collector may, for special reasons, extend the period
within which a licence shall be taken from the Executive Authority after the
publication of the notice.

### 5. Application for licence.

\- Within fifteen days from the commencement of every succeeding half year or
within such reduced period as the Collector may fix for special reasons, the
owner or custodian of every pig shall apply to the Executive Authority for the
grant or renewal of the licence on payment of the fee specified in rule 4.

### 6. Seizure of unlicensed pigs.

\- Any pig found straying in any public place within the limits of the
panchayat without the licence badge under rule 4 shall be liable to be seized
by any person or persons authorised by the Executive Authority in that behalf.

### 7. Intimation as to seizure of pigs.

\- When a pig is seized, the Executive Authority shall intimate its owner or
custodian if his name and addresses are known of its detention and require the
owner or custodian to remove it within seven days from the date of detention
on payment of the licence fee with a penalty of rupees five together with a
detention charge of rupees three for every twenty-four hours of detention or
part thereof.

### 8. Restoration of possession of the pigs seized.

\- On payment of the licence fee, penalty and detention charges specified in
rule 7, the Executive Authority shall release the pig to its owner or
custodian, in default of such payment within a period of seven days specified
in rule 7 of these rules or if the name and address of the owner or custodian
are not known, the Executive Authority may sell the pig in public auction,
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the licence fees, and detention
charges due to the panchayat and shall return to the owner or custodian of the
pig, to the panchayat or if the sale proceeds are not sufficient to meet the
licence fees, penalty and detention charges due to the panchayat or if the
name and address of the owner or custodian are not known, the entire sum shall
be credited to the panchayat funds.

### 9. Seizure and destruction of pigs during the out-break of encephalitis.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, if any panchayat or in
the panchayats adjoining it, there is an outbreak of encephalitis disease or
any other disease for the spreading of which pigs are considered as carriers
of the disease, the Executive Authority may, and if so required by the
District Health Officer or the Collector, shall make such arrangements as may
be necessary or not and the owners of the pigs whether licensed or not have no
claim, whatsoever against the Executive Authority, ordering the destruction of
such pigs.

### 10. Destruction of pigs by the Executive Authorities.

\- The Executive Authorities or the panchayat or any other person or person
authorised by him may seize or destroy a pig irrespective of whether the pig
is licenced or not under these rules which in his opinion will be a cause for
the spreading of the disease specified in rule 9 or detain for observation any
pig if he suspects it to be a cause for the spread of the said disease. In all
such cases, the Executive Authority shall consult the Health Officer or the
officer of the Animal Husbandry Department having jurisdiction over the
panchayat carry out any suggestion made by him.

### 11. Destruction of pigs by the owner or custodian.

\- The Executive Authorities may direct the owner or custodian of any pig he
knows of suspects to be a cause, for the spread of the diseases referred to in
rule 9 to destroy the pig immediately irrespective of the fact whether the pig
is licensed or not under these rules. When such a direction has not be on
complied with by the owner or custodian within a reasonable period or when the
owner or custodian of any pig which is suspected to be a cause for the spread
of the disease referred to the Executive Authorities shall make arrangements
for the seizure and destruction of these pigs.

### 12. Duty of the owners to intimate about the pigs which cause spreading of
disease.

\- Every person who has in his possession any pig which he knows or has
reasons to believe to be cause for the spread of the disease specified in rule
9 shall intimate the fact to the Executive Authority in writing.

### 13. Punishments.

\- Whosoever commits a breach of rules 11 and 12 shall be punishable with a
fine which may extend to seventy five rupees and in case of continuing offence
with a fine which may extend to rupees fifteen for every day during which the
offence continues after the date of issue of notice for the first offence.

### 14. Maintenance of Register.

\- The Executive Authorities shall maintain a register to enter every licence
granted under rule 4 and it shall contain the names and addresses of the
custodians of the pigs description of the pig by which it can be identified,
the number and date of issue of licence and the badge and the amount
collected.

### 15. Maintenance of Register showing the particulars of pigs seized.

\- The Executive Authorities shall maintain a separate register showing
description of the time of its seizure the names and addresses of their owners
or custodian, the feeding charges collected, if any, the date of such
collection, the time and date of their release, auction or destruction and the
amount, if any, realised in the auction.

