## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cotton (Trade Stocks) Census Act, 1949

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cotton (Trade Stocks) Census Act, 1949

## Act 17 of 1949

  * Published on 22 January 1950 
  * Commenced on 22 January 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 January 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cotton (Trade Stocks) Census Act, 1949(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of
1949)Received the assent of the Governor-General on the 22nd January 1950 and
first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 24th January 1950.An Act
to provide for the collection of statistics relating to stocks of Indian raw
cotton held by traders and owners of ginning and pressing factories in the
[State of Tamil Nadu.] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'Province of Madras' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970.]Whereas it is expedient to provide for the collection of
statistics relating to stocks of Indian raw cotton held by traders and owners
of ginning and pressing factories in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'Province of Madras' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]; It is
hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cotton
(Trade Stocks) Census Act, 1949.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)This section
shall come into force at once; and the rest of this Act shall come into force
on such [date as the [State] [Came into force on the 24th January 1950.]
Government may, by notification in the [Fort St. George Gazette, appoint.]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-(a)"Committee" means the Indian Central Cotton Committee constituted
under the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (Central Act XIV of 1923);(b)"cotton"
means ginned or unginned Indian raw cotton or cotton waste;(c)"cotton ginning
factory' means any place where cotton fibre is separated from cotton seed by
any process involving the use of steam, water or other mechanical power or
electrical power;(d)"cotton pressing factory" means a factory as defined in
the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act LXIII of 1948), in which cotton is
pressed into bales;(e)"Director" means the [Director of Agriculture, Tamil
Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression 'Director of
Agriculture, Madras' by paragraph 3 (2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1970.];(f)"owner" in relation to a cotton ginning or pressing factory,
means the lessee or mortgagee in case the factory has been leased or mortgaged
with possession, and the owner in any other case and includes any agent of
such lessee, mortgagee or owner having control over the
factory;(g)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(h)"trader" means a person other than an owner, carrying on the business
of buying or selling cotton for the purpose of gain or profit, and
includes-(i)a manufacturer, an importer or an exporter who carries or such
business; and(ii)a broker or commission agent who enters into contracts for
the sale or purchase of cotton on behalf of others, and stocks cotton on their
behalf.

### 3. Returns.

\- Every trader and every owner shall, in respect of each place where he
carries on business-(a)keep books of account in the prescribed form;
and(b)furnish to the Director or other prescribed authority, within the
prescribed time, a return in the prescribed form showing (i) the quantity of
each variety of cotton held by him on the 31st January and the 31st August of
each year and (ii) such other particulars as may be prescribed:Provided that
where there is more than one owner, and one of them has finished the return
aforesaid, it shall be deemed to have been furnished by all of them.

### 4. Right of inspection, entry and search.

(1)All accounts, documents and vouchers relating to stocks, purchases, sales
and deliveries of cotton kept by any trader or owner and all stocks of cotton
held by him shall be open to inspection at all reasonable times by the
Director or any officer authorized by him in writing in this behalf.(2)The
Director or any officer so authorized shall have power, at all reasonable
times, to enter and search any building, vessel, vehicle or place where any
trader or owner is reasonably believed to carry on business or keep stocks of
cotton, for the purpose be collecting any information required for the
purposes of this Act or any rule made thereunder, verifying the correctness of
any such information, or satisfying himself whether the provisions of this Act
or of any rule made thereunder are being complied with and to examine any
person found in or about any such building, vessel, vehicle or place.

### 5. Use of returns, statistics and information.

\- The Director may use the returns furnished under section 3 and the
information obtained under section 4 for compiling the statistics required by
the Committee or for any other purpose specified by the [State] [This word was
substituted for the word 'provincial' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government by general or special order.

### 6. Restriction of publication of returns and information.

(1)Save as provided in this Act, no particulars contained in any return or
information furnished or obtained under this Act shall, without the previous
consent in writing of the trader or owner concerned, or an agent authorized by
him in this behalf, be published in such a manner as to permit of their
identification as referring to a particular cotton ginning or pressing factory
or the business of a particular trader or owner.(2)All particulars contained
in any return or information furnished or obtained under this Act shall be
treated as confidential; and no such particulars shall be disclosed to any
person except for the purpose of investigating any offence punishable under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force or of prosecuting any
person in respect of any such offence.

### 7. Penalties.

(1)Whoever-(a)fails to keep books of account as required by section 3, clause
(a), or(b)without lawful excuse refuses, or fails to furnish a return as
required by section 3, clause (b), or(c)furnishes any return under section 3,
clause (b) which he knows or has reason to believe to be false, incorrect or
incomplete, or(d)without lawful excuse refuses, or fails to answer, or gives
any answer which he knows to be false, to any question put to him under
section 4, sub-section (2), or(e)voluntarily obstructs any officer in the
discharge of his functions under this Act,shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees, and with an additional fine which may
extend to two hundred rupees for every day after the first during which the
offence continues.Explanation. - If a false, incorrect or incomplete returned
been furnished under section 3, clause (b), the offence shall be deemed to
continue until a true, correct and complete return has been
furnished.(2)Whoever wilfully discloses any particulars contained in any
return or information furnished or obtained under this Act otherwise than in
the lawful discharge of his functions shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both.

### 8. Cognizance of offences.

\- No Court shall take cognizance,-(i)of an offence punishable under section
7, sub-section (1), except on a compliant in writing of the Director or any
officer authorised by him in writing in this behalf; and(ii)of an offence
punishable under section 7, sub-section (2), except with the previous sanction
of the [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.] Government or an officer authorised by them
in writing in this behalf.

### 9. [ Inquiry and trial of offences. [According to clause (a) and (c) of
sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central
Act 2 of 1974), which came into force on the 1st April 1974, any reference to
a Magistrate of the first class shall be construed as a reference to a
judicial Magistrate of the first class and any reference to a Metropolitan
Magistrate.]

\- No offence punishable under this Act shall be inquired into, or tried by,
any Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the
first class]

### 10. Protection of acts done in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule made thereunder

### 11. Offences by corporations.

\- Where a person committing any offence punishable under this Act is a
company or an association or a body of persons, whether incorporated or not,
the manager, secretary, agent or other principal officer managing the affairs
of such company, association or body shall be deemed to be guilty of such
offence.

### 12. Exemptions.

\- [State] [The This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.] Government may, by general or special order
published in the [Port St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.], exempt any class of traders or any class of owners, from all or any
of the provisions of this Act

### 13. Power to make rules.

\- The [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.] Government may, after previous publication,
make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.

