## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1992

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1992

## Act 41 of 1992

  * Published on 31 July 1992 
  * Commenced on 31 July 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 July 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1992(Tamil Nadu Act 41 of
1992)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special
provisions) Ad, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of l992). - While disposing of a Civil
Appeal No. 1758 of 1986, relating to route Madurai to Kumili, the Supreme
Court has held that the respondent in the above case (private operator) is not
entitled to operate his stage carriage on the notified route or a portion
thereof even though he may have been granted variation of his permit to
operate on the sector of the notified route. The Supreme Court has also held
that on the entire notified route between Madurai and Kumili or any part
thereof, apart from the State Transport Undertaking no person other than those
mentioned in Annexure II to the approved scheme can operate a stage carriage
service.2\. The policy of the Government is to nationalise the bus service
operated by the private operators on end to end route and to allow them to
operate on sector of the route. In view of the judgment of the Supreme Court
referred to above, there is a possibility of rejecting the applications by the
private operators for grant of renewals and variations in respect of their
stage carriages which they are operating on notified routes and on routes
covered by draft schemes.3\. It has, therefore, been decided to allow the
existing small bus operators to ply their stage carriages on any portion of
the area or route covered by the draft schemes or the approved schemes and
also to provide for the variation of the conditions of permit. It has also
been decided that the existing small bus operators who are operating buses on
the sectors of the notified route and on the routes covered by draft schemes
to continue their operation. Otherwise, they will have to stop the buses which
will affect the travelling public, as the State Transport Undertakings cannot
introduce so many number of buses in a short notice to replace them.4\. It
has, therefore, been decided to undertake legislation so as to make the
existing small bus operators to continue to operate their buses on the
notified routes and on the routes covered by draft schemes.5\. The Bill seeks
to give effect to the above decisions.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th April
1992.Received the assent of the President on the 31st July 1992 and published
in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government of Gazette Extraordinary
dated 31st July 1992.An Act to make certain special provisions in respect of
permits for stage carriages under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and in relation
to the schemes and routes notified under Chapter VI of that Act and to provide
for matters connected therewith.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows : -

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and application.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions)
Act, 1992.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)The
provisions of this Act (except sections 6 and 7) shall be deemed to have come
into force on the 4th June 1976 and remain in force upto and inclusive of the
30th June 1990 and section 6 shall be deemed to have come into force on the
1st July 1990:Provided that the provisions of this Act so far as they relate
to section 6, shall be deemed to have continued in force on and from the 1st
July 1990.(4)It shall apply only in relation to draft schemes, approved
schemes and notified routes.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"approved scheme"
means a scheme approved under section 100 of the Motor Vehicles Act;(b)"draft
scheme" means a scheme published under section 99 of the Motor Vehicles
Act;(c)"Motor Vehicles Act" means the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59
of 1988);(d)the expression "notified route" shall have the same meaning as in
section 100 of the Motor Vehicles Act;(e)words and expressions used herein and
not defined, but defined in the Motor Vehicles Act shall have the meanings,
respectively, assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Grant of permit under certain circumstances.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in a draft scheme or an approved scheme,
the Regional Transport Authority may, on an application made in accordance
with the rules made in this behalf, grant a permit or renew a permit to a
small operator to ply his stage carriage on the entire route covered by the
draft scheme or the approved scheme or on such portion of the route covered by
the draft scheme or approved scheme as may be specified and for such period
and subject to such terms and conditions which may be in respect of matters
specified in sub-section (2) of section 72 of the Motor Vehicles Act or in
respect of any other matter as it thinks fit.Explanation. - For the purposes
of this sub-section and section 6, "small operator" means any stage carriage
operator holding on the date of the commencement of this Act or on any date
subsequent to such date of commencement, five or less stage carriage permits
notwithstanding that all or any stage carriage permits had expired after such
date of commencement:Provided that in computing the number of stage carriage
permits for the purposes of this sub-section -(i)the number of permits in
respect of reserve vehicles kept by the stage carriage operator to maintain
the service; or(ii)the number of temporary permits granted under clause (a),
clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 87 of the Motor
Vehicles Act, shall be excluded.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in a
draft scheme or an approved scheme, the Regional Transport Authority may, on
an application made in accordance with the rules made in this behalf, vary the
conditions of a permit for a stage carriage so as to enable the applicant to
operate on the entire route or any portion of the route covered by such draft
scheme or an approved scheme.(3)For the period during which the permit
referred to under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) is in force, the draft
scheme or the approved scheme relating to the entire route or portion of the
route referred to in the said sub-sections shall be deemed to have been
modified to the extent specified in the said subsections.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in Chapter VI including section 98 of the Motor Vehicles
Act, the provisions of Chapter V of that Act and the rules made thereunder
shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the grant, renewal or variation
of permit under this section as they apply in relation to the grant, renewal
or variation of permit under the said Chapter V.

### 4. Existing permits to be valid.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in a draft scheme or an approved scheme
or in section 3, all permits and temporary permits granted, renewed or varied
under the Motor Vehicles Act or under the said section 3 authorising the use
of stage carriages on the entire route or any portion of the route covered by
such draft scheme or an approved scheme, shall be valid for the period for
which such permits were granted, renewed or varied.

### 5. Act to override Chapters V and VI of Motor Vehicles Act.

\- The provisions of sections 3, 4 and 6 shall have effect notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in Chapters V and VI including
section 98 of the Motor Vehicles Act.

### 6. Renewal or variation of permits.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Motor Vehicles Act or in an
approved scheme, the Regional Transport Authority may, on an application made
in accordance with the rules made in this behalf, renew the permit to a small
operator to ply his stage carriage on the entire route covered by the approved
scheme or on such portion of the route covered by the approved scheme and for
such period and subject to such terms and conditions which may be in respect
of matters specified in sub-section (2) of section 72 of the Motor Vehicles
Act or in respect of any other matters as it thinks fit.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Motor Vehicles Act or in an approved scheme, the
Regional Transport Authority may, on an application made by the small operator
in accordance with the rules made in this behalf and subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed, vary the conditions of a permit for a stage
carriage so as to enable the applicant to operate on the entire route or any
portion of the route covered by such approved scheme.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in Chapter VI including section 98 of the Motor Vehicles
Act, the provisions of Chapter V of that Act, and the rules made thereunder
shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the renewal or variation of
permit under this section as they apply in relation to the renewal or
variation of permit under the said Chapter V.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, no new permit shall be granted under this Act to any
person on any route covered by an approved scheme.

### 7. Pending applications, and appeals for grant of new permits to abate.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,
every application for grant of new permit on a notified route and all appeals
arising therefrom or relating thereto, made or preferred before the date of
publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and pending
before any Court with any office authority or Tribunal constituted under the
Motor Vehicles Act, on the said date shall abate.

### 8. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for, -(a)the form in which, the time within
which and the manner in which an application under section 3 may be
made;(b)the fees to be paid in respect of an application under section
3;(c)any other matter which may be prescribed.(3)All rules made under this Act
shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(4)Every rule made under this Act, shall,
as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the table of the
Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
rule or the Assembly decides that the rule should not be made, the rule shall,
thereafter, have effect, only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 9. Construction of reference to Motor Vehicles Act, 1939.

\- Any reference in this Act to any of the provisions or any Chapter of the
Motor Vehicles Act shall, during the period commencing from the 4th day of
June 1976 and ending with the 30th day of June 1989, be construed as reference
to the corresponding provisions or Chapter of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939
(Central Act IV of 1939).

### 10. Validation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter V or VI including section 98
of the Motor Vehicles Act, all proceedings taken for the grant of, and all
orders passed granting, permits or renewal or transfer of such permits or any
variation, modification, extension or curtailment of the route or routes
specified in a stage carriage permit during the period commencing on the 4th
day of June 1976 and ending with the date of the publication of this Act in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be
and to have always been taken or passed in accordance with the provisions of
this Act as if this Act had been in force at all material times.

### 11. Saving.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be
in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in
force and nothing contained herein shall exempt any person from any proceeding
by way of investigation or otherwise which might, apart from this Act, be
instituted against him.

