## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cotton Control Act, 1952

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cotton Control Act, 1952

## Act 15 of 1952

  * Published on 25 December 1952 
  * Commenced on 25 December 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 December 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cotton Control Act, 1952(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1952)Received the
assent of the President on the 25th December 1952 and first published in the
Fort St. George Gazette on the 31st December 1952An Act to provide for
regulating or prohibiting the cultivation of any specified variety of cotton,
the mixing of any specified variety of cotton with any other variety of cotton
and the possession or use of or trade in, any specified variety of cotton in
certain areas in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression ivas substituted
for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu adaptation of Lam
Order, 7969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment/Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for regulating or
prohibiting, in certain areas in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression
was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
adaptation of Lam Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.], the cultivation of any specified variety of
cotton, the mixing of any specified variety of cotton with any other variety
of cotton and the possession or use of, or trade in, any specified variety of
cotton; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cotton Control Act,
1952.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second amendment)
Order, 1969.].

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(a)"controlled area" means an area specified in a notification issued
under section 3, sub-section (1);(b)"cotton" includes cotton plant ginned and
unginned cotton, cotton waste and cotton seed; under Madras Ordinance VI of
1952, shall be deemed to have been issued, passed, taken or done in the
exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act.(c)"Director" means the
[Director of Agriculture, Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Director of Agriculture, Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1970.] and includes any person who is authorized by the Government
to exercise or perform any of the powers or duties of the Director under this
Act;(d)"Government" means the State Government;(e)"notification" means a
notification published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.];(f)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(g)"prohibited variety of cotton" in respect of any area means any variety
of cotton the cultivation of which is prohibited in such area under clause
(ii) of section 3, sub-section (1).(h)"standard cotton" in respect of any
area, means any variety of cotton the cultivation of which is permitted in
such area under clause (i) of section 3, subsection (1).

### 3. Power to specify the variety of cotton to be cultivated, etc., in
specified areas.

(1)The Government may, by notification, in respect of any area specified
therein-(i)fix the variety or varieties of cotton the cultivation of which is
permitted in such area; or(ii)prohibit the cultivation in such area of any
variety of cotton other than any variety fixed under clause (i);
or(iii)prohibit in such area the mixing of any variety of standard cotton with
any other variety of standard cotton or with any prohibited variety of
standard cotton fixed with any other variety of standard cotton, or (b) any
prohibited variety of cotton, whether mixed with any variety of standard
cotton or not.(2)Before issuing a notification under sub-section (1), the
Government shall publish in the prescribed manner a draft of such notification
together with a notice stating that any objection or suggestion which maybe
received by the Government within the period specified in the notice (such
period being not less than two months from the date of publication of the
draft will be considered by the Government.(3)Every notification under sub-
section (1) shall also be published in the regional language of the area
concerned in the prescribed manner.

### 4. Grant of permission to factories to mix cotton.

(1)Notwithstanding any thing contained in any notification issued under
section 3, sub-section (1), the government may, by notification, permit, in
any factory in which cotton is manufactured into yarn or cloth, any variety of
standard cotton to be mixed with any other variety of cotton:Provided that the
cotton so mixed is not made into fully pressed bales and is used in such
factory exclusively in the manufacture of yam or cloth.(2)The owner or person
in charge of the factory shall maintain or cause to be maintained a register
containing a daily record of cotton other than standard cotton received into,
and used in, the factory. He shall preserve such register for a period of not
less than two tears from the date of the last entry made therein.(3)The owner
or person in charge of the factory shall produce the register maintained under
sub-section (2) when required to do so by the Director or by any person
authorized by him in this behalf.

### 5. Penalties.

(1)Any person who, in any controlled area, in contravention of the provisions
of this Act of any notification issued or rule made thereunder,-(a)cultivates
any prohibited variety of cotton, or(b)mixes or causes to be mixed any variety
of standard cotton with any other variety of standard cotton or with any
prohibited variety of cotton or possesses, uses, or trades in, any variety of
standard cotton mixed with any other variety of standard cotton or possesses,
uses, or trades in, any prohibited variety of cotton, whether mixed with any
variety of standard cotton or not, or(c)Knowingly in any other manner
contravenes any rule made under this Act, shall be punishable with fine which
may, in the case mentioned in clause (a), extend to twenty rupees and for a
second or subsequent offence with fine which may extend to fifty rupees, and
in the case mentioned in clause (b), with line which may extend to ten
thousand rupees These words, letter and brackets were added by added by
section 3 of, and the Second Schedule to the [and in the case mentioned in
clause (c), with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and for a second
or subsequent offence with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.]
[Tamil Nadu Repealing and Amending Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of
1955.)](2)The owner or person in charge of a factory who-(a)in contravention
of the provisions of section 4, sub-section (1) makes the mixed cotton into
fully presses bales or uses the mixed cotton otherwise than in the malefactor
of yarn or cloth in that factory; or(b)fails to comply with any of the
provisions of section 4, sub-section (2) or sub-section (3); or(c)knowingly in
any other manner contravenes any rule made under this Act,shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and for a second or
subsequent offence with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 6. Confiscation.

\- All cotton in respect of which an offence has been committed under this Act
or any rule made thereunder and every box, receptacle, package or covering
containing such cotton shall be liable to confiscation.

### 7. Procedure for confiscation.

(1)Where a Court trying an offence under this Act or any rule made thereunder,
considers that any thing is liable to confiscation under section 6, it may,
after hearing the person, if any, claiming any right thereto and evidence, if
any, which he may produce in support of his claim, order its
confiscation.(2)Where an offence has been committed under this Actor any rule
made thereunder, and the offender is not known or cannot be found, or when
anything liable to confiscation under this Act and not in the possession of
any person cannot be satisfactorily accounted for, any officer authorized by
the Government in this behalf may hold an enquiry and may order
confiscation:Provided that no such order shall be made before the expiration
of one month from the date of seizure of the thing liable to confiscation or
without hearing the person, if any, claiming any right thereto and the
evidence, if any, which he may produce in support of his claim.

### 8. Powers of entry and seizure.

(1)Any officer authorized in this behalf by the Government may, between the
hours of 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. -(a)enter upon any land in a controlled area in
which he knows or has reason to believe that any prohibited variety of cotton
has been or is being cultivated in contravention of a notification under
section 3, sub-section (1), uproot such cotton, or cause it to be uprooted,
and seize the cotton so uprooted;(b)enter upon or into any land, building,
ship, vessel, vehicle or place in a controlled area, in which he knows or has
reason to believe that any variety of standard cotton mixed with any other
variety of standard cotton or any prohibited variety of cotton or not, is kept
in contravention of a notification under section 3, sub-section (1), and seize
such cotton.(2)(a)Every officer seizing any cotton under sub-section (1) shall
forthwith-(i)take a sample of the cotton seized, separate it then and there
into three equal parts and securely pack and seal each of them with his seal
in the presence of the occupier or person in charge of the land, building,
ship, vessel, vehicle or place on or in which such seizure was made and of two
witnesses and in case the occupier or person aforesaid wishes to seal
them,-they shall also be sealed with his seal; and(ii)subject to any rules
made under section 15, send one of the sealed packages to the Cotton
Specialist authorized by the government to receive it, for examination and
report to the Director, retain another such package for his own use and
deliver the third sealed package to the occupier or person aforesaid.(b)The
officer referred to in clause (a) shall have discretion either to entrust the
remainder of the seized cot t on to the occupier or person aforesaid or to
make other arrangements for its safe custody. If the officer decides to
entrust the cotton to the occupier or person aforesaid, such occupier or
person shall take charge of the same and shall give an undertaking in writing
to produce the said cotton before any Court when required to do so by the said
officer.(c)The officer referred to in clause (a) shall forthwith make a report
of the seizure to the nearest Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the
offence committed in respect of such cotton, together with particulars of such
cotton and furnish a copy of such particulars to the occupier or person
aforesaid.(3)The opinion of the Cotton Specialist referred to in clause (a)
(ii) of subsection (2), contained in any document signed by such officer
regarding the cotton sent to him for examination under that clause, may be
used as evidence as to the nature of such cotton, in any inquiry, trial or
proceeding under this Act.(4)If the occupier or person aforesaid refuses to
take charge of the cotton when required under clause (b) of sub-section (2) or
to give the undertaking referred to in that clause or fails to produce the
cotton before the Court when required, he shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act and shall be punishable with fine which may extend to twice the value
of such cotton.

### 9. Duty of owner, occupier or person in charge to give facilities for
inspection by authorized officer.

(1)Every owner, occupier or person in charge of any land, building, ship,
vessel, vehicle or place in a controlled area shall give all reasonable
facilities to the officer authorized under section 8, sub-section (1), to
inspect such land, building, ship, vessel, vehicle or place.(2)Whoever
contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to twenty rupees.

### 10. Previous sanction for prosecution.

\- No prosecution under this Act or any rule made thereunder shall be
instituted without the previous sanction of the Director.

### 11. Congnizance of offences.

\- No offence punishable under this Act or any rule made thereunder shall be
inquired into inquired into or tried by any Court inferior to that of a
Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the second class.

### 12. Offences by corporations, etc.

\- Where a person committing any offence punishable under this Act or any rule
made thereunder is a company, or an association or body of persons, whether
incorporated or not, the director, manager, secretary, agent or other
principal officer managing the affairs of such company, association or body
shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence.

### 13. Protection for acts one in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against
any person for any thing which is in good faith done or intended to be done
under this Act or any rule made thereunder.

### 14. Officers acting under Act to be public servants.

\- Every officer acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provision of this Act or any rule made thereunder shall be deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 15. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, after previous publication, make rules to carry out the
purposes of this Act.(2)All rules made under this section shall have effect as
if enacted in this Act.

### 16. Repeal of Madras Act VII of 1932.

\- The Madras Cotton Control Act, 1932 (Madras Act VII of 1932), is hereby
repealed.

