## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance (Election to the
Council of States) Rules, 1952

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance (Election to the
Council of States) Rules, 1952

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATIVE-ASSEMBLY-TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-ELECTION-TO-THE-
COUNCIL-OF-STATES-RULES-1952 of 1952

  * Published on 2 March 1952 
  * Commenced on 2 March 1952 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 March 1952.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Travelling Allowance (Election to the Council
of States) Rules, 1952Published vide Notification No. G.O. MS. NO. 886, Public
(Elections), dated 2nd March 1952In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 12(1)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu
Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu is hereby pleased to make the
following rules:-

### 1.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 480, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.] Travelling Allowance (Election to the Council of States) Rules,
1952.(2)These rules shall come into force at once.

### 2.

These rules shall apply only to journeys undertaken by Members of the
Legislative Assembly of the State for the purpose of voting at the election to
fill a seat in the Council of States.

### 3. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 138, Legislative Assembly, dated the 31st October
1978.]

A Member of the Legislative Assembly] of the State who has to leave his usual
place of residence to participate in the poll of the election as aforesaid may
draw travelling allowance from his usual place of residence to the place of
poll and back therefrom and daily allowance for the day of poll at the rates
prescribed in rule 8(a) of the Tamil Nadu [legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 480, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.] Travelling Allowance Rules, 1955:Provided that no allowances under
these rules shall be drawn if the member is entitled to draw any other
allowance from the Government in respect of the same journeys and halt on any
account whatsoever.

