## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-Operative Societies (Appointment of
Special Officers) Act, 1986

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-Operative Societies (Appointment of
Special Officers) Act, 1986

## Act 17 of 1986

  * Published on 17 February 1986 
  * Commenced on 17 February 1986 
  * [This is the version of this document from 17 February 1986.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-Operative Societies (Appointment of Special
Officers) Act, 1986(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1986)Statement of Objects and
Reasons. - The members of the Committees or boards of tire agricultural
service cooperative societies, who were elected prior to 1976, were continuing
as such. The comprehensive Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 and the
rules to be made thereunder will be brought into force soon and the elections
to the agricultural service co-operative societies will be conducted under the
provisions of the said Act and the rules made thereunder.2\. The agricultural
service co-operative societies are the vital cooperative organisations which
play a crucial role in helping the farmers at tire village level. Government
considered that the continuance in office of tire members of the committees or
tire boards of the above societies elected prior to 1976 would not be
conducive to the orderly development of the co-operative movement at the
village level. Government also considered that in order to conduct free and
fair elections to these societies, there should be some agency other than the
members of the committees or the boards who were continuing for about ten
years without any election, to administer these societies. Government,
therefore, decided to appoint Special Officers in the place of the committees
or the boards of the agricultural service co-operative societies for a period
of three months and accordingly the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-
operative Societies (Appointment of Special Officers) Ordinance, 1985 were
promulgated by the Governor on tire 27th September, 1985 and it was published
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th September
1985.3\. As the terms of office of the Special Officers appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 4 of the said Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1985 was due to
expire on the 27th December 1985, the Government decided to extend the term of
office of the Special Officers for a period of six months beyond the 27th
December 1985. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative
Societies (Appointment of Special Officers) Amendment Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 15 of 1985) was promulgated by the Governor on the 25th
December 1985 and it was published in the Tamil nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 26th December 1985.4\. The Bill seeks to replace the
said Ordinance.[Received the assent of the Governor on tire 17th February 1986
and published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 18th February 1986]An Act to provide for the appointment,
in the public interest, of Special Officers for agricultural service co-
operative societies in the-State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas the agricultural
service co-operative societies are vital cooperative organisations which play
a crucial role in helping farmers at the village level;And Whereas no
elections for the committees or the boards of the agricultural service co-
operative societies have been held after the yea r 1975;And Whereas the
continuance of the committees or the boards of such agricultural service co-
operative societies for a long period without elections will not be conducive
to the orderly development and growth of the co-operative movement at the
village level;And Whereas it is expedient to provide for the appointment of
Special Officers for such co-operative societies for a limited period, in the
public interest, to manage the affairs of such co-operative societies and for
the purpose of conducting free and fair elections to the committees or the
boards under the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act
30 of 1983);Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative
Societies (Appointment of Special Officers) Act, 1986.(2)It extends to the
whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 28th September 1985.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"agriculture"
includes horticulture, floriculture, raising of crops (including plantation,
tree crops and garden produce), seed farming and forestry and the word
"agricultural" shall be construed accordingly;(b)"agricultural service co-
operative society" means a primary co-operative society, which has as its
principal object the raising of funds to be lent to its members primarily for
agricultural production, animal husbandry, pisciculture including fish
catching, apiculture and sericulture and all activities incidental or
ancillary thereto or for such other purposes as the Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf, but does not include a financing
bank;(c)"committee" or" "board" means the governing body of an agricultural
service co-operative society to whom the management of its affairs is
entrusted;(d)"Co-operative Societies Act" means the Tamil Nadu Co-operative
Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961) [***] [This Act was repealed
and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 2 983 (Tamil Nadu
Act 30 of 1983).];(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"primary co-
operative society" means a registered society, but does not include-(i)an apex
society, or(ii)a central societyExplanation. - For the purposes of this
clause-(i)"apex society" means a registered society whose area of operation
extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu and which has as its principal
object, the promotion of the principal objects of, and the provision of
facilities for the operations of, other registered societies affiliated to it
and includes any registered society notified by the Government as an apex
society;(ii)"central society" means a registered society whose area of
operation is confined to a part of the State of Tamil Nadu and which has as
its principal object, the promotion of the principal objects of, and the
provision of facilities for the operations of, other registered societies
affiliated to it and includes any registered society notified by the
Government as a central society;(g)words and expressions used and not defined
in this Act but defined in the Co-operative Societies Act shall have the
meaning, respectively, assigned to them in that Act.

### 3. Term of office of members of committee or board of agricultural service
cooperative societies to expire.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Cooperative Societies Act, or in
any other law for the time being in force or in any decree or order of any
Court, tribunal or other authority, the term of office of the members of the
committee or the board, as the case may be, of every agricultural service co-
operative society, including its president and vice-president, or chairman and
vice-chairman or secretary or treasurer (not being a paid employee), as the
case may be, holding office as such immediately before the 28lh September 1985
shall expire on the 28th September 1985 and such members shall vacate their
office on and from the 28th September 1985.

### 4. Appointment of Special Officers.

(1)(a)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Co-operative Societies Act, or
in any other law for the time being in force, or in any decree or order of any
Court, tribunal or other authority, on and from the 28th September 1985, the
Registrar shall appoint Special Officers to manage the affairs of the
agricultural service co-operative societies referred to in section
3.(b)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any Special Officer
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 72 of the Co-operative Societies
Act to manage the affairs of an agricultural service co-operative society and
holding office as such on the 28th September 1985 shall be deemed to be the
Special Officer appointed under clause (a) in respect of that
society.(c)Nothing in this sub-section shall prevent the appointment of the
same person as Special Officer for two or more agricultural service co-
operative societies.(2)Each Special Officer appointed or deemed to be
appointed under sub-section (1) shall hold office upto and inclusive of the
9th day of October, 1990:Provided that if any vacancy arises in the office of
the Special Officer, the vacancy shall be filled up by the Registrar and the
person appointed in the vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the
said period.(3)The Special Officer appointed or deemed to be appointed under
sub-section (1) shall, subject to the control of the Registrar and to such
directions as he may, from time to time, give, have power to exercise all or
any of the functions of the committee or the board, as the case may be, of any
officer of the agricultural service co-operative society and to take such
action as may be required in the interest of such co-operative society.(4)The
Government may fix the remuneration payable to the Special Officer appointed
under sub-section (1) and the amount of remuneration so fixed and such other
expenditure incidental to the management of the agricultural service co-
operative society as may be approved by the Registrar, shall, subject to such
directions as the Government may give in this regard, be payable from the
funds of such co-operative society.(5)The Special Officer appointed or deemed
to be appointed under sub-section (1) shall arrange for the constitution of a
new committee or board, as the ease may be, in accordance with the provisions
of the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983)
and the rules made thereunder and the by-laws of such agricultural service co-
operative society, so that the new committee of board, as the case may be, may
be constituted and the members thereof come into office at the expiry of the
period of appointment of the Special Officer.

### 5. Law on co-operative societies for the time being in force and the rules
made thereunder to apply to Special Officer.

\- Except as otherwise provided in section 4, the provisions of the Co-
operative Societies Act and the rules made thereimder or, as the case may be,
the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies, Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983)
and the rules made thereunder shall apply in relation to a Special Officer
appointed or deemed to be appointed under sub-section (1) of that section as
they apply in relation to a Special Officer appointed under sub-section (1) of
section 72 of the Co-operative Societies Act or, as the case may be, under
sub-section (1) of section 88 of the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act,
1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).

### 6. Delegation of powers of Government.

(1)The Government may, by notification, authorise the Registrar to exercise
any of the powers vested in them under section 4 in respect of all or any of
the agricultural service co-operative societies.(2)The exercise of any power
delegated under sub-section (1) shall be subject to such restrictions and
conditions as may be specified in the notification and subject also to control
and revision by the Government.

### 7. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act.(2)No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against
the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.

### 8. Saving.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to any scheduled co-operative
society specified in Part A, Part B or Part C of the Schedule to the Tamil
Nadu Co-operative Societies (Appointment of Special Officers) Act, 1976
(President's Act 25 of 1976) or any other co-operative society included in
that Schedule under section 8 of that Act.

### 9. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative Societies (Appointment of
Special Officers) Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1985) and the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative Societies (Appointment of Special
Officers) Amendment Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 15 of 1985), are
hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative Societies
(Appointment of Special Officers) Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of
1985), as amended by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative
Societies (Appointment of Special Officers) Amendment Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 15 of 1985), shall be deemed to have been done or taken under
this Act.

