## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997

## Act 7 of 1997

  * Published on 14 February 1997 
  * Commenced on 14 February 1997 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 February 1997.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1997)Statement
of Objects and Reasons. - Ragging in its manifold form has become a menace not
only to the student community particularly to fresh entrants but also it has
got it ramification in the society at large. The administrative actions taken
so far have been found ineffective. It has, therefore, been decided to
prohibit ragging by law. To give effect to the above decision, the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition of Ragging Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 10 of 1996) was
promulgated by the Governor on the 19th December 1996 and the same was
published in the TamilNadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 19th
December 1996.2\. The Bill seeks to replace the above Ordinance.Published in
Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 28th JanuaryReceived the assent of the Governor on the 14th February 1997
and first published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 17th February 1997.An Act to prohibit ragging in
educational institutions in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-eighth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act,
1997.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 19th day of December 1996.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, "ragging" means display
of noisy, disorderly conduct doing any act which causes or is likely to cause
physical or psychological harm or raise apprehension or fear or shame or
embarrassment to a student in any educational institution and
includes,-(a)teasing, abusing of, playing practical jokes on, or causing hurt
to, such student; or(b)asking the student to do any act or perform something
which such student will not in the ordinary course willingly do.

### 3. Prohibition of ragging.

\- Ragging within or without any educational institution is prohibited.

### 4. Penalty for ragging.

\- Whoever directly or indirectly commits, participates in, abets or
propagates "ragging" within or without any educational institution, shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years and shall
also be liable to a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

### 5. Dismissal of student.

\- Any student convicted of an offence under section 4 shall also be dismissed
from the educational institution and such student shall not be admitted in any
other educational institution.

### 6. Suspension of student.

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, whenever any student
complaints of ragging to the head of an educational institution, or to any
other person responsible for the management of the educational institution,
such head of the educational institution or person responsible for the
management of the educational institution shall inquire into the same
immediately and if found true shall suspend the student, who has committed the
offence, from the educational institution.(2)The decision of the head of the
educational institution or the person responsible for the management of the
educational institution that any student has indulged in ragging under sub-
section (1) shall be final.

### 7. Deemed abetment.

\- If the head of the educational institution or the person responsible for
the management of the educational institution fails or neglect to take action
in the manner specified in sub-section (1) of section 6 when a complaint of
ragging is made, such person shall be deemed to have abetted the offence of
ragging and shall be punished as provided for in section 4.

### 8. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the
purposes of this Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless, they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible
after it is made, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if
before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session,
the Assembly makes any modification in any such rule, or the Assembly decides
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 9. Repeal and Saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Ordinance, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance
10 of 1996), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done
or any action taken under the Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under this Act.

