## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PRIVATE-COLLEGES-REGULATION-RULES-1976 of 1976

  * Published on 22 June 1976 
  * Commenced on 22 June 1976 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 June 1976.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976Published vide
Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 1285, Education, dated 22nd June, 1976-No. SRO
A-206 (a) 176In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Tamil
Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 (President's Act 19 of 1976), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules maybe called the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation)
Rules, 1976.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 (President's Act 19 of
1976);(b)"College" means and includes Arts and Science College, Teachers
Training College, Physical Education College, Oriental College, School or
Institute of Social Work and Music College maintained by the educational
agency and approved by, or affiliated to, the University;(c)"Committee" means
the college committee;(d)"Director" means the Director of Collegiate
Education;(e)"Form" means a Form appended to these rules; and(f)"Section"
means a section of the Act.

### 3. Application for permission to establish a college.

(1)(i)Every application for permission to establish a college under section 4
shall be submitted in Form 1 so as to reach the Government in the Department
of Education, Science and Technology not later than the 30th day of September
of the year preceding the academic year in which the college is proposed to be
established.(ii)Every application for permission shall be accompanied by a
copy of the constitution of the educational agency and a receipt from a
Government Treasury for the remittance of the fee specified in sub-rule
(2).(2)The fee for the grant of permission to establish a college shall be
rupees five hundred only and it shall be remitted in a Government Treasury to
the Government account.(3)Every educational agency of a college to be
established shall create the endowment prescribed by the University concerned
and the details of such endowment shall be sent along with the
application.(4)Every application not accompanied by a receipt from a
Government Treasury for the remittance of the fee referred to in sub-rule (2)
and every application received after the due date are liable to be
rejected.(5)The statement under sub-section (3) of section 4 shall be sent in
Form 2 so as to reach the Government not later than the 31st day of July of
that year.

### 4. Grant of permission.

(1)The decision of the Government under section 5 shall be communicated to the
applicant within six months from the last date prescribed for the receipt of
application under sub-section (1) bf section 4.(2)Where the permission to
establish a college is refused, the applicant shall make an application to the
Government for the refund of one half of the fee remitted along with
application.

### 5. Application for approval of transfer, etc., under section 7.

(1)Every application for approval of a change in the Constitution of the
educational agency shall be, in Form 3.(2)Every application for approval of
transfer of management of any college or for the approval of any such transfer
where the transfer was made without prior approval having been obtained for
such transfer, shall be to Form. 4.

### 6. Minority college to send statement.

(1)Every minority college in existence immediately before the 21st day
November 1975 shall send a statement in Form 5 so as to reach the competent
authority not later than the 31st day of July 1976.(2)Every minority college
established and administered after the 21st day of November 1975 and before
the 1st day of June 1976 shall send a statement in Form 5 so as to reach the
competent authority not later than the 31st day of August 1976.(3)Every
minority college established and administered after the 1st day of June 1976
shall send a statement in Form 5 so as to reach the competent authority within
three months from the date of establishment of the college.

### 7. Payment of grant.

(1)Subject to the orders and instructions issued by the Government from time
to time, every college may be paid grants specified in sub-rule (2). No grant
shall be paid to any college, the affiliation/approval of which has been
withdrawn by University concerned for the period of such withdrawal of
affiliation/approval.(2)Subject to such terms and conditions and at such rates
as may be approved by the Government from time to time, grants may be paid to
any college for the purposes of teaching, construction of buildings, purchase
of building site, playground, furniture, books and appliances.(3)Subject to
the provision of sub-section (2) of section 10, the Government may withhold
permanently or for any specified period, the whole or part of any grant, if
any of the conditions specified below or directions or orders issued by the
Government or the Director or his subordinate officers from time to time, are
contravened or not complied with-(a)No educational agency shall collect from
the students, parents or any other person for any purpose whatsoever fees,
donations or subscriptions other than those specified by the competent
authority under section 28;(b)The educational agency shall carry out the
instructions issued by the Government from time to time in the public interest
to ensure that the interest of students belonging to the socially and
educationally backward classes and the linguistic minorities are safe
guarded;(c)The educational agency shall carry out the instructions issued by
the Government or by the Director with a view to maintain academic standards
and to safeguard the interests of the teachers and the students;(d)The
educational agency shall fulfil all the conditions stipulated, at the time of
according permission to establish the college;(e)The college shall be located
in a building which is accessible to all persons, irrespective of caste or
community;(f)The premises of the college or subsidiary building appertaining
to it or a playground or a vacant site belonging to the college whether
adjacent to or remote from it shall ordinarily be used for the purposes of
conducting the college or for functions conducted by such college or for
authorised examinations or for other purposes specifically permitted by the
Director;(g)The committee shall not appoint any teacher who has been duly
declared unfit to be a teacher by the University, or the Director, or whose
certificate has been suspended or cancelled or who has been convicted for
offence involving moral turpitude;(h)The committee shall grant' fee
concessions to students in accordance with the orders issued by the
Government, from time to time.

### 8. Constitution of committee.

(1)The educational agency of every college other than minority college, shall
constitute a committee.(2)The term of office of the members of, the committee
shall be three years. Members of the committee shall be eligible for re-
nomination.(3)The committee shall consist of-(a)representatives of the
educational agency, who shall be nominated by such educational agency:Provided
that no employee of the college shall be nominated under this
category;(b)Principal of the college; and(c)Two senior-most
Professors.Explanation 1. - In case where there is only one Professor that
Professor and one senior-most Assistant Professor/Lecturer and where there is
no Professor, two senior-most Assistant Professors/Lecturers shall be in the
committee.Explanation 2. - For purposes of this rule, the seniority shall be
determined with reference to the total service rendered by the
Professors/Assistant Professors/Lecturers in any college or colleges in the
State of Tamil Nadu.(d)One member nominated by the University
concerned.(4)When a vacancy in category (c) in sub-rule (3) arises, the next
senior-most Professor or Assistant Professor/Lecturer, as the case may be,
shall be nominated to the committee.(5)The educational agency shall nominate
one of its representatives in the committee as the President.(6)No person
shall be eligible to become a member of the committee, if he is-(a)a minor;
or(b)a mentally unsound person; or(c)a person convicted for criminal offence
involving moral turpitude;(d)an insolvent; or(e)a person found responsible for
any serious irregularity as a result of enquiry, by the University or the
Department of Education, Science and Technology.

### 9. Secretary of the committee.

(1)The educational agency shall nominate one of its representatives as
Secretary of the committee:Provided that it shall be open to the educational
agency, to nominate the Principal as Secretary of the committee.(2)The term of
office of the Secretary shall ordinarily be three years. However, he/she shall
be eligible for renomination for subsequent terms. If the educational agency
intends to change the Secretary within the period of three years, it shall do
so only with the prior approval of the Director. Application for approval of
change in the Secretaryship shall be made to the Director in Form 6.(3)The
Secretary shall function for and on behalf of the committee and educational
agency.(4)The Secretary shall act according to the resolutions passed at the
meeting of the committee.(5)The Secretary shall not interfere in the internal
administration of the college such as admission, examination, promotion of
student and other academic matters as also the administration of the special
fee funds, which shall be made the exclusive responsibility of the
Principal.(6)The Secretary shall be responsible for the maintenance, of proper
and accurate accounts and the administration of college funds except special
fee funds.

### 10. Meetings of the committee.

(1)The meetings of the committee shall be convened by the Secretary with the
approval of the President.(2)No meeting of the committee shall be held except
at the premises of the college or the place where the educational agency has
its office, the address of which has been furnished by the educational agency
to the Director.(3)No meeting of the committee shall be conducted unless-(a)at
least seven clear days' notice in writing has been given to the members of the
Committee; and(b)at least fifty per cent of the total number of members of the
committee are present.Explanation. - If the total number of the members of the
committee is an odd number, the next higher even numbers shall be taken for
the purpose of this sub-rule.(4)The minutes of the meeting of the committee
shall be recorded and shall be circulated to the members of the committee. A
copy of the minutes shall be communicated by the Secretary to the Director
within fifteen days from the date of the meeting.(5)Subject to the provisions
of sub-rule (3), the Director may, of his own motion, call for a meeting of
the committee and such meeting shall be held at such place and at such time as
he may direct. If such a meeting could not be conducted for want of quorum, it
shall stand adjourned to the next day at the same time and place and the
number of members present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute the
quorum.

### 11. Conditions of service, etc. of teachers and other persons in college.

(1)The number of teachers employed in a college shall not exceed the number of
posts fixed by the Director, from time to time, with reference to the academic
requirements and norms of work load prescribed by the respective Universities
and overall financial considerations.(1-A) Every private college, not being a
minority college, shall reserve 18 per cent of the vacancies for appointment
as teacher or other employee, for candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes.(1-B) Every private college, not being a minority college,
shall reserve 50 per cent of the vacancies for appointment as teacher or other
employee, for the candidate belonging to the Backward Classes.(1-C) The claims
of members of the Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
shall also be considered for the remaining 32 per cent of unreserved vacancies
which are filled on the basis of merit. Where a candidate belonging to
Backward Classes or Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes is selected on the
basis of merit in the said 32 per cent of the unreserved vacancies, the number
of vacancies reserved for Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes, as the case may be, shall not, in any way, be affected.(1-D) If a
qualified and suitable candidate belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes is not available for selection for
appointment in the turn allotted for them in the cycle, the turn so allotted
to the Backward Classes shall lapse and the vacancy shall be filled by the
next turn in the order of rotation; but the turn so reserved for Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall not lapse the number of candidates to be
selected in that recruitment shall be reduced by the number of Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates not available for the selection against
the turn reserved for them. The unfilled vacancies reserved for Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be carried-over to the next recruitment and
selection for appointment to that post in the next recruitment and selection
made first for the carried over turn and then the normal rotation shall be
followed. If qualified Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes candidates are not
available even then, the carried-over turn shall lapse and the vacancy shall
be filled by the next turn in the order of rotation.(2)(i)The committee of
every college shall enter into an agreement with the teachers in Form 7-A and
with the employees other than teachers in Form 7-C. If the appointment is for
a period not exceeding three months, the agreement shall be made in Form 7-B
in the case of teachers and in Form 7-D in the case of employees other than
teachers.(ii)Four copies of the agreements referred to in clause (i) shall be
executed, one copy shall be furnished to the teacher or the employees other
than teacher, as the case may be, second copy shall be retained by the
committee, the third copy shall be forwarded to the Director and the fourth
copy sha-11 be forwarded to the University concerned. Fresh agreements shall
be executed whenever there is a change of post specified in earlier
agreement.(3)In the case of regular vacancies, a fully qualified candidate
shall be appointed only on a regular basis. However, in a temporary vacancy
arising on account of leave, deputation for training or suspension, etc., a
qualified candidate may be appointed temporarily for a specified period
provided that such teachers services shall not be terminated before the expiry
of the said period.(4)[ (i) Promotions in respect of teaching staff shall be
made on grounds of merit and ability, seniority being considered only where
merit and ability are approximately equal, and in respect of non-teaching
staff, promotions shall be made on seniority basis, provided other conditions,
regarding qualification are satisfied.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 60,
Education (RD), dated the 20th January 1986.](ii)[ The committee shall fill up
the posts by promotion or by direct recruitment. The committee shall, while
making promotion, consider the claims of all the qualified teachers in that
college. If, however, none of the qualified teachers in the college is found
suitable for promotion, the vacancy shall be filled up by direct recruitment
by calling for applications from qualified persons through the Press or by
calling for a list of candidates from the Employment Exchange by following the
rule of reservation ordered by the Government, from time to time, for direct
recruitment.] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1690, Education, dated the 21st
October 1986.]Explanation. - For purposes of this rule, if an educational
agency has established and administered more than one college, then, the
colleges under the control of that educational agency shall be treated as one
unit.(5)Service register shall be maintained for every teacher or other person
' employed in a college in the Form prescribed for Government servants, from
time to time, showing among others, the date of appointment, the scale of pay
on which the teacher or other person employed in a college, was appointed, the
increments given, from time to time, the leave at credit and the leave granted
and other relevant entries such as awards and punishments, etc.(6)The scales
of pay and other allowances of every teacher and other person employed in a
college shall be as approved by the Government, from time to time.(7)Every
teacher and other person employed in a college shall be governed by the leave
rules approved by the Government, from time to time, in respect of
them.(8)Every teacher in a college shall be governed by the rules under the
Teachers Provident Fund Scheme and the committee shall ensure that all the
teachers who are eligible for admission to the said Scheme are admitted to the
Scheme.(9)Every teacher or other person employed in a college shall, subject
to the orders issued by the Government, from time to time, be eligible for
pension.

### 12. Teachers and other persons employed in a college to be covered by Code
of Conduct.

(1)Every teacher and other person employed in a college shall be governed by
the Code of Conduct as set out in Annexure I.(2)Every teacher or other person
employed in a college shall, for violation of any of the provisions of the
Code of Conduct, be liable to disciplinary action and punishment which may
include dismissal, removal, termination of service or reduction in
rank.(3)Every committee shall send to the Director a copy of the standards of
conduct referred to in sub-section (2) of section 18.(4)Violation of any of
the standards of conduct, defined by the committee shall render the teacher or
other person employed in a college liable to disciplinary action and
punishment which shall not, however, include dismissal, removal, termination
of service or reduction in rank.

### 13. Suspension of teachers or other persons employed in colleges.

(1)Whenever a teacher or other person employed in a college is kept under
suspension for gross misconduct, the educational agency shall pay him the
subsistence allowance every month at half the rate of pay which he was drawing
at the time of suspension and in addition to the dearness allowance and other
allowances, admissible on the basis of such pay.(2)Whenever a teacher or other
person employed in a college is kept under suspension, the grant, payable to
the college shall be governed by the following provisions, namely:-(a)Where,
after due enquiry, including the appeal, the suspension is found justified ,
the committee will be entitled to the grant towards the expenditure of
subsistence allowances actually paid to the teacher or other person employed
in the college and such expenditure shall be taken into account as admissible
item for purposes of assessment of grant. Substitutes, if any appointed, may
be taken into consideration for assessment of grant if such substitute is a
qualified person and is within the sanctioned strength of teaching staff as
approved by the Director.(b)Whereas, after due enquiry, including the appeal,
the suspension is found not justified, the committee shall not be entitled to
any grant in respect of the expenditure on the subsistence allowance paid to
the teacher or other person employed in the college. The educational agency
shall, however, pay such teacher or other person the full pay and allowance he
would have drawn but for his suspension. Any substitute appointed in the place
of the said teacher or other person shall not be taken into consideration for
assessment to grant.

### 14. Appeal against the order or punishment imposed on teachers and other
persons employed in colleges.

\- The authority to whom an appeal under section 20 shall lie shall be the
[Director of Collegiate Education] [The words 'Director of Collegiate
Education' was substituted for the word 'Government' by G.O. Ms. No. 1287,
Education, dated the 13th September 1990.].

### 15. Pay and allowances of teachers and other persons employed in college
to be paid in the prescribed form.

\- Every teacher and other person employed in a college shall be paid his pay
and allowances for each month on the first working day of the succeeding
month. Such payments shall be made by cheque or by demand draft and not by
cash, by the Secretary of the committee or in his absence, for any reason
whatsoever, by the person duly authorised by the educational agency.

### 16. [ Closure of private colleges. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 614,
Education, dated the 14th April 1988.]

(1)The notice for closure of a private college or a class or a course of
instruction therein shall be given to the competent authority before the 1st
September of the year preceding the year in which the closure is proposed to
be given effect to. Such notice shall be in Form No. 8.](2)(a)When a college
takes steps to close down a particular class or course of instruction, as the
case may be, it should be ensured that the students who have been already
admitted to such courses are not deprived of the benefit of the continuance of
education in a particular course or class. While the first year classes are
discontinued in a particular year with due approval from the competent
authority, such private colleges should continue to rim the second, and third
year classes of the particular course without any interruption. Similarly, in
the subsequent year when the second year classes are discontinued, such
private colleges should continue to run the third year classes without any
interruption.(b)While applying for closure or discontinuance of a class oj:
course by the private college, the management of such private college should
furnish the names and details of service of the Junior-most teachers and
others who are rendered surplus due to such closure to the competent authority
for consideration for re-deployment of such teachers to the needy colleges.

### 17. Educational agency to send list of properties.

(1)Every educational agency shall, on or before the 1st day of July of each
year commencing from the 1st day of July 1976, send to the competent authority
a statement of all movable properties the value of which, individually is not
less than Rs. 100 (Rupees one hundred only) and where there are more than one
article of the same category, if the total value of such articles exceeds Rs.
500 (Rupees five hundred only) and a statement of all immovable properties.
The statement in respect of immovable property shall contain the following
particulars and it shall be authenticated by the educational agency:-(a)Name
of property.(b)Description, address and location.(c)Area / Extent together
with the survey number.(d)In the case of cultivable land, its classification
and the crops grown.(e)Market value.(f)Financial income derived from the
property.(g)Remarks, if any.Explanation. - A certificate from an officer of
the Revenue Department not lower in rank than that of a Tahsildar shall be
obtained in respect of items (e) and (f) above, at the time of the first
submission of the statement.(2)Whenever there is any change in the movable or
immovable properties, such change should be indicated in the statement.

### 18. Restriction on alienation of property of college.

(1)The movable and immovable properties referred to in rule 17 shall be the
movable and immovable properties for the purpose of section 27.(2)Movable
properties in respect of which permission has been obtained, shall be sold,
only through public auction. Records of such public auction shall be
maintained and submitted for inspection.

### 19. Fees and other charges.

(1)No fees, other than prescribed tuition fee and special fees which are
permitted to be collected or other charges or donation of any kind shall,
except with the prior permission of the competent authority, be collected
either from the students or from parent or from the public.(2)In cases where
the collection of special fees has been specified by the competent authority,
there shall be no deviation from the permitted rate or the purpose for which
such levy is authorised. Separate accounts shall be maintained for such
special fees and utilised amount at the end of the year shall be carried-over
to the next year's account under the same head.

### 20. Utilisation of funds and property of college.

(1)The funds of the college shall be utilised for the bona fide purposes
connected with the college.(2)No educational agency shall divert the funds of
the college from one purpose to another, without the previous permission in
writing of the Director.(3)In cases, where donations are collected with the
previous permission of the competent authority for any specific or earmarked
purposes, they shall be utilised only for such purpose. Balance amount, if
any, shall be credited to the funds of the college.

### 21. Accounts.

(1)Every college shall maintain registers and records specified in Annexure
II.(2)Every college shall keep-the accounts and other records within the
premises of the college. They shall be made available at all reasonable times
for purposes of audit, enquiry or/and inspection by the Director or by any
other person or persons authorised by him in this behalf.(3)The Director or
any other person authorised by him in this behalf shall, at all reasonable
times, have free access to the books, accounts, documents, securities, cash
and other property belonging to, or in the custody of, the college and may
summon any person in possession of, or responsible for, the custody of any
such books, accounts, documents, securities, cash or other property to produce
the same at the college office or at the office of the Director.

### 22. Annual audit for accounts.

(1)Every educational agency of a college shall submit to the Director an
annual financial statement for the period ending with the 31st day of March of
that year and other subsidiary statements as may be prescribed by the
Director, from time to time, not later than the 1st day of July of every year
or within such further time, as may be permitted by the Director. The
statements shall bear the signature of the Secretary of the Committee and the
Principal.(2)The Director shall audit or to be audited by some person
authorised by him by general or special order in writing in this behalf the
financial statements, accounts and other records of the college.(3)(i)The
competent authority shall forward a copy of the report on the audit of the
accounts received under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 34 to the
educational agency.(ii)The period within which the educational agency shall
submit the report under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 34 shall be
30 days from the date of receipt of the report from the competent
authority.(iii)Assessment of grant may be made on the basis of audit report.
The final teaching grant will be sanctioned to the committee after deduction
of the advance grants, if any, paid for that year.

### 23. Appellate authorities under section 37.

\- The authority or officer to whom an appeal under section 37 may be
preferred by any person aggrieved by any order, decision or direction of
competent authority under any provision of the Act shall be as follows:-

Section | Purpose | Authorities  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
7 |  Approval of change in the constitution of aneducational agency or transfer of management of any college. | Director  
19 |  Prior approval for dismissal, removal orreduction in rank of a teacher or other person employed in acollege. | Director of Collegiate Education  
25 |  Closure of a private college, class or course ofinstruction. | Government  
27 | Transfer of property of a college. | Director  
28 |  To specify the levy of any fee or collection ofany charge or payment; | Director  
  
### 24. Deposit with the Tribunal of pay and allowance of teachers and other
persons employed in certain cases.

\- The deposit referred to under sub-section (1) of section 40 shall be made
with the Tribunal at the time of appeal or before the transfer of appeal under
Section 22, as the case may be. The deposit shall be made in cash.

### 25. Reservation of seats in private colleges.

\- There shall be reservation of seats in all private colleges regarding
admission of students at the following ratio, namely:-(a)In respect of aided
college (Non-minority), the management is authorised to fill up students upto
ten per cent as management quota The remaining ninety per cent quota shall be
filled up following the reservation as specified in section 4 of the Tamil
Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of
seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services
under the State) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994).(b)In respect of aided
minority college and unaided college including minority college, the
management is authorised to fill up students upto fifty per cent as management
quota. The remaining fifty per cent quota shall be filled up following the
reservation as specified in section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes,
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational
Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State)
Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1994).

### 26. Procedure for admission of students in Under Graduate/Post-Graduate
courses in private aided Arts and Science Colleges (Non-minority).

(1)The application form for admission of students shall be in the form
approved by the Director.(2)The cost of application form shall be as fixed by
the Government, from time to time.(3)The Director shall announce the date for
issue of applications and fix the last date for the receipt of filled in
applications in the college every year.(4)The receipt of filled in application
shall be acknowledged by the college in a tear-off acknowledgement form.(5)The
Principal shall prepare the list of eligible candidates based on merit-cum-
reservation and shall place it before the Selection Committee.(6)The Selection
Committee consisting of the Principal, two Senior Selection Grade Lecturers of
the College and one Co-opted member of the teaching staff belonging to
Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes of the college shall finalise the
selection list, following the reservation as provided in rule 25. The
Selection Committee shall finalise and approve the selection list within one
week after the last date of receipt of applications is over. The approved
selection list will be displayed on the notice board of the college. A copy of
the approved list shall be sent to the Joint Director of Collegiate Education
of the Region concerned for scrutiny. Based on the approval, the Principal
concerned shall issue admission cards.

### 27. Procedure for admission of students in Under Graduate/Post-Graduate
courses in private unaided Arts and Science (Non-minority) Colleges and for
unaided courses in private aided Arts and Science (Non-minority) Colleges.

(1)The application form for admission of students shall be in the form
approved by the Director and shall be submitted in duplicate.(2)The cost of
application form shall be fixed by the Government, from time to time.(3)The
Director shall announce the date for issue of applications and fix the last
date for receipt of filled-in applications in the college every year.(4)The
application for admission to the fifty per cent of the seats to be filled
according to reservation as mentioned in rule 25 in unaided Arts and Science
Colleges shall be made to the college concerned with a copy marked to the
Joint Director of Collegiate Education of the Region concerned.(5)The receipt
of filled-in applications shall be acknowledged by the college in a tear-off
acknowledgement form.(6)After the last date for receipt of filled in
applications is over, the Principal of the unaided Arts and Science College
shall tabulate the applications and prepare a list of eligible
candidates.(7)The above list of eligible candidates shall be placed before the
Selection Committee.(8)There shall be a separate Selection Committee for each
college.(9)The Selection Committee shall consist of the Joint Director of
Collegiate Education of the Region concerned as Chairman, Principal of the
college concerned as Member-Secretary, two Senior Lecturers from the same
college and one co-opted member of the teaching staff of that college or from
any Government college to be nominated by the Joint-Director of the Collegiate
Education, belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes as members of the
Selection Committee.(10)The Selection Committee shall meet at the head-
quarters of the Joint Director of Collegiate Education of the Region concerned
or at the Principal's office or at mutually convenient place immediately after
the last date of receipt of filled-in applications is over and finalise the
selection list based on the reservation as mentioned in rule 25 for the above
fifty per cent seats and release the selection list within one week. The list
shall be published simultaneously both at the office of Joint Director of
Collegiate Education of the Region concerned and at the college. The selected
applicant shall be intimated the last date for admission by registered
post.(11)The Principal shall admit the students as per the selection list. If
there is any vacancy after the last date for admission, then, the Selection
Committee shall meet again and release the second selection list and, if
necessary, release third selection list and the additional seats, if any,
increased in a particular academic year shall be filled by the Principal on
merit basis following reservation as mentioned in rule 25.Annexure I[See sub-
rule (1) of rule 12 of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules,
1976]Code of Conduct for Teachers and Other Persons Employed in a
College(1)Every teacher or other person employed in a college shall discharge
his duties efficiently and diligently and shall conform to the rules and
regulations.(1-A) It shall be the duty of a teacher or other person employed
in a private college to do any work in connection with an examination
conducted by the University or any college, which he is required to do by the
Vice-Chancellor or the Registrar of the University or by the Principal of the
College, as the case may be.(2)No teacher or other person employed in a
college shall absent himself from his duties without prior permission. In case
of sickness or absence on medical grounds, a medical certificate to the
satisfaction of the college authorities shall be produced within a week.(3)No
teacher or other person employed in a college shall engage directly or
indirectly in any trade or business. In the case of remunerative work like
private tuition, etc., specific sanction of the college authorities in writing
shall be obtained.(4)(a)No teacher or other person employed in a college shall
send any application for employment under any other agency, except through the
committee.(b)The committee shall not withhold any such application. It shall,
however, be open to the committee to prescribe reasonable conditions for
relieving him.(5)When a teacher or other person employed in a college seeks to
accept honorary work without detriment to his duties, prior permission of the
committee in writing shall be obtained.(6)A teacher or other person employed
in a college, when involved in criminal proceedings, shall inform the
committee of such proceedings.(7)No teacher or other person employed in a
college shall engage himself in any political activity. He shall not associate
with any political party or any organisation which takes part in politics or
shall subscribe to, or assist in any other manner, any political
movement.(8)No teacher or other person employed in a college shall contes for
participate in, or canvass for, any election. Such restriction will not,
however, apply to the teachers in respect of elections to the teachers'
constituencies.(9)No teacher or other person employed in a college shall bring
or attempt to bring any political or other influence on his superior authority
in respect of his individual service interests.(10)[ No teacher or other
person employed in a college shall engage himself or participate in any
activity which is anti-secular or which tends to create disharmony in society
or in any demonstration which is prejudicial to the interests of the
sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of Stales, friendly relation
with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or which involves
contempt of Court, defamation or incitement to an offence.] [Substituted by
G.O. Ms. No.1690, Education, dated the 21st October 1986.](11)No teacher or
other person employed in a college shall indulge in any criticism of the
policies of the Government either directly or indirectly or participate in
activities which brings disrepute to the Government.Explanation. - Adoption of
legitimate methods of ventilating grievance shall not be considered as
criticism of the Government.Annexure II[See Rule 21 of the Tamil Nadu Private
Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]List of Registers and Records to be
Maintained by a College

### 1\. Fee receipts.

### 2\. Miscellaneous receipts.

### 3\. Daily fee collection register.

### 4\. Register of miscellaneous collections.

### 5\. Admission and withdrawal register.

### 6\. Term fee register.

### 7\. Students attendance register.

### 8\. Fee concession register.

### 9\. Application for fee concession together with the income certificates
obtained from the competent authority.

### 10\. Register of scholarship holders.

### 11\. Leave registers for scholarship holders.

### 12\. Register showing the accounts of endowments of the college and the
income derived therefrom.

### 13\. Acquittance relating to the various items of scholarships.

### 14\. Departmental cash book.

### 15\. Daily cash book (special fees).

### 16\. Daily cash book (general).

### 17\. Ledger (general).

### 18\. Ledger (special fees).

### 19\. Vouchers (general) (incentives and stamped receipts to be kept
together).

### 20\. Vouchers (special fees) (invoices and stamped receipts to be kept
together).

### 21\. Acquittance roll (teaching staff).

### 22\. Acquittance roll (non-teaching staff).

### 23\. Scale register.

### 24\. Provident fund collection and remittance.

### 25\. Bank pass books (general and special).

### 26\. Acquittance for the refund of tuition fee.

### 27\. Attendance register for teaching staff.

### 28. Attendance register for non-teaching staff.

### 29. Casual leave register (teaching staff).

### 30. Casual leave register (non-teaching staff).

### 31. Register of leave other than casual leave.

### 32. Service Books.

### 33. Agreement entered into between the management and teachers.

### 34. Caution deposit register.

### 35. Postage account and private stamp account.

### 36. Stock registers (general funds).

### 37. Stock registers for laboratory articles, furniture, library books,
games articles, Audio-Visual Aids, etc.

Form 1[See sub-rule (l)(i) of rule 3 of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges
(Regulation) Rules, 1976](To be submitted in triplicate)Application form for
permission to establish a College

### 1\. (a) Name of the proposed college.

(b)Whether the college is intended for men or women or a co-educational
college.(c)Name and address of the educational agency.(d)Name of the
town/village where the college is proposed to be established.

### 2\. Revenue district/taluk and post office.

### 3\. (a) Details of the educational agency which proposes to establish the
college.

(b)Whether it is a registered body ? If so, the details, should be
furnished.(c)Financial status of the educational agency (to be briefly
stated).

### 4\. Names of other colleges in the district in which the proposed college
is to be established and the distance between them and the proposed college.

Name | Distance | Students strength  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
### 5\. Names of high schools within a radius of 15 K.M. from the proposed
college with details of strength of Standard (+2).

Name of High School | Distance | Number of students studying in Standard (+2)  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
|  |   
  
### 6\. Head for the opening of the college in the locality (to be briefly
stated).

### 7\. Courses proposed to be opened:

| Combination of subjects | Number of section  
---|---|---  
|  | Tamil Medium | English Medium  
Humanities | (i) |  |   
| (ii) |  |   
| (iii) |  |   
Sciences | (i) |  |   
| (ii) |  |   
| (iii) |  |   
  
### 8\. The amenities available to students and teachers.

### 9\. Endowment-

(a)Total amount/value of the endowments to be created for the proposed college
as per requirements of the . University.(b)Details of the endowment, proposed
to be created by the educational agency-(i)Cash (in deposits)
(amount).(ii)Properties (details) (value of properties).

### 10\. Site, number of hectares of lands owned by the educational agency for
the proposed college.

Survey No. | Extent in hectare  
---|---  
|  
  
### 11\. Buildings-

(a)Whether the college is proposed to be established in temporary
building/permanent buildings?(b)If permanent buildings are to be constructed,
amoimt set apart by the educational agency for this purpose.(c)Whether three
copies of sketch plans of the buildings are enclosed ?

### 12\. Details of other non-recurring items of expenditure and how it is
proposed to be met by the educational agency-

| Amount required (Rs.) |  Amount provided for by the educational agency(Rs.)  
---|---|---  
(a) Hostel buildings. |  |   
(b) Laboratory buildings. |  |   
(c) Furniture. |  |   
(d) Laboratory equipments. |  |   
Chemistry. |  |   
Physics. |  |   
Natural Science. |  |   
(e) Library Books. |  |   
(f) Other facilities for instructions. |  |   
  
### 13\. (a) Details of recurring items of expenditure on staff contingencies,
etc.

| Amount required for the first year (Rs.) |  Amount provided for by the educational agency(Rs.)  
---|---|---  
(i) Teaching staff |  |   
(ii) Non-teachingstaff. |  |   
(iii) Contingencies. |  |   
  
(b)Whether the financial position of the educational agency is sound enough to
meet the entire recurring expenditure for a year, as no grant is payable to
the college during the first year.

### 14\. Whether the University has been addressed for affiliation ? If so,
whether copy of the same has been enclosed.

### 15\. Whether the challan for the fees prescribed is enclosed (if so, the
number and date of challan with amount remitted maybe specified).

DeclarationI hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are
correct.PlaceDate:...........................................Signature of the
person duly authorised by the Educational Agency.Form 2[See sub-rule (5) of
rule 3 of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Statement
of Particulars in Respect of Existing College

### 1\. (a) Name of the centre (in block letters) where the college is
situated.

(b)Name of the college and the name and address of the educational
agency.(c)The medium of instruction.

### 2\. Revenue district, taluk, post office.

### 3\. Is the educational agency a registered body if so, the details should
be furnished.

### 4\. Whether the centre where the college is situated lies in-

(a)Taluk Headquarters, Town (or)(b)Municipality/Township (or)(c)Panchayat
Union area (or)(d)Rural area not coming under any of the above categories.

### 5\. Details of the courses existing at present.

### 6\. (a) Courses with sanctioned and admitted strength.

(b)Reference number and date or orders in which affiliation has been accorded
to college/course.

### 7\. Details regarding the accommodation and other amenities for students
and teachers provided for by the college-

(a)A rough sketch showing the accommodation for class room, laboratory, etc.,
duly marked should be enclosed.(b)Whether the building is a pucca or a tiled
one.(c)Owned or rented or rent-free.(d)Extent of area available for each
class, laboratory, etc.

### 8\. Sanitary facilities-

Whether separate latrines and urinals are provided for teachers and students
(Boys and Girls separately).

### 9\. Playground-

(i)Owned/leased,(ii)Extent.

### 10\. Garden - Extent.

### 11\. Equipment - Details of -

(1)Furniture.(2)Teaching aids, maps, charts,
etc.(3)Library.(4)Laboratory.(5)Miscellaneous

### 12\. (a) Details of movable and immovable properties owned by the
educational agency with the value thereof.

(b)Income from endowment.(c)Income from other sources.

### 13\. Name of the Secretary.

### 14\. Particulars of the staff (Teaching and non-teaching).

SI. No. | Name of the teachers or other persons | Qualification | Date of birth | Pay | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Designation | General | Professional  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
DeclarationI hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are
correct.Place:Date:................................Signature of the personduly
authorised by the Educational Agency.Form 3[See sub-rule (1) of rule 5 of the
Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Application for Approval
of the Change in the Constitution of a College

### 1\. Details of constitution.

### 2\. Details of constitution proposed to be revised or modified.

### 3\. Reasons for such revision or modification.

### 4\. Date from which the original constitution is in existence.

### 5\. Date from which the changes in constitution have to be given effect.

### 6\. Whether a copy of the resolution of the educational agency for the
change is enclosed.

Place: Date:....................... Signature of the personduly authorised by
the Educational Agency.Form 4[See sub-rule (2) of rule 5 of the Tamil Nadu
Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Application For Approval of the
Change of the Educational Agency

### 1\. Name of the college with full address.

### 2\. The taluk and district in which it is situated.

### 3\. Particulars regarding the grant of permission to start the college.

### 4\. Name of the educational agency which maintain the college.

### 5\. Name of the educational agency to which the college is proposed to be
transferred.

### 6\. Whether a resolution of the new educational agency, and that of the
old educational agency agreeing for the transfer of the college are enclosed ?

### 7\. Reasons for the transfer.

### 8\. Whether the transferee is agreeable to comply with the provisions of
the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 and the rules made
thereunder ?

### 9\. Whether the transferee is agreeable to run the college with the
present teachers and other persons employed in the college on the same
conditions of service ?

### 10\. Details of non-payment of salary, if any, to the teachers or other
persons employed in the college.

### 11\. Whether any orders issued by the Educational Department are pending
implementation by the transferor ?

### 12\. Whether any disciplinary action has been taken against the new agency
or any member of the committee by the Education Department, if so, the details
thereof?

### 13\. (i) Dale of application.

(ii)Date of transfer, if it is a case falling under clause (c) of sub-section
(1) of section 7.Signature of the person duly authorised by the education
agency transferring the management Signature of the person duly authorised by
the educational agency to whom the management is transferred.Declaration to be
Furnished by the TransferorI, ............................, acting for and on
behalf of the educational agency hitherto recognised as an approved
educational agency of the college, do hereby declare that I have handed over
the college together with building requirements, records, etc., to
(transferee) (the new educational agency).I also declare that all our rights
over the college have ceased from.Place:Date:Signature of the person duly
authorisedby the Educational Agency transferring the College.Declaration to be
Furnished by the TransfereeI, ........., acting for and on behalf of .........
the educationalagency, do hereby declare that we have taken up the college
from......... educational agency. We bind ourselves to discharge the legal
claims and liabilities against the previous educational agency. We also
declare that we shall comply with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Private
Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 and the rules made
thereunder.Place:Date:Signature of the personduly authorised by the
transferee.Form 5[See rule 6 of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation)
Rules, 1976]Statement of Particulars to be Furnished by the Minority College

### 1\. Name of the college and postal address (in block letters).

### 2\. Name of the centre where the minority college is situated.

### 3\. (a) Revenue district, taluk, town or village.

(b)Name of the educational agency of the college body, if so, the details
should be furnished.(c)Whether the educational agency is a registered
?(d)Whether the educational agency is a religious or linguistic minority ?

### 4\. The minority purported to be served by the educational agency.

### 5\. The medium of instruction.

### 6\. The dale of opening of the college.

### 7\. Details of courses/sections now functioning with sanctioned and
admitted strength each.

Course | Major | Ancillary subject | Sanctioned strength | Admitted  
---|---|---|---|---  
Major | Ancillary | Major | Ancillary  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
### 8\. Details of accommodation in the college (a rough sketch should be
enclosed)

Buildings | Number of rooms | Area of each room |  Number of students that can be accommodatedfor study purposes  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
  
(1)Classrooms.(2)Laboratory.(3)Hostel.

### 9\. Details regarding the playground, sanitary facilities, etc.

### 10\. Details of furniture (class rooms and laboratory and equipment in
laboratory, etc.)

### 11\. Particulars regarding the staff and other persons employed in the
college-

(i)Teaching staff-

Department | Name of the teacher and designation | Age and date of birth |  Qualification (both general and professionalwith major subject and class obtained) | Total service | Date of first appointment in the college  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
(ii)Persons other than teaching staff-

Name | Designation | Age and date of birth | Qualification (with general and professional) | Date of first appointment in the college  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
|  |  |  |   
  
### 12\. Whether the educational agency has created endowment as required by
the University concerned or purposes to create endowment and, if so, the
details to be furnished.

### 13\. Whether the college has any other sources of income and, if so,
details may be furnished.

### 14\. Population of the centre and also the contiguous places from where
students might seek admission (particulars of men and women shall be furnished
separately).

### 15\. (a) Names of other colleges in the locality.

(b)Distance of such colleges from the minority college.DeclarationI,
.................................................. , hereby certify that the
particulars furnished above are correct.Place:
Date:..................................Signature of the person duly authorised
by the Educational Agency.Form 6[See sub-rule (2) of rule 9 of the Tamil Nadu
Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Application for Approval of Changes
in Secretaryship

### 1\. Name of the college.

### 2\. Name of the approved secretary.

### 3\. Name of the new secretary.

### 4\. Reasons for change of secretaryship.

### 5\. Whether a copy of resolution of the educational agency approving the
new secretary is enclosed.

### 6\. Date from which the change of secretaryship takes effect.

Declaration by the Incoming SecretaryI, ............, hereby declare that I
have taken charge of the secretaryship of the college with effect from
.......... and that I have received from the previous secretary all the
relevant records, cash, etc. Place:Date:Signature.Form 7-A[See sub-rule (2)(i)
of rule 11 of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Form of
Agreement to be Executed by a College Committee of a College in Respect of
Permanent TeachersAgreement made this ......... day of
............................... Two thousand ................ between the
college committee of ........................................ college of the
one part and............. teacher) of the other part;Whereas the college
committee has agreed to engage the said Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi hereinafter
referred to as the said teacher to serve in the ................ college in
the capacity of a teacher and on the pay and allowance hereinafter
mentioned.Now these witness and the parties herein do hereby agree as
follows:-

### 1\. That the college committee shall employ the said teacher as a in the
college at from the date of his/her taking charge of such appointment until
such employment is determined as hereinafter provided.

### 2\. That the said teacher shall be on probation for a period of not less
than two years from the date of taking charge of his/her appointment. The
college committee may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the
period of probation to a further period not exceeding one year.

If so, orders extending the period of probation are passed in writing within
six months after the period of probation, the said teacher shall be deemed to
have completed his/her probation.

### 3\. (a) That the said teacher shall employ himself/herself honestly,
efficiently and diligently under the orders and instructions ? of the
Principal or college committee of the said college.

(b)If the said teacher is a Principal, he/she shall in that capacity is
responsible for the internal management of the college and the academic work
of the college and exercise such powers as may be necessary for the due
discharge of his/ her duties.

### 4\. That the said teacher shall not normally or on any pretext absent
himself/ herself from his/her duties without the previous permission of the
Principal, and if he/she is a Principal, without the prior permission of the
college committee. In case of sickness or other inevitable causes, he/she
shall forward a proper medical certificate or communication explaining the
extraordinary circumstances to the Principal or if the said teacher is a
Principal, he/she shall send such communication to the college committee.

### 5\. That the said teacher shall, during the tenure of employment, devote
his/ her attention to the duties of his/her employment and shall not on
his/her own account or otherwise either directly or indirectly carry on or to
be concerned in any trade, business or canvassing work, private tuition or the
like, of a remunerative nature without the specific sanction of the college
committee in writing in that behalf.

### 6\. That the said teacher and the college committee shall conform to all
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 and
the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976.

### 7\. (a) That the college committee shall not dismiss, remove or reduce in
rank or terminate the services of the said teacher without informing him/her
in writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and shall follow
the following procedure before taking any final decision regarding the
punishment to be imposed on him/her and giving him/her in writing reasonable
time to send his/her explanation to the college committee.

(b)After considering his/her explanation, the college committee shall
communicate to him/her its findings and, if so, desired by the said teacher
conduct a personal hearing or enquiry, wherein he/she shall be given the
opportunity to examine or cross-examine or any of the witnesses and also
produce witnesses.(c)After the conduct of the personal hearing or enquiry by
the college committee, the report of such personal hearing or enquiry shall be
furnished to the said teacher and a notice shall be issued to him/her setting
but the proposed punishment and he/she shall be given a reasonable time to
submit the statement of defence against the proposed punishment.(d)After the
receipt of the statement of defence from him/her and after taking it into
consideration, the college committee shall inform him/her in writing about its
final decision.

### 8\. It shall be open to the college committee, at any time, if satisfied
on medical evidence that the said teacher is unfit to discharge his/her duties
for reasons of ill health, to terminate his/ her services, on paying him/her
three months pay and allowances less any amount which might have been paid to
him/her as leave salary after the date of his/her last appearance in the
college for the regular discharge of his/her duties and subject to a minimum
of one month's full pay and allowances.

### 9\. That the said teacher shall be entitled to have his/her services
terminated either by giving to the college committee three months' notice
thereof in writing or by paying the college committee three months' pay and
allowances in lieu of such notice if he/she is a permanent teacher. In the
case of a teacher who is not permanent, the period of notice shall be two
months and the amount payable in lieu thereof shall be two months' pay and
allowances.

### 10\. That the college committee may impose major punishments such as
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank or termination of service or any of
the following minor punishments on the said teacher for any irregularity,
namely::-

(i)censure,(ii)withholding of increment, with or without cumulative
effect,(iii)recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the monetary value
equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld where such an
order cannot be given effect to.Entries shall be made in the service register
of the said teacher only in respect of penalties other than censure. Such
entries shall be made only after the appeal, if any, preferred by the said
teacher, is disposed of by the competent appellate authorities specified in
the rules.

### 11\. That the said teacher shall be paid a sum of Rs. .............. per
mensem in the scale of pay of Rs. ........ with effect from ....... and other
allowances granted by Government, from time to time. Such teacher shall be
entitled to increment indicated in the said scale.

### 12\. Any permanent teacher whose certificate is suspended on a temporary
measure or who is declared unfit to hold the post for a temporary period,
shall have a right for reinstatement in service in the college in which he was
working prior to his/her relief, on the expiry of the terms of his/her
punishment.

The college committee shall reinstate him/her in the post which he/she held
before such punishment was imposed.In witness whereof .......... the Secretary
of the college committee and Thiru .................... have hereunto set
their hands on the day, month and year first written above.Signed by the
said........Signature of the Secretary of the College Committee.In the
presence of-(1)First witness-SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationSigned by the said.........(teacher)Signature of
the Teacher.In the presence of-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationForm 7-B[See sub-rule-(2) (i) of rule 11 of the
Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976.]Form of Agreement to be
Executed by the College Committee of a Private College in Respect of the
Temporary TeachersAgreement made this day of Two
thousand...................between the college committee of college of the One
Part and (teacher) hereinafter referred and as the "said teacher" of the Other
Part;Whereas the college committee has offered to engage the said
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi ................. to serve in the ..............
college in the capacity of the teacher and on a purely temporary basis and on
the pay and allowance hereinafter sanctioned;And whereas the said
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi has accepted the offer to serve as a teacher in the
college;Now these present witness and the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:-

### 1\. That the college committee shall employ the said teacher and the said
teacher shall serve as a teacher in the college at purely on a temporary basis
from the date of his/her taking charge of his/her appointment until such
appointment is determined as hereinafter provided.

### 2\. (a) That the said teacher shall employ himself/herself honestly,
efficiently and diligently under the order and instructions of the Principal
of the college.

(b)If the employee is a Principal, he/she shall, in that capacity be
responsible for the internal management of the college and the academic work
of the college and shall exercise such powers as may be necessary for the due
discharge of his/her duties.

### 3\. That the said teacher will not normally or on any pretext absent
himself/ herself from his/her duties without the prior permission of the
Principal and if he/she is a Principal, without the prior permission of the
college committee. In case of sickness or other inevitable cause, he/she shall
forward proper medical certificate, or communication explaining the
extraordinary circumstances to the Principal. If the said person is a
Principal, he/she will send such communication to the college committee.

### 4\. That the said teacher shall, during the tenure of employment, devote
his/ her attention to the duties of the said employment and shall not on
his/her own account or otherwise either directly or indirectly carry on or be
concerned in any trade, business, or canvassing work, private tuition or the
like of a remunerative nature without the specific sanction of the college
committee in writing in their behalf.

### 5\. That college committee shall have the right to discharge the said
teacher without assigning any reasons at the end of the specific period for
which he/she has been engaged as a temporary teacher.

### 6\. That the said teacher and the college committee shall conform to all
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976 and
the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976.

### 7\. That the said teacher shall be entitled to relinquish his/her
appointment at the end of the specific period for which he/she has been
appointed or earlier if he/she so desires.

### 8\. That the said teacher shall be paid a sum of Rs monthly as pay and
other allowances with effect from the date of his/her taking charge as such
teacher.

In witness whereof the Secretary of the College Committee and the said teacher
have hereunto set their hands on the day, month and year first written
above.(Secretary)Signed by the said ....... Signature of the Secretary of the
College Committee.In the presence of-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationSigned by the said..........(teacher)Signature
of the Teacher.In the presence of-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationForm 7-C[See sub-rule (2)(i) of rule 11 of the
Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Form of Agreement to be
Executed by a College Committee of a College in Respect of Employees Other
than TeachersAgreement made day of Two thousand between the college committee
.................. College of the One Part and ............. (employee) of the
other part;Whereas the college committee has agreed to engage the said
Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi (hereinafter referred to as the "said employee") to
serve in the college in his/her capacity of a (name of the post to be
inserted) and on the pay and allowances hereinafter mentioned.Now these
present witness and the parties hereunto hereby agree as follows:-

### 1\. That the college committee shall employ the said employee as a in the
college at ............ from the date of his/her taking charge of such
appointment until such employment is determined as hereinafter provided.

### 2\. That the said employee shall be on probation for a period of not less
than one year from the date of taking charge of his/her appointment. The
college committee may, for reasons to be recorded in writing extend the period
of probation to a further period of not exceeding one year.

If no orders extending the period of probation are passed in writing within
six months after the period of probation, the said employee shall be deemed to
have completed his/her probation.

### 3\. That the said employee shall employ himself/herself honestly,
efficiently and diligently under the orders and instructions of the Principal
or College Committee of the said college.

### 4\. That the said employee shall not normally or on any pretext absent
himself/herself from his/her duties without the previous permission of the
Principal. In case of sickness or other inevitable cases, he/she shall forward
a proper medical certificate or communication explaining the extraordinary
circumstances to the Principal.

### 5\. That the said employee shall, during the tenure of employment, devote
his/her attention to the duties of his/her employment and shall not on his/her
own account or otherwise either directly or indirectly carry on or to be
concerned in any trade, business or canvassing work, of a remunerative nature
without the specific sanction of the college committee in writing in that
behalf.

### 6\. That the said employee and the college committee shall conform to all
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976
(President's Act 19 of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation)
Rules, 1976.

### 7\. (a) That the college committee shall not dismiss, remove, reduce in
rank or terminate the services of the said employee without informing him/her
in writing of the grounds on which they intend to take action and shall follow
the following procedure before taking any final decision regarding the
punishment to be imposed on him/her and giving him/her in writing reasonable
time to send his/her explanation to the college committee.

(b)After considering his/her explanation, the college committee shall
communicate to him/her its findings and if so desired by the/said employee,
conduct a personal hearing or enquiry wherein he/she shall be given the
opportunity to examine or cross examine any of the witnesses and also produce
witnesses.(c)After the conduct of the personal hearing or enquiry by the
college committee, the report of such personal hearing or enquiry shall be
furnished to the said employee and a notice shall be issued to him/her setting
out the proposed punishment and he/she shall be given a reasonable time to
submit the statement of defence against the proposed punishment.(d)After the
receipt of the statement of defence from him/her after taking into
consideration the committee shall inform him/her in writing about its final
decision.

### 8\. It shall be open to the college committee, at any time, if satisfied
on medical evidence that the said employee is unfit to discharge his/her
duties for reasons of ill health, to terminate his/her services, on paying
him/her three months' pay and allowances less any amount which might have been
paid to him/her as leave salary after the date of his/her last appearance in
the college for the regular discharge of his/her duties and subject to a
minimum of one month's full pay and allowances.

### 9\. That the said employee shall be entitled to have his/her services to
terminated either by giving to the college committee three months' notice
thereof in writing or by paying the college committee there months' pay and
allowances in lieu of such notice.

### 10\. That the college committee may impose major punishments, such as
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank or termination of service or any of
the following minor punishments on the said employee for any irregularity,
namely:-

(i)Censure;(ii)withholding of increment, with or without cumulative
effect;(iii)recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the monetary value
equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld where such an
order cannot be given effect to. Entries shall be made in the service register
of the said employee only in respect of penalties other than censure. Such
entries shall be made only after the appeal, if any, preferred by the said
employee is disposed of by the competent appellate authorities specified in
the rules.

### 11\. That the said employee shall be paid a sum of Rs per mensem in the
scale of pay of Rs with effect from ................ and other allowances
granted by Government, from time to time. Such employee shall be entitled to
increments according to the said scale of pay.

### 12\. Any employee who is suspended on a temporary measure or who is
declared unfit to hold the post for a temporary period, shall have a right for
reinstatement in service in the college in which, he was working prior to
his/her relief, on the expiry of the term of his/her punishment.

The college committee shall reinstate him/her in the post which he /she held
before such punishment was imposed.

### 13\. This agreement is always subject to modifications as maybe made by
the college committee in pursuance of any rule, regulation, or order of the
authorities of the University or any other law for the time being in force
now.

In witness whereof the Secretary of the College Committee and Thiru .......
have hereunto set their hands on the day, month and year first written
aboveSigned by the said ......................Signature of the Secretary of
the College Committee.In the presence of:-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationSigned by the said
..............(employee)Signature of the employee.In the presence of:-(1)First
witness-SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second Witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationForm 7-D[See sub-rule 2(i) of rule 11 of the
Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Rules, 1976]Form of Agreement to be
Executed by the College Committee of a College in Respect of the Temporary
Employee other than TeachersAgreement made this ........ day of ......... Two
thousand ...... between the college committee College of the One Part and
............. (employee) of the other part;Whereas the college committee has
agreed to engage the said Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi ......... (hereinafter
referred to as the "said employee") to serve in the college in ............
his/her capacity of a on a temporary basis and on the pay and allowances
hereinafter mentioned.And Whereas the said Thiru/Thirumathi/Selvi
................ has accepted the offer to serve as a in the college;Now these
present witness and the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:-

### 1\. That the college committee shall employ the said employee and the said
employee shall serve as a in the college at .............. on a temporary
basis from the date of his/her taking charge of his/her appointment for a
period of month from the date of taking charge or until such appointment is
determined as hereinafter provided.

### 2\. That the said employee shall employ himself/herself honestly,
efficiently and diligently under the order and instructions of the principal
of the College.

### 3\. That the said employee will not normally or on any pretext absent
himself/ herself from his/her duties without the prior permission of the
Principal. In case of sickness or other inevitable causes, he/she shall
forward proper medical certificate or communication explaining the
circumstances to the principal.

### 4\. That the said employee shall, during the tenure of his/her employment,
devote his/her attention to the duties of the said employment and shall not,
on his/her own account or otherwise, either directly or indirectly carry on or
be concerned in any trade, business or canvassing work, or the like of a
remunerative nature without the specific sanction of the college committee in
writing in that behalf.

### 5\. That the college committee shall have the right to discharge the said
employee without assigning any reason at the end of the stipulated period of
months from the date of taking charge, for which he/she has been engaged
temporarily.

### 6\. That the said employee and the college committee shall conform to all
the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act, 1976
(President's Act 19 of 1976) and the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation)
Rules, 1976.

### 7\. That the said employee shall be entitled to relinquish his/her
appointment at the expiry of the period for which he/she has been appointed or
with the consent of the College Committee at any time earlier if he/she so
desires.

### 8\. That the said employee shall be paid a sum of Rs monthly as pay and
other allowances with effect from the date of his/her taking charge as such.

In witness whereof ...................................., the Secretary of the
College Committee and the said employee have hereunto set their hands on the
day, month and year first written above.Signed by the said
.................(Secretary)Signature of the Secretary of the College
Committee.In the presence of:-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationIn the presence of:-(1)First witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupation(2)Second witness-
SignatureNameAddressOccupationSigned by the said (employee)Signature of the
employee.Form 8[See sub-rule (1) of rule 16]Application Form For Permission to
the Closure of College/courses/classes

### 1\. (i) Name of the College.

(ii)Name and address of the educational agency.

### 2\. Details of the courses existing at present.

### 3\. (i) College/Course with sanctioned and admitted strength (I, II and
III year) for which permission is requested for the closure.

(ii)Reference number and date of orders, in which affiliation has been
accorded to course(s) by the University.(iii)Reference number and date of
orders, in which the course(s) has been admitted to grant-in-aid.

### 4\. Reasons for the closure of college/course(s)/class.

### 5\. The details of alternative arrangements made for continuance of the
instructions of the students in the course to which they have been admitted.

### 6\. The year from which the college/course(s) is proposed to be closed.

### 7\. The details of the staff, who will be rendered surplus due to the
closure of the college/course with their designation, date of appointment.

### 8\. The names of the colleges situated within a radius of 10 KMs. and the
courses offered in those colleges.

### 9\. Details of property including cash endowment endowed to the
course/class.

### 10\. Details of proposal for the utilisation of the above said
endowment/college building for the educational purpose.

### 11\. Details of other properties including the contributions and donations
from the public to the college.

### 12\. Details of proposal for the utilisation of the above said property.

### 13\. The details of Government grant, if any, (including, building,
laboratory, etc.) received for the said course.

### 14\. The details of the grants of the University Grants Commission or
other grants any, if (with full details) received for the said course.

### 15\. Whether the resolution of college committee and educational agency to
the closure of the college/ course/class has been enclosed.

DeclarationI hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are
correct........................................Signature of the person duly
authorised by the Educational Agency.

