## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1973

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1973

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LABOUR-WELFARE-FUND-RULES-1973 of 1973

  * Published on 4 September 1973 
  * Commenced on 4 September 1973 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 September 1973.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1973Published vide Notification No. G.
O. Ms. No. 569, Labour and Employment, dated 4th September, 1973 - S.R.O. No.
A-744(a) of 1973G. O. Ms. No. 569, Labour and Employment, dated 4th September,
1973 - S.R.O. No. A-744(a) of 1973. - In exercise of the powers conferred by
subsection (1) of section 41 of the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972
(Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1972), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Rules,
1973.(2)These rules extend to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context-(a)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1972);(b)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules;(c)"section" means a section of the Act;(d)words and expressions not
defined in these rules shall have the meanings assigned to them under the Act.

### 3. Payment of fines and of unpaid accumulations by employer.

(1)Within fifteen days from the date on which the Act shall come into force in
this State, every employer shall pay by cheque, money order or cash to the
Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board-(a)all fines including the amounts
realised under Standing Order 20 of the Model Standing Orders issued under the
Tamil Nadu Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1947, from the
employees before the said date and remaining unutilised on that date;
and(b)all deductions made under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 9 of
the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act IV of 1936) from the wages of
employees before the said date and remaining unutilised on that date;
and(c)all unpaid accumulations held by the employer on the aforesaid
date.(2)The employer shall, along with such payment, submit a statement to the
Secretary of the Board giving full particulars of the amoimts so
paid.(3)Thereafter, all fines realised and deductions made from the wages of
the employees and all unpaid accumulations during the quarters ending 31st
March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December, shall be paid by the
employer in the manner aforesaid to the Secretary of the Board on or before
15th April, 15th July, 15th October and 15th January, succeeding such quarter
and in a statement giving particulars of the accounts so paid shall be
submitted by him along with such payment to the Secretary of the Board.

### 4. Notice for payment of fine and unpaid accumulation by the Secretary.

\- The Secretary may, after making such enquiries as he may deem fit and after
calling for a report from the Inspector, if necessary, serve a notice as
required under section 14 of the Act on any employer to pay any portion of
fines realised or deductions made from the wages of the employees or unpaid
accumulations held by him which the employer has not paid in accordance with
rule 3.

### 5. Particulars of unpaid accumulations to be published under section 13.

\- The notice referred to in sub-section (3) of section 13 shall contain the
following particulars, namely:-(1)Name and address of the establishment in
which the unpaid accumulation was earned.(2)Wage period during which the
unpaid accumulation was earned.(3)Amount of the unpaid accumulations.(4)A
declaration that a list containing the names of employees and the amount due
to them and paid to the Board has been pasted on the notice board of the
factory or establishment in which the unpaid accumulation was earned.

### 6. Remission of penalty.

(1)Applications for remission of penalty shall be made to the Secretary within
thirty days from the date of payment of penalty and shall clearly specify the
grounds on which the remission is claimed.(2)Where the Secretary is satisfied
that the penalty imposed is likely to cause undue hardship to the employer
concerned or that the employer has suffered financially on account of riots,
or through natural calamities or that delay caused in the payment of unpaid
accumulations fines was due to circumstances beyond his control, the Secretary
may remit in part or whole the penalty payable under sub-section (2) of
section 14:Provided that if the amount of penalty to be remitted exceeds Rs.
500, the remission shall not be made without the prior sanction of the Board.

### 7. Maintenance and audit of accounts.

\- The accounts of the funds shall be prepared and maintained by the Accounts
Officer of the Board in such form as may be prescribed by the Examiner of
Local Fund Accounts, [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City
of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], and
shall be audited by him once a year. The Secretary of the Board shall be
responsible for the disposal of the audit note.

### 8. Budget of the Board.

(1)The Budget estimates for each financial year shall be prepared and laid
before the Board on or before the 1st day of December, of the previous
financial year and after it is approved by the Board, shall be forwarded to
the State Government for approval on or before the 15th December. The State
Government shall approve the budget before the 15th January, after making such
amendment and alterations as it considers necessary.(2)The budget thus amended
or altered and approved shall constitute the budget of the Board for ensuing
financial year and shall be issued under the seal of the Board and signed by
the officer or officers of the Board duly authorised in this behalf. An
authenticated copy of budget shall be forwarded to the State Government before
the 28th February.

### 9. Additional expenditure.

\- If during the course of the financial year, it becomes necessary to incur
expenditure over and above the provision made in the budget, the Board shall
immediately submit to the State Government the details of the proposed
expenditure, and specify the manner in which it is proposed to meet the
additional expenditure. The State Government may, either approve the proposed
expenditure after making such modifications as it considers necessary or
reject it. A copy of the order passed by the State Government on every such
proposal to incur additional expenditure shall be communicated to the Board
and to the Examiner of Local Fund Accounts, [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu
Act 28 of 1996).].

### 10. Application for grant from fund.

\- Any local authority or any other body may make an application to the
Secretary for a grant under sub-section (3) of section 17 of the Act. Such
application shall be placed by the Secretary before the Board within a month
of its receipt with his remarks and the recommendations of the Board shall be
forwarded to the State Government by the Secretary for obtaining the approval
of the State Government.

### 11. Mode of payment.

\- All payments from the fund amounting to-(a)less than Rs. 50 may be made in
cash;(b)Rs. 50 or more shall be made by cheque issued by the
Secretary:Provided that the Board may, in any particular case for special
reasons, authorise such payment also in cash.

### 11A. [ Rate of contribution. [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 67, Labour and
Employment, dated the 28th May 1996.]

\- Every employee shall contribute a sum of [rupees ten] per year to the fund
and every employees shall, in request of each such employee contribute a sum
of [rupees twenty] [Substituted for 'rupees fourteen' by SRO A-l(a)/2015, vide
GO Ms. No. 16, Labour and Employment (G2), dated 20.1.2015, published dated
23.1.2015.] per year to the fund. The Government shall in respect of each such
employee contribute a sum of [rupees ten] [Substituted for 'rupees seven' by
SRO A-l(a)/2015, vide GO Ms. No. 16, Labour and Employment (G2), dated
20.1.2015, published dated 23.1.2015.] per year to the fund.]

### 12. Payment of contributions.

(1)Every employer shall pay to the Board both the Employer's contribution and
the Employees' contribution payable under section 15 of the Act for every year
before the 31st July of that year. The employee shall recover from the
employees whose names are borne on the registers of his establishment on the
30th June of the year, the employee's contribution from his wages for the
month of June, of that year and such deductions shall be deemed to be
deductions authorised by or under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (Central Act
I of 1936).Provided that no such deduction shall be made in excess of the
amount of the contribution payable by such employee or shall it be made from
any wages other than the wages for the month of June:Provided further that, if
through inadvertence or otherwise, no deduction has been made from the wages
of an employee for the month aforesaid, such deduction may be made from the
wages of such employee for any subsequent month or months with the permission
in writing of the Inspector appointed under this Act.(2)Notwithstanding any
contract to the contrary, no employer shall deduct the employer's contribution
from any wages payable to an employee or otherwise recover it from the
employee.(3)An employer shall pay the employer's and the employees'
contribution to the Board by cheque, money order or in cash and shall bear the
expenses of remitting to the Board such contributions.(4)The employer shall,
along with such payment, submit a statement in Form A to the Secretary giving
full particulars of the amounts so paid.(5)The Secretary of the Board shall
submit to the State Government as soon as possible after the end of January
every year in the prescribed form a statement, showing the total amount of the
employers' contribution in respect of each establishment.

### 13. Constitution of Board.

(1)The Board shall consist of twenty members including the Chairman who shall
be the Minister in charge of Labour and the following members appointed by the
Government:-(a)five representatives of employers appointed by the State
Government in consultation with such organisations of employers in the
State;(b)five employees representatives to be appointed by the State
Government in consultation with such organisations of employees in the
State;(c)three members of the State Legislature;(d)four Government
Officials;(e)two independent members:Provided that if there is no other woman
representative in the Board, the question of including women representatives
as an independent member would be considered by the Government.(2)The Board
shall elect a Vice-Chairman to perform the duties of the Chairman in his
absence.

### 14. Allowances of the members.

\- The members of the Board other than Government Officers shall receive
travelling allowance and dearness allowance at the rates admissible to members
of 1st Class Committee whenever they attend the meetings of the Board.

### 15. Allowances of members of Committees.

\- The members of the Committees constituted under section 10 shall receive
travelling allowance and dearness allowance at the rates admissible to members
of I Class Committees whenever they attend the meetings of the Committees.

### 16. Meetings of the Board.

(1)The Board shall meet at least once in every quarter and as often as may be
necessary.(2)The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chairman, fix the
date, time and place of, and also draw up agenda for, every meeting. Notice of
not less than seven clear days shall be given for every member of such
meeting. No matter other than that included in the agenda shall be considered
except with the permission of the Chairman:Provided that seven clear days'
notice shall not be necessary when, in the opinion of the Chairman, business
of an emergent nature has to be transacted.

### 17. Quorum.

\- No Business shall be transacted at any meetings of the Board unless there
is a quorum of not less than one-third of the number of the members of the
Board including the Chairman:Provided that, if at any meeting less than one-
third of the total number of members are present, the Chairman may adjourn the
meeting to a date not later than seven days from the date of the original
meeting and it shall, thereupon, be lawful to dispose of the business of such
adjourned meeting irrespective of the number of members present.

### 18. Chairman to preside.

(1)The Chairman shall preside over the meetings of the Board.(2)In the absence
of the Chairman at any meeting, the Vice-Chairman shall preside. If both the
Chairman and the Vice-Chairman are not present at any meeting, the members
present shall elect one among them to preside over that meeting.

### 19. Disposal of business.

\- All matters at the meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of
votes of the members present and voting, and in case of equality of votes, the
Chairman" shall have a casting vote or a second vote.

### 20. Method of voting.

\- Votes shall be taken by show of hands and the names of persons voting in
favour and against any proposition shall be recorded only if any member
requests the Chairman to do so.

### 21. Proceedings of the meeting and minute books.

(1)The proceedings of each meeting showing, inter alia, the name of the
members present thereat shall be forwarded to each member of the Board as soon
after the meeting as possible.(2)The minutes of proceedings of the meeting
shall be kept in a separate book and shall be signed by the Chairman at the
meeting at which the proceedings are confirmed.

### 22. Confirmation of the proceedings.

\- The proceedings of each meeting shall be confirmed with such modifications,
if any, as may be considered necessary at the next meeting of the Board and a
copy thereof shall be submitted by the Board to the Government after such
confirmation.

### 23. Salaries, allowances and conditions of service of the Secretary.

\- The Secretary shall receive such salary and allowances as may be fixed by
the Board with the approval of the Government.

### 24. Administrative and financial powers of the Secretary.

(1)The Secretary may, without reference to the Board, sanction expenditure on
contingencies, supplies and services and purchase of articles required,
subject to the financial provision in the budget and subject to the limits up
to which the Secretary may be authorised to sanction expenditure on any single
item, from time to time, by the Board with the approval of the
Government.(2)The Secretary may also exercise such administrative and
financial powers other than those specified in sub-rule (1) above, as may be
delegated to him, from time to time, by the Board with the approval of the
Government.(3)The Secretary may delegate, from time to time, the
administrative and financial powers delegated to him by the Board to any
officer under his control or Superintendent to the extent considered suitable
by him for the administration of the fund. A statement of such delegation
shall be placed before the next meeting of the Board for information.

### 25. Duties and functions of the Committee.

\- The Board shall determine the qualifications and terms of office of the
members of the committees appointed under section 10 of the Act and may
delegate such of its powers and functions to such committee or committees,
subject to such conditions and limitations as may be specified in the.
resolution of the Board constituting the committee.

### 26. Powers to the Inspectors.

\- In addition to the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 22 of the
Act, an Inspector shall, for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions
of the Act, have power to do all or any of the following things, that is
say,-(i)to prosecute, conductor defend before a Court any complaint or other
proceeding arising under the Act;(ii)to require any employer to supply or send
any return or true copy of any document or information relating to the
provisions of the Act;(iii)to satisfy himself, at each inspection, that-(a)the
provisions of the Act and the rules regarding the payment of contribution and
unpaid accumulations and fines are observed;(b)the prescribed registers are
properly maintained;(c)the return required under the rules are sent to the
Secretary of the Board.(iv)to note how far the defects pointed out at previous
inspections have been removed and how far orders previously issued have been
complied with; and(v)to point out all such defects or irregularities as he may
have observed and to give orders for their rectification and to record and
furnish to the employer a summary of the defects or irregularities and of his
orders.

### 27. Percentage of annual income of fund towards staff.

\- The Board shall ensure that the expenses of the staff including the staff
employed for carrying out the programmes of the Board and other administrative
expenses shall not exceed fifty per cent of the annual income of the fund.

### 28. Publication of annual report of Board.

\- The Board shall, within three months of the date of the closing of each
financial year, submit to the State Government for approval an audited
statement of receipts and expenditure together with an annual report giving
its activities in the year and the activities, if any, which are likely to be
undertaken by the Board in the next year. The statement and report shall be
laid as soon as they are approved by the Government before [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]. After they are so laid, the
Board shall cause the same to be published in such manner as it may deem fit.

### 29. Maintenance of registers by employers.

(1)Every employer of an establishment shall maintain the following
registers:-(a)a register of wages in Form 'B';(b)a consolidated register of
unpaid accumulations and fines and other deduction in Form 'C';(c)a visit book
in which the Inspector visiting the establishment may record his remarks
regarding any defects that may come to light at the time of inspection. It
shall be produced whenever required to do so by the Inspector:Provided that no
separate visit book need be maintained where the employer maintains such a
book in compliance with any other labour legislation.(2)The registers to be
maintained under these rules shall be in English or Tamil.(3)The registers
shall be preserved for a period of ten years from thedate of last entry made
therein.(4)The employer shall, by the 31st January, every year forward to the
Secretary a copy of the extract from the register in Form 'B' pertaining to
the previous year.Form A[See rule 12(4)]Statement Showing Particulars of
Contribution Amounts Paid to the Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare BoardFor
the year ending 20 ....

Name and address of establishment |  [Total number of employees from whom contributionrealized] [List containing names of employees, their designation and monthly wage should be furnished.] | Total amount of employees contribution | Total amount of employers contribution |  Total amount of contribution paid(columns 3 plus4) | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Form B[See rule 29]Register of WagesName of the establishmentFor the month of
20...

|  |  |  | Amounts payable during the month  
---|---|---|---|---  
Serial number | Name of employee | Token number | Occupation | Basic Wages | Over Time | Dearness allowance and other allowances | Bonus  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Amounts deducted during the month |  Amounts actuallypaid during the month  
---|---  
Fines | Other deductions | Basic Wages | Over time | Dearness allowance and other allowances | Bonus  
(9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14)  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Basic wages | Balance due to the employees  
---|---  
Over time | Dearness allowance and other allowances | Bonus  
(15) | (16) | (17) | (18)  
  
Form C[See rule 29]Register for fines and Unpaid Accumulations for the
Year............... 20............Name of establishment....

Details of fines and unpaid accumulations | Quarter ending 31st March | Quarter ending 30th June | Quarter ending 30th September | Quarter ending 31st December  
---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
1\. Total realisations under fines  
2\. Total amount being[unpaid accumulations] [See definition of 'unpaid
accumulations' under section 2(i) of the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act,
1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1972).]of-  
(i) Basicwage;  
(ii)Overtime;  
(iii)Dearness allowance and other allowances;  
(iv) Bonus;  
(v)Gratuity;  
(vi) Anyother item of unpaid accumulation.  
3\. Deductions under Standing Orders  
4\. Deductions under Payment of Wages Act

