## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights Rules, 2012

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights Rules, 2012

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-COMMISSION-FOR-PROTECTION-OF-CHILD-RIGHTS-RULES-2012 of
2012

  * Published on 27 June 2012 
  * Commenced on 27 June 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 June 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights Rules, 2012Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 202, Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal
Programme (SW8), dated 27.06.2012Last Updated 24th January, 2020No. SRO
A-18(c)/2012. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and
(2) of Section 36 of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005
(Central Act 4 of 2006), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules, -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child
Rights Rules, 2012.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -(a)"Act" means the
Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (Central Act 4 of
2006);(b)"Child" means a person who has not completed the age of eighteen
years ;(c)"Commission" means the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child
Rights constituted under Section 17 of the Act;(d)"Secretary" means the
Secretary of the Commission;(e)"Section" means the section of the
Act;(f)"State Government" means the Government of Tamil Nadu;(g)Words and
expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall
have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Eligibility for appointment as Chairperson and Members.

(1)No person having any past record of violation of human rights especially
child rights or criminal conviction shall be eligible for appointment as
Chairperson or other Members of the Commission.(2)The person selected for the
post of Chairperson or Member shall not hold any other post in any
governmental, quasi-governmental, public sector or non-Governmental
organization or hold any other position whether for profit or not.

### 4. Powers and duties of the Secretary.

\- The Secretary shall, -(i)have power to execute all decisions taken by the
Commission in order to carry out the powers and functions of the Commission as
provided in the Act and he shall be responsible for the proper administration
of the affairs of the Commission and its day-to-day management and shall
exercise and discharge such other powers and perform such other duties as may
be prescribed by the State Government;(ii)convene the meetings of the
Commission in consultation with its Chairperson and serve notices of the
meetings to all concerned;(iii)take steps to ensure that the quorum required
for convening a meeting of the Commission is secured;(iv)prepare the agenda
for each meeting of the Commission and self contained notes in consultation
with the Chairperson;(v)make available specific records covering the agenda
items to the Commission for reference;(vi)ensure that the agenda papers are
circulated to the Members at least two clear working days in advance of the
meeting, except in cases when urgent attention is required;(vii)prepare the
minutes of the meetings of the Commission and shall execute the decisions of
the Commission taken in the meeting and shall also ensure placing of the
Action Taken Note of the decisions of the Commission before the Commission in
its subsequent meetings;(viii)ensure that the procedure of the Commission is
followed by it in transaction of its business;(ix)take up all such matters
with the Department of Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme of State
Government, for release of grants, creation of posts, revision of scales,
procurement of vehicles, appointment of staff, laying of annual and audit
report in the State Legislature, re-appropriation of funds, residential
accommodation, permitting any officer of the Commission for deputation and any
other matter requiring the approval of the State Government;(x)exercise such
financial powers as are delegated to him by the State Government;(xi)be the
appointing and disciplinary authority in respect of officers and employees of
the Commission.

### 5. Salaries and other allowances.

(1)The Chairperson shall be paid Rupees twenty five thousand per month as
honorarium.(2)The Chairperson shall be eligible for Travelling Allowance and
Daily Allowance as per the orders issued in G.O. Ms.No. 551, Finance (All)
Department, dated 03-11-2004 and as amended from time to time.(3)The
Chairperson shall be eligible for a medical benefit at the same rate as are
applicable to class A officers of the State Government.(4)The Chairperson
shall be eligible for office Telephone (Monthly ceiling 2500 free calls) and
also eligible for residential telephone (Monthly ceiling 300 free calls). The
Chairperson shall be provided Rupees one thousand two hundred per month for
the reimbursement of cell phone call charges.(5)The Chairperson shall be
eligible for LTC on par with the concession available to the class 'A'
officers of the State Government.(6)The Chairperson shall be entitled to the
use of an official residence as may be determined by the Government of Tamil
Nadu.(7)If the Chairperson is not provided with or does not avail himself of
the accommodation specified in sub-rule (6) of this rule, he shall be paid
house rent allowance at the rate of Rupees two thousand five hundred per
month.(8)The Members shall be paid a sitting fees of Rupees one thousand per
sitting.(9)The Chairperson / Members shall be eligible for Travelling
Allowance and Daily Allowance as per the orders issued in G.O.Ms. No. 551,
Finance (All) Department, dated 03-11-2004 and as amended from time to
time.(10)The Members shall be eligible for a medical benefit at the same rate
as are applicable to class A officers of the State Government.(11)The
Chairperson and every Member shall be his own controlling officer in respect
of his bill relating to travelling allowances and daily allowances.(12)The
Salary and allowances payable to and the other terms and conditions of service
of the Secretary and other Officers and other employees appointed for the
purpose of the Commission shall be such as may be determined by the State
Government from time to time.

### 6. Additional functions of Commission.

\- The Commission shall, in addition to the functions assigned to it under the
Act, also perform the following functions, namely:-(a)analyse existing law,
policy and practices to assess compliance with Convention on the Rights of the
Child, undertake inquiries and produce reports on any aspect of policy or
practices affecting children and comment on proposed new legislation from a
child rights perspective;(b)present to the State Government annually and at
such other intervals as the Commission may deem fit, reports upon the working
of those safeguards;(c)undertake formal investigations where concern has been
expressed either by children themselves or by concerned person on their
behalf;(d)ensure that the work of the Commission is directly informed by the
views of children in order to reflect their priorities and
perspectives;(e)promote, respect and serious consideration of the views of
children in its work and in that of all Government Departments and
Organisations dealing with child;(f)produce and disseminate information about
child rights;(g)compile and analyse data on children; and(h)promote the
incorporation of child rights into the school curriculum, teachers training
and training of personnel dealing with children.

### 7. Procedure for transaction of business of Commission.

(1)The Head quarter of the State Commission shall be in Chennai. The
Commission shall meet regularly at its office in Chennai at such time as the
Chairperson thinks fit, but three months shall not intervene between its last
meeting and the next meeting.(2)The Commission shall ordinarily hold its
meetings in its office located in Chennai but may, in its discretion, hold its
meetings at any other place in Tamil Nadu if it considers it necessary or
expedient to do so.(3)The Secretary, along with such officers as the
Chairperson may direct, shall attend the meetings of the Commission.(4)(i)The
Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chairperson, prepare the agenda for
each meeting of the Commission and such notes shall as for as possible be
self-contained;(ii)The records covering the agenda items shall be made readily
available to the Commission for its reference;(iii)The agenda papers shall
ordinarily be circulated to members atleast two clear working days in advance
of the meeting, except in cases when urgent attention is required.(5)Four
members including the Chairperson shall form the quorum at every meeting of
the Commission.(6)All decisions of the Commission at its meetings shall be
taken by majority:Provided that in the case of equality of votes, the
Chairperson, or in his absence the person presiding shall have and exercise a
second or a casting vote.(7)The Chairperson shall preside the meeting of the
Commission. If, for any reason, the Chairperson is unable to attend the
meeting any member chosen by the members present from amongst themselves at
the meeting, shall preside.

### 8. Minutes of meeting.

(1)The minutes of each meeting of the Commission shall be recorded during the
meeting itself or immediately thereafter by the Secretary or by any other
officer of the Commission as directed.(2)The minutes of meeting of the
Commission shall be submitted to the Chairperson for approval and, upon
approval, be circulated to all members of the Commission at the earliest and
in any case sufficiently before the commencement of the next meeting.(3)The
decision of the Commission in every matter discussed by it shall be recorded
in the form of an opinion and dissenting opinion, if given, shall also form
part of and be kept on record. Decision shall be taken on the basis of
majority opinion where there is any difference of opinion.(4)All orders and
decisions of the Commission shall be authenticated by the Secretary or any
other officer of the Commission duly authorized by the Secretary with the
prior approval of the Chairperson in this behalf.(5)Unless specifically
authorized by the Chairperson, no action shall be taken by the Commission on
the minutes of the meetings until the Chairperson approves the same.(6)A
master copy of the record of all meetings and opinions of the Commission shall
be maintained duly authenticated by the Secretary.(7)A copy of the minutes
pertaining to each item shall be kept in the respective files for appropriate
action. Opinions shall be kept in the respective records and for convenience,
copies thereof with appropriate indexing shall be kept in guard files.

### 9. Report of action taken.

\- Report of the follow up action shall be submitted by the Secretary to the
Commission at every subsequent meeting indicating therein, the present stage
of action taken on each item on which the Commission has taken any decision in
any of its earlier meetings excepting the items on which no further action is
called for.

### 10. Transaction of business outside headquarters.

\- The Commission or some Members may transact business at places outside its
headquarters as and when previously approved by the Chairperson, provided that
if parties are to be heard in connection with any inquiry under the Act,
atleast two members shall constitute the Bench of the Commission for such
purpose.

### 11. Panel of consultants.

(1)The Commission may constitute a panel of consultants for assisting the
Commission in a wide range of tasks such as investigation or inquiry; to serve
on task forces or committees and for research and analysis.(2)The Commission
may draw experts from academic, research administrative, investigative, legal
or civil society groups to form the panel.(3)The Commission may devise a
transparent process for empanelling these consultants so that they are
available for quick delegation of tasks.

### 12. Annual Report.

(1)The Commission shall prepare and publish an annual report for the period
from 1st April to 31st March of every year for submission to the State
Government.(2)The Commission shall also prepare special reports on specific
issues as and when necessary under the direction of the Chairperson and submit
to the State Government.(3)The State Government shall cause the annual report
and the special reports of the Commission to be laid before the State
Assembly.(4)The annual report shall include information on administrative and
financial matters, complaints investigated/ inquired into; action taken on
cases; details of research; reviews; education and promotion efforts;
consultations; details and specific recommendations of the Commission on any
matter, besides any other matter that the Commission may consider warranting
inclusion in the report.(5)In case the Commission considers that there could
be a time lag for the preparation of the annual report, it may prepare and
submit a special report to the State Government.(6)The estimated receipt and
expenditure shall be accompanied by the revised budget estimates for the
relevant financial year.(7)The forms in which the budget shall be prepared and
forwarded to the State Government shall be as provided in forms I, II, III and
IV of Schedule I.(8)The budget shall, as far as may be, based on the account
heads specified in Schedule II.

### 13. Financial Powers.

(1)The Commission shall spend the sums of money received by it for the
purposes of the Act.(2)The Secretary of the Commission shall have all powers
relating to financial transaction of the Commission, except in cases which
require prior approval of the State Government.(3)The Secretary shall obtain
prior approval of the State Government in matters of creation of posts,
revision of pay scales, procurement of vehicles, re-appropriation of funds
from one head to another, permitting any officer of the Commission to
participate in seminars, conferences or training programmes abroad and such
other matters determined by the State Government, by order.(4)The Commission
shall have powers to engage any person as consultant for a specific purpose
and for a specific period on the terms and conditions agreed in advance
relating to honorarium, travelling allowance, dearness allowance.(5)All
financial powers of the Commission shall be governed by the General Financial
Rules, delegation of financial powers Rules and economy instructions issued by
the Finance Department of the State Government from time to time.

## I

Form ITamil Nadu Commission For Protection of Child RightsDetailed Budget
Estimates for the year 201...[See rule 12 (7)]Administration(Expenditure){||-|
Head of Accounts.| Actuals for the past three years.| Sanctioned estimate for
the current year

### 201.

.....| Actuals of last six months i.e., 201......

### 201\.

.......| Actuals of last six months current year

### 201\.

.....| Revised estimate for the current year

### 201\.

.....| Budget estimate for the next year 201......| Variations between columns
5 & 6.| Variations between columns 8 & 9.| Explanation for columns 10 & 11.|-|
(1)| (2)| (3)| (4)| (5)| (6)| (7)| (8)| (9)| (10)| (11)| (12)|}Form IITamil
Nadu Commission For Protection of Child Rights EstablishmentStatement Details
of Provision For Pay of Officers/establishment For The Year 201... -
201...[See Rule 12 (7)]

(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name and Designation. | Reference to page of estimate form. |  Sanctioned pay of the post Maximum/MinimumActual pay of the Person concerned due on 1st April next year. |  Amount of provisions for the year at the ratein column 3(c). | Increment falling due within the year |  Total provision for the year i.e.,totalColumn 4 & 5. | Remarks.  
Date of increment. | Rate of increment. | Amount of increment for the year.  
|  | (a) | (b) | (c) |  | (a) | (b) | (c) |  |   
  
Form IIITamil Nadu Commission For Protection of Child Rights Nominal Rolls[See
rule 12 (7)]

Name andDesignation. | Pay | Dearness Allowance. | Compensatory (City) allowance. | House rent Allowance. | over time Allowance | Children educational allowance. | Leave Travel concession. | Other Allowance. | Total  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
  
TotalForm IVTamil Nadu Commission For Protection of Child Rights(Abstract of
nominal Rolls)[See rule 12(7)]

Actual SanctionedStrength as on 1st March 20.. |  Particulars ofposts. |  sanctioned BudgetGrant 20 | Revised Estimates 20...20... | budget Estimates 20...20... |  Explanation for the difference between sanctioned budget andrevised and budget estimate.  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  No. of postsincluded | pay and allowances | No, of posts included | pay and allowances | No.of posts included | pay and allowances |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
1. | Officer |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (a)Posts filled |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (b) Post Vacant Total I officers |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| II. Establishment |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (a)Post filled |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (b)Post vacant |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| Total II |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| Establishment |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| III. Class V |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (a)Posts filled |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| (b) Post Vacant Total III Class IV |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| Grand Total- I, II, and III |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
## II

Budget and Account Heads[See rule 12(8)]AdministrationHead of Accounts
(Expenditure)

### 1\. Salaries

### 2\. Wages

### 3\. Travel Expenses

### 4\. Office Expenses

(a)Furniture(b)Postage(c)Office
machines/equipment(d)Liveries(e)Telephones(f)Electricity and Water
Charges(g)Stationery(h)Printing(i)Staff Car and other Vehicles(j)Other items

### 5\. Fee and Honorarium

### 6\. Payment for professional and special services

### 7\. Rents, rates and taxes/royalty

### 8\. Publications

### 9\. Advertising sales and publicity expenses

### 10\. Grant in aid/contributions/subsidies

### 11\. Hospitality expenses sumptuary allowances etc.

### 12\. Pensions/Gratuities

### 13\. Write off/losses

### 14. Suspense's

### 15. Other charges (a residuary head, this will also include rewards and
prizes)

Heads of Account (Receipts)

### 1\. Payments by State Government

### 2\. Other receipts.

