## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics)
Regulations, 2003

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics)
Regulations, 2003

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MEDICAL-COUNCIL-PROFESSIONAL-CONDUCT-ETIQUETTE-AND-ETHICS-
REGULATIONS-2003 of 2003

  * Published on 1 January 2003 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2003 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2003.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics)
Regulations, 2003

## Chapter I  
A. Declaration

### 1. Code of Medical Ethics.

Each applicant at the time of making an application for registration under the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Medical Registration Act, 1914 (Tamil Nadu Act IV
of 1914), shall be provided a copy of the Declaration and shall submit a duly
signed Declaration as provided in Appendix 1. The applicant shall also certify
that he/she had read and agreed to abide by the same.B. Duties and
Responsibilities of the Physician in GeneralCharacter of the
Physician1.1(Doctors with qualification of MBBS or MBBS with post graduate
degree/diploma or with the equivalent qualification in any medical
discipline).1.1.1. A physician shall uphold the dignity and honour of his
profession.1.1.2. The prime object of the medical profession is to render
service to humanity; reward or financial gain is a subordinate consideration.
Whosoever chooses his profession, assumes the obligation to conduct himself in
accordance with its deals.A physician should be an upright man, instructed in
the art of healings. He shall keep himself pure in character and be diligent
in caring for the sick; he should be modest, sober, patient, prompt in
discharging his duty without anxiety, conducting himself with propriety in the
profession and in all the actions of his life.1.1.3. No person other than a
doctor having qualification recognized by Medical Council of India and
registered with Tamil Nadu Medical Council is allowed to practise modem system
of Medicine or Surgery. A person obtaining qualification in any other system
of Medicine is not allowed to practise Modem System in any form.Maintaining
Good Medical Practice1.2.1. The principal objective of the medical profession
is to render service to humanity with full respect for the dignity of
profession and man. Physicians should merit the confidence of patients
entrusted in their care, rendering to each a full measure of service and
devotion.Physicians should try continuously to improve medical knowledge and
skills and should make available to their patients and colleagues the benefits
of their professional attainments.The physicians should practise methods of
healing founded on scientific basis and should not associate professionally
with anyone who violates this principle. The honoured ideals of the medical
profession imply that the responsibilities of the physician extend not only to
individuals, but also to society.Membership in Medical Society1.2.2. For the
advancement of his profession, a physician should affiliate with associations
and societies of allopathic medical professions and invoice actively in the
functioning of such bodies.1.2.3. A physician should participate in
professional meetings as part of Continuing Medical Education Programmes, for
at least 30 hours for every five years, organized by reputed professional
academic bodies or any other authorized organisations. The compliance of this
requirement shall be informed regularly to the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council.Maintenance of Medical Records1.3.1. Every physician shall maintain
the medical records pertaining to his/her indoor patients for a period of 3
years from the date of commencement of the treatment in a standard proforma
laid down by the Tamil Nadu Medical Council and attached as Appendix 3.1.3.2.
If any request is made for medical records either by the patients/ authorised
attendant or legal authorities involved, the same may be duly acknowledged and
documents shall be issued within the period of 72 hours.1.3.3. A Registered
medical practitioner shall maintain a Register of Medical Certificates giving
full details of certificates issued. When issuing a medical certificate,
he/she always enter the identification marks of the patient and keep a copy of
the certificate. He/she shall not omit to record the signature and/or thumb
mark, address and at least one identification mark of the patient on the
medical certificates or report. The medical certificate shall be prepared as
in Appendix 2.1.3.4. Efforts shall be made to computerize medical records for
quick retrieval.Display of Registration Number1.4.1. Every physician shall
display the registration number accorded to him by the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council in his clinic and in all his prescriptions, certificates, money
receipts given to his patients.1.4.2. Physician shall display as suffix to
their names only recognised medical degrees or such certificates/diplomas and
membership/honours, which confer professional knowledge, or recognise any
exemplary qualification/ achievements.Use of Generic Names of Drugs1.5Every
physician should, as far as possible, prescribe drugs with generic names and
he/she shall ensure that there is a rational prescription and use of
drugs.Highest Quality Assurance In Patient Care1.6Every physician should aid
in safeguarding the profession against admission to it of those who are
deficient in moral character or education. Physician shall not employ in
connection with his professional practice any attendant who is neither
registered nor enlisted under the Medical lists in force and shall not permit
such persons to attend, treat or perform operations upon patients wherever
professional discretion or skill is required.Exposure of Unethical Conduct1.7A
physician should expose, to the appropriate authority without fear or favour,
incompetent or corrupt, unprofessional, dishonest or unethical conduct on the
part of members of the professions.Payment of Professional Services1.8The
physician engaged in the practice of medicine shall give priority to the
interests of patients. The personal financial interests of a physician should
not conflict with the medical interests of patients. A physician should
announce his fees before rendering service and not after the operation or
treatment is under way.Remuneration received for such services should be in
the form and amount specifically announced to the patient at the time the
service is rendered. It is unethical to enter into a contract of "no cure no
payment". Physician rendering services on behalf of the State shall refrain
from anticipating or accepting any consideration.Evasion of Legal
Restrictions1.9The physician will observe the laws of the country in
regulating the practice of medicine and will also not assist others to evade
such laws. He should be cooperative in observance and enforcement of sanitary
laws and regulations in the interest of public health.Legislation's and Court
decisions may also influence medical ethics.Hence, Medical Practitioners must
be familiar with the various Acts, Rules and Regulations that are in force and
which have been enacted by the Central or State Government, Statutory bodies,
Tamil Nadu Medical Council and the Indian Medical Council.Unless he is
familiar with all the relevant laws and regulations, he may find himself
inadvertently contravening these and courting trouble.A physician should
observe the provisions of the State Acts like Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940;
Pharmacy Act, 1948; Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985;
Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971; Transplantation of Human Organs
Act, 1994; Mental Health Act, 1987; Environmental Protection Act 1986; Pre-
natal Sex Determination Test Act, 1994; Drugs and Magic Remedies
(Objectionable Advertisement) Act, 1954; Persons with Disabilities (Equal
Opportunities and Full Participation) Act, 1995 and the Bio-Medical Waste
(Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 and such other Acts, Rules, Regulations
made by the Central/State Governments or local Administrative Bodies or any
other relevant Act relating to the protection and promotion of public health.

## Chapter 2  
Obligations to the Sick

### 2. Duties of Physicians to their Patients.

2.1.1. Though a physician is not bound to treat each and every person asking
his services, he should not only be ever ready to respond to the calls of the
sick and the injured, but should be mindful of the high character of his
mission and the responsibility be discharges in the course of his professional
duties. In his treatment, he should never forget that the health and the lives
of those entrusted to his care depend on his skill and attention.A physician
shall, while caring for a patient, regard responsibility to the patient as
paramount.A physician should endeavour to add to the comfort to the sick by
making his visits at the hour indicated to the patients. A physician advising
a patient to seek service of another physician is acceptable, however, in case
of emergency a physician must treat the patient.No physician shall arbitrarily
refuse treatment to a patient. However, for good reason, when a patient is
suffering from an ailment is not within the range of experience of the
treating physician, the physician, may refuse treatment and refer the patient
to another physician.2.1.2. Medical practitioner having any incapacity
detrimental to the patient or which can affect his performance vis-a-vis the
patient is not permitted to practise his profession.Patience, Delicacy and
Secrecy2.2Patience and delicacy should characterize the physician. Confidence
concerning individual or domestic life entrusted by patients to a physician
and defects in the disposition or character of patients observed during
medical attendance should never be revealed unless their revelation is
required by the laws of the State. Sometimes, however, a physician must
determine whether his duty to society requires him to employ knowledge,
obtained through confidence as a physician, to protect a healthy person
against a communicable disease to which he is about to be exposed. In such
instance, the physician should act as he would wish another to act toward one
of his own family in like circumstances.Prognosis2.3The physician should
neither exaggerate nor minimize the gravity of a patients condition. He should
ensure himself that the patient, his relatives or his responsible friends have
such knowledge of the patients condition as well serve the best interests of
the patient and the family.The Patient Must not be Neglected2.4A physician is
free to choose whom he will serve. He should, however, respond to any request
for his assistance in an emergency. Once having undertaking a case, the
physician should not neglect the patient, nor should he withdraw from the case
without giving adequate notice to the patient and his family. Provisionally or
fully registered medical practitioners shall not willfully commit an act of
negligence that may deprive his patient or patients from necessary medical
care.Engagement for an Obstetric Case2.5When a physician who has been engaged
to attend an obstetric case is absent and another is sent for and delivery
accomplished, the acting physician is entitled to his professional fees, but
should secure the patients consent to resign on the arrival of the physician
engaged.

## Chapter 3  
Duties of Physician in Consultation Unnecessary Consultations

Should be Avoided3.1.1. However in case of serious illness and in doubtful or
difficult conditions, the physician should request consultation, but under any
circumstances, such consultation should be justifiable and in the interest of
the patients only and not for any other consideration.3.1.2. Consulting
Pathologists/Radiologists or asking for any other diagnostic Lab investigation
should be done judiciously and not in a routine manner.Consultation for
Patient's Benefit

### 3.

### 2\. In every consultation, the benefit to the patient is of foremost
importance. All physicians engaged in the case should be frank with the
patient and his attendants.

Punctuality in Consultation3.3Utmost punctuality should be observed by a
physician in making themselves available for consultations.Statement to
Patient After Consultation3.4.1. All statements to the patient or his
representative should take place in the presence of the consulting physicians,
except as otherwise agreed. The disclosure of the opinion to the patient or
his relatives or friends shall rest with the medical attendant.3.4.2.
Difference of opinion should not be divulged unnecessarily, but when there is
irreconcilable difference of opinion, the circumstances should be frankly and
impartially explained to the patient or his relatives or friends. It would be
opened to them to seek further advice as they so desire.Treatment after
Consultation3.5No decision should restrain the attending physician from making
such subsequent variations in the treatment, if any, unexpected change occurs,
but at the next consultation, reasons for the variations should be discussed/
explained. The same privilege, with its obligations, belongs to the consultant
when sent for in an emergency during the absence of attending physician. The
attending physician may prescribe medicine at any time for the patient,
whereas the consultant may prescribe only in case of emergency or as an expert
when called for.Patients Referred to Specialists3.6When a patient is referred
to a specialist by the attending physician, a case summary of the patient
should be given to the specialist, who should communicate his opinion in
writing to the attending physician.Fees and Other Charges3.7.1. A physician
shall inform his fees and other charges before rendering service and not after
the operation or treatment underway. Prescription should also make clear if
the physician himself dispensed any medicine.3.7.2. A physician shall write
his name and designation in full along with registration particulars in his
prescription letter-head.

## Chapter 4  
Responsibilities of Physicians to Each Other

Dependence of Physicians on Each Other

### 4.

### 1\. A physician should consider it as a pleasure and privilege to render
gratuitous service to all physicians and their immediate family dependants.

Conduct in Consultation4.2In consultations, no insincerity, rivalry or envy
should be indulged in. All due respect should be observed towards the
physician in charge of the case and no statement or remark be made, which
impair the confidence reposed in him. For this purpose, no discussion should
be carried on in the presence of the patient or his representatives.The
physician should refrain from making comments which may needlessly damage the
reputation of a colleague or cause a patient anxiety.Consultant not to take
Charge of the Case4.3When a physician has been called for consultation, the
consultant should normally not take charge of the case, especially on the
solicitation of the patient or friends. The Consultant shall not criticize the
referring physician. He/she shall discuss the diagnosis treatment plan with
the referring physician.Appointment of Substitute4.4Whenever a physician
requests another physician to attend his patients during his temporary absence
from his practice, professional courtesy requires the acceptance of such
appointment only when he has fine capacity to discharge the additional
responsibility along with his/her other duties. The physician acting under
such an appointment should give the utmost consideration to the interests and
reputation of the absent physician and all such patients should be restored to
the care of the latter upon his/her return.Visiting Another Physician's
Case4.5When it becomes the duty of a physician occupying an official position
to see and report upon an illness or injury, he should communicate to the
physician in attendance so as to give him an option of being present. The
medical officer/physician occupying an office position should avoid remarks
upon the diagnosis or the treatment that has been adopted.

## Chapter 5  
Duties of Physician to the Public and to the Paramedical

Profession Physicians as Citizens

### 5.

### 1\. Physicians as good citizens, possessed of special training should
disseminate advice on public health issues. They should play their part in
enforcing the laws of the community and in sustaining the institutions that
advance the interests of humanity. They should particularly co-operate with
the authorities in the administration of sanitary/public health laws and
regulations.

Public and Community Health5.2Physicians, especially those engaged in public
health work, should enlighten the public concerning quarantine regulations and
measures for the prevention of epidemic and communicable diseases.At all times
the physicians should notify the constituted public authorities of every case
of communicable disease under his care, in accordance with the laws, rules and
regulations of the health authorities. When an epidemic occurs, a physician
should not abandon his duty for fear of contracting the disease
himself.Pharmacists/ Nurses5.3Physicians should recognize and promote the
practice of different services such as, pharmacy and nursing as professions
and should seek their cooperation wherever required.

## Chapter 6  
Unethical Acts

A physician shall not aid or abet or commit any of the following acts which
shall be construed as unethical.Advertising

### 6.

### 1\. Solicitation of patients directly or indirectly, by a physicians, by a
group of physicians or by institutions or organisations is unethical.

A physician shall not make use of him/her (or his/her name) as subject of any
form or manner of advertising or publicity through any mode either alone or in
conjunction with others which is of such a character as to invite attention to
him or to his professional position, skill, qualification, achievements,
attainments, specialities, appointments, associations, affiliations or honours
and/or of such character as would ordinarily result in his self
advertisement.A physician shall not give to any person, whether for
compensation or otherwise, any approval, recommendation, endorsement,
certificate, report or statement with respect of any drug, medicine, nostrum,
remedy, surgical, or therapeutic article, apparatus or appliance to any
commercial product or article with respect of any property, quality or use
thereof or any test, demonstration or trial thereof, for use in connection
with his name, signature, or photograph in any form or manner of advertising
through any mode nor shall be boast of cases, operations, cures or remedies or
permit the publication of report thereof through any mode.A medical
practitioner is, however, permitted to make a formal announcement (without
self photograph) in press regarding the following :-(1)On starting
practice.(2)On change of type of practice.(3)On changing address.(4)On
temporary absence from duty.(5)On resumption of another practice.(6)On
succeeding to another practice.(7)Public declaration of charges.6.1.2.
Printing of self photograph, or any such material of publicity in the letter
head or on sign board of the consulting room or any such clinical
establishment shall be regarded as acts of self advertisement and unethical
conduct on the part of the physician. However, printing of sketches, diagrams,
picture of system shall not be treated as unethical.Patent and Copyrights6.2A
physician may patent surgical instruments, appliances and medicine or
copyright applications, methods and procedures. However, it shall be unethical
if the benefits of such patents or copyrights are not made available
situations where the interest of large population is involved.Running an Open
Shop (Dispensing of Drugs and Appliances by Physicians)6.3A physician should
not run an open shop for sale of medicine for dispensing prescriptions
prescribed by doctors other than himself or for sale of medical or surgical
appliances.It is not unethical for a physician to prescribe or supply drugs,
remedies or appliances as long as there is no exploitation of the patient.
Drugs prescribed by a physician or brought from the market for a patient
should explicitly state the proprietary formula as well as generic name of the
drug.Rebates and Commission6.4.1. A physician shall not give, solicit, or
receive nor shall be offer to give solicit or receive, any gift, gratuity,
commission or bonus in consideration of or return for the referring,
recommending or procuring of any patient for medical, surgical or other
treatment.A physician shall not directly or indirectly, participate in or be a
party to act of division, transference, assignment, subordination, rebating,
splitting or refunding of any fee for medical, surgical or other
treatment.6.4.2. Provisions of para 6.4.1 shall apply with equal force to the
referring, recommending or procuring by a physician or any person, specimen or
material for diagnostic purposes or other study/work. Nothing in this section,
however, shall prohibit payment of salaries by a qualified physician to other
duly qualified person rendering medical care under his supervision.Secret
Remedies6.5The prescribing or dispensing by a physician of secret remedial
agents of which he does not know the composition, or the manufacture or
promotion of their use is unethical and as such prohibited. All the drugs
prescribed by a physician should always carry a proprietary formula and clear
name.Human Rights6.6The physician shall not aid or abet torture nor shall he
be a party to either infliction of mental or physical trauma or concealment or
torture inflicted by some other person or agency in clear violation of basic
human rights.Euthanasia6.7Practising euthanasia shall constitute unethical
conduct. However, on specific occasion, the question of withdrawing supporting
devices to sustain car-diopulmonary function even after brain death, shall be
decided only by a team of doctors and not merely by the treating physician
alone. A team of doctors shall declare withdrawal of support system. Such team
shall consist of the doctor or the patient, Chief Medical Officer/Medical
Officer in-charge of the hospital and a doctor nominated by the in-charge of
the hospital staff or in accordance with the provisions of the Transplantation
of Human Organ Act, 1994.

## Chapter 7  
Misconduct

The following acts of commission or omission on the part of a physician shall
constitute professional misconduct rendering him/her liable for disciplinary
action.Violation of the Regulations

### 7\.

### 1\. If he/she commits any violation of these Regulations.

7.2If he/she does not maintain the medical records of his/her indoor patients
for a period of three years as per regulation 1.3 and refuses to provide the
same within 72 hours when the patient or his/her authorised representative
makes a request for it as per the regulation 1.3.2.7.3If he/she does not
display the registration number accorded to him/ her by the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council in his clinic, prescriptions and certificates, etc., issued by him or
violates the provisions of regulation 1.4.2 (display of recognised medical
degrees).Adultery or Improper Conduct7.4Abuse of professional position by
committing adultery or improper conduct with a patient or by maintaining an
improper association with a patient will render a physician liable for
disciplinary action as provided under the Tamil Nadu Medical Registration Act,
1914 or Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.Conviction by Court of
Law7.5Conviction by a Court of Law for offences involving moral turpitude/
criminal acts.Sex Determination Tests7.6On no account, sex determination test
shall be undertaken with the intent to terminate the life of a female foetus
developing in her mother's womb, unless there are other absolute indications
for termination of pregnancy as specified in the Medical Termination of
Pregnancy Act, 1971. Any act of termination of pregnancy of normal female
foetus amounting to female foeticide shall be regarded as professional
misconduct on the part of the physician leading to penal measure, besides
rendering him liable to criminal proceedings as per the provisions of this
Act.Signing Professional Certificates, Reports and Other
Documents7.7Registered medical practitioners are, in certain cases, bound by
law to give, or may, from time to time, be called upon or requested to give
certificates, notification, reports and other documents of similar character
signed by them in their professional capacity for subsequent use in the Courts
or for administrative purposes, etc. Such documents, among others, include the
ones given at Appendix 4.Any registered practitioner who is shown to have
signed or given his name and authority any such certificate, notification,
report or document of a similar character which is untrue, misleading or
improper is liable to have his name deleted from the Register.7.8A registered
medical practitioner shall not contravene the provisions of the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act and Regulations made thereunder. Accordingly -(a)prescribing
steroids/psychotropic drugs when there is no absolute medical
indication.(b)selling Schedule "H" & "E" drugs and poisons to the public
except to his patient;in contravention of the above provisions shall
constitute gross professional misconduct on the part of the
physician.7.9Performing or enabling unqualified person to perform an abortion
or any illegal operation for which there is no medical, surgical or
psychological indication.7.10A registered medical practitioner shall not issue
certificates of efficiency in modern medicine to unqualified or non-medical
person.7.11A physician should not contribute to the lay press articles and
give interviews regarding diseases and treatments which may have the effect of
advertising himself of soliciting practices, but is open to write to the lay
press under his own name on matters of public health, hygienic living or to
deliver public lectures, give talks on the radio/TV/internet chat for the same
purpose and send announcement of the same to lay press.7.12An institution run
by a physician for a particular purpose such as a maternity home, nursing
home, private hospital, rehabilitation centre or any type of training
institution, etc., may be advertised in the lay press, but such advertisements
should not contain anything more than the name of the institution, type of
patients admitted, type of training and other facilities offered and the
fees.7.13It is improper for a physician to use an unusually large sign board
and write on it anything other than his name, qualification obtained from a
University or a statutory body, titles and name of his speciality,
registration number including the name of the State Medical Council under
which registered. The same should be the contents of his prescription
papers.It is improper to affix a sign-board on a chemist's shop or in places
where he does not reside or work.7.14The registered medical practitioner shall
not disclose the secrets of a patient that have been learnt in the exercise of
his/her profession except -(i)in a Court of law under orders of the Presiding
Judge;(ii)in circumstances where there is a serious and identified risk to a
specific person and/or community; and(iii)notifiable diseases.In case of
communicable/notifiable diseases, concerned public health authorities should
be informed immediately.Should Not Refuse To Give Professional Service On
Religious Grounds7.15The registered medical practitioner shall not refuse on
religious grounds alone to give assistance in or conduct of sterility, birth
control, circumcision and medical termination of pregnancy when there is
medical indication, unless the medical practitioner feels himself/herself
incompetent to do so.7.16Before performing an operation the physician should
obtain in writing the consent from the husband or wife, parent or guardian in
the case of minor, or the patient himself, as the case may be. In an operation
which may result in sterility, the consent of both husband and wife is
needed.7.17A registered medical practitioner shall not publish photographs or
case reports of his/her patients without their permission, in any medical or
other journal in a manner by which their identity could be made out. If the
identify is not to be disclosed, the consent is not needed.7.18In the case of
running of a nursing home by a physician and employing assistants to help
him/her, the ultimate responsibility rests on the physician.7.19A physician
shall not use touts or agents for procuring patients.7.20A physician shall not
claim to be specialist unless he has special qualification in that
branch.7.21No act of invitro fertilization or artificial insemination shall be
undertaken without the informed consent of the female patient and her spouse
as well as the donor. Such consent shall be obtained in writing only after the
patient is provided, at her own level of comprehension, with sufficient
information about the purpose, methods, risks, inconveniences, disappointments
of the procedure and possible risks and hazards.7.22Research. - Clinical drug
trials or other research involving patients or volunteers as per the
guidelines of ICMR can be undertaken, provided ethical considerations are
borne in mind. Violation of existing ICMR guidelines in this regard shall
constitute misconduct. Consent taken from the patient for trial of drug of
therapy which is not as per the guidelines shall also be construed as
misconduct.

## Chapter 8  
Punishment and Disciplinary Action

### 8.

### 1\. It must be clearly understood that the instances of offences and of
professional misconduct which are given above do not constitute and are not
intended to constitute a complete list of the infamous acts which calls for
disciplinary action, and that by issuing this notice the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council/Medical Council of India are in no way precluded from considering and
dealing with any other form of professional misconduct on the part of a
registered medical practitioner.

Circumstances may and do arise, from time to time, in relation to which there
may occur questions of professional misconduct which do not come within any of
these categories. Every care should be taken that the code is not violated in
letter or spirit. In such instances as in all others, the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council/Medical Council of India have to consider and decide upon the facts
brought before the Council(s).8.2It is made clear that any complaint with
regard to professional misconduct can be brought before the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council for disciplinary action.Upon receipt of any complaint of professional
misconduct, the Tamil Nadu Medical Council would hold an enquiry and give
opportunity to the registered medical practitioner to be heard in person or by
pleader.If the medical practitioner is found to be guilty of committing
professional misconduct, the Tamil Nadu Medical Council may award such
punishment as deemed necessary or may direct the removal altogether or for a
specified period, from the register of the name of the delinquent registered
practitioner. Deletion from the Register shall be widely published in local
press as well as in the publications of different Medical
Associations/Societies/Bodies.8.3In case the punishment of removal from the
register is for a limited period, the Tamil Nadu Medical Council may also
direct that the name so removed shall be restored in the register after the
expiry of the period for which the name was ordered to be removed.8.4Decision
on complaint against delinquent physician shall be taken within a time limit
of 6 months.8.5During the pendency of the complaint, the Tamil Nadu Medical
Council may restrain the physician form performing the procedure or practice
which is under scrutiny.8.6Professional incompetence shall be judged by peer
group as per guidelines prescribed by Tamil Nadu Medical Council/Medical
Council of India.Appendix-1A. DeclarationAt the time of registration, each
applicant shall be given a copy of the following declaration by the Registrar
concerned and the applicant shall read and agree to abide by the same :-(1)I
solemnly pledge myself to consecrate my life to service of humanity.(2)Even
under threat, I will not use my medical knowledge contrary to the laws of
humanity.(3)I will maintain the utmost respect for human life from the time of
conception.(4)I will not permit considerations of religions, nationality,
race, party politics or social standing to intervene between my duty and my
patient.(5)I will practise my profession with conscience and dignity.(6)The
health of my patient will be my first consideration.(7)I will respect the
secrets which are confided in me.(8)I will give to my teacher the respect and
gratitude which is their due.(9)I will maintain by all means in my power, the
honour and noble traditions of medical profession.(10)I will treat my
colleagues with, all respect and dignity.(11)I shall abide by the code of
medical ethics as enunciated in the Tamil Nadu Council (Professional Conduct,
Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2003.I make these promises solemnly, freely
and upon my honour.

Date............................ | Signature..........  
---|---  
Place............................. | Name.............  
Address................................................................................................................. |   
  
Appendix-2Form of certificate recommended for leave or extension or
communication of leave and for fitnessSignature of patient or thumb impression
...............................................................To be filled in
by the applicant in the presence of the Government Medical Attendant, or
Medical Practitioner.Identification Marks:

### 1\.

.......................................................

### 2\.

.......................................................I, Dr.............after
careful examination of the case, certify hereby that.......... whose signature
is given above is suffering from............... and I consider that a period
of absence from duty of..........with effect from.......is absolutely
necessary for the restoration of his/her health.I, Dr.............after
careful examination of the case, certify hereby the.........On restoration of
health is now fit to join service.

Place.............................Date............................ | Signature of Medical Practitioner.Registration No................  
---|---  
  
(Tamil Nadu Medical Council/Medical Council of India)Note. - The nature and
probable duration of the illness should also be specified. This certificate
must be accompanied by a brief resume of the case giving the nature of the
illness, its symptoms, causes and duration.Appendix-3Format for Medical
Record(See Regulation 1.3.1)

Name of the patient | :  
---|---  
Age | :  
Sex | :  
Address | :  
Occupation | :  
Date of 1st visit | :  
Clinical Note (Summary) of the case | :  
Provisional diagnosis | :  
Investigations advised with reports | :  
Diagnosis after investigation | :  
Advice | :  
Follow up | :  
Observations | :  
Date | :  
Signature in full...... |   
Name of Treating Physician |   
  
Appendix-4List of certificates, reports, notifications, etc. issued by doctors
for the purposes of various acts/administrative requirements(a)Under the Acts
relating to birth, death or disposal of the dead.(b)Under the Acts relating to
Lunacy and Mental Deficiency and under the Mental illness Act and the Rules
made thereunder.(c)Under the vaccination Acts and the Regulations made
thereunder.(d)Under the Factory Acts and the Regulations made
thereunder.(e)Under the Education Acts.(f)Under the Public Health Acts and the
orders made thereunder.(g)Under Workmen's Compensation Act and Persons with
Disability Act.(h)Under the Acts and orders relating to the notification of
infectious diseases.(i)Under the Employee's State Insurance Act.(j)In
connection with sick benefit insurance and friendly societies.(k)Under the
Merchant Shipping Act.(l)For procuring/issuing of passports.(m)For excusing
attendance in Courts of Justice, in public services, in public officers or in
ordinary employment.(n)In connection with Civil and Military matters.(o)In
connection with matters under the control of Department of Pensions.(p)In
connection with quarantine rules.(q)For procuring driving licence.Important
NoticeEvery registered Medical Practitioner should be careful to sent to the
Registrar immediate notice of any change in his address and also answer all
enquiries that may be sent to him by the Registrar in regard thereto in order
that his correct address may be duly inserted in the Register of Registered
Practitioners.

