## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970

  * Published on 14 January 1970 
  * Commenced on 14 January 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 January 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970Part-I Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(a)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules,
1970.(b)They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 14th January 1970.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context -(1)"Appointed to a service" - A person is said to be "appointed to a
service" when, in accordance with these rules or in accordance with the rules
applicable at the time, as the case may be, he discharges for the first time
the duties of a post borne on the cadre of such service or commences the
probation, instruction or training, if any, prescribed for members
thereof;(2)"Appointment Committee" - "Appointment committee" shall have the
same meaning as in section 73 of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act,
1920 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1920);(3)"Approved candidates" - A person is said
to be an "approved candidate" for a municipal service if his name appears in
the authoritative list of candidates selected for appointment to any service,
class or category;(4)"Approved Probationer" - "Approved probationer" in a
service, class or category means a member of that service, class or category
who has satisfactorily completed his probation and awaits appointment as a
full member of such service, class or category;(5)"Backward Classes" -
"Backward Classes" means the communities mentioned in Schedule I to this Part,
and such other communities included, from time to time in Schedule I of Part I
of the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate
Service;(6)"Discharge of a member of a service" - "Discharge of a member of a
service" means dispensing with his service for want of a vacancy;(7)"Duty" - A
person is said to be "on duty" as a member of a service -(a)when he is
performing the duties of a post borne on the cadre of such service or is
undergoing the probation, instruction or training, if any, prescribed for such
service;(b)when he is on joining time; or(c)when he is absent from duty during
vacation or on authorised holidays or on casual leave taken in accordance with
the instructions regulating such leave issued by the State Government having
been on duty immediately before and immediately after such absence;(8)"Full
Member" - "Full member" of a service means a member of that service who has
been appointed substantively to a permanent post borne on the cadre
thereof;(9)"General rules" - "General Rules" shall mean the rules in Part II
of these rules;(10)"Member of a Service" - "Member of a service" means a
person who has been appointed to that service and has not retired or resigned,
been removed or dismissed or been discharged otherwise than for want of
vacancy. He may be a probationer, an approved probationer or a full member of
that service;(11)"Military duty" - "Military duty" means -(i)duty of any kind
(including a course of training) involving subjection to Naval, Military or
Air Force Law; or(ii)duty (including a course of training) with a liability to
serve overseas or in any operational area in Naval, Military or Air Force unit
or formation or under Military, Munitions or Stores authorities or in
factories; or(iii)wholetime duty in -(a)the Civil Pioneer Force, the Madras
Civil Labour Units or the Madras Labour Units for Ceylon; or(b)the A.R.P. or
any other Civil Defence Organisation specified by the Central Government;
or(c)Any post created for the efficient prosecution of the war of 1939-1946 or
associated with the training of war technicians, if duty in such post is
declared by the Central Government to be military duty.Explanation. - No duty
shall be treated as military duty unless either of the following condition is
satisfied: -(i)It must have been rendered within the period commencing on the
3rd September 1939 and ending with the 21st November 1948; provided that if it
commenced on or after the 2nd April 1946, it shall not be reckoned as military
duty; or(ii)It must have commenced on any date on or after the 26th October
1962;(12)"Municipal Commissioner or Commissioner" - "Municipal Commissioner"
or "Commissioner" shall mean and include a Special Officer of a Municipality
where there is no Municipal Council and the Executive Authority of a Township
Committee;(12-A) "Municipality" - "Municipality" shall mean and include every
Municipality and the "Township Committees" constituted under the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920(Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) or the Committees
to which the provisions of the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920
have been extended;(13)"Probationer" - "Probationer" in a service means a
member of that service who has not completed his probation;(14)"Promotion" -
"Promotion" means the appointment of a member of any category of a service or
a class of service, to a higher category of such service or
class;(15)"Recruited direct" - A person said to be recruited direct when he is
not already a member of the Municipal service to which the direct recruitment
is made;(16)"Recruiting Authority" - "Recruiting Authority" shall means the
authority competent to recruit or select candidates for appointment to a
service, class or category, as the case may be;(17)"Reversion" - "Reversion"
shall means the reversion of a member of a class or category of a service to a
lower class or category of such service for want of vacancy;(18)"Scheduled
Castes" - "Scheduled Castes" mean the communities mentioned in Part A of
Schedule II to this Part and such other communities included from time to
time, in Part A of Schedule II of Part I of the General Rules for the Tamil
Nadu State and Subordinate Services.Explanation. - No person who professes a
religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled
Caste;(19)"Scheduled Tribes" - "Scheduled Tribes" means the communities
mentioned in Part B of Schedule II to this Part and such other communities
included, from time to time, in Part B or Schedule II of Part I of the General
Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services;(20)"Selection
Committee" - "Selection Committee" shall mean the Committee consisting of such
officials and non-officials as the State Government may, from time.to time, by
order determine, charged with the responsibility of drawing a list of approved
candidates or promotion panel in accordance with the rules;(21)"Service" -
"Service" shall mean any one of the Tamil Nadu municipal Services in Part III
of these rules;(22)"Special Rules" - "Special Rules" shall mean the rules in
Part III applicable to each service;(23)"Transfer" - "Transfer" shall mean the
posting of a person holding a post under a municipal Council to an identical
post under another Municipal Council.Illustration - An Upper Division Clerk of
the Tiruppur Municipality is posted as Upper Division Clerk in the Dindigul
Municipality. The posting is "transfer";(24)"Unit of appointment" - "Unit of
appointment" in relation to a class or category of service shall mean a
Municipality or more than one Municipality grouped together for the purpose of
appointment to a service or promotion or discharge for want of vacancies or
re-appointment or for confirmation of a member of that service;(25)"War
Service" - "War Service" means -(a)service of any kind in a unit or formation
liable for service overseas or in any operational area or in the Indian
National Army (I. N. A);(b)service in India under Military, Munitions or
Stores authorities or in factories with a liability to serve overseas or in
any operational area;(c)all other service involving subjection to Naval,
Military or Air Force Law;(d)a period of training with a Military unit or
formation involving liability to serve overseas or in any operational
area;(e)valuable service rendered to the fighting forces in other ways, e.g.,
by way of recruiting;(f)service in A.R.P. or any other civil defence
organisation specified in this behalf by the Central or State Government;
and(g)(1) any service connected with the prosecution of the war which a person
was required to undertake by a competent authority under the provision of any
law for the time being in force.(2)service in any of the following:
-(i)National War Front Organisation.(ii)Camouflage Organisation.(iii)Special
Organisation for the Production of War Supplies through small-scale
industries.(iv)Any post associated with the training of war technicians, if
duty in such post is declared by the Central Government to be "Military
Duty".(v)Post of Special Constable on Coastal Patrol Duty.(vi)Survey of India,
if the service was temporary and involved liability for service overseas.

## I and Schedule II Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes

## Part II – General Rules

### 1\. Scope of the general rules. - The rules in this Part shall apply to
all Municipal Services and to the holders of every post, whether temporary or
permanent in any class or category of such services or any post equivalent
thereto on the 14th January 1970.

Explanation. - If any doubt arises as to whether or not a post is not
equivalent to a post in a class or category of a Municipal Service, the matter
shall be referred to the Government whose decision shall be final.

### 2\. Relation to the special rules. - If any provision in the general rules
contained in this Part is repugnant to a provision in the special rules
applicable to any particular service contained in Part III, the latter shall,
in respect of that service, prevail over the provisions in the general rules
in this Part.

### 3. List of approved candidates. - All first appointments to a service
shall be made by the appointing authority from a list of approved candidates.
Such list shall be prepared by the Appointment Committee or Selection
Committee, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions made in the
rules. Where the candidates in such list are arranged in their order of
preference, appointments to the service shall be made in such order.

### 4. Fee to be paid by candidates. - Every candidate who applies for
appointment to any class or category of a service in response to an
advertisement issued by the appointing authority shall pay such fee as may be
prescribed in the advertisement. The fee may be sent either by postal money
order or by crossed postal order payable to the appointing authority:

Provided that no fee shall be levied from a candidate who has rendered war
service:Provided further that it shall be open to the appointing authority
with the concurrence of the State Government to exempt any classes of persons
from payment of fees.

### 5. Right of probationers and approved probationers to re-appointment. - A
vacancy in any service, class or category shall not be filled by the
appointment of a person who has not yet commenced his probation in such
service, class or category when an approved probationer or probationer therein
is available for such appointment.

### 6. Discharge or reversion and re-appointment of probationers and approved
probationers. - (a) Probationers and approved probationers shall be reverted
or discharged for want of vacancy in the following order: -

First - The probationers in the order of juniority; andSecond - The approved
probationers in the order of juniority.(b)The order of reversion or discharge
may be departed from in cases where such order will involve an excessive
expenditure on travelling allowances or exceptional administrative
inconvenience.

### 7. Members absent from duty. - The absence of a member of a service from
duty in such service, whether on leave or on foreign service or on deputation
or for any other reason and whether his lien in a post borne on the cadre of
such service is suspended or not shall not, if he is otherwise fit, render him
ineligible in his turn -

(a)for re-appointment to a substantive or officiating vacancy in the class,
category, grade or post in which he may be probationer or an approved
probationer;(b)for promotion from a lower to a higher category in such
service, as the case may be, in the same manner as if he had not been absent.
He shall be entitled to all the privileges in respect of appointment,
seniority, probation and appointment as full member which he would have
enjoyed, but for his. absence, subject to his completing satisfactorily the
period of probation on his return.

### 8. Temporary appointments and promotions. - (a) The appointing authority
may appoint any person temporarily for a period not exceeding six months or
promote any person temporarily for a period not exceeding three months for any
one of the following reasons: -

(i)In order to fill up a vacancy which has arisen in any category or class of
a service immediately in the public interest and where there will be undue
delay in making an appointment in accordance with the rules.(ii)Where it is
necessary to fill up a short vacancy in a category or class of a service and
the appointment of a person who is eligible for appointment or promotion under
the rules involves excessive expenditure on travelling allowance or
exceptional administrative inconvenience.(b)Where it is necessary to appoint
an officer against whom an enquiry, into allegations of corruption or
misconduct is pending, the appointing authority may appoint him temporarily
pending enquiry into the charges against him.(c)A person appointed or promoted
temporarily under clause (a) or clause (b) shall not be regarded as a
probationer in such service, class or category. The services of such a person
shall be liable to be terminated by the appointing authority at any time
without notice and without reasons being assigned.(d)A person appointed or
promoted temporarily under clause (a) or (b) shall be paid his substantive pay
or the minimum of the time-scale of pay applicable to the post, whichever is
higher.

### 8A. [ Procedure for recruitment when a member of a service dies in
harness. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 470, RDLA, dated the 30th March 1982.]
\- Wherever the procedure of recruitment through the Employment Exchange is
prescribed to any of the posts under the special rules, the same may be
relaxed in favour of the spouse/sons/unmarried daughters who would take care
of the family of a member of a service who dies in harness leaving the family
in indigent circumstances, subject to the following conditions, namely: -

(1)that the candidate should possess all the prescribed qualifications for the
post concerned;(2)that the normal procedure of recruitment through the
Employment Exchange shall be waived by the appointing authority concerned;
and(3)that all such cases shall be reported to the Government in the Rural
Development and Local Administration [Department and Labour and Employment
Department.]]

### 9. Appointment on contract. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules, wherever it is necessary in the interest of the administration or in
the public interest to appoint a person to any service, class or category
otherwise than in accordance with the rules, the Municipal Council concerned
may, with the prior approval of the State Government, appoint any person on
contract for a period not exceeding three years at a time. A person who is so
appointed shall not be regarded as a member of the service to which he is
appointed.

### 10. Qualification. - The minimum general educational qualification
wherever referred in the special rules shall mean the qualification prescribed
in the Schedule to this Part or any other qualification as prescribed, from
time to time, in Schedule I to Part II of the general rules for the Tamil Nadu
State and Subordinate Services. Any person who has appeared for the
examination mentioned in rule 12(a)(ii) of the general rules for the State and
Subordinate Services in column I of the Tamil Nadu Services Manual and has
obtained the minimum percentage of marks specified therein shall be deemed to
possess the minimum general educational qualification:

Provided that the certificate of eligibility for college course of studies in
the [University of Chennai] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1214 MA & WS, dated
the 31st October 1986.], Madurai-Kamaraj, Annamalai, Bharathiar and
Bharathidasan issued by the Board of Secondary Education (or by any Competent
authority) shall be an alternative qualification to minimum general
educational qualification.

### 11. Age limit. - The age limit prescribed in the special rules shall not
apply to the appointment of a candidate belonging to any of the Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes or [Backward Classes] [Backward Classes includes Most
Backward Classes and De-notified Communities also.] to a post included in
service for which the special rules prescribe a qualification lower than the
B. A. or B.Sc, degree of any University, if the candidate possesses a general
educational qualification higher than the minimum general educational
qualification.

[Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, a pass in the pre-University
Examination shall be deemed to be a qualification higher than that referred in
rule 10.] [Explanation was added by SRO A No. 208779, RD & LA, dated the 17th
July 1979.]A candidate who has rendered war service is eligible to deduct from
his age the period of his war service for the purpose of computing his age for
appointment.Ex-servicemen up to 45 years of age in the case of persons not
belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and [Backward Classes]
[Backward Classes includes Most Backward Classes and De-notified Communities
also.] , and up to 50 years of age in the case of persons belonging to
Scheduled Castes /Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes are eligible to be
considered for appointment, if they are otherwise qualified without referring
each case to Government for relaxation of the age rule.[Released bonded
labourers up to 40 years of age who are in possession of identity certificate
issued by competent authority are eligible to be considered for appointment,
if they are otherwise qualified and sponsored by Employment Exchange.] [This
paragraph was added by G. O. Ms. No. 347, RD & LA, dated the 16th March 1983.]

### 11A. [ Appointment on compassionate grounds. [Rules 11-A were inserted by
G. O. Ms. No. 175, MA & WS Dept., dated the 5th September 1995, with effect
from the 2nd September 1993.] \- Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules or the special rules for various municipal services, the sons or the
unmarried daughters or the wife or husband of a municipal employee who died in
harness while in service or retired from service on medical invalidation
before attaining the age of 50 years, shall be eligible for appointment by
direct recruitment on compassionate grounds, to any post provided, the
applicant possess the qualification prescribed for appointment to such post.]

### 11B. [ Age concession for appointment on compassionate grounds. [Rules
11-B were inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 175, MA & WS Dept., dated the 5th
September 1995, with effect from the 2nd September 1993.] \- Notwithstanding
anything contained in rule 11-A or in the special rules of the various
municipal services, the maximum age limit for appointment by direct
recruitment on compassionate grounds, shall be thirty years in respect of sons
or the unmarried daughters and fourty years in respect of wife or husband of
the municipal employee.

Explanation 1. - For the purpose of considering the maximum age limit, the
date of death of the municipal employee or the date of retirement on medical
invalidation before he attains the age of fifty years, as the case may be,
shall be taken into account.Explanation 2. - The expression "sons and
daughters" in rule 11-A and in this rule includes widowed daughters, divorced
daughters, legally adopted sons or legally adopted daughters, whose adoption
was made during the lifetime of the deceased municipal employee:Provided that
the widowed daughters, or divorced daughters shall not be eligible to avail
the concession of appointment on compassionate grounds, unless they are
nominated in writing by the widow or widower of the deceased municipal
employee.]

### 12. Special qualifications to be acquired or special tests to be passed. -
No person shall be eligible for appointment to any service or category, unless
he -

(a)possesses such special qualifications and has passed such special tests as
may be prescribed in that behalf in the special rules; or(b)possesses such
other qualifications as may be considered to be equivalent to the said special
qualifications or special tests by the State Government.

### 13. Appointment of women. - Women alone shall be appointed to posts in any
institution or establishment specially provided for them:

Provided that men may be appointed, if suitable or qualified women are not
available for such appointment.

### 14. Reservation of appointment. - [(1)] [Rule 14 was re-numbered as sub-
rule (1) and sub-rule (2) was added to rule 14 by G. O. Ms. No. 175, M.A. & W.
S., dated the 5th September 1995, with effect from the 2nd September 1993.]
Where the special rules lay down that the rule of reservation of appointments
shall apply to any service class or category, the order of such reservation
shall be the same as in rule 22 of the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State
and Subordinate Services.

(2)[] [Rule 14 was re-numbered as sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) was added to
rule 14 by G. O. Ms. No. 175, M.A. & W. S., dated the 5th September 1995, with
effect from the 2nd September 1993.] Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-rule (1), the rule of reservation shall not apply to the appointment on
compassionate grounds.

### 15. Date of commencement of probation of persons appointed or promoted
temporarily. - If a person who is appointed or promoted temporarily under rule
8 of these rules is subsequently appointed thereto in accordance with the
rules, it shall be open to the appointing authority to allow such person to
commence his probation from the date of such appointment or promotion or from
an earlier date, such date not being earlier to the date of first temporary
appointment or promotion under rule 8, as the appointing authority may, in his
discretion, decide:

Provided that this rule shall not be construed as authorising the appointment
or promotion on probation of a person from a date on which he did not possess
the qualification prescribed for such appointment or promotion.

### 16. Duty in higher post to count for promotion to count for probation in
lower post. - A probationer in any class or category of a service shall be
eligible to count towards his probation, if any, his duty performed otherwise
than in a substantive capacity on regular appointment to a higher class or
category of the same service. Nothing contained in this rule shall be
construed as authorising the promotion of a probationer in contravention of
rules.

### 17. Duty on temporary promotion to count for probation in lower post. - A
probationer in any class or category of a service who is promoted temporarily
under the provisions of rule 8 of these rules to a higher class or category of
the same service shall be entitled to count towards his probation, if any, in
the former class or category the period of duty performed by him in the latter
class or category, as the case may be, during which he would have held the
post in the former category but for his temporary appointment.

### 17A. [ Completion of probation after undergoing training in Tamil Nadu
Institute of Urban Studies, Coimbatore in certain cases. [This rule was added
by S.R.O. No. 37/95, MA & WS, dated the 29th May 1995.] \- No person appointed
by direct recruitment to -

(i)Categories 1,2,3 and 4 of Class VII and Category 2 of Class IX of the Tamil
Nadu Municipal General Service,(ii)Category 1 of Class I, Categories 1 and 2
of Class II, Categories 1 and 2 of Class IV of the Tamil Nadu Municipal
Engineering and Water Works Service,(iii)Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Tamil
Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service, shall be deemed to have completed his
probation or eligible for further increment in the time scale of pay
applicable to him, unless and until he undergoes the training and passes the
test conducted by the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies,
Coimbatore:Provided that nothing contained in this rule shall adversely affect
a member of the service who is a probationer as on the 29th May 1995.]

### 18. Completion of probation and drawal of arrears of increments. - Any
delay in passing orders of completion of probation shall not monetarily affect
the approved probationer, and arrears of increments shall be allowed from the
date of completion of probation as matter of course, subject to the following
conditions, namely: -

(1)that the probation would have been declared to have been satisfactorily
completed from the date ordered, even if the question of declaration of
probation had been taken up earlier;(2)that the declaration of satisfactory
completion of probation was delayed by factors which would not, in any case,
change the date of such completion;(3)that the person whose probation is
declared to have been satisfactorily completed was qualified as on the date
ordered;(4)that declaration of satisfactory completion of probation was not
the result of any relaxation of rules.In all cases coming under items (1) to
(4) above, orders issued declaring the probation or relaxing statutory rules
shall include a specific provision in regard to drawal of arrears of
increments.

### 19. Appointing authority to consider suitability for full membership. - As
soon as a probationer in any class or category of a service has completed his
period of probation prescribed in the rule or the extended period of probation
referred to in rule 20, as the case may be, the appointing authority shall
consider his suitability for full membership to the class or category, as the
case may be, provided he has passed the tests, if any, which he should pass
during the period of his probation.

If the appointing authority is satisfied that the probationer is suitable for
full membership, he shall pass an order declaring him to be an approved
probationer.

### 20. Extension of probation. - If the appointing authority is of the
opinion that the probationer should continue to be on probation in order to
enable him to decide upon his suitability for full membership or if the
probationer has not passed the test or tests, if any, of which probationer
should pass within the period of probation and he should be given time to
enable him to pass the tests, the appointing authority may extend his period
of probation for a period not exceeding one year.

### 21. Completion or termination of probation. - If, on the conclusion of the
period of probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be,
the appointing authority is satisfied that the probationer is not suitable for
full membership, he shall pass an order terminating his probation after giving
the probationer a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
termination of probation.

If, on the conclusion of the period of probation, the probationer has not
passed the tests, if any, prescribed by the rules, the appointing authority
shall terminate his probation unless the probation is extended under rule 20.
If the probationer does not pass the tests within the extended period of
probation, the appointing authority shall terminate his probation.

### 22. Automatic completion of probation. - A probationer in any class or
category of service shall be deemed to have completed his probation
automatically, unless within a period of six months calculated from the date
on which he completed his period of probation or the extended period of
probation, as the case may be, -

(i)a communication asking him to show cause why his probation should not be
terminated is served on him; or(ii)disciplinary proceedings are initiated
against him for corruption or other serious misconduct and he is specifically
informed in writing that the question of considering the suitability for full
membership will be taken up only after the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceedings.Nothing in this rule shall be construed as entitling a probationer
to automatic completion of probation, if he has not passed the tests which
under the special rules he should pass within the period of his probation.

### 23. Appeal against termination of probation. - A probationer whose
probation has been terminated for reasons other 4 than failure to pass the
prescribed test shall be entitled to appeal to the next higher authority. Such
appeal shall be preferred within a period of two months of the date on which
the order of termination of probation is communicated to him:

Provided that the appellate authority may, in his discretion, extend the
aforesaid period beyond two months.

### 24. Appointment of full members. - The senior most approved probationer in
a class or category, as the case may be, of a service shall, at the earliest
possible opportunity, be appointed as full member in a substantive vacancy
existing in such class or category. If the substantive vacancy exists from a
date prior to the date of completion of probation, he shall be appointed
retrospectively as a full member from such date provided that no person shall
be appointed from a date which is earlier to the date on which he commenced
probation.

### 25. Seniority. - The seniority of a person appointed to any class or
category of service shall be determined with reference to his rank in the list
of approved candidates or promotion panel, as the case may be:

Provided that the seniority of person who was already a member of a service of
the 14th day of January 1970 shall be determined with reference to the date of
his first appointment to the service, class or category thereto.

### 26. Promotion. - Every promotion to a class or category of service to
which promotion should be made on the ground of merit and ability are
approximately equal, shall be made only from a promotion panel drawn up by the
Selection Committee.

### 27. Completion of probation and promotion. - (a) A person who is appointed
to a service in a class or category thereof shall not be promoted from the
said class or category until he has completed his probation therein.

(b)Subject to the provision of clause (a), a member of a service in any class
or category may be promoted from the said class or category even though he may
not have completed his probation therein.

### 28. Merit and seniority in the matter of promotion. - (a) All promotions
shall be made on grounds of merit and ability of the member of the service,
his seniority being taken into account only where merit and ability are
approximately equal, except where the special rules governing a service
specifically require that promotion to any class or category thereof shall be
made on the basis of seniority alone.

(b)Where the special rules governing a service require that promotion to any
class or category thereof shall be made on the basis of seniority alone, the
order of seniority may be departed from in the following cases, namely:
-(i)Where promotion is given on grounds of conspicuous merit and
ability;(ii)Where promotion has been withheld as a measure of penalty.

### 29. Representation against supersession of claim for promotion. - Every
member of a service whose claim for promotion is passed over shall have the
right to make a representation for redressal of his grievance. Such
representation should be made to the authority to which an appeal would lie
against an order of dismissal passed on a full member of the service, class or
category, as the case may be, and within six months from the date on which the
cause for making the representation accrued. The aforesaid authority shall
examine every such representation on its merits and pass suitable order.

### 30. Revision of orders of promotion. - Nothing contained in rule 29 shall
be construed as preventing the authority mentioned in that rule from suo moto
examining any order promoting a member of a service and revising it in any
manner it considers equitable.

### 31. Postings and transfers. - (a) A member of a service or class of a
service may be required to serve in any post borne on cadre of such service or
class,

(b)All transfers and postings shall be made by the appointing
authority.(c)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (b), the Director
of Municipal Administration or such other authority to whom power may be
delegated may transfer a member of a service from one Municipality to
another.(d)The power conferred under sub-rule (c) may be exercised by the
State Government or any authority to whom the authority referred to in sub-
rule (c) is subordinate.

### 31A. (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Government
shall have the power -

(i)to transfer any officer or servant of a Panchayat Union Council to the
service of any Municipality in accordance with the provisions contained in the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 [(Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958:] [This Act has
been repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994).]Provided that no officer or servant shall be transferred
except after consulting the Panchayat Union Council or Municipal Council
concerned; and(ii)to transfer any officer or servant of the Madurai municipal
Corporation to the service of any Municipality in accordance with the
provisions contained in section 114 of the Madurai City municipal Corporation
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971).(b)The seniority of a person appointed
on such transfer is to be fixed just below the person who is the junior most
in the respective category in any of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Services.

### 32. Consequences of resignation. - A member of service shall, if he
resigns his appointment, forfeits not only the service rendered by him in the
particular post held by him at the time of resignation, but all his previous
services under any municipality.

The re-appointment of such person to any service shall be treated in the same
way as first appointment to service by direct recruitment and the rules
governing such appointment shall apply and on such re-appointment he shall not
be entitled to count any portion of his previous service for any benefit or
concession admissible under any rule or order.

### 33. Reduction of full member. - If a full member of any class or category
of a service is substantively reduced to a lower class or category therein, he
shall be deemed to be a full member of the latter, and the permanent cadre
thereof shall, if there is no vacancy in which he could be absorbed, be deemed
to be increased by one:

Provided that against every such addition, an officiating or temporary
vacancy, if any, in such lower class or category shall be kept unfilled, and
such addition shall be absorbed in the first permanent vacancy that arises
subsequently in such lower class or category, as the case may be.

### 34. Appointment in place of members dismissed, removed, compulsorily
retired or reduced. - Where a person has been dismissed, removed, compulsorily
retired or substantively in such service, class, category or grade shall be
substantively filled to the prejudice of such person until the expiry of a
period of one year from the date of such dismissal, removal, compulsory
retirement or reduction or until the appeal, if any, preferred by him against
such dismissal, removal, compulsory retirement or reduction is decided,
whichever is later.

### 35. Re-employment of pensioners. - Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in these rules or the special rules, the State Government shall have
the power to re-employ in any Municipal Service or class or category thereof
any person who has retired from a municipal Service. The re-employment of such
person shall not be regarded as a first appointment to that service, nor it
shall confer on him the status of a service in which he is re-employed.

### 36. Relinquishment of rights by members. - Any person may, in writing,
relinquish any right or privilege to which he may be entitled under these
rules or the special rules, if in the opinion of the appointing authority,
such relinquishment is not opposed to public interest; and nothing contained
in these rules or the special rules shall be deemed to require the recognition
of any right or privilege to the extent to which it has been so relinquished.

### 37. Power to relax rules. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these
rules or the special rules, the State Government shall have the power to deal
with the case of any person or class of persons serving in a Municipal Service
or any candidate or class of candidates for appointment to such services in
such manner as may appear to them to be just and equitable:

Provided that where any such rule is applicable to the case of any person or
class of persons, the case shall not be dealt with in any manner less
favourable to him or them than provided by that rule.

### 38. Delegation of powers. - (i) Notwithstanding anything contained in
these rules or the special rules, the State Government may authorise any
officer to exercise any one or more powers vested in them and in the like
manner withdraw the same.

(ii)The exercise of the powers delegated in sub-rule (i) shall be subject to
such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed and also subject to
control and revision by the State Government or by such officers as may be
empowered by them in this behalf. The State Government shall also have power
to control and revise the acts or proceedings of any officer empowered.

### 39. Alteration of date of birth. - (a) The date of birth of a member of
service shall be the date found on record in the S.S.L.C or Matriculation
Register or any school certificate which he produces at the time of his
appointment to the service. If a member of a service claims subsequently that
his date of birth is different from that entered in the S.S.L.C. or
Matriculation Register or school certificate, he shall make an application to
the appointing authority, explaining him the mistake occurred and also produce
the evidence on which he relies.

(b)An application for alternation of the date of birth should not normally be
accepted by the appointing authority, if it is made five years after the
member had entered a service unless the applicant furnish adequate reasons for
not making his application earlier.(c)The appointing authority shall send the
relevant records to the Collector of the district concerned who shall have the
matter enquired into by an officer of the Revenue Department not lower in rank
than Revenue Divisional Officer. The Collector shall forward with his remarks,
if any, the report of the Revenue Divisional Officer concerned and all the
relevant records to the State Government. Thereupon, the State Government
shall pass suitable orders thereon.(d)In considering the question of
permitting an alteration in the date of birth as entered in the official
records, even when such entry is proved to have been due to a bona fide
mistake, the Government or the appointing authority shall take into
consideration the circumstances whether the applicant would normally be
eligible for appointment to the post at the time of entry into service had his
age been correctly stated and what would have been its effect on the service,
and Government may permit the alteration subject to such conditions as they
may deem fit to impose.(e)The procedure laid down in sub-rules (a) to (d)
shall be followed also in case where alteration of date of birth is proposed
suo motu by the Head of Office on the basis of medical opinion, in the absence
of any other authoritative records.

### 40. Furnishing of security deposit in a particular class or category of a
service. - It shall be open to the Director of Municipal Administration to
direct, with the prior approval of the State Government, by means of a general
or special order, that a person before he is appointed to a particular class
or category of a service shall furnish security for a specified amount. The
amount of security and the manner of taking it shall be given in the order. No
person shall be appointed to any class or category unless he furnishes
security in accordance with the said order.

### 41. Rules applicable to Government Servants shall apply. - The provisions
of Fundamental Rules, Tamil Nadu Leave Rules, 1933, Tamil Nadu Manual of
Special Pay and Allowances, Tamil Nadu Pension Code, as amended from time to
time, as applicable to Government servants, shall apply in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the rules made under the District Municipalities Act,
1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920).

### 42. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the appropriate
authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so
to do, have the absolute right to retire any member of the service by giving
him notice of not less than 3 months in writing or three months pay and
allowances in lieu of such notice after the member of the said service
attained the age of 50 years or after he has completed 25 years of qualifying
service. Any member of the service [who has completed 20 years of qualifying
service] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2146, R.D. & L.A., dated the 29th
December 1981.] may likewise retire from service by giving notice of not less
than 3 months in writing to the appropriate authority.

Explanation I. - For the purpose of the rules, appropriate authority means the
authority which has the power to make substantive appointments to the post or
service from which the member of the service is required to retire or wants to
retire.Explanation II. - For the purpose of this rule, the 3 months notice may
be given before the member of the said service attains the age of 50 years,
provided that the retirement takes place after he has attained that
age.Explanation III. - In computing the notice period of 3 months, the date of
service of notice shall be included.An employee can withdraw the notice of
voluntary retirement before the expiry of the period of notice with the
approval of the appropriate authority. - Vide G. O. Ms. No. 91, P &AR (FR-
III), dated 4-2-1983.

## Schedule 2

Minimum General Educational Qualification(Referred to in rule 10)A candidate
must -(a)either have obtained a completed Secondary School Leaving Certificate
issued under the authority of the Government of Tamil Nadu; and(1)if such
certificate was obtained in pursuance of the revised Secondary School Leaving
Certificate Scheme introduced by G. O. No. 1636, Law (Education), dated the
3rd August 1929, the certificate must show that the candidate has obtained at
the public examination not less than the percentage of marks specified below
in the subjects under Group "A" and not less than 35 per cent in one of the
subject, in Group "C"Group "A" per cent.

English | 40  
---|---  
Language | 40  
Elementary Mathematics | 35  
Elementary Science | 30  
Outlines of History of England and India and Geography | 30  
  
Provided that a candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribe
shall, if he has obtained not less than 35 per cent in English and in the
language in Group "A" and not less the percentage of marks specified above in
the other subjects under Group "C", be eligible for appointment to any
Subordinate Service.(2)If such certificate was obtained in pursuance of the
Secondary School Leaving Certificate Scheme which was in operation before the
revised scheme referred to in sub-clause (1), the certificate must show that
the candidate has obtained at the public examination not less than 35 per cent
of the marks in each of subject in Group "A" and in each of two subjects in
Group "C".(3)If such certificate was obtained in pursuance of the scheme for
the reorganisation of secondary education introduced by G. O. No. 1349,
Education, dated the 29th May 1948, the certificate must show that the
candidate has obtained at the public examination not less than the percentage
of marks specified in column (2) of the table below against the subjects
referred to column (1) thereof: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
I. Academic Course - | Per cent  
(1) First Language Parts I and II | 40 [80 marks out of 200]  
(2) English | 40  
(3) Mathematics (General or Composite) | 35 in each of any two of the subjects 30 in the third  
(4) Social Studies and |   
(5) General Science |   
II. Secretarial Course: - |   
(1) First Language Part I | 40  
(2) English | 40  
(3) Commercial Arithmetic | 35 in any one of the subjects 30 each in the other three  
(4) Social Studies |   
(5) Drafting, Precis-Writing and Typewriting |   
(6) Two of the following three items |   
(i) Commercial Practice |   
(ii) Shorthand |   
(iii) Book-keeping |   
III Pre-Technological Course - |   
A. Engineering - |   
(1) First Language Part I | 40  
(2) English | 40  
(3) Mathematics (General or Composite) | 35 in any one of the subject and 30 each in the other three  
(4) Social Studies |   
(5) Science and Drawing |   
(6) Applied Science and Practical |   
  
B. Agriculture or any other subject: - In each of the other two subject under
Part 11-30 in each.If additional language is taken under this Part, the
candidate should obtain a total number of 80 marks in that language and in
Part I of the First Language put together. If General Science or Social
Studies is taken as a subject under this Part, 35 per cent should be obtained
in that subject.

## Part III – {|

|-| Any one subject under this Part V teachingpractice course| 30|-| (1) First
language, Part I| 40|-| (2) English| 40|-| (3) Mathematics (General or
Composite)| 35 in one of the subjects, and 30 each in theother 3|-| (4)
General Science||-| (5) Social Studies||-| (6) Teaching Practice||}Provided
that in the case of a candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled
Tribes, it shall be sufficient if he has obtained not less than 35 per cent in
English, not less than 35 per cent in Part one of the First Language, or 70
marks out of 200 when both Part I and II of the First Language are taken, as
the case may be, and not less than the percentage of marks specified in the
table above in other subjects.(4)If such certificate was obtained in pursuance
of the Reorganised Scheme for Secondary Education Introduced in 1959, the
certificate mush show that the candidate has obtained at the public
examination not less than the percentage of marks specified in column (2) of
the Table below against the subject referred to in column (1) thereof: -

1\. Academic Course: - | Per cent  
---|---  
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General/Composite Mathematics | 35 each in any two subjects and 30 in the third  
(4) General Science |   
(5) Social Studies |   
II. Diversified Course | Per cent  
A. Engineering Course: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) Composite Mathematics |  35 in any one of the subjects and 30 in each ofthe other subjects.  
(4) Engineering Paper I |   
(5) Engineering Paper II |   
(6) Engineering Paper III |   
(7) Engineering Practical |   
B. Textile Technology Course: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200) -  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General / Composite Mathematics |  35 in any one of the subjects and 30 each inthe other subjects  
(4) Science |   
(5) Textile Technology Paper I |   
(6) Textile Technology Paper II |   
(7) Textile Technology Practical |   
C. Agriculture Course: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General Mathematics |  35 in any one of the subjects, and 30 each inthe other subjects  
(4) General Science |   
(5) Agriculture (Theory) |   
(6) Agriculture (Practical) |   
D. Secretarial Course: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80) marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General Mathematics |  35 in any one of the subjects and 30 in theother subjects  
(4) General Science |   
(5) Typewriting |   
(6) Secretarial Practice |   
(7) Book-Keeping or Shorthand |   
(8) Civics and Commercial Geography |   
E. Home Science: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General Mathematics | 30 in each of the subjects  
(4) General science |   
(5) Social Studies |   
(6) Home Science (Theory) |   
(7) Home Science (Practical) |   
F. Drawing And Painting: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General Mathematics | 30 in each of the subjects  
(4) General Science |   
(5) Social Studies |   
(6) Drawing |   
(7) Painting |   
G. Music: - |   
(1) Language under Part I | 40 (80 marks out of 200)  
(2) Language under Part III (English) | 40  
(3) General Mathematics | 30 in each of the subjects  
(4) General Science |   
(5) Social Studies |   
(6) Music (Theory) |   
(7) Music (Practical) |   
  
Provided that in the case of a candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes, it shall be sufficient if he has obtained not less than 35
per cent in English and 35 per cent in Language under Part I or 70 marks out
of 200 when both Papers I and II of the language under Part I are taken, as
the case maybe, and not less than the percentage of marks specified in the
Table above in the other subjects.Notes. - (i) The certificates of pupils who
have been exempted from Vernacular Composition and Translation in Group "A"
will not be considered incomplete because they contain no entry under that
subject.(ii)A pass in a Government Technical Examination will be regarded as
an equivalent to obtaining 35 per cent of the marks in the corresponding
subjects in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate Public Examination for
this purpose, where in the latter examination, the technical subject comprises
two subjects in the Government Technical Examination, passes in at least the
lower grade are required on both the subjects in the Government Technical
Examination.(iii)A pass in a Part of the Intermediate Examination in Arts and
Science or the Pre-University Examination of any university or Institution
recognised by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of its grants
shall be regarded as equivalent to obtaining the minimum number of marks
prescribed for the corresponding subject or subjects in the Secondary School
Leaving Certificate Public Examination.(iv)A candidate who appeared for the
Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination under the 1929 Scheme and
failed to obtain the minimum marks prescribed for the minimum general
educational qualification in sub-clause (1) of clause (a) can appear for the
Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination under the re-organised Scheme
of Secondary Education in the corresponding subjects in the Academic Course
given below and obtain the minimum marks prescribed against each subject in
the table below: -

Old Scheme | New Scheme Academic Course  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
1\. Language | 1\. First Language  
2\. English | 2\. English  
3\. Elementary Mathematics | 3\. Mathematics  
4\. Elementary Science | 4\. General Science  
5\. History and Geography | 5\. Social Subjects  
6\. Optional Subject | 6\. No corresponding subject.  
  
He shall be deemed to possess the minimum general educational qualification if
he has obtained the minimum percentage of marks prescribed for the first five
subjects in the old scheme or the minimum percentage of marks prescribed for
the corresponding subjects specified above in the new scheme and in lieu of
the prescribed percentage in the optional subject in the old scheme has
obtained the minimum number of marks in Composite Mathematics under the new
scheme or a pass in any one of the subjects for Government Technical
Examinations by the Lower Grade which need not necessarily be as corresponding
subject, or,(5)If such certificate has been obtained in pursuance of the
revised pattern of school Education introduced in 1966 in G.O. Ms. No. 1386,
Education, dated the 21st July 1966, the certificate must show that the
candidate has obtained at the public examination not less than 40 per cent of
marks in each of the Language under Group A and 35 per cent of marks in each
of the subjects under Groups B and C:Provided that in the case of a candidate
belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, it shall be sufficient
if he has obtained not less than 35 per cent of marks in each of the subjects
under Groups A, B, and C.(b)(1) have obtained a completed European School
Leaving Certificate or a completed Anglo Indian School Leaving Certificate
issued under the authority of the Government of Tamil Nadu, with either Tamil,
Telugu, Malayalarn, Kan-nada, Hindustani or Hindi as his compulsory second
language and secured at the Europeon High School Examination or the Anglo
Indian School Leaving Certificate Examination not less than the percentage of
marks specified below in the subjects in Group "A" and not less than 35 per
cent in each of three subjects in Group "B".Group "A"

English | 40  
---|---  
ElementaaryMathematics | 35  
A language | 30  
  
or(2)have passed the Anglo Indian High School Examination under the New Scheme
held from November 1962,or(c)have passed the Matriculation Examination of any
University or Institution recognised by the University Grants Commission for
the purpose of its grants, or(d)have obtained the Post Basic (Higher)
Certificate with not less than the following percentage of marks specified
against each subject:

(1) Regional Language | 40 per cent in each subject.  
---|---  
(2) English |  35 per cent in the case of Scheduled Castes andScheduled Tribes.  
(3) Mathematics |  35 per cent in any two subjects and 30 per centin the third subject.  
(4) Social Studies |   
(5) General Science |   
  
Note: - The following shall be regarded as equivalent to the minimum general
educational qualification prescribed in the schedule to the General Rules for
the State and Subordinate Services: -(1)Indian Army Special Certification of
Education.(2)A pass in the Higher Education Test of the Royal Indian Navy.(3)A
pass in the Anglo-Vernacular School Leaving Certificate.(3-A) A pass in the
Burma High School Final Examination.(4)A pass in the Post-War School Leaving
Certification Examination, Burma, provided that the candidate has obtained at
the said examination the percentage of marks noted below against each subject:
-

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
English | 40  
Mathematics | 30  
  
Two other subjects (other than Burmese) 35 each, and that the candidate
possesses an adequate knowledge of one of the regional language of the State
of Tamil Nadu.(4-A) A pass in the pre-War Anglo-Vernacular School Leaving
Certificate Examination of Burma, provided that the candidate has obtained in
the said Examination, the percentage of marks noted below against each
subject: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
English | 40  
Mathematics | 30  
Two other subjects (other than Burmese) | 35 each  
  
And that the candidate possesses an adequate knowledge of one of the regional
languages of the State of Tamil Nadu:Provided that items (4) and (4-A) shall,
with effect from the 30th November 1957, be deemed to have effect as if the
words "and that the candidate possesses an adequate knowledge of one of the
regional languages of the State of Madras" had been omitted.(5)A pass in the
Entrance Examination of the Sreemathi Nathibai Damodher Thackersay Indian
Women's University, Bombay;(6)A pass in the Matriculation Examination of the
Rangoon University;(7)A pass in the English School Leaving Certificate
Examination of the Travancore area under the revised syllabus introduced in
1949;(7-A) A pass in the English School Leaving Certificate Examination
(renamed S.S.L.C Examination since 1952) of the Travancore area under the
modified scheme introduced in 1951 in cases where candidates have obtained not
less than the following percentage of marks: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
English | 40  
Second Language | 40  
|  35 per cent in the case of candidates belongingto any of the Scheduled  
Castes or Scheduled Tribes. |   
Other subjects | 35  
  
(7-B) A completed Secondary School-Leaving Certificate (X Standard) of the
Kerala State held prior to the introduction of the New Scheme in 1964 with not
less than the following percentage of, marks in the various subjects at the
Public Examination: -

| Per cent  
---|---  
English | 40  
Regional Language | 40  
|  35 per cent in the case of candidates belongingto any of  
the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. |   
Other subjects (excluding Hindi) | 35  
  
(8)A pass in the pre 1949 English School-Leaving Certificate Examination of
the pre-integration Travancore State in cases where candidates have obtained
not less than the following percentage of marks: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
English | 40 per cent  
Language |  40 per cent 35 per cent in the cases ofcandidates belonging to any of Scheduled Castes or ScheduledTribes  
Elementary Mathematics | 30  
History and Geography | 35  
Elementary Science | 35  
  
(9)A pass in the Secondary School Certificate Examination conducted by the
Government of Bombay (under revised Scheme 1951) provided that the percentage
of marks obtained at the examination in each subject is the same or higher
than the percentage of marks prescribed in the Schedule for the corresponding
subject in the Madras S.S.L.C. Examination.(10)A pass in the Admission
Examination of the Banaras Hindu University;(11)A pass in the Advanced Class
(Indian Navy) Examination held in or before 1954;(12)A certificate granted by
the East Bengal Secondary Education Board, Dacca in any of the following
Examinations conducted by it: -(i)Matriculation Examination;(ii)High Madrasah
Examination; and(iii)School Final (Science side) Examination.(13)A pass in the
Vidyanvinodhini Examination of the Prayag Manila Vidayapitha, Allahabad,
provided the candidate has taken "Advanced English" as one of the optional
subjects;(14)A completed Cochin Secondary School Leaving Certificate with not
less than the following percentage of marks in the various subjects at the
Public Examination: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
English | 40  
Second Language | 40  
35 per cent in the case of candidates belongingto any of the Scheduled Castes
or Scheduled Tribes.  
Elementary Mathematics | 30  
Outline of Modern History and History of Englandand Geography | 35  
Elementary Science | 30  
One optional subject | 30  
  
(15)A pass in the Oriental School Leaving Certificate Examination, provided
that the candidate has obtained the percentage of marks noted below against
each subject: -

(1) | (2)  
---|---  
| Per cent  
1\. English | 40  
2\. Social Studies | 35  
3\. Main Language | 40  
  
(16)A pass in the Technical High School Certificate Examination conducted by
the State Board of Technical Education and Training, Chennai in one sitting.

