## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980

## Act 15 of 1980

  * Published on 22 April 1980 
  * Commenced on 22 April 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 April 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980(Tamil Nadu
Act 15 of 1980)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980). - By
the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection from Eviction) Act, 1976
(President's Act 36 of 1976), as amended from time to time, protection has
been given up to the 15th July 1980, to the cultivating tenants, from eviction
for non-payment of rent for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1976 and
for any previous fasli year. Considerable amounts ol rent payable by the
cultivating tenants to the landlord or public trust, as the case may be have
remained in arrears. Having regard to the economic condition of the
cultivating tenants who are not in a position to pay the accumulated arrears
of rent, Government have decided, as part of the agrarian reform, to give
relief to the cultivating tenants from the burden of discharging arrears of
rent, subject to the condition that the cultivating tenant has paid or pays
the arrears of rent accrued due to the landlord, or public trust, as the case
may be, before the 30th June 1973 and outstanding on the date of the
publication of the proposed legislation, and one-third ol the rent for each
fasli year during the period commencing on the 1st Julv 1973 and ending with
the 30th June 1976, within the time limit specified in the said proposed
Act.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-
Section I of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 7th February
1980.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears
of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1980. - By the
Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 15 of 1980), Government have, as part of the agrarian reform, given relief
to the cultivating tenants from the burden of discharging arrears of rent,
subject to the condition that the cultivating tenant has paid or pays the
arrears of rent accrued due to the landlord or Public Trust, as the case may;
be, before the 30th June 1973 and outstanding on the date of the publication
of the said Act, and one-third of the rent for each fasli year during (he
period commencing on the 1st July 1973 and ending with the 30th June 1976
within the time limit specified in that Act. The time limit specified under
the said Act for paying the arrears of rent for the fasli year ending with the
30th June 1973 and for any previous fasli year and the first instalment of the
reduced rent, is the 30th June 1980. As the said Act came into force only on
the 26th April 1980, and as, many cultivating tenants had harvested much
earlier, the aforesaid time limit of the 30th June 1980, is not adequate for
them to pay the arrears of rent for the said fasli years as well as the first
instalment of the reduced rent. The Government have, therefore, decided to
extend the said time limit. Representations have come to the Government that
the benefits conferred by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1972) were not availed of by most of
the cultivating tenants and that they may be again given an opportunity to
avail of the said benefits. Accordingly, it is considered that if the
cultivating tenant has paid or pays, the entire rent for the fasli year ending
with the 30th June 1972 in three equal instalments, namely, the first, second
and third instalments on or before the 31st December 1980, the 30th June 1981
and the 30th June 1982 respectively, all arrears of rent for the fasli year
ending with the 30th June 1972 and for any previous fasli year shall be deemed
to be discharged. Further, if the cultivating tenant has paid or pays the
entire rent for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1973 in three equal
instalments and one-third of the rent for each fasli year during the period
commencing on the 1st July 1973 and ending with the 30th June 1976 in three
instalments, namely, the first, second and third instalments on or before the
31st December 1980, the 30th June 1981 and the 30th June 1982 respectively,
all arrears of rent for the period commencing on the 1st July 1972 and ending
with the 30th June 1976, shall he deemed to be discharged. It is also
considered that the rent paid on or after the 12th February 1973 should be
adjusted towards the instalments, of the rent for the fasli year ending with
the 30th June 1972, the rent for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1973
and the reduced rent.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve tire above
objects.Published in Part IV-Section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
dated the 24th July 1980.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu
Act 31 of 1981). - By the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980), as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 1980), the Government have, as part of the agrarian reform, given
relief to the cultivating tenants from the burden of discharging arrears of
rent, subject to the conditions specified therein. The time limit specified
imder the said Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1980 for paying the first instalment of
the rent for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1972 and for the fasli
year ending with the 30th June 1973 and the first instalment of the reduced
rent, is the 31st December 1980. As the said Amendment Act, namely, Tamil Nadu
Act 37 of 1980 by which the lime limit for paying the said first instalments
of the rent has been given up to the 31st December 1980, has been published in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, only on the 5th November 1980 and as the
cultivating tenants would be able to pay the arrears of rent as soon as the
harvest in January and February 1981 is over, the Government have decided to
extend the time limit by another three and a half months, i.e., up to the 15th
April 1981.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part
IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 28th January
1981Received the assent of the President on the 22nd April 1980 and published
in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 26th April 1980.An Act to provide relief to cultivating tenants in respect
of certain arrears of rents.Whereas by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
(Protection from Eviction) Act, 1976 (President's Act 36 of 1976), cultivating
tenants in the State were given protection from eviction on the ground of
arrears of rent;And Whereas the said Act will be in force only up to and
inclusive of the 15th July 1980;And Whereas after the expiration of the said
Act, it will be difficult for the cultivating tenants to pay the entire
arrears outstanding on the 16th July 1980;And Whereas due to default in the
payment of arrears of rent, landlords may take action against cultivating
tenants for eviction and for recovery of arrears of rent;And Whereas, in the
interests of the general public, cultivating tenants should, at the present
time, be spared the distractions and expenditure involved in such action in
order that the maximum possible advantage may result to the State in the
matter of production of food crops;And Whereas it is considered necessary, as
part of agrarian reform, to give relief to cultivating tenants from the heavy
burdens of discharging arrears of rent, on certain conditions specified;Be it
enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-first Year
of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1980.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles laid down in Part IV, and in
particular, clause (c) of Article 39 and Article 46 of Constitution.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"competent
authority" means the Revenue Divisional Officer or authorized officer having
jurisdiction to entertain a proceeding for the eviction of a cultivating
tenant under the Tenants Protection Act or the Public Trusts Act, as the case
may be;(b)"Court" means-(i)any Court in which any suit or proceeding for the
recovery or any arrears of rent from a cultivating tenant is pending on the
date of the publication of this Act; or(ii)any Court which has passed a decree
or order for such recovery; or(iii)any Court to which such decree or order has
been sent for execution;(c)"cultivating tenant" means-(i)a cultivating tenant
as defined in clause (aa) of section 2 of the Tenants Protection Act; or(ii)a
cultivating tenant as defined in clause (5) of section 2 of the Public Trusts
Act;(d)"date of the publication of this Act" means the date of the publication
of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette;(e)"landlord" means a
landlord as defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Tenants Protection Act
and includes a public trust as defined in clause (25) of section 2 of the
Public Trusts Act;(f)"pay" with its grammatical variations, includes
deliver;(g)[xxx] [This clause was omitted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of
1980).](h)"Public Trusts Act" means the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation
of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of
1961);(i)"Tenants Protection Act" means the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955);(j)all other words and
expressions used, but not defined in this Act and defined in the Tenants
Protection Act or in the Public Trusts Act shall have the same meanings as in
the Tenants Protection Act or in the Public Trusts Act, as the case may be.

### 4. [ Relief for payment of arrears of rent. [Substituted In/ Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of
1980).]

(1)All arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the
fasli year ending with the 30th June 1972 and for any previous fasli year and
outstanding on the date of the publication of this Act, shall be deemed to be
discharged, whether or not a decree or order has been obtained thereof, if
such cultivating tenant:(i)has, before the date of the publication of this
Act, paid to the landlord or deposited in the Court or before the competent
authority, to the account of the landlord; or(ii)pays to the landlord or
deposits in the Court or before the competent authority, to the account of the
landlord in the manner specified in sub-sections (2) and (5); or(iii)is deemed
to have paid or deposited under this Act, the rent for the fasli year
commencing on the 1st July 1971 and ending with the 30th June 1972 without
interest (hereinafter referred to as the rent for the fasli year 1381).(2)Any
cultivating tenant may pay to the landlord or deposit in the Court or before
the competent authority to the account of the landlord the rent for the fasli
year 1381 in three equal instalments as specified below,:-(i)the first
instalment, on or before the [30th June 1981];(ii)the second instalment, on or
before the [31st March 1982] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1981).];(iii)the third installment, on or before the 30th June 1982.(3)All
arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the period
commencing on the 1st July 1972 and ending with the 30th June 1976 and
outstanding on the date of the publication of this Act, shall be deemed to be
discharged, whether or not a decree or order has been obtained therefor, if
such cultivating tenant:(i)has, before the date of the publication of this
Act, paid to the landlord or deposited in the Court or before the competent
authority, to the account of the landlord; or(ii)pays to the landlord or
deposits in the Court or before the competent authority, to the account of the
landlord in the manner specified in sub-sections (4) and (5);(iii)is deemed to
have paid or deposited under this Act-(a)the rent for the fasli year
commencing on the 1st July 1972 and ending with the 30th June 1973 without
interest (hereinafter referred to as the rent for the fasli year 1382);
and(b)one-third of the rent for each fasli year during the period commencing
on the 1st July 1973 and ending with the 30th June 1976 without interest
(hereinafter referred to as the reduced rent):Provided that where the
cultivating tenant deposits in the Court or before the competent authority
under this Act the instalments, of the rent tor the fasli year 1381, the rent
for the fasli year 1382, or the reduced rent, and in case where the rent is
payable in kind, such deposit shall be the market value thereof on the date of
such deposit.(4)Any cultivating tenant may pay to the landlord or deposit in
the Court or before the competent authority to the account of the
landlord-(a)the rent for the fasli year 1382 in three equal instalments as
specified below:-(i)the first instalment, on or before the [30th June 1981]
[Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1981).];(ii)the second instalment, on or
before the [31st March 1982] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1981)];(iii)the third instalment, on or before the 30th June 1982; and(b)the
reduced rent in three instalments as specified below:-(i)the first instalment
being the one-fourth of the reduced rent, on or before the [30th June 1981]
[Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1981).];(ii)the second instalment being the
one-half of the remainder of the reduced rent, on or before the [31st March
1982] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1981).];(iii)the third instalment
being the balance of the reduced rent, on or before the 30th June 1982.(5)The
Court in which or the competent authority before which the deposit is made
under sub-sections (2) and (4) shall cause notice of the deposit to be issued
to the landlord and determine after a summary enquiry, whether the amount
deposited represents the correct amount of the instalments of the rent for the
fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent, due
from the cultivating tenant. If the Court or the competent authority finds
that any further sum is due towards such instalments, it shall allow the
cultivating tenant to deposit the further time as the court or competent
authority may allow which shall not in any case exceed thirty days from the
respective date specified in the said sub-sections. If the Court or the
competent authority adjudges that no further sum is due or if the cultivating
tenant deposits within the time referred to above such further sum as is
ordered by the Court or the competent authority, the cultivating tenant shall
be deemed to have paid the instalments of the rent for the fasli year 1381,
the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent, within the due date for
the purposes of this Act. If having to deposit a further sum, the cultivating
tenant fails to do so within the time allowed by the Court or the competent
authority the landlord may proceed against such cultivating tenant under the
Public Trusts Actor the Tenants Protection Act, as the case may be, for
arrears of rent.(6)[In any suit or proceeding pending on the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1981), for the recovery of any
arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the fasli
year ending with the 30th June 1976 and for any previous fasli year, or for
the eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any such arrears of
rent, the court or competent authority shall if the cultivating tenant pays or
deposits, or has paid or deposited, or is deemed to have paid or deposited,
under this Act, the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year
1382 anil the reduced rent, and on the application of the cultivating tenant,
pass an order dismissing, without costs, the suit or proceeding in so far as
such suit or proceeding relates to such recovery or eviction.] [Substituted by
the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 1981).](7)If, before the date of the publication of the Tamil
Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 1981) any decree or order has been passed in any suit or
proceeding-(i)for the recovery of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-
section (6); or(ii)for the eviction of cultivating tenant for non-payment of
any such arrears of rent,the Court or the competent authority shall, if the
cultivating tenant pays or deposits, or has paid or deposited, or is deemed to
have paid or deposited, under this Act, the rent for the fasli year 1381, the
rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent and on the application of
any person affected by such decree or order whether or not he was a party
thereto vacate the decree or order in so far as such decree or order relates
to such recovery or eviction.]

### 5. [Payment or deposit of rent on or after 12th February 1973 deemed to be
payment towards rent for fasli year 1381, rent for fasli year 1382 or reduced
rent. [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1980).]

(1)If, on or after the 12th February 1973, any cultivating tenant has,-(i)made
any payment, by way of rent, to the landlord; or(ii)deposited, by way of rent,
in the Court or before the competent authority, to the account of the
landlord,whether or not such payment or deposit was towards the discharge of
any arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the
fasli year ending with the 30th June 1976 and for any previous fasli year,
such payment or deposit shall be deemed to have been made towards the
instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year
1382 or the reduced rent in the order specified in sub-sections (2) and (4) of
section 4, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any document
or receipt, and in cases of payment through, or deposit before, the Court or
the competent authority, it shall, on the application of the cultivating
tenant, reopen the proceeding and pass an order that the rent so paid or
deposited shall be deemed to have been paid or deposited towards the
instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year
1382 or the reduced rent, in the order specified in the said sub-sections (2)
and (4) of section 4.(2)If, on or after the 12th February 1973, any
cultivating tenant has paid or deposited any amount towards full or part
satisfaction of a decree or order for the recovery of any arrears of rent
referred to in sub-section (1), such amount shall be deemed to have been paid
or deposited towards the instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the
rent for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent and the Court or the
competent authority shall, on the application of any person affected by such
decree or order, whether or not he was a party thereto, reopen the proceeding
and pass an order that the amount so paid or deposited shall be deemed to have
been paid or deposited towards the installments of the rent for the fasli year
1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent in the order
specified in sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 4.Explanation. - For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where after adjustment of any
payment to the landlord or deposit in the Court or before the competent
authority, to the account of the landlord made by the cultivating tenant under
this section, such payment or deposit falls short of the rent for the fasli
year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent payable under
sub-sections (1) and (3) of section 4, the cultivating tenant shall be liable
to pay the balance of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli
year 1382 or the reduced rent in accordance with the provisions of sub-
sections (2) and (4) of section 4:Provided that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to-(i)any payment made to the landlord; or(ii)any deposit made
in the Court or before the competent authority to the account of the
landlord,by the cultivating tenant by way of rent for the fasli year
commencing on the 1st July 1976 and for any subsequent fasli year.(3)Nothing
in this section or in any other provision of this Act shall entitle any
cultivating tenant to claim any refund from the landlord on the ground that
the payment or deposit made on or after the 12th February 1973 towards the
discharge of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-section (1) or towards
full or part satisfaction of a decree or order for the recovery of any such
arrears of rent, is in excess of the rent due as the rent for the fasli year
1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent.]

### 6. [ Bar of proceedings for eviction or recovery of arrears of rent.
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1980).]

(1)No application shall be made for the eviction for non-payment of any
arrears of rent payable to the landlord for the fasli year ending with the
30th June 1976 or for any previous fasli year, and no suit shall be filed for
the recovery of such arrears-(i)against any cultivating tenant till the [30th
June 1981];(ii)against the cultivating tenant who has paid or deposited the
first instalment, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli
year 1382 and the reduced rent, until the expiry of the period specified for
the payment or deposit of the second instalment in sub-sections (2) and (4) of
section 4;(iii)against the cultivating tenant who has paid or deposited the
second instalment, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli
year 1382 and the reduced rent, until the expiry of the period specified for
the payment or deposit of the third instalments in the said sub-sections (2)
and (4); and(iv)against the cultivating tenant in favour of whom further time
has been granted by the Court or the competent authority under sub-section (5)
of section 4, until the expiry of such time.(2)Subject to the provisions of
sub-section (6) of section 4, all applications for the eviction of a
cultivating tenant for non-payment of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-
section (1) and all suits, proceedings in execution of decrees or orders and
other proceedings pending before a Court or competent authority for the
recovery of any such arrears of rent or for such eviction, shall stand
stayed.(a)till the [30th June 1981] [Substituted by the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1981).];(b)till the[31st March 1982] [ Substituted by the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1981).], if the cultivating tenant has paid the second instalment, of the rent
for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and reduced rent
within the time specified in sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 4;(c)till the
30th June 1982, if the cultivating tenant has paid the second instalment, of
the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the
reduced rent within the time specified in the said sub-sections (2) and (4);
and(d)till the expiry of further time, if any, granted by the Court or the
competent authority under sub-section (5) of section 4.(3)All applications and
all suits and proceedings stayed under this section shall, after the
expiration of the time limit specified therein, be proceeded with against any
cultivating tenant who has not paid or deposited or who is not deemed to have
paid or deposited, under this Act the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent
for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent, within the said time limit
specified in sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 4, subject to the provisions
of any law which may be then in force, from the stage which had been reached
when the application, suit or proceeding was stayed.]

### 7. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation prescribed for a suit for the
recovery of any arrears of rent payable by him to the landlord for 'the fasli
year ending with the 30lh June 1976 or for any previous fasli year or a
proceeding for the eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any
such arrears of rent, or an application for the execution of a decree or order
for such recovery or eviction, the time during which he was protected by
section 6 from such recovery or eviction shall be excluded.Explanation. - In
this section and in section 6, a decree or order for the recovery of any such
arrears of rent or for the eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of
any such arrears of rent, shall be deemed to be a decree or order for such
recovery or eviction, notwithstanding that any other relief is also granted by
such decree or order.

### 8. Bar of Jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no Civil Court shall have
jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act
required to be decided or dealt with by the competent authority or other
authority.

### 9. Revision by High Court.

\- The competent authority shall be deemed to be a Court subordinate to the
High Court for the purposes of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908), and its orders shall be liable to revision by
the High Court under the provisions of that section.

### 10. Arrears barred by limitation not to be revived.

\- Nothing in this Act shall be construed as reviving any claim for arrears of
rent for any period before the date of the publication of this Act if such
claim is barred by limitation on the said date under any law for the time
being in force.

### 11. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears
of Rent (Relief) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1972) or in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), or in any other law for the time
being in force, or any custom, usage or contract, or decree or order of a
court or other authority.

### 12. Act not to apply to cultivating tenants in cyclone and flood affected
areas.

\- Nothing in this Act shall apply to the cultivating tenants in the cyclone
and flood affected areas specified in the Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Cyclone
and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1978).

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)Tire State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after
it is made, be placed on the Table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted
for the words 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session, the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any
modification in any such rule or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule
should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified from or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 14. Repeal.

\- The Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants (Protection from Eviction) Act, 1976
(President's Act 36 of 1976), is hereby repealed.

