## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Private Schools (Regulation) Act, 2018

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Private Schools (Regulation) Act, 2018

## Act 35 of 2019

  * Published on 1 January 2019 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Private Schools (Regulation) Act, 2018(Act No. 35 of 2019)Last
Updated 16th January, 2020An Act to provide for the regulation of recognized
private schools in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-Chapter-I Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Private Schools (Regulation) Act,
2018.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies to
all private schools whether aided or unaided in the State of Tamil Nadu.(4)It
shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"academic year"
means the period commencing on the first day of June to the 31st day of May of
the succeeding year or such other period as may be specified by the respective
Educational Boards;(b)"affiliation" means formal enrolment of a school with
the respective Board of Examination for the purpose of following approved
courses of studies and for preparing students according to the approved
courses for the examinations;(c)"aided school" means a school receiving any
aid as grant out of the State funds to meet its expenses;(d)"appellate
authority" means any authority, officer or person authorised by the Government
to perform the functions of the appellate authority under this Act;(e)"The
Code of Conduct" means the code of conduct formulated by the
Government;(f)"competent authority" means any authority, officer or person
authorized by the Government to perform the functions and discharge the duties
of the competent authority under this Act for such area, for such purposes or
in relation to such classes of private schools, as may be
prescribed;(g)"Director" means,-(i)The Director of School Education in respect
of all aided and partly aided High and Higher Secondary Schools including
Anglo-Indian Schools;(ii)The Director of Elementary Education in respect of
all aided and partly aided Primary Schools and Middle Schools;(iii)The
Director of Private Schools in respect of all self financing Private Schools,
affiliated to the State Board of School Education, central Board of Secondary
Education, Indian certificate of Secondary Education, International
Baccalaureate and such other boards;(iv)The Director of State council for
Educational Research and Training in respect of all Teacher Training
Institutes imparting education or training, whether receiving grant from the
Government or not;(h)"educational agency" means a Company registered under
section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013) or a Society
registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (central Act XXI of
1860) or the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of
1975) or a Trust created under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (Central Act 2 of
1882) which has established or proposes to establish a private
school;(i)"Government" means the State Government;(j)"grant" means any sum of
money paid as aid out of the State funds to any private school;(k)"minority
school" means a private school of its choice established and administered by
any such minority whether based on religion or language as has the right to do
so under clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution and so declared by the
State Government or by the National commission for Minority Educational
Institutions;(l)"notification" means any notification issued by the Government
under this Act and published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette;(m)"private
school" means a Play School, Nursery and Primary, Primary, Middle, High and
Higher Secondary School or Teacher Training Institute imparting education and
training, whether receiving grant from the Government or not, established and
administered or maintained by an educational agency and recognized by the
competent authority under this Act, but does not include a school or an
institution,-(i)established and administered or maintained by the Central
Government or the State Government or any local authority; or(ii)imparting
religious instruction alone, but not any other instruction;(n)"prescribed"
means prescribed by Rules made under this Act;(o)"recognised school" means a
private school recognised by the competent authority under this
Act;(p)"recognition" means a formal certification granted by the competent
authority to run a school that conforms to the standards and conditions laid
down under this Act;(q)"school committee" means the school committee
constituted under section 14;(r)"secretary" means the secretary referred to in
section 14;(s)"staff" means and includes both teaching and non-teaching
employee of a private school.Chapter - II Permission and Registration to
Establish and Recognition to Administer Private Schools

### 3. Power to regulate school education.

(1)No private school shall be established and administered otherwise than in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.(2)The Government or any competent authority as may be prescribed
in this behalf, shall have power to,-(a)regulate the different stages of
education and courses of instruction including curriculum, syllabus in private
schools;(b)permit an educational agency to establish and administer a school
in accordance with the conditions as may be prescribed;(c)grant recognition to
any private school;(d)withdraw the recognition of any private school or impose
penalty or take criminal action against such private school if it contravenes
any of the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder;(e)specify
from time to time the norms or guidelines for safety and security of the
pupil;(f)regulate the admissions, collection of fees and conduct of
examinations;(g)prescribe the minimum qualification of the staff;(h)proscribe
certain books or published materials or electronic materials that threaten the
sovereignty, communal harmony and secular nature of the Nation and that are
found inappropriate as per the moral and cultural standards of the Nation and
have an undesired impact on the psyche of the pupil by any private
school;(i)take such other action as may be deemed necessary and expedient in
the interest of the pupil and the school education.

### 4. Private school to obtain permission.

\- No educational agency shall, without prior permission in writing of the
competent authority and except in accordance with the terms and conditions
specified in such permission, establish any private school.

### 5. Application for permission.

\- Every application to the competent authority seeking permission to
establish a private school shall be in such form, accompanied by such fees and
such documents as may be prescribed.

### 6. Grant of Permission.

\- On receipt of an application under section 5, the competent authority
shall,-(a)after verifying the documents submitted along with the application,
take a decision either to grant permission or refuse to grant permission and
communicate its decision to the applicant adducing reasons therefor, within a
period of three months from the date of receipt of the application:Provided
that the permission to establish the private school shall not be refused
unless the applicant has been given an opportunity of making representation;
and(b)where permission to establish a private school is refused, the applicant
shall within thirty days from the date of receipt of such communication,
appeal to the appellate authority in such manner as may be prescribed and the
decision of the appellate authority thereon shall be final.

### 7. Application for certificate of recognition.

(1)Every educational agency shall, within a period of three years from the
date of receipt of order of permission under section 6, apply to the competent
authority for issue of certificate of recognition in such form accompanied by
such fees and such documents as may be prescribed.(2)Where no application for
certificate of recognition is received within the period specified in sub-
section (1), the permission granted under section 6, shall be deemed to have
been lapsed on and from the date of expiry of the period specified in sub-
section (1).

### 8. Grant of certificate of recognition.

(1)On receipt of an application for grant of certificate of recognition, the
competent authority may, inspect or cause to be inspected the site to ensure
that,-(a)proper arrangements have been made for the maintenance of academic
standards in the school; and(b)the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder have been complied with, and issue the certificate recognising the
private school for the purposes of this Act, for such period, as may be
prescribed.(2)The competent authority shall, before passing orders on an
application for recognition under sub-section (1), also take into
consideration the following factors, namely:-(a)the adequacy of the schools
already existing in the locality;(b)the need for the private school in the
locality;(c)the proposed number of pupil;(d)the extent of the playground
available to the pupil and the adequacy of the playground with reference to
the strength of the pupil in the school;(e)the amenities available to the
pupil and the teachers;(f)the equipment, laboratory, library and other
facilities for instruction; and(g)such other factors as may be
prescribed.(3)The certificate of recognition under sub-section (1) shall be
issued in such form and within such period as may be prescribed.(4)If the
competent authority is of the opinion that the application for grant of
certificate of recognition does not satisfy any of the provisions of sub-
sections (1) and (2), the competent authority shall refuse to grant
recognition and communicate its decision with reasons therefor to the
applicant within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the
application:Provided that the grant of recognition shall not be refused unless
the applicant has been given an opportunity of making representation.(5)Where
recognition is refused by the competent authority, the applicant shall within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the order of refusal to grant
recognition, appeal to the appellate authority in such manner as may be
prescribed and the decision of the appellate authority thereon shall be
final.(6)The application for renewal of certificate of recognition issued
under sub-section (3), shall be submitted within a period of three months
before the date of expiry of the period of recognition in such form
accompanied by such fees and such documents as may be prescribed. The
provisions in this section for grant of recognition shall mutatis-mutandis
apply to such renewal of certificate of recognition.(7)No child shall be
admitted in any school which has not been granted with the certificate of
recognition or renewal of certificate of recognition, as the case may be.

### 9. Affiliation.

\- No educational agency, shall without getting certificate of recognition of
the competent authority under section 8, apply for affiliation to the State
Board of School Education or any other Board.

### 10. Withdrawal of recognition by the Competent Authority.

\- The competent authority may, at any time, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, by an order withdraw permanently the recognition of any private
school, which does not comply with any of the provisions of this Act, or the
rules or the directions issued thereunder in so far as such provisions of this
Act, the rules or directions are applicable to such private school:Provided
that no order of withdrawal of recognition under this section, shall be passed
by the competent authority unless the educational agency has been given an
opportunity of making representation:Provided further that the order of
withdrawal of recognition under this section, if made during the course of an
academic year, such order shall take effect only at the end of the academic
year:Provided also that no order of withdrawal of recognition under this
section, shall be made without making necessary arrangements for the
continuance of the instruction of the pupil of that private school in any
other recognised school.

### 11. Effect of withdrawal of recognition.

\- Consequent on withdrawal of recognition, the educational agency of such
school shall,-(a)cease to run the school;(b)in so far as aided school is
concerned, hand over all the movable and immovable properties such as land,
buildings and any other material which were provided or funded by the
Government; and(c)hand over all the records and documents of the school within
a period of one month from the date of withdrawal of the recognition to the
officer authorized by the competent authority in this behalf.Chapter-III
Educational Agency and School Committee

### 12. Educational agency.

\- Where an educational agency of a private school, established and maintained
on or before the date of commencement of this Act, is an individual or body of
persons or any other entity, such individual or body of persons or such entity
shall, within a period of six months from the date of commencement of this
Act, form a Society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1975) or a Company registered under section 8
of the Companies Act, 2013 (Central Act 18 of 2013) or a Trust under the
Indian Trusts Act, 1882, (Central Act 2 of 1882) to look after the affairs of
the educational agency and thereafter such Society or Company or Trust alone
shall be treated as educational agency for the purposes of this Act.

### 13. Change in the constitution of Educational Agency or transfer of
Educational Agency.

(1)(a)Whenever there is any change in the constitution of an educational
agency or amendment to the bye laws or memorandum of association of the
educational agency shall submit all relevant documents relating to all such
changes or amendments to the competent authority within fifteen days
therefrom;(b)Whenever an educational agency of any private school proposes to
transfer the management of the school to another educational agency having
similar objectives, such educational agency should apply to the competent
authority for necessary approval;(c)An application under clause (b) shall be
in such form accompanied by such documents as may be prescribed.(2)On receipt
of an application under clause (b) of sub-section (1), the competent authority
shall, after making such inquiry, as it deems fit, and if it is satisfied that
the educational agency of the transferee school will maintain and manage the
private school so transferred in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
or the rules or the directions issued thereunder, approve the transfer,
subject to such conditions as it may impose and communicate its decision to
the applicant within a period of one month from the date of receipt of such
application.

### 14. Constitution of School Committee.

(1)Every educational agency of a private school shall constitute a school
committee as may be prescribed:Provided that where an educational agency has
established and is administering or maintaining more than one private school,
such educational agency may, with the prior permission of the competent
authority, have a common school committee.(2)The school committee shall meet
at such times and places and shall observe such rules of procedure as may be
prescribed in regard to transaction of business at its meetings:Provided that
the school committee shall meet at least once in every three months.(3)The
school committee shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, perform the following functions, namely:-(a)carry on the
general administration of the private school;(b)appoint staff of the private
school, fix their pay and allowances and define their duties and the
conditions of their service; and(c)take disciplinary action against the staff
of the private school.(4)Every school committee shall have a secretary who
shall be appointed by the educational agency and shall exercise such powers
and perform such functions as may be prescribed.

### 15. Responsibility of the Educational Agency.

(1)For the purposes of this Act, any decision or action taken by the school
committee in respect of any matter over which the school committee has
jurisdiction shall be deemed to be the decision or action taken by the
educational agency.(2)Where the competent authority is satisfied that the
secretary or any member of the school committee of a private school is
responsible for any lapse or irregularities in managing the affairs of the
school, the educational agency shall take such action against the person
concerned as it may deem fit.(3)The competent authority may, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, by an order declare the secretary or any member of the
school committee as unfit to hold the office and direct the educational agency
to remove the secretary or such member of the school committee, as the case
may be:Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be made, unless the
person holding the office of the secretary or any member of the school
committee, as the case may be, is given an opportunity of making
representation.(4)On receipt of a direction from the competent authority under
sub-section (3), the educational agency shall, notwithstanding anything
contrary to the rules or the code of conduct, remove forthwith the person
concerned from the office of the secretary or the member of the school
committee and appoint any other eligible person in his
place.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4), and without
prejudice to the provisions contained in section 31, if the educational agency
disobeys or wilfully fails to comply with any direction issued under sub-
section (3), the competent authority may, by order in writing, remove
forthwith such person from the office of the secretary or the member of the
school committee of that private school.Chapter-IV Special Provisions for
Minority Private Schools

### 16. Right to establish a minority private school.

(1)Any educational agency belonging to religious or linguistic minority shall
have the right to establish and administer a private school of its choice
primarily for the benefit of such minorities.(2)Every such educational agency
claiming minority status for a private school shall apply to the Government in
such form along with such documents as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of the
application under sub-section (2), the Government after verifying the
documents submitted by the applicant and after affording the applicant an
opportunity of being heard, if need be, shall decide whether or not to grant
or continue minority status to the private school within such time as may be
prescribed.

### 17. Status of a minority school on transfer to other educational agency.

\- The minority status of a private school shall be retained only where the
management of such private school has been transferred to another educational
agency of the same minority with the prior approval of the Government.

### 18. Appointment of Special Officer to a minority school.

\- Where the management of any minority school is suspended under sub-section
(1) of section 31, the competent authority shall appoint a person belonging to
that minority as the Special Officer which has been administering the said
minority school, immediately preceding such suspension.

### 19. Exemption of minority schools.

\- The Government shall have the power to exempt minority schools from such
provisions of this Act or the rules or orders issued thereunder which may
impinge upon the minority character of such minority schools.Chapter-V Control
of Private Schools

### 20. Safety and security of the pupil.

(1)Every educational agency shall take all possible measures to ensure the
safety and security of the pupil including protection from mental harassment
or physical injury or sexual abuse.(2)Every educational agency shall ensure
that the conditions as prescribed or any specific direction as may be issued
by the Government or any competent authority as authorised by the Government,
pertaining to safety and security of the pupil are strictly complied with.

### 21. Ensuring quality education.

(1)Every private school shall strictly adhere to the curriculum, syllabus,
learning outcomes and the guidelines prescribed for various stages of
education in conformity with the respective board of affiliation.(2)Every
private school shall ensure that there is a judicious mix of curricular, co-
curricular and extracurricular activities.(3)Every private school shall follow
the pattern of evaluation as prescribed by the Board concerned for various
stages of education.

### 22. Conduct of Examinations and Valuation of answer sheets.

(1)Every private school shall place its building, furniture and other
infrastructure at the disposal of the board authorities for the conduct of any
board examinations and valuation of answer sheets, free of charge on specific
requisition by the authorities concerned.(2)Every private school shall depute
its teachers on duty for the conduct of any board examinations and valuation
of answer sheets on specific requisition by the authorities concerned.(3)No
private school shall prevent any pupil on its roll from appearing for any
board examinations on account of poor academic performance.(4)Every private
school shall abide by the conditions as may be prescribed to prevent unhealthy
competition among the private schools.

### 23. Disclosures to be made by private schools at the time of admission.

\- Every private school shall, atleast thirty days prior to the commencement
of admission in each academic year, publish on its notice board, website, if
any, or in any other form, general information concerning the school as may be
prescribed.

### 24. Parent-Teacher Association.

\- Every private school shall constitute a Parent-Teacher Association in such
manner and to perform such functions as may be prescribed, to encourage
participation of the parents in improving the quality of education and
learning environment.

### 25. Furnishing of information to authorised person or authority and
deployment of staff.

(1)Every private school shall furnish any information sought for by any person
or authority as authorised by the Government, particularly during the conduct
of census or election or any survey including the National Achievement Survey
or the State Level Learning Survey.(2)Every private school shall also deploy
its staff for carrying out the work of census or election or any survey, if
required.

### 26. Fees.

\- No private school shall collect any other charge or receive any other
payment by whatever name called, except the fee fixed by the fee Determination
Committee constituted under the Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of collection
of fee) Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2009).

### 27. Utilisation of funds and property of private school.

\- All the money collected, grants received and other property held by or on
behalf of a private school shall be utilized for the purposes for which they
are intended and shall be accounted for by the educational agency in such
manner, as may be prescribed.

### 28. Inspection and Inquiry.

(1)The competent authority shall have the right to cause an inspection of any
private school by such person authorised in this behalf.(2)The competent
authority may also cause an inquiry to be conducted in respect of any matter,
connected with the affairs of the private school, wherever such inquiry is
considered necessary.(3)The competent authority shall communicate to the
school committee, the views of the authority with reference to the results of
such inspection or inquiry and the action to be taken thereon.(4)The school
committee shall report to the competent authority, the action taken if any, or
proposed to be taken on the findings of such inspection or inquiry, within a
period of two months.(5)Where the school committee fails to take action within
the period specified under sub-section (4), to the satisfaction of the
competent authority, the competent authority may, after considering the
explanation furnished or the representation made, issue such directions as
that authority may deem fit and the school shall comply forthwith such
directions.

### 29. Closure of private school or class or course.

(1)No private school or class or course or medium of instruction started in
the private school shall be closed without obtaining the prior approval of the
competent authority and without making such arrangements as may be prescribed
for the continuance of the instruction of the pupil of that private school or
class or course or medium of instruction, as the case may be.(2)No prior
approval under sub-section (1), shall be granted by the competent authority
unless the educational agency in writing has given a prior notice to the
competent authority in an academic year within such period, in such form and
in such manner as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of the notice under sub-
section (2), and after considering the same,-(a)the competent authority may
either grant prior approval for the closure of the private school or class or
course or medium of instruction, as the case may be, subject to such
conditions as it may impose; or(b)if the competent authority notices
that,-(i)the notice given under sub-section (2) is defective; or(ii)no
arrangement has been made as required under sub-section (1), for the
continuance of the instruction of the pupil of that private school or class or
course or medium of instruction, as the case may be, for the period of study
for which the pupil have been admitted; or(iii)the reasons given for the
closure of the private school or class or course or medium of instruction, as
the case may be, are directly attributable to the mismanagement or
maladministration on the part of the educational agency; or(iv)the reason
adduced for the closure of the private school or class or course or medium of
instruction, as the case may be, is lack of finance even though factually the
educational agency has adequate financial resources; or(v)the reasons given
for the closure of the private school or class or course or medium of
instruction, as the case may be, are not bonafide; or(vi)the closure of the
private school or class or course or medium of instruction, as the case may
be, shall adversely affect the educational opportunity available to the pupil
of the local area in which that private school is situated,it may by an order
in writing, refuse to grant prior approval for the closure of the private
school or class or course or medium of instruction, as the case may be,
adducing reasons therefor:Provided that the competent authority shall not
refuse to grant prior approval unless the educational agency has been given an
opportunity of making representation in this behalf.(4)(a)The competent
authority shall communicate its decision on the notice given under sub-section
(2) as expeditiously as possible and in any case not later than three months
from the date of receipt of the notice;(b)Where the competent authority
refuses to grant prior approval for the closure of the private school or class
or course or medium of instruction, as the case may be, the educational agency
shall continue to run the private school or class or course or medium of
instruction, as the case may be;(c)Where the competent authority grants
approval for the closure of the private school or class or course or medium of
instruction, as the case may be, during the course of an academic year, such
closure shall take effect only after the expiry of the said academic year. The
recognition of such private school shall be deemed to have been lapsed with
effect from the date of approval for the closure of the private school.

### 30. Restriction on alienation of property of private school.

(1)No educational agency shall, except with the prior permission in writing of
the competent authority, transfer the property of a private school by way of
sale, exchange, mortgage, charge, pledge, lease, gift or in any other manner
whatsoever.(2)The competent authority may, on receipt of an application for
such transfer, if it is satisfied that such transfer is for the furtherance of
the object of the private school and that the proceeds resulting from such
transfer are to be wholly utilized in furtherance of the said object, grant
prior permission:Provided that no permission applied for under sub-section (1)
shall be refused by the competent authority unless the applicant has been
given an opportunity of making representation.(3)(a)The competent authority
shall pass an order, either granting permission or refusing to grant
permission, within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of the
application;(b)The competent authority when granting such permission, may
impose such conditions as it may deem fit.(4)Any transaction made in
contravention of sub-section (1) shall be null and void.Chapter-VI Appointment
of Special Officers in Certain Circumstances

### 31. Appointment of Special Officer in certain circumstances.

(1)Where the competent authority is of the opinion that the school committee
of any private school,-(a)is responsible for the maladministration,
misappropriation of funds and properties or lapses or irregularities, in such
private school; or(b)has wilfully failed to prevent unlawful activities in
such private school or has been engaged in such activities affecting the
security, sovereignty or integrity of the State or has given protection or aid
to any group or organisation banned by the Government; or(c)has wilfully
failed to discharge any of the duties imposed on or to perform any of the
functions entrusted to such school committee by or under this Act, or any rule
or order made thereunder, the competent authority shall, after giving such
school committee an opportunity of making representation, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, by an order suspend the school committee and appoint a
person as special officer till the reconstitution of the school committee, in
the interest of the pupil. The competent authority may also suspend the
financial powers of the office bearers as an immediate measure, if it is
deemed necessary.(2)Where the appointment of a special officer is pending
consideration of the Government, the competent authority may resort to direct
payment.(3)Where a special officer is appointed under sub-section (1),-(a)the
school committee shall cease to discharge the duties imposed on and to perform
the functions entrusted to it; and(b)the special officer shall take all such
steps as may be necessary to efficiently manage and run the school in
accordance with any law applicable to the private school in so far as such law
is not inconsistent with this Act.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, the expression "law" includes any bye-law, rules, regulations, or
instrument having the force of law.Chapter-VII Appointment of Staff and their
Conditions of Service

### 32. Appointment of staff of schools and their conditions of service.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, the
school committee of a private school may appoint such staff as may be
considered necessary for the efficient functioning of the school.(2)The
qualifications and the strength of the staff of the private school shall be
such as may be prescribed:Provided that the qualifications prescribed under
this sub-section shall not apply to any person who, on or before the date of
commencement of this Act has been employed in any private school whose
appointment has been made in accordance with the qualifications in vogue at
the time of such appointment.(3)The salary and allowances shall be truly
reflected in the expenditure statement towards salary and other allowances of
the staff submitted by such school to the Fee Determination Committee
constituted under the Tamil Nadu Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee)
Act, 2009 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2009).(4)The pay and allowances of the staff
of every private school shall be paid on or before such date of every month
and in such manner as may be prescribed.(5)Every private school shall enter
into an agreement with its staff with regard to the terms and conditions of
service as may be prescribed:Provided that, where no agreement of service has
been entered into with the staff already in service on the date of
commencement of this Act, such agreement of service shall be executed within a
period of six months from the date of commencement of this Act.

### 33. Minimum qualifications for appointment of staff in private schools.

\- No person who does not possess the minimum qualifications as prescribed
under sub-section (2) of section 32 shall be appointed in any private school.

### 34. Staff of private school to be governed by Code of Conduct.

\- Every staff of a private school shall be governed by such code of Conduct
as may be formulated by the Government.

### 35. Terms and Conditions of staff of private aided schools.

(1)The Government may prescribe the mode of appointment, cadre strength and
conditions of service including promotion, pay, allowances, leave, pension,
gratuity, provident fund, insurance and disciplinary matters of the staff of
any school which is receiving aid from the Government.(2)No process of
recruitment of teaching and non teaching staff of any aided school shall be
initiated without the prior permission of the competent authority.Chapter-VIII
Payment of Grant to Aided Schools

### 36. Payment of grant.

(1)The Government may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed,
continue to pay grant to the private school which has been already receiving
grant from the Government, before the date of commencement of the academic
year 1991-1992 at such rate and for such purposes as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, private school
which has been receiving grant from the Government shall also include a
private school receiving grant from the Government only in respect of any
class or course or medium of instruction, as the case may be.(2)The Government
may withhold permanently or for any specified period, the whole or part of any
grant referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of any private
school,-(a)which does not comply with any of the provisions of this Act or the
rules made or directions issued thereunder in so far as such provisions, rules
or directions are applicable to such private school; or(b)in regard of which
the pay and allowances payable to any teacher or other person employed in such
private school are not paid to such teacher or other person in accordance with
the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; or(c)which
contravenes or fails to comply with any such condition as may be
prescribed:Provided that before issuing an order withholding the grant under
this sub-section, the competent authority shall give the educational agency an
opportunity of making representation.

### 37. Prohibition of payment of grant to new private schools, class or
course or medium of instruction.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force or in any judgment, decree or order of any court or other
authority, no grant shall be payable to,-(a)any private school established and
any class, or course or medium of instruction opened in such private school,
on or after the date of commencement of the academic year 1991 - 1992;(b)any
private school in existence on the date of commencement of the academic year
1991 - 1992 to which no grant has been paid by the Government immediately
before the date of such commencement;(c)any class or course or medium of
instruction in a private school in existence on the date of commencement of
the academic year 1991 - 1992 to which no grant has been paid by the
Government immediately before the date of such commencement; and(d)any class
or course or medium of instruction opened on or after the date of commencement
of the academic year 1991 - 1992 in a private school in existence on the date
of such commencement.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, private
school includes a minority school.

### 38. Absorption of staff on retrenchment in private aided schools.

\- Where any retrenchment of any teacher or other person employed in any
private school is rendered necessary consequent on any order of the Government
relating to education or course of instruction or to any other matter or
consequent on the reduction in strength of the pupil studying in any such
private school, it shall be competent for the Government or the school
committee of any private school, to appoint such teacher or other person in
any school or institution maintained by the Government or in such private
school, as the case may be.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
the fixation of strength of the staff of any aided school shall be done
following the norms as may be specified by the Government from time to time.

### 39. Penalty for not giving information or giving false information.

\- If any person who is required by any authority under any of the provisions
of this Act or the rules made thereunder to furnish any information, wilfully
fails to furnish such information or knowingly furnishes false information, he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

### 40. Penalty for acting in contravention of any of the provisions of this
Act.

(1)Any person who wilfully contravenes, or attempts to contravene, or
knowingly abets the contravention of any of the provisions of this Act other
than sections 8(7), 20(2), 22(3) and 22(4) or any of the rules made
thereunder, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one lakh rupee
and in the case of a continuing contravention, an additional fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees for each day during which such contravention
continues.(2)Any person who wilfully fails to comply with the provisions of
sections 8(7), 20(2), 22(3) and 22(4) or any of the rules made thereunder,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year
or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees or with both.(3)Any person
who wilfully obstructs any authority, officer or person, from entering any
private school in the exercise of any power conferred on it or on him by or
under this Act, or the rules made thereunder or any direction issued by the
appropriate authority under any law for the time being in force, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or
with fine which may extend to one lakh rupee, or with both.Chapter-IX Appeal
and Revision

### 41. Appeal against orders of Competent Authority.

\- Any person aggrieved by any order, decision or direction of the competent
authority made under any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules made
thereunder, may within a period of one month from the date of receipt of such
order, decision or direction, prefer an appeal to the appellate authority as
may be prescribed.

### 42. Powers of the Appellate Authority and disposal of appeal.

(1)No appeal against any order, decision or direction of the competent
authority made under any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder shall be entertained after the expiry of the period specified under
section 41.(2)The appellate authority may at its discretion, allow further
time not exceeding one month for preferring the appeal under section 41, if it
is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the
appeal in time.(3)The appellate authority may, pending the exercise of its
powers, pass such order as it deems fit.(4)On receipt of any such appeal, the
appellate authority shall, after,-(i)giving the parties an opportunity of
making representation;(ii)making, if necessary, such inquiry as it deems fit;
and(iii)considering all the circumstances of the case,make such order as it
deems just and equitable within a period of two months from the date of
receipt of the appeal.

### 43. Revision.

(1)The Government may either suo-motu or on an application from any person
aggrieved, call for and examine the records of any authority or officer in
respect of any proceedings issued under this Act or the rules made thereunder
, to satisfy themselves as to the correctness, legality or propriety of any
order made or decision taken therein and if in any case, it appears to the
Government that any such order or decision should be modified, annulled,
reversed or remitted back for reconsideration, the Government may pass orders
accordingly.(2)No order prejudicial to any person shall be passed under sub-
section (1) unless such person has been given an opportunity of making
representation.(3)The Government may, pending decision under sub-section (1),
pass such other order as they may deem fit.Chapter-X Accounts and Audit

### 44. Annual audit of Accounts.

(1)Every private school shall maintain such accounts and records in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)(a)The accounts of every private school
receiving aid as grant shall be audited at the end of every financial year by
such authority, officer or person as may be prescribed;(b)The authority,
officer or person, prescribed under clause (a) shall send a copy of the report
on the audit of the accounts to the competent authority which shall forward
the same to the school committee of the private school;(c)The school committee
shall take such action as may be specified by the competent authority to
rectify the defects, if any, disclosed consequent on the audit or inspection
and submit a report together with its comments thereon to the competent
authority within such time as may be specified.(3)In the case of private
unaided school, the accounts should be audited at least once in every year by
the qualified auditors. The management of the school has to furnish the audit
report at the time of making application for the renewal of recognition to the
competent authority.

### 45. Furnishing of returns, etc.

\- The school committee of every private school shall, within such time, as
may be specified by the competent authority in this behalf, furnish to the
competent authority such returns, statistics and other informations as the
competent authority may, from time to time, require.Chapter-XI Miscellaneous

### 46. Recovery of any amount due to the Government as arrears of land
revenue.

\- Any amount required to be paid to the Government due to non-implementation
of any scheme or misuse or non-utilisation of grants, may be recovered from
the person concerned as if it were an arrear of land revenue under the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of
1864).

### 47. Powers of Government to give directions.

\- The Government may, subject to other provisions of this Act, direct the
competent authority to make such enquiry as they may deem fit. The competent
authority shall conduct the enquiry and report to the Government the result of
the enquiry within such period as may be prescribed.

### 48. Delegation of powers.

\- The Government may, by notification, delegate all or any of the powers
vested in them under this Act or the rules made thereunder, except those
powers conferred upon them by sections 16, 17, 19, 34, 35, 43, 47, 49, 57, 58
and 60 to any officer or authority subject to such conditions and to such
control and revision by the Government or by such authority as may be
specified in the notification and in the like manner withdraw any power so
delegated.

### 49. Officer or authority subordinate to the Government to perform the
functions of the Competent Authority.

\- The Government may, by notification, direct that any of the functions of
the competent authority under this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall in
relation to such matters and subject to such conditions, be performed also by
such officer or authority sub-ordinate to the Government, as may be specified
in the notification.

### 50. Competent Authority etc., to be public servant.

\- Every competent authority and every officer duly authorized by the
Government or the competent authority as the case may be, to discharge any
duty imposed on it or on him under this Act shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
XLV of 1860).

### 51. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial
Magistrate shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this
Act.(2)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on a report in writing of the fact constituting such offence made by an
authority or officer authorized by the Government in this behalf.

### 52. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question
which is by or under this Act required to be decided or dealt with by any
authority or officer mentioned in this Act.

### 53. Operation of other laws.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be
in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in
force.

### 54. Protection of acts done in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be instituted against
the Government or any officer, authority or person empowered to exercise the
powers or perform the functions by or under this Act for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules or orders
made thereunder.

### 55. Finality of orders, etc., passed under this Act.

\- Any order made, decision taken or direction issued by any authority or
officer in respect of any matter to be determined for the purposes of this
Act, shall, subject only to appeal or revision if any, provided under this
Act, be final.

### 56. Settlement of dispute as to Educational Agency, etc.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 52, whenever any dispute as
to the constitution of any educational agency, or as to whether any person or
body of persons, is an educational agency in relation to any private school,
or as to the constitution of a school committee, or as to the appointment of
the secretary of the school committee, arises, such dispute may be referred by
the persons interested or by the competent authority to the civil court having
jurisdiction, for its decision.(2)Pending the decision of the civil court on a
dispute referred to it under sub-section (1), or the making of an interim
arrangement by the civil court for the running of the private school, the
Government may nominate an officer to discharge the functions of the
educational agency, the school committee or the secretary, as the case may be,
in relation to the private school concerned.

### 57. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-(a)all
matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be prescribed by, or
specified in the rules;(b)the form of applications under this Act and the
particulars which such application shall contain;(c)the establishment and
maintenance of private schools;(d)the giving of grants to private
schools;(e)the grant of permission under section 6;(f)the admission of pupil
in private schools including special provision for the advancement of weaker
section and disadvantaged group, socially and educationally backward classes
of citizens and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.Explanation. -
For the purposes of this clause, 'Scheduled Castes' and 'Scheduled Tribes'
shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;(g)the manner in which
accounts books, registers and records shall be maintained in private schools
and the authority responsible for such maintenance;(h)the submission of
returns, statements, reports and accounts by the educational agencies of
private schools;(i)the standards of education and teaching and courses of
instruction in private schools;(j)the purposes for which the premises of the
private school may be used and the conditions subject to which such premises
may be used for any other purpose;(k)the regulation of the use of text books,
maps, plans, instruments and other laboratory and sports equipment;(l)the
conditions subject to which donations or contributions from the public may be
accepted for the private schools and the naming of private schools;(m)the
conferment of minority status to private schools.(3)All rules made and
notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(4)Every rule made or notification issued under this Act, shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the table of the
Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any modification
in any such rule or notification or the Legislative Assembly decides that the
rule or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification
shall thereafter have effect, only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or notification.

### 58. Exemption.

\- The Government may, by notification and for reasons to be specified
therein, exempt any private school from the operation of all or any of the
provisions of this Act, or the rules made thereunder, subject to such
conditions as they may deem fit and may in the like manner vary or cancel such
exemption.

### 59. Repeal and Savings.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools (Regulation) Act, 1973 (Tamil
Nadu Act 29 of 1974) (herein after referred to in this section as the said
Act), is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, any act or thing done
under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done under this Act and may be
continued and completed under the corresponding provisions of this
Act.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all rules, orders,
notifications, Grant-in-aid, Codes, appointments, schemes, bye- laws,
regulations, official memoranda-circulars or any other orders made or issued
before the commencement of this Act and in force on the date of such
commencement providing for or relating to any of the matters for the
furtherance of which this Act is enacted shall continue to be in force and
effective as if they are made under the corresponding provisions of this Act
unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this
Act.

### 60. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
make such provisions not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, as
appears to them to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the
difficulty:Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

