## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislator's (Medical Attendance and Treatment to Former
Members) Rules, 1982

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislator's (Medical Attendance and Treatment to Former Members)
Rules, 1982

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATOR-S-MEDICAL-ATTENDANCE-AND-TREATMENT-TO-FORMER-
MEMBERS-RULES-1982 of 1982

  * Published on 25 January 1982 
  * Commenced on 25 January 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 January 1982.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislator's (Medical Attendance and Treatment to Former Members)
Rules, 1982Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms.No. 122, Public
(Establishment-1), Dated 25th January 1982

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Legislator's (Medical Attendance
and Treatment to Former Members) Rules, 1982.(2)These rules shall be deemed to
have come into force on the 13th March 1980.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of
1951);(b)"Assembly" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;(c)"Authorised
Officer" means the Officer authorised by the Secretary to countersign the
medical reimbursement claims;(d)"Council" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Council, which was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Council (Abolition)
Act, 1986 (Central Act 40 of 1986);(dd)[ "Family" means, - [Inserted by G.O.
Ms. No. 1109, dated 26.11.2010.](a)In the case of male member of the
Legislative Assembly or the Council -(i)parents;(ii)wife;(iii)legitimate
Children (including an adopted son and daughter); and(iv)step children
residing with and wholly dependent on him;(b)in the case of female member of
the Legislative Assembly or the Council, -(i)parents;(ii)husband;(iii)children
(including an adopted son and daughter) residing with and wholly dependent on
her;Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause the word children means
children who have not completed 25 years and unmarried and not employed in
Government, private or self employment.](e)"Government" means the Government
of Tamil Nadu;(f)[ Omitted] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 487, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.].(g)"Secretary" means the Secretary
to the Assembly; and(h)"State" means the State of Tamil Nadu.

### 3. Eligibility and concessions admissible.

\- Every person, who had been a Member of the Assembly or the Council or both,
but had ceased to be such Member at any time, shall be entitled to the medical
concessions [as are admissible to the Members of the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1406, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated 14th August 2007 (with effect from 1st April, 2007).] under clauses (i)
to (iii) of rule 4 of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Medical Attendance
and Treatment) Rules, 1964:[Provided that the former Members referred to in
the rule shall be entitled for a medical allowance of [Rs. 12,000 (rupees
twelve thousand only)] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1406, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 14th August 2007 (with effect from 1st April 2007).]
for every financial year:]Provided further that the medical concessions
conferred under this rule shall not be extended to the members of the family
of the person referred to in this rule.[Provided further that the medical
concessions conferred under this rule shall be extended to the members of the
family of the person referred to in this rule:] [Inserted by G.O. Ms.No. 1109,
dated 26.11.2010.]Provided also that in the event of death of the member of
the Legislative Assembly or the Council or former member of Legislative
Assembly or the Council, the medical concession conferred under this rule
shall also be extended to the members of the family of such member or the
former member.

### 3A. [ Death of former Member. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 7, Public (Establishment-I
and Legislature), dated the 3rd January 2005 (with effect from 1st April
2004).]

\- In the event of the death of the former Member after the commencement of
the financial year, the proportionate amount of medical allowance for the
period the former Member lives in the financial year due till the date of his
death shall be paid to his legal heirs.]

### 4. [Claim and payment of medical allowance.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 487, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]

\- Medical allowance shall be claimed by the Authorised Officer in Forms A and
B appended to these rules in the month of March of every financial year,
without any claim being preferred by the former Members and credited to the
accounts of the former Members in the Bank by means of a Crossed Account Payee
cheque. The Bank shall furnish a receipt for the amount received.

### 5. [ Particulars to be furnished by the persons entitled to medical
concessions. [Substituted by G.O. Ms.No. 1109, dated 26.11.2010.]

\- The persons referred to in rule 3 shall be required to furnish to the
Secretary three copies of his passport size photograph and three specimen
signatures of himself and his family members duly attested by an officer
having a seal of office.]

### 6. Issue of Identity Card.

(1)Every person referred to in rule 3 shall, for the purpose of availing
himself [and his family members after his demise] [Inserted by G.O. Ms.No.
1109, dated 26.11.2010.] of the medical concessions, be provided with an
"Identity Card" in Form C appended to these rules.(2)If, at any time, the
person is not entitled to the concessions referred to in rule 3, the Identity
Card already issued shall become invalid and it shall be returned forthwith to
the Secretary, in all other cases, the Identity Card shall be renewed every
five years.(3)If the Identity Card is lost, a fresh Identity Card shall be
issued on submitting an application enclosed with a crossed Indian Postal
Order for a value of Rs. 5 (rupees five only) drawn in favour of the
Secretary. Such crossed Indian Postal Order shall not be dated earlier than 15
days from the date of application.

### 6A. [ [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 419, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 24th March 2000 (with effect from 1st April 1999).]

[***]].

### 7. Special provisions.

\- The decision of the Secretary on all matters not covered by these rules
shall be final.Appendix[Form A] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 419, Public (Establishment-I
and Legislature Wing) Department, dated the 24th March 2000 (with effect from
1st April 1999).](See rule 4)Former Members Medical AllowanceHead of
Account:YearVoucher No.Number of former Members (1)Name of the Bank amount
(2)(vide Schedule attached)Counter-signed for Rs......(Rupees...............
)Authorised Officer, Legislative Assembly Secretariat.Certified that the
amount has not been drawn previously.Passed for payment of Rs........
(Rupees.............)Paid cheque No:Dated:Authorised Officer,Legislative
Assembly Secretariat.[Form B] [Substituted for the expression 'draws wages
exceeding five hundred rupees per mensem' by Tamil Nadu Payment of Subsistence
Allowance (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1999).](See rule
4)Former Members Medical Allowance for the Year of .........

SI. No. | Legislators pension payment order | Name of the former member | Account number | Name of the bank and address | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Authorised Officer, Legislative Assembly Secretariat.(for the-use of Bank
only)Certified that the amount has been credited to the account of..........
the former members as detailed in the
Schedule.Place:Date:Signature.Designation.[Form C] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.No.
1109, dated 26.11.2010.](See rule 6)Identity Card For Availing Medical
Concession Under The Tamil Nadu Legislators (Medical Attendance And Treatment
To Former Members) Rules, 1982(Valid for five years from the date of
issue/renewal)Proforma

1. | Name of former Member/family ofdeceased former Member of,Legislature | :  
---|---|---  
|  (Constituency represented and thedistrict may also beindicated) | :  
2. | Period of membership in theAssembly or the Council | :  
3. | Address | :  
4. | Married/Single | :  
5. | Name of the spouse | :  
6. | Specimen Signature of former member/family member of thedeceased former member/deceased member | :  
| (1) |   
| (2) |   
| (3) |   
  
Particulars of Family Members  
---  
| Name | Age | Identification marks.  
1. | Wife/Husband |  |   
2. | Dependent Sons |  |   
| (i) |  |   
| (ii) |  |   
| (iii) |  |   
| (iv) |  |   
3. | Dependent Daughters |  |   
| (i) |  |   
| (ii) |  |   
| (iii) |  |   
| (iv) |  |   
4. | Dependent Parents: |  |   
| (i) Father |  |   
| (ii) Mother |  |   
  
DeclarationI hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.Station:Date :Signature of the
former Member of the Legislative Assembly/Council/ Family member of the
deceased former member.Certificate

### 1\. (a) Certified that Thiru/Tmt/Selvi.............. is a former Member of
the Legislative Assembly/Council*, who had represented
.................Constituency in.............. District.

(b)Certified that Thiru/Tmt./Selvi.................is a family member of Thiru
/ Tmt. / Selvi..............deceased member / former Member* of the
Legislative Assembly/Council, who had represented...............Constituency
in..................District.

### 2\. *The former member, family of former member, family of deceased former
member, family of deceased member is entitled to accommodation in 'A' Class
Wards or 'B' Class Wards whichever is available at the time of admission in
the Hospitals (maintained by the State Government) free of charge, free
medical treatment, free supply of diet during his/her inpatient treatment.

### 3\. The former members alone are eligible for medical allowance of [Rs.
12,000/- (Rupees Twelve thousand only)] [Substituted for 'Rs. 10,000/-(Rupees
Ten thousand only)' by G.O. Ms. No. 787, dated 23.7.2013, w.r.e.f. 1.4.2013.]
for every financial year.

Signature of Issuing AuthorityDate Stamp and Seal of the issuing
AuthorityOfficer:Designation:*(Strike out whichever not applicable)

