## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1956

## Act 42 of 1956

  * Published on 14 December 1956 
  * Commenced on 14 December 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 December 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act,
1956(Tamil Nadu Act No. 42 of 1956)Last Updated 30th January, 2020These words
were substituted for the word "Madras" by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation or Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Fort St.
George Gazette, part IV-A, Extraordinary, dated the 14th December 1956, page
264.This Act was extended to the added territories by section 3 of, and the
First Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu (Added Territories) Extension of Laws (No.
2) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1961) repealing the corresponding law in
force in those territories.(Received the assent of the President on the 21st
February 1957; first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 6th March
1957.)An Act to provide for the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable
property for the purposes of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for the
requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property of the purposes of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Be it
enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows :-

### 1. [Short title] [These words were substituted for the words 'Short title
and duration' by sect on 2 (a) of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of
1977)].

\- [**] [The brackets and figure '(1)' were omitted by section 2 (b), of the
Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment)
Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977)] This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation or Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property Act, 1956.(2)[* * * *] [[In sub-section (2) of section 1,
the words 'for a period of twenty years' were substituted for the words 'for a
period of ten years' by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning
andAcquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 24.
of 1986) and sub-section (2) itself was omitted by section 2(c) of the Tamil
Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act,
1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).]].

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"award" means any
award of an arbitrator made under section 8 :(b)"Competent authority" means
any person or authority authorised by the Government, by notification, to
perform the functions of the competent authority under this Act for such area
as may be specified in the notification;(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"Landlord" means any person who for the time being is receiving,
or is entitled to receive, the rent of any property, whether on his own
account, or on account or on behalf or for the benefit, of any other person of
as a trustee, guardian or receiver for any other person, or who would so
receive the rent or be entitled to receive the rent if the property were let
to a tenant ;(e)The expression "person interested" in relation to any
property, includes all persons claiming, or entitled to claim, an interest in
the compensation payable on account of the requisitioning of acquisition of
that property under this Act ;(f)"premises" means any building or part of a
building and includes-(i)The garden, grounds and out-houses, if any,
appertaining to such building or part of a building;(ii)Any fitting affixed to
such building or part of a building for the more beneficial enjoyment
thereof;(g)"Property" means immovable property of every kind and includes any
rights or over such property;(h)"Tenant" means any person by whom or on whose
account rent is payable for any property and includes such sub-tenants and
other persons as have derived title under the tenant under any law for the
time being in force.

### 3. Power to requisite immovable property.

(1)Where the competent authority is of opinion that any property is needed or
likely to be needed for any public purpose, being a purpose of the State, and
that the property should be requisitioned, the competent authority-(a)Shall
call upon the owner or any other person who may be in possession of the
property by notice in writing (specifying therein the purpose of the
requisition) to show cause, within fifteen days of the date of the service of
such notice on him, why the property should not be requisition; and(b)May, be
order, direct that neither the owner of the property nor any other person
shall, without permission of the competent authority, dispose of, or
structurally alter, the property of let it out to tenant until the expiry of
such period, not exceeding two months, as may be specified in the order.(2)If,
after considering the cause, if any, shown by any person interested in the
property or in possession thereof, the competent authority is satisfied that
it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order in writing,
requisition the property and may make such further orders as appear to it to
be necessary or expedient in connexion with the requisitioning :Provided that
no property or part thereof-(a)Which is bona fide used by the owner thereof as
the residence of himself or his family, or(b)Which is exclusively used either
for religious worship by the public or as a school, hospital, public library
or an orphanage or for the purpose of accommodation of persons connected with
the management of such place of worship or such school, hospital library or
orphanage, shall be requisitioned:Provided further that where the
requisitioned property consists of premises which are being used as a
residence by a tenant for not less than two months immediately preceding the
date of the service of notice under sub-section (1), the competent authority
shall provide such tenant with alternative accommodation which, in its opinion
is suitable.

### 4. Power to take possession of requisitioned property.

(1)Where any property has been requisitioned under section 3, the competent
authority may, be notice in writing, order the owner as well as any other
person who may be in possession of the property to surrender or deliver duly
authorised by it in this behalf within thirty days of the service of the
notice.(2)If any person refuses or fails to comply with an order made under
sub-section (1), the competent authority may take possession of the property
and may, for that purpose, use such force as may be necessary.

### 5. Rights over requisitioned property.

(1)All property requisitioned under section 3, shall be used for such purposes
as may be mentioned in the notice requisition.(2)Where any premises are
requisitioned under section 3, the competent authority may order the landlord
to execute such repairs as may be necessary and are usually made by landlords
in that locality and as may be specified in the notice, within such reasonable
time as may be mentioned therein, and if the landlord fails to execute any
repairs in pursuance of such order, the competent authority may cause the
repairs specified in the order to be executed at the expense of the landlord
and the cost thereof may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, be
deducted from the compensation payable to the landlord.

### 6. Release from requisitioning.

(1)The Government may, at any time, release from requisition any property
requisitioned under this Act and shall, as far as possible, restore the
property in as good a condition as it was when possession therefore was taken
subject only to the changes caused by reasonable wear and tear and
irresistible force:Provided that where the purpose for which any requisitioned
property was being used case to exist, the Government shall, unless the
property is acquired under section 7, release that property, as soon as may
be, from requisition.(1A)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(1), the Government shall release from requisition,-(i)Any property
requisitioned under this Act before the commencement of the Tamil Nadu
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977, on
or before the expiry of a period of ten years from such commencement;(ii)Any
property requisitioned under this Act after such commencement, on or before
the expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which possession of such
property was surrendered or delivered to, or taken by, the competent authority
under section 4,unless such property is acquired under section 7 within the
period of ten years aforesaid.] [This sub-section was inserted by section 3(a)
of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of immovable Property
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).](2)Where any property is to
be released from requisition [under sub-section (1) or under sub-section
(1-A)] [These words were substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St.
George Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition
of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).] the
competent authority may, after such inquiry, if any, as it may in any case
consider necessary to make of cause to be made, specify by order in writing
the person to whom possession of the property shall be given and such person
shall, as far as practicable, be given to the person from whom possession was
taken at the time of the requisition or to the successors-in-interest of such
person.(3)The delivery of possession of the property to the person specified
in an order under sub-section (2) shall be a full discharge of the Government
from all liability in respect of the property, but shall not prejudice any
rights in respect of the property which any other person may be entitled by
due process of law of enforce against the person to whom possession of the
property is given.(4)Where any person to whom possession of nay requisitioned
property is to be given is not found and has no agent or other person
empowered to accept deliver on his behalf, the competent authority shall cause
a notice declaring that the property is released from requisition to be
affixed on some conspicuous part of the property and shall also publish the
notice in the [Tamil Nadu Government Gazette] [These words were substituted
for the words and letters 'Fort St. George Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil
Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act,
1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).].(5)When a notice referred to in sub-section
(4) is published in the [Tamil Nadu Government Gazette] [These words were
substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St. George Gazette' by section 5
of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).], the property specified in
such notice shall cease to be subject to requisition on and from the date of
such publication and shall be deemed to have been delivered to the person
entitled to possession thereof and the Government shall not be liable for any
compensation of other claim in respect of the property for any period after
the said date.(6)Where any property requisition under this Act or any material
pat thereof is wholly destroyed or rendered substantially and permanently
unfit for the purpose for which it was requisitioned by reason of fire,
earthquake, tempest, flood or violence of any army or of a mob or other
irresistible force the requisition shall, at the option of the Government, be
void :Provided that the benefit of this sub-section shall not be available to
the Government where the injury to such property is caused by any wrongful act
or default of the Government.

### 7. Power to acquire requisitioned property.

(1)Where any property is subject to requisition, the Government may, if they
are of opinion that it is necessary to acquire the property for a public
purpose, at any time, acquire such property by publishing in the [Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette] [These words were substituted for the words and letters
'Fort St. George Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of
1977).], a notice to the effect that the Government have decided to acquire
the property in pursuance of this section :Provided that before issuing such
notice, the Government shall call upon the of, of any other person who in the
opinion of the Government, may be interested in, such property to show cause
why the property should not be acquired; and after considering the cause, if
any, shown by any person interested in the property and after giving the
parties an opportunity of being heard, the Government may pass such orders as
they deem fit.(2)When a notice as aforesaid is published in the [Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette] [These words were substituted for the words and letters
'Fort St. George Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and
Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of
1977).], the requisitioned property shall, on and from the beginning of the
day on which the notice is so published, vest absolutely in the Government
free from all encumbrances, and the period of requisition of such property
shall end.(3)No property shall be acquired under this section except in the
following circumstances, namely :-(a)Where any works have, during the period
of requisition, been constructed on, in or over, the property wholly or
partially at the expense of the Government and the Government decide that the
value of, or the right to use, such works should be secured or preserved for
the purposes of Government; or(b)Where the cost of restoring the property to
its condition at the time of its requisition would, in the determination of
the Government, be excessive and the owner declines to accept release from
requisition of the property without payment of compensation for so restoring
the property.(4)Any decision or determination of the Government under sub-
section (3) shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
Court.(5)For the purposes of clause (a) of sub-section (3), "Works" includes
buildings, structures and improvements of every description.

### 8. Principals and method of determining compensation.

(1)Where any property is requisitioned or acquired under this Act, there shall
be paid compensation the amount of which shall be determined in the manner and
i accordance with the principles hereinafter set out, that is to say,-(a)Where
the amount of compensation can be fixed by agreement, it shall be paid in
accordance with such agreement;(b)Where no such agreement can be reached, the
Government shall appoint as arbitrator a person who is, or has been, or is
qualified for appointment as, a Judge of a High Court;(c)The Government may,
in any particular case, nominate a person having expert knowledge as to the
nature of the property requisitioned or acquired to assist the arbitrator and
where such nomination is made, the person to be compensated may also nominate
in assessor for the same purpose;(d)At the commencement of the proceedings
before the arbitrator, the Government and the person to be compensated shall
state what in their respective opinions a fair amount of compensation;(e)The
arbitrator shall, after hearing the dispute, make an award determining the
amount of compensation which appears to him to be just and specifying the
person or persons to whom such compensation shall be paid; and in making the
award, he shall have regard to the circumstances of each case and the the
provisions of sub-section (2) and (3), so far as they are applicable;(f)Where
there is any dispute as to the person or persons who are entitled to the
compensation, the arbitrator shall decide such dispute and if the arbitrator
finds that more persons than one are entitled to compensation, he shall
apportion the amount thereof amongst such persons;(g)Nothing in the
Arbitration Act, 1940 (Central Act X of 1940), shall apply to arbitration
under this section.(2)[The amount of compensation payable for the
requisitioning of any property shall, subject to the provisions of sub-
sections (2-A) and (2-B), consist of-] [These words, brackets, figures and
letters were substituted for the words 'The amount of compensation payable for
the requisitioning of any property shall consist of-' by section 4 (a) (i) of
the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).](a)A recurring payment, in
respect of the period of requisition, of a sum equal to the rent which would
have been payable for the use and occupation of the property, if it had been
taken on lease for that period :Provided that such rent shall, in the case of
premises, be the fair rent payable for the premises under the provisions of
the [Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act
18 of 1960)] [These words, brackets and figures were substituted for the words
brackets and figures 'Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1949
(Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1949)' by section 4 (a) (ii) of the Tamil Nadu
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977
(President's Act 6 of 1977).] and in the case of cultivable land, be the fair
rent for such land payable under the provisions of the [Tamil Nadu] [These
words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956
([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of 1956) ; and(b)Such sum or
sums, if any, as may be found necessary to compensate the person interested
for all or any of the following matters, namely :-(i)Pecuniary loss due to
requisitioning ;(ii)Expenses on account of vacating the requisitioned premises
;(iii)Expenses on account of reoccupying the premises upon release from
requisition ; and(iv)Damages (other than normal wear and tear) caused to the
property during the period of requisition, including the expenses that may
have to be incurred for restoring the property to the condition in which it
was at the time of requisition.(2A)[ The recurring payment, referred to in
clause (a) of sub-section (2), in respect of any property shall, unless the
property is sooner released from requisition under section 6 or acquired under
section 7, be revised in accordance with the provisions of sub-section
(2-B),-(a)In a case where such property has been subject to requisition under
this Act for a period of five years or a longer period immediately preceding
the commencement of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable
Property (Amendment) Act, 1977-(i)First with effect from the date of such
commencement, and(ii)Again with effect from the expiry of five years from such
commencement ;(b)In a case where such property has been subject to requisition
under this Act immediately before such commencement for a period shorter than
five years and the maximum period within which such property shall, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1-A) of section 6, be released
from requisition or acquired, extends beyond five years from such
commencement,-(i)First with effect from the date of expiry of five years from
the date on which possession of such property has been surrendered or
delivered to, or taken by the competent authority under section 4,
and(ii)Again with effect from the date of expiry of a period of five years
from the date on which the revision made under sub-clause (i) takes effect
;(c)In any other case, with effect from the date of expiry of five years from
the date on which possession of such property has been surrendered or
delivered to, or taken by, the competent authority under section 4.(2B)The
recurring payment in respect of any property shall be revised by re-
determining such payment in the manner and in accordance with the principles
set (g) nothing in the Arbitration Act, 1940 (Central Act X of 1940), shall
apply to arbitration under this section.] [Sub-sections (2-A) and (2-B) were
inserted by section 4 (b) of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).]

### 9. Payment of compensation.

[***]

### 10. Appeals from orders of requisitioning.

[***]

### 11. Appeals from awards in respect of compensation.

\- Any person aggrieved by an award of the arbitrator made under section 8
may, within thirty days from the date of such award, prefer an appeal to the
High Court :Provided that the High Court may entertain he appeal after the
expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing he appeal in time.

### 12. Competent authority and arbitrators to have certain powers of civil
courts.

\- The competent authority and the arbitrator appointed under section 8, while
holding an inquiry or as the case may be, arbitration proceedings under this
Act, shall have all the powers of a civil court, while trying a suit, under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908 in respect of the
following matters, namely :-(a)summoning and enforcing the attendance of any
person and examining him on oath ;(b)Requiring the discovery and production of
any document ;(c)Reception of evidence on affidavits ;(d)Requisitioning any
public record from any court or office ;(e)issuing commissions for examination
of witnesses.

### 13. Power to obtain information.

\- The Government or the competent authority may, with a view to carrying out
the purposes of section 3 of section 6, or section 7 or section 8, by order
require any person to furnish to such officer as may be specified in the
order, such information in his possession as may be specified relating to any
property which is requisitioned or acquired, or intended to be requisitioned
or acquired, under this Act.

### 14. Power to enter and inspect.

\- The competent authority or any officer empowered in this behalf by such
authority by general or special order, may enter and inspect any property for
the purposes of determining whether, and if so, in what manner, an order under
this Act should be made in relation to such property or with a view to
securing compliance with an order made under this Act.

### 15. Value of increased efficiency in framing, etc. to be paid to
Government on release from requisition.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, where any agricultural
land is released from requisition, the owner and any person interested in such
agricultural land or in possession thereof shall be liable or pay to to the
Government within one month after the date of a demand made in writing by the
competent authority a sum equal to so much of the value of the agricultural
land as is attributable to anything done on such land by he Government for the
purpose of enabling the land to be property farmed, or of securing ire creased
efficiency in the farming of the land :Provided that the owner or the person
interested by whom any sum is so payable may, by notice in writing served on
the competent authority within the said one month, elect to pay the said sum,
together with interest thereon from the said date at the rate of 6 per cent
per annum, by such number of equal annual instalments not exceeding ten, as
may be specified in the notice, the first instalment of which shall be paid
within one year from the said date.(2)Any amount payable to the Government
under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.(3)Any question whether any amount is payable under sub-section (1) or
as to what amount is so payable shall, in default of agreement, be determined
by arbitration, and the provisions of section 8, 11 and 12 shall apply so far
as may be, to the determination of such question.

### 16. Service of notice and orders.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this section, and any rules that may be made
under this Act, every notice or order issued or made under this Act
shall,-(a)In the case of any notice or order of a general nature or affecting
a class of persons, be published in he [Tamil Nadu Government Gazette] [These
words were substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St. George Gazette' by
section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable
Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).]; and(b)In the
case of any notice or order affecting an individual corporation or firm, be
served in the manner provided for the service of summons in rule 2 of Order
XXIX or rule 3 of Order XXX, as the case may be, in the First Schedule of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908); and(c)In the case of
any notice or order affecting an individual person (not being a corporation or
firm) be served on such person -(i)By delivering or tendering it to that
person ; or(ii)If it cannot be so delivered or tendered, by delivering or
tendering it to any officer of such person or any adult male member of the
family of such person, or by affixing a copy thereof on the outer door or on
some conspicuous part of the premises in which that person is known to have
last resided or carried on business or personally worked for gain ; or failing
service by these means,(iii)By post.(2)Where the ownership of the property is
in dispute or where the persons interested in the property are not readily
traceable and the notice or order cannot be served without undue delay, the
notice or order may be served by publishing it in the [Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette] [These words were substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St.
George Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition
of Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).], and
where possible, by affixing a copy thereof on any conspicuous part of the
property to which it relates.

### 17. Easement not to be disturbed.

\- No person interested in any property requisitioned or acquired under this
Act shall, without the previous written consent of the competent authority or
except for the purposes of effecting repairs or complying with a municipal
requirement, wilfully disturb any convenience or easement attached to such
property or remove, destroy or render unserviceable anything provided for
permanent use therewith or discontinue or cause to be discontinued any supply
or service provided for the property.

### 18. Delegation of powers.

\- The Government may, by notification in the [Tamil Nadu Government Gazette]
[These words were substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St. George
Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).], direct
that the powers exercisable by them by or under this Act shall, in such
circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the
notification, be exercisable also by an officer subordinate to the Government.

### 19. Protection of action taken in good faith.

(1)No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any order made thereunder.(2)No suit or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Government or the competent authority for any damage
caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any order made thereunder.

### 20. Bar of jurisdiction of civil courts.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil court shall have
jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the competent authority or
arbitrator is empowered by or under this Act to determine, and no injunction
shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action
taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 21. Penalty for offences.

\- Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act, or any rule made thereunder,
or any order made or direction given under this Act, or obstructs the lawful
exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 22. Certain persons to be public servants.

\- The competent authority, every arbitrator and every officer empowered by
the Government or the competent authority, while exercising any power of
performing any duty under this Act, shall be deemed to be a public servant
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860).

### 23. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification in the [Tamil Nadu Government Gazette]
[These words were substituted for the words and letters 'Fort St. George
Gazette' by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of
Immovable Property (Amendment) Act, 1977 (President's Act 6 of 1977).]. make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.(2)In particular, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely :-(a)The procedure to be followed
by the competent authority in making inquiries under section 3 or section
6;(b)The procedure to be followed in arbitration proceedings and appeals under
this Act :(c)The principles to be followed a determining the amount of
compensation and method of payment of such compensation ;(d)The principles to
be followed in apportioning the cost of proceedings before the arbitrator and
on appeal under this Act ;(e)The manner of service of notice and orders
;(f)Any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)All rules made
and all notifications (other than those relating to notices) issued under this
Act shall, as soon as possible after they are made or issued, be placed on the
table of both the Houses of the Legislature and shall be subject to such
modifications by way of amendments or repeal as the Legislative Assembly may
make within fourteen days on which the House actually sits either in the same
session or in more than one session.

### 24. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion may require, by order, do anything which
appears to them necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty. A copy
of every order passed under this section shall be laid before each House of
the Legislature.

