## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade Act, 2013

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade Act, 2013

## Act 3 of 2013

  * Published on 23 February 2013 
  * Commenced on 23 February 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 23 February 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade Act, 2013(Act No. 3 of 2013)Last
Updated 23rd January, 2020[Dated 23.02.2013]An Act to provide for the
constitution of a separate special police youth brigade in the State of Tamil
Nadu to attend the peripheral works entrusted to trained police personnel.Be
it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Sixty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade Act,
2013.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Government" means
the State Government;(b)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules;(c)"youth
brigade" means the Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade constituted under
section 3.

### 3. Constitution of police youth brigade.

(1)There shall be a separate police youth brigade in the State of Tamil Nadu
called the Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade.(2)The terms and conditions
of service of the members of the youth brigade shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 4. Functions and duties of youth brigade.

\- The following shall be the functions and duties of the youth brigade:-(a)to
drive the vehicles of the Police Department;(b)to deliver tapal and Data
Entry;(c)to maintain police quarters; and(d)to assist the police force in
prevention of loss of life of accident victims.

### 5. Control and direction.

(1)The general superintendence, direction and control of the youth brigade
shall vest in, and be exercised by, the Government and subject thereto and to
the provisions of this Act and rules, the command and supervision of the youth
brigade shall vest in an officer to be authorised by the Government.(2)The
authorised officer shall, in the discharge of his duties under this Act, be
assisted by such other officers as may be directed by the Government.

### 6. Selection of members of youth brigade.

(1)The members of youth brigade shall be selected by the authorised officer
referred to in section 5, in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)No person
shall be selected as a member of the youth brigade unless he possess such
qualifications as may be prescribed.(3)Every member of the youth brigade shall
be paid such honorarium as may be prescribed.

### 7. Liability for active service.

(1)Every member of the youth brigade shall be liable to serve in any part of
the State of Tamil Nadu.(2)Every member of the youth brigade, not on leave or
under suspension, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be always on active
service and may, at any time, be employed or deployed in any manner which is
consistent with the duties and responsibilities of the youth brigade under
this Act.

### 8. Training.

(1)Every member of youth brigade shall undergo such training for such period
as may be prescribed.(2)Every member of the youth brigade, who has
successfully completed the training, may appear for the common State level
examination to be specially conducted by the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services
Recruitment Board for youth brigade members for recruitment as police
constable.

### 9. Suspension, termination, etc.

(1)Any member of the youth brigade may be suspended by the authorised officer
referred to in section 5, if he neglects or refuses to discharge his duty
without reasonable cause or commits any breach of discipline or found guilty
of misconduct or physically unfit to continue or the continuance is
detrimental to a good order, welfare or discipline of the brigade or is
prejudicial to the security of the State or any part thereof.(2)The authorised
officer under section 5 may, by order in writing, terminate the appointment of
any member of the youth brigade in the public interest.(3)A member of the
youth brigade may, by writing under his hand addressed to the authorised
officer referred to in section 5, withdraw himself from the youth brigade.

### 10. Appeal.

(1)Any member of the youth brigade aggrieved by an order under sub-section (2)
of section 9 may, within thirty days from the date of such order, prefer an
appeal to such authority as may be prescribed.(2)The decision of the appellate
authority shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

### 11. Protection of action taken under this Act.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any member
of the youth brigade for anything which is in good faith done or purported to
be done or omitted to be done in pursuance of this Act.

### 12. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)the terms and conditions of service of the members of the
Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade under section 3;(b)the manner in which
a member of youth brigade shall be selected;(c)the qualifications for
selection as a member of youth brigade;(d)the honorarium to be paid to a
member of youth brigade;(e)the authority to be prescribed under section
10;(f)the areas of training and the duration of such training;(g)any other
matter which is required to be or may be prescribed.(3)All rules made under
this Act, shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless
they are expressed to come into force on a particular day shall come into
force on the day on which they are so published.(4)Every rule made under this
Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the table of the
Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
rule or the Assembly decides that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

