## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Act, 1980

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Act, 1980

## Act 16 of 1980

  * Published on 15 July 1980 
  * Commenced on 15 July 1980 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 July 1980.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Act, 1980(Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1980)Statement of Objects and
Reasons. - By the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 16 of 1980),
Government have, as part of the agrarian reform, given relief to the
cultivating tenants in the cyclone and flood affected areas from the burden of
discharging arrears of rent, subject to the condition that the cultivating
tenant has paid or pays the arrears of rent accrued due to the landlord or
Public Trust, as the case may be, before the 30th June 1973 and outstanding on
the date of the publication of the said Act; and one-filth of the rent for
each fasli year during the period commencing on the 1st July 19/3 and ending
with the 30th June 1978 within the time limit specified in that Act. The time
limit specified under the said Act for paying the arrears of rent for the
fasli year ending with the 30th June 1973 and for any previous fasli year and
the first instalment of the reduced rent is the 30th June 1980. As the said
Act came into force only on the 26th April 1980, and as many cultivating
tenants had harvested much earlier, the aforesaid time limit of the 30th June
1980, is not adequate for them to pay the arrears of rent for the said fasli
years a? well as the first instalment of the reduced rent. The Government
have, therefore, decided to extend the said time limit. Representations have
come to the Government that the benefits conferred by the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Arrear of Rent (Relief) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1972) were not availed of by host of the cultivating tenants and that they may
be again given an opportunity to avail of the said benefits. Accordingly, it
is considered that if the cultivating tenant has paid or pays, the entire rent
for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1972 in three equal instalments,
namely, the first, second and third instalments on or before the 31st December
1980, the 30th June 1981 and the 30th June 1982 respectively, all arrears of
rent for the fasli year ending with the 30th June 1972 and for any previous
fasli year shall be deemed to be discharged. Further, if the cultivating
tenant has paid or pays the entire rent for the fasli year ending with the
30th June 1973 in three equal instalments and one-fifth of the rent for each
fasli year during the period commencing on the 1st July 1973 and ending with
the 30th June 1978 in three instalments, namely, the first, second and third
instalments on or before the 31st December 1980, the 30th June 1981 and the
30th June 1982 respectively, all arrears of rent for the period commencing on
the 1st July 1972 and ending with the 301h June 1978, shall be deemed to be
discharged. It is also considered that the rent paid on or after the 12th
February 1973 should be adjusted towards the instalments, of the rent for the
fasli year ending with the 30th June 1972, the rent for the fasli year ending
with the 30th June 1973 and the reduced rent.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th July 1980.An Act to provide relief to
cultivating tenants in the cyclone and flood affected areas in the State in
respect of certain arrears of rents.Whereas by the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and
Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act, 1978 (Tamil
Nadu Act 17 of 1978), cultivating tenants in the cyclone and flood affected
areas were given protection from eviction on the ground of arrears of rent;And
Whereas the said protection will apply only up to and inclusive of the 15th
July 1980;And Whereas after the said protection ceases to apply, it will be
difficult for the cultivating tenants to pay the entire arrears outstanding on
the 16th July 1980;And Whereas due to default in the payment of arrears of
rent, landlords may take action against cultivating tenants in the said areas
for eviction and for recovery of arrears of rent;And Whereas in the interests
of the general public, the said cultivating tenants should, at the present
time, be spared the distractions and expenditure involved in such action in
order that the maximum possible advantage may result to the State in the
matter of production of food crops;And Whereas it is considered necessary, as
part of agrarian reform, to give relief to the cultivating tenants from the
heavy burden of discharging arrears of rent, on certain conditions
specified;Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Thirty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and application.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act, 1980.(2)It applies to all
cultivating tenants in the cyclone and Hood affected areas.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles laid down in Part IV, and in
particular, clause (c) of Article 39 and Article 46 of the Constitution.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"competent
authority" means the Revenue Divisional Officer or authorized officer having
jurisdiction to entertain a proceeding for the eviction of a cultivating
tenant under the Tenants Protection Act or the Public Trusts Act, as the case
may be;(b)"Court" means -(i)any Court in which any suit or proceeding for the
recovery of any arrears of rent from a cultivating tenant is pending on the
date of the publication of this Act; or(ii)any Court which has passed a decree
or order for such recovery; or(iii)any Court to which such decree or order has
been sent for execution;(c)"cultivating tenant" means-(i)a cultivating tenant
as defined in clause (aa) of section 2 of the Tenant Protection Act; or(ii)a
cultivating tenant as defined in clause (5) of section 2 of the Public Trusts
Act;(d)"cyclone and flood affected areas" mean the areas specified in the
Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1978);(e)"date of
the publication of this Act" means the date of the publication of this Act in
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette;(f)"landlord" means a landlord as defined in
clause (e) of section 2 of the Tenants Protection Act and includes a public
trust as defined in clause (25) of section 2 of the Public Trusts Act;(g)"pay"
with its grammatical variations, includes deliver;(h)"previous arrears" means
the total amount of arrears of rent accrued due to the landlord before the
30th June 1973 and outstanding on the date of the publication of this Act
without interest;(i)"Public Trusts Act" means the Tamil Nadu Public Trust
(Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act
57 of 1961);(j)"Tenants Protection Act" means the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955);(k)all other words
and expressions used, but not defined in this Act and defined in the Tenants
Protection Act or in the Public Trusts Act shall have the same meaning as in
the Tenants Protection Act or in the Public Trusts Act, as the case may be.

### 4. Relief for payment of arrears of rent.

(1)All arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the
fasli years ending with the 30th June 1972 and for any previous fasli years
and outstanding on the date of the publication of this Act, shall be deemed to
be discharged, whether or not a decree or order has been obtained therefor, if
such cultivating tenant-(i)has, before the date of the publication of this
Act, paid to the landlord or deposited in the Court or before the competent
authority, to the account of the landlord; or(ii)pays to the landlord or
deposits in the Court or before the competent authority, to the account of the
landlord in the manner specified in sub-sections (2) and (5); or(iii)is deemed
to have paid or deposited under this Act,the rent for the fasli year
commencing on the 1st July 1971 and ending with the 30th June 1972 without
interest (hereinafter referred to as the rent for the fasli year 1381).(2)Any
cultivating tenant may pay to the landlord or deposit in the Court or before
the competent authority to the account of the landlord the rent for the fasli
year 1381 in three equal instalments as specified below:-(i)the first
instalment, on or before the [30th June 1981] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1981).](ii)the second instalment, on
or before the [31st March 1982] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood
Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act,
1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1981).](iii)the third instalment, on or before the
30th June 1982.(3)All arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the
landlord for the period commencing on the 1st July 1972 and ending with the
30th June 1978 and outstanding on the date of the publication of this Act,
shall be deemed to be discharged, whether or not a decree or order has been
obtained therefor, if such cultivating tenant,-(i)has, before the date of the
publication of this Act, paid to the landlord or deposited in the Court or
before the competent authority, to the account of the landlord; or(ii)pays to
the landlord or deposits in the Court or before the competent authority, to
the account of the landlord in the manner specified in sub-sections (4) and
(5); or(iii)is deemed to have paid or deposited under this Act,-(a)the rent
for the fasli year commencing on the 1st July 1972 and ending with the 30th
June 1973 without interest (hereinafter referred to as the rent for the fasli
year 1382); and(b)one-fifth of the rent for each fasli year during the period
commencing on the 1st July 1973 and ending with the 30th June 1978 without
interest (hereinafter referred to as the reduced rent):Provided that where the
cultivating tenant deposits in the Court or before the competent authority
under this Act the instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent
for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent, and in case where the rent is
payable in kind, such deposit shall be the market value thereof on the date of
such deposit.(4)Any cultivating tenant may pay to the landlord or deposit in
the Court or before the competent authority to the account of the
landlord,-(a)the rent for the fasli year 1382 in three equal instalments as
specified below:-(i)the first instalment, on or before the [30th June 1981]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1981).];(ii)the second instalment, on or before [31st March 1982] [Substituted
by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of
Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1981).];(iii)the third
instalment, on or before the 30th June 1982; and(b)the reduced rent in three
instalments as specified below:-(i)the first instalment being the one-fourth
of the reduced rent, on or before the 30th June 1981;(ii)the second instalment
being the one-half of the remainder of the reduced rent, before the 31st March
1982.(iii)the third instalment being the balance of the reduced rent, on or
before the 30th June 1982.(5)The Court in which or the competent authority
before which the deposit is made under sub-sections (2) and (4) shall cause
notice of the deposit to be issued to the landlord and determine after a
summary enquiry, whether the amount deposited represents the correct amount of
the instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli
year 1382 and the reduced rent, due from the cultivating tenant. If the Court
or the competent authority finds that any further sum is due towards such
instalments, it shall allow the cultivating tenant to deposit the further sum
within the period specified in those sub-sections or within such further time
as the Court or competent authority may allow which shall not in any case
exceed thirty days from the respective date specified in the said sub-
sections. If the Court or the competent authority adjudges that no further sum
is due or if the cultivating tenant deposits within the time referred to
above, such further sum as is ordered by the Court or the competent authority,
the cultivating tenant shall be deemed to have paid the instalments, of the
rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced
rent, within the due date for the purposes of this Act. If having to deposit a
further sum, the cultivating tenant fails to do so within the time allowed by
the Court or the competent authority, the landlord may proceed against such
cultivating tenant under the Public Trusts Act or the Tenants Protection Act,
as the case may be, for arrears of rent.(6)[In any suit or proceeding pending
on the date of the publication of Ihe Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected
Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 32 of 1981), for the recovery of arrears of rent payable by a
cultivating tenant to the landlord for the fasli year ending with the 30th
June 1978 and for any previous fasli years or for the eviction of a
cultivating tenant for non-payment of any such arrears of rent, the Court or
competent authority shall, if the cultivating tenant pays or deposits, or has
paid or deposited, or is deemed to have paid or deposited, under this Act, the
rent for the fasli vear 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced
rent, and on the application of the cultivating tenant, pass an order
dismissing without costs, the suit or proceeding in so far as such suit or
proceeding relates to such recovery or eviction.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu
Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief)
Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1981).](7)[If before the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1981), any decree or order has been passed in any suit or proceeding-(i)for
the recovery of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-section (6); or(ii)for
the eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any such arrears of
rent;the Court or the competent authority shall, if the cultivating tenant
pays or deposits, or has paid or deposited, or is deemed to have paid or
deposited, under this Act, the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the
fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent and on the application of any person
affected by such decree or order whether or not he was a party thereto, vacate
the decree or order in so far as such decree or order relates to such recovery
or eviction.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu
Act 32 of 1981).]

### 5. Payment or deposit of rent on or after 12th February 1973 deemed to be
payment towards rent for fasli year 1381, rent for fasli year 1382 or reduced
rent.

(1)If, on or after the 12th February 1973, any cultivating tenant has,-(i)made
any payment, byway of rent, to the landlord; or(ii)deposited by way of rent,
in the Court or before the competent authority, to the account of the
landlord,whether or not such payment or deposit was towards the discharge of
any arrears of rent payable by a cultivating tenant to the landlord for the
fasli year ending with the 30th June 1978 and for any previous fasli year,
such payment or deposit shall be deemed to have been made towards the
instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year
1382 or the reduced rent, in the order specified in sub-sections (2) and (4)
of section 4, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
document or receipt, and in cases of payment or deposit before, the Court or
the competent authority, it shall, on the application of the cultivating
tenant, re-open the proceeding an order that the rent so paid or deposited
shall be deemed to have been paid or deposited towards the instalments, of the
rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced
rent, in the order specified in the said sub-sections (2) and (4) of section
4.(2)If, on or after the 12th February 1973, any cultivating tenant has paid
or deposited any amount towards full or part satisfaction of a decree or order
for the recovery of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-section (1), such
amount shall be deemed to have been paid or deposited towards the instalments,
of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or the
reduced rent and the Court or the competent authority shall, on the
application of any person affected by such decree or order, whether or not he
was a party thereto, re-open the proceeding and pass an order that the amount
so paid or deposited shall be deemed to have been paid or deposited towards
the instalments, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli
year 1382 or the reduced rent in the order specified in sub-sections (2) and
(4) of section 4.Explanation. - For the removal of doubt, it is hereby
declared that where after adjustment of any payment to the landlord or deposit
in the Court or before the competent authority to the account of the landlord
made by the cultivating tenant under this section, such payment or deposit
falls short of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year
1382 or the reduced rent payable under subsections (1) and (3) of section 4,
the cultivating tenant shall be liable to pay the balance of, the rent for the
fasli year 1381, the went for the fasli year 1382 or the reduced rent in
accordance with the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (4) of section
4:Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to,-(i)any
payment made to the landlord; or(ii)any deposit made in the Court or before
the competent authority to the account of the landlord,by the cultivating
tenant byway of rent for the fasli year commencing on the 1st July 1978 and
for any subsequent fasli year.(3)Nothing in this section or in any other
provision of this Act shall entitle any cultivating tenant to claim any refund
from the landlord on the ground that the payment or deposit made on or after
the 12th February 1973, towards the discharge of any arrears of rent referred
to in sub-section (1) or towards full or part satisfaction of a decree or
order for the recovery of any such arrears of rent, is in excess of the rent
due as the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 or
the reduced rent.

### 6. Bar of proceedings for eviction or recovery of arrears of rent.

(1)No application shall be made for the eviction for non-payment of any
arrears of rent payable to the landlord for the fasli year ending with the
30th June 1978 or for any previous fasli year, and no suit shall be filed for
the recovery of such arrears,-(i)against any cultivating tenant till the [30th
June 1981]; [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas
Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu
Act 32 of 1981).](ii)against the cultivating tenant who has paid or deposited
the first instalment, of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the
fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent, until the expiry of the period specified
for the payment or deposit of the second instalment in sub-sections (2) and
(4) of section 4;(iii)against the cultivating tenant who has paid or deposited
the second instalment of the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the
fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent, until the expiry of the period specified
for the payment or deposit of the third instalment in the said sub-sections
(2) and (4); and(iv)against the cultivating tenant in favour of whom further
time has been granted by the Court or the competent authority under sub-
section (5) of section 4, until the expiry of such time.(2)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (6) of section 4, all applications for the eviction
of a cultivating tenant for non-payment of any arrears of rent referred to in
sub-section (1) and all suits, proceedings in execution of decrees or orders
and other proceedings pending before a Court or competent authority for the
recovery of any such arrears of rent or for such eviction, shall stand
stayed,(a)till the [30th June 1981] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and
Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment
Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1981).];(b)till the [31st March 1982]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1981).], if the cultivating tenant has paid the first instalment, of the rent
for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent
within the time specified in the said sub-sections (2) and (4);(c)till the
30th June 1982, if the cultivating tenant has paid the second instalment, of
the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the fasli year 1382 and the
reduced rent within the time specified in the said sub-sections (2) and (4);
and(d)till the expiry of further time, if any, granted by the Court or the
competent authority under sub-section (5) of section 4.(3)All applications and
all suits and proceeding stayed under this section shall, after the expiration
of the time limit specified therein, be proceeded with against 31W cultivating
tenant who has not paid or deposited or who is not deemed to have paid or
deposited, under this Act the rent for the fasli year 1381, the rent for the
fasli year 1382 and the reduced rent within the said time limit specified in
sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 4, subject to the provisions of any law
which may be then in force, from the stage which had been reached when the
application, suit or proceeding was stayed.

### 7. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation prescribed for a suit for the
recovery of any arrears of rent payable by him to the landlord for [the fasli
year ending with the 30th June 1978 and for any previous fasli year]
[Substituted by Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of
1980).] or a proceeding for the eviction of a cultivating tenant for non-
payment of any such arrears of rent, or an application for the execution of a
decree or order for such recovery or eviction, the time during which he was
protected by section 6 from such recovery or eviction shall be
excluded.Explanation. - In this section and in section 6, a decree or order
for the recovery of any such arrears of rent or for the eviction of a
cultivating tenant for nonpayment of any such arrears of rent, shall be deemed
to be a decree or order for such recovery or eviction, notwithstanding that
any other relief is also granted by such decree or order.

### 8. Bar of Jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no Civil Court shall have
jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act
required to be decided or dealt with by the competent authority or other
authority.

### 9. Revision by High Court.

\- The competent authority shall be deemed to be a Court subordinate to the
High Court for the purposes of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908), and its orders shall be liable to revision by
the High Court under the provisions of that section.

### 10. Arrears barred by limitation not to be revived.

\- Nothing in this Act shall be construed as reviving any claim for arrears of
rent for any period before the date of the publication of this Act if such
claim is barred by limitation on the said date under any law for the time
being in force.

### 11. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Tenants Protection Act, Public Trusts
Act or in the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent (Relief) Act,
1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1972), or in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), or in any other law for the time being in force, or
any custom, usage or contract, or decree or order of a Court or other
authority.

### 12. Power to make rules.

(1)The Stale Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after
it is made, be placed on the Table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted
for the words 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] in making any modification in any such rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 13. Repeal.

\- The Tamil Nadu Cyclone and Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants
(Temporary Relief) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1978) is hereby repealed.

