## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1974

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1974

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MOTOR-VEHICLES-TAXATION-RULES-1974 of 1974

  * Published on 1 April 1974 
  * Commenced on 1 April 1974 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 April 1974.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1974Published vide Notification No.
G.O. Ms. No. 816, dated 1st April 1974 - No. Sro A-III (a)/74G.O. Ms. No. 816.
- In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4, 5, 8, 13, 15 and sub-
section (1) of section 24 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:-

### 1. Short title extent and commencement.

(a)These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules,
1974.(b)They extend the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(c)They shall come
into force on the 1st April 1974.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context, -(a)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974).(aa)[ "Cost of Vehicle" means the total price paid
at the time of purchase as ascertained from the authorised dealer or
manufacturer as the case may be. [Sro A-38(d)/03: G.O. Ms. No. 650, Home
(Transp.), dated the 31st July 2003.]and in the case of vehicle imported from
outside India, it means the total price as evidenced from the bill of entry
for home consumption.](b)"Government" means the Government of Tamil
Nadu.(c)"Motor Vehicles Act" shall have the same meaning as defined under sub-
section (5) of section 2 of the Act.(d)"Passenger" for the purposes of these
rules means "passenger" as defined in the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules,
1940.

### 3. [ Motor Vehicles deemed to be kept for use in the State of Tamil Nadu.
[Substituted by SRO A-14 of 1994.]

\- For the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, a motor vehicle
shall be deemed to be kept for use in the State of Tamil Nadu -(a)In the case
of non-transport vehicle and transport vehicle exempted from permit under sub-
section (3) of section 66 of the Motor Vehicles Act, so long as the
registration of the vehicle remains on the records of any registering
authority of this State without having been transferred to the records of the
registering authority of any other State under the provisions of sub-section
(2) of section 47 or section 49 of the said Act;(b)in the case of non-
transport vehicle and transport vehicle exempted from permit under sub-section
(3) of section 66 of the Motor Vehicles Act registered in any other State, if
it remains in this State for a period exceeding four weeks;(c)in the case of
transport vehicle other than those referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above,
so long as the vehicle is covered by permit or counter-signature of permit
issued by any transport authority in this State or covered by permit granted
in any other State and valid in this State by virtue of rules made under
clause (x) of sub-section (2) of section of the Motor Vehicles Act:Provided
that imported vehicles acquired by the State Trading Corporation of India and
kept in its godown for resale shall not be deemed to be kept for use in this
State.Provided further that a vehicle which is seized and detained by any
Court or Government or authority empowers to seize or detain shall not be
deemed to be kept for use in this State and such seizure or detention shall be
certified by such Court or Government or authority.(d)[ The imported vehicles
acquired by the State Trading Corporation and kept in its godowns for resale
shall not be deemed to be kept or used in this State, provided that these
vehicles shall not be put on public road use as motor vehicles under any
circumstances till the ownership of such vehicle is changed.](e)[ a vehicle
which is seized and detained by any Court or Government Department who are
empowered for use in this State, and such seizure or detention shall be
certified by such Court or Government Department or other authority subject to
Physical Verification Report on such vehicle by the Transport Department
Officials on the non-use of the vehicle in public road during the period of
seizure or detention.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 636, Home (Transport I),
dated the 16th April 1996 (SRO A 66/96).](f)[ a vehicle which is seized and
detained by any financial institution owned by the Government shall not be
deemed to be used or kept for use in this State and such seizure or detention
shall be certified by that financial institution of the Government specifying
the duration of such detention and subject to Physical Verification of such
vehicle by the Transport Department Officials on the non-use of the vehicle in
public road during the period of detention;] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 636,
Home (Transport I), dated the 16th April 1996 (SRO A 66/96).](g)a vehicle met
with an accident and issued with CFX Notice by the Transport Department
Officials subject to the revocation of the same by the common authority of the
Transport Department shall not be deemed to be used or kept for use in this
State.(h)a vehicle which is dismantled and sold as scrap, subject to the prior
permission obtained from the competent authority before dismantling and
selling as scrap and also subject to the certificate of non use of the vehicle
on public road issue by the officials of the Transport Department shall not be
deemed to be used or kept for use in this State;(i)a vehicle which is
reportedly involved in a theft case, subject to the certificate issued by the
Police department shall be deemed to be used or kept for use in this State;
and(j)a vehicle for which permission as required under sub-rule (6) of rule
172 of the [Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, was obtained from the
concerned transport authority shall not be deemed to be used or kept for use
in this State.] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 636, Home (Transp. I), dated the
16th April 1996 (SRO A 66/96).]]

### 3A. [ Mode of payment of tax. [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1459 Home (Transp.
I) dated 19-8-92: SRO A 127/92.]

\- [(1) The tax levied under section (4) of the Act shall be paid by cash or
crossed bank draft or crossed bankers cheque or through Indian postal
orders].(2)The tax levied under Section 6 of the Act shall be paid in the
following manner, namely:Table

(1) At check posts and at the time of checkingthe vehicle |  by cash of bank draft or bankers cheque in thecase on non-transport vehicles.  
---|---  
(2) In other case |  by crossed bank draft or bankers cheque in thecase of transport and non-transport vehicles.  
  
Provided in the case of departments and undertakings of the State Government
and Central Government, the tax levied under Sections 4 and 6 of the Act may
also be paid by means of cheque [drawn on any branch of a bank which is within
the jurisdiction of the Regional Transport Officer concerned] [Added by G.O.
Ms. No. 506, Home (Transp.) dated 20-3-1991: SRO A 75/91.] and the grant of
licence on its basis shall not absolve the department/undertaking of the
liability to pay penalty under rule 8 in the case of the cheque is returned by
the bank without realisation for any reason whatsoever.]

### 3B. [ Mode of Payment of Green Tax. [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 650 Home
(Transp. I), dated the 31st July 2003 (SRO A 38(d)/103).]

\- The tax levied under section 3-A of the Act shall be paid by cash or
crossed bank draft or crossed bankers cheque.]

### 4. Authorities competent to fix tax.

\- The officers mentioned in column (1) of the table below shall be the
authorities competent to assess the tax payable in respect of the motor
vehicles specified in column (2) thereof in their respective
jurisdiction.Table

(1) Regional Transport Officer |  Non-transportvehicles and transport vehicles other than those covered bypermits issued by the State Transport Authority.  
---|---  
(2) Joint Regional Transport Officer  
(3) Personal Assistant to the Regional TransportOfficer.  
Secretary to State Transport Authority,Assistant Secretary to State Transport Authority. |  Transport vehicles covered by the permits issuedby the State Transport Authority and transport vehicles of otherStates having counter-signature in Tamil Nadu.  
  
### 5. [ Recording of certificate of registration. [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 748 Home (Transport I), dated the 2nd April 1981 (SRO A 120/81).]

(a)In the case of transport vehicles, the assessing authority under rule 4
shall record in the certificate of registration, the amount of tax payable and
also the place at which the tax so assessed shall be paid.(b)The owner of a
transport vehicle shall, whenever there is variation of the conditions of
permit covered by such vehicle involving alteration of the seating capacity of
such vehicle or change in the classification of service or change in the
weight laden in respect of goods vehicle or whenever there is any general
increase of tax, make an application with the certificate of registration to
the tax assessing authority concerned for recording the amount of tax payable
in respect of that vehicle.(c)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules
(a) and (b) above, the difference of tax payable, if any, consequent on the
recording of the amount of tax payable by the assessing authority shall be
paid from the date on which the variation of condition of the permit is given
effect or the date of general increase of tax, as the case may be, whether or
not the tax so levied is recorded in the certificate of registration.]

### 6. Form of licences.

\- The licences and certificate referred to in sub-section (1) of section 5
and section 6 of the Act shall be as specified in the Schedule to these rules.

### 7. Period within which the tax shall be paid.

\- The tax due under the Act in respect of the class of vehicle specified in
the column (1) of the Table below and kept or used in the State of Tamil Nadu
shall be paid either before or within such period mentioned in the
corresponding entries in column (2) thereof.[Table] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 1321, Home (Transport I), dated the 29th September 1999 (SRO A 78/99).]

Class of Vehicles | Period  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(i) Invalid Carriages |  1st to 10th April of every year in the case ofannual tax and 1st to 30th April in the case of payment of lifetime tax  
(ii) Motor Cycles including Tri-cycles andscooters  
(iii) Motor cars including trailers attached tomotor cars.  
(iv) Omni buses not covered by contract carriagepermits  
(v) Transport Vehicles |  Not less than 7 days prior to the commencementof the quarter or half-year or annual, as the case may be, up toand inclusive the 15th May, 14th August, 14th November and 14thFebruary every year, respectively.  
  
Explanation. - In respect of newly registered motor vehicles, life time tax
shall be paid at the time of registration.(2)In respect of motor vehicles
purchased at any time [within the quarter, half-year] [Substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 1717 Home (Transport I), dated the 30th November 1993 (SRO A 177/93).] or
year and in case of vehicles other than non-transport vehicles brought to this
State on purchase, tax shall be paid within three days from the date of
registration of the vehicle or from the date on which delivery was taken,
whichever is later.(3)[ In respect of motor vehicles falling under [Home
Departments notification No. II (2)/H.O./47 85/89, dated 20th July 1989,] [SRO
A 117/85.] the tax shall be paid on or before the day on which the vehicle is
to be put on road.]

### 8. [ Penalty for non-payment of tax within the time prescribed.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1717 Home (Transport I), dated the 30th November
1993 (SRO A 177/93).]

(1)If the tax due under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, in respect of
a Motor Vehicle has not been paid within the period specified in sub-rule (1)
of Rule 7 or by an order issued under the proviso the said sub-rule (1) the
registered owner or the person having possession or control thereof shall pay
a penalty under section 15 of the Act [as specified in Table 1 in relation to
the payment of quarterly tax, in]Table 2 in relation to the payment of half-
yearly tax and in Table 3 in relation to the payment of annual tax.Table 1

Period | Amount of penalty  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(1) Within 15 days after the expiry of theperiod stipulated as per section 8 of the Act. |  One-fourth of the quarterly tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
(2) Beyond 15 days and within 45 days after theexpiry of the period stipulated as per section 8 of the Act. |  One-half of the quarterly tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
(3) Beyond 45 days after expiry of the periodstipulated as per section 8 of the Act. |  The amount of quarterly tax or any part of suchtax remaining due.  
  
Table 2

Period | Amount of penalty  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(1) Within 15 days after the expiry of theperiod stipulated as per section 8 of Act. |  One-eighth of the half-yearly tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
(2) Beyond 15 days and within 45 days after theexpiry of the period stipulated as per section 8 of the Act |  One-fourth of the half-yearly tax or any partof such tax remaining due.  
(3) Beyond 45 days after the expiry of theperiod stipulated as per section 8 of the Act. |  One-half of the half-yearly tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
  
Table 3

Period | Amount of penalty  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(1) Within 15 days after the expiry of theperiod stipulated as per section 8 of Act. |  One-sixteenth of the annual tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
(2) Beyond 15 days and within 45 days after theexpiry of the period stipulated as per section 8 of the Act |  One-eighth of the annual tax or any part ofsuch tax remaining due.  
(3) Beyond 45 days after the expiry of theperiod stipulated as per section 8 of Act |  One-fourth of the annual tax or any part of suchtax remaining due.  
  
### 2\. If the tax due under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), in respect of
motor vehicles, referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 7 has not been paid within
the period prescribed in that sub-rule the registered owner or the person
having possession or control thereof, shall pay a penalty under section 15 of
the Act as specified in the table below:

[Table] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1717 Home (Transp. I), dated the 30th
November 1993 (SRO A 177/93).]

Period | Amount of penalty  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 |  Within 15 days after the expiry of the periodstipulated in sub rule (2) of rule 7 of the Tamil Nadu MotorVehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  One-fourth of the tax payable or any part of suchtax remaining due; or one-eighth of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one-sixteenth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due, in respect of quarterly, halfyearly or annual payment respectively.  
2 |  Beyond 15 days and within 45 days after theexpiry of the period stipulated in sub-rule (2) of rule 7 of theTamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  One-half of the tax payable or any part of suchtax remained due; or one fourth of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one eighth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due, in respect of quarterly, halfyearly or annual payment respectively.  
3 |  Beyond 45 days after the expiry of the periodstipulated in sub-rule (2) of rule 7 of the Tamil Nadu MotorVehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  The amount of tax payable or any part of suchtax remaining due; or one-half of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one-fourth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due, in respect of quarterly,half-yearly, annual payment respectively" and  
  
### 3\. If the tax due under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974) in respect of
motor vehicles, referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 7 has not been paid within
the period prescribed in that sub-rule the registered owner or the person
having possession or control thereof, shall pay a penalty under section 15 of
the Act as specified in the table below.

[Table [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1717 Home (Transport I), dated the 30th
November 1993 (SRO A 177/93).]]

Period | Amount of penalty  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 |  Within 15 days after the expiry of the periodstipulated in sub rule (3) of rule 7 of the Tamil Nadu MotorVehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  One-fourth of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one-eighth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due; or one-sixteenth of the taxpayable or any part of such tax remaining due, in respect ofquarterly, half yearly or annual payment respectively.  
2 |  Beyond 15 days and within 45 days after theexpiry of the period stipulated in sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of theTamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  One-half of the tax payable or any part of suchtax remained due; or one fourth of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one eighth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due, in respect of quarterly, halfyearly or annual payment respectively.  
3 |  Beyond 45 days after the expiry of the periodstipulated in sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Tamil Nadu MotorVehicles Taxation Rules, 1974. |  The amount of tax payable or any part of suchtax remaining due; or one-half of the tax payable or any part ofsuch tax remaining due; or one-fourth of the tax payable or anypart of such tax remaining due, in respect of quarterly,half-yearly, annual payment respectively]  
  
### 9. Impounding of certificate of registration etc. for non-payment of tax.

\- Any inspecting officer having reason to believe that a transport vehicle
has been or is being used with a permit rendered ineffective under section 18
of the Act, may impound the certificate of registration, the permit and such
other documents as he may consider necessary.

### 9A. [ 1Sale of Vehicle seized and detained under section 18-A of the Act.
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 2678, Home (Transp. I), dated the 14th December 1998
(SRO A 9/89).]

(1)The Regional Transport Officer of the Region, where the motor vehicle is
seized or detained, is the authorised officer to sell such seized or detained
motor in auction.(2)(a)The authorised Officer specified in sub-rule (1) shall
issue notice to the registered owner or person in possession of the vehicle,
by a registered post with acknowledgement due to produce the proof of tax due
in respect of the vehicle within ninety days from the date of seizure and
detention of the vehicle informing that failing which the vehicle will be sold
in auction and shall intimate the fact of seizure to the authority also in the
case of a transport vehicle.(b)If the tax is not paid, or proof for having
paid the tax is not produced within the stipulated ninety days from the date
of seizure and detention and after considering the objections, if any received
the authorised officer shall proceed to sell the vehicle in public auction,
after passing a self contained order.(c)The authorised officer shall cause a
proclamation of the intended sale to be issued in Tamil and other languages
stating therein : -(i)The place and time of sale(ii)The description of the
vehicle intended to be sold.(iii)The amount of recovery of which the auction
is ordered.(iv)Such other particulars as the authorised officer considers
material for a purchaser to know to judge the nature and value of the
vehicle.(d)The proclamation shall be published in a Tamil news paper having
wide circulation in the area where the vehicle is detained and the costs of
such publication shall be deemed to be cost of the sale. A copy of
proclamation shall be affixed on a conspicuous place on the vehicle and on the
notice boards of the office of the authorised officer and the office of the
Regional Transport Officer by whom the permit was issued in the transport
vehicle.(e)The authorised officer may in his discretion adjourn the sale to a
specific day and hour recording reasons for such adjournment, provided that
where the sale in adjourned for a longer period than thirty days fresh
proclamation shall be made.(f)Twenty five percent of purchase money shall be
paid within seven days from the date of sale, failure of making such payments,
the vehicle shall be sold to the next highest bidder.(g)On payment of purchase
money the authorised officer shall issue a receipt for the same and it shall
become absolute. He shall also cause the vehicle to be delivered for the owner
to the purchaser.(h)No officer or other person having any duty to perform in
connection with the sale under this Act either directly or indirectly bid or
acquire or attempt to acquire any interest in the vehicle to be sold.(i)Where
the proceeds of the sale is more than the tax due and the expenses incidentals
to the delivery of sale of the vehicles as provided in section 18-A of the
Act, the authorised officer, shall return the amount to the registered owner
or to the person having possession or control thereof immediately. If the
proceed of the sale is less than the tax due and the expenses incidental to
the sale of the vehicle, the authorised officer shall furnish certificate of
recovery for the deficit amount of the tax due as on arrears of land revenue
to the Collector or Revenue Officer of the District where the vehicles owner
resides, as laid down under section 16 of the Act.]

### 10. Additional tax payable in respect of certain vehicles.

(1)If a motor vehicle is so constructed that a trailer may, by partial super-
imposition be attached to the vehicle in such a manner that a part of the
weight of the trailer is borne by the vehicle, and if the vehicle cannot be
used except in conjunction with the trailer, the vehicle and the trailer shall
be deemed to be a goods vehicle, and be known as an articulated vehicle.(2)If
such a goods vehicle is provided with more than one such trailer but is so
constructed that only one such trailer can be used at a time it shall be
deemed to be a goods vehicle with alternative bodies, taxation shall be
chargeable in respect of the vehicle in combination with that trailer which
has the greatest laden weight and no additional tax shall be chargeable in
respect of the spare trailers.

### 10A. [ Appeal against the order of licensing officer. [Inserted by G.O.
Ms. No. 506 Home (Transport I), dated the 20th March 1991 (SRO A 75/91).]

\- Where any person is aggrieved by an order of the licensing officer, he may,
within thirty days from the date of receipt of such an order appeal to the
Deputy Transport commissioner of the zone concerned.]

### 11. Refund of tax.

\- [In the case of a motor vehicle for which tax has been paid for any
quarter, half year, or year, or life time as the case may be, but the vehicle
has not been used in any public road for a continuous period of not less than
one month with the above period, refund of tax paid for such period of non-use
shall be made at the rates specified below subject to the provisions contained
in rules 12, 14 and 15; and] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2150, Home
(Transport I), dated the 7th October 1989 (SRO A 177/89).]

Particulars as to user of vehicle | Rate of refund  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(a) |  Where the vehicle is not used during anyportion of the quarter or half year or year. |  Tax paid for the quarter, half year, or year, asthe case may be.  
(b) |  Where the vehicle is not used during anycalendar month or months |  Number of calendarmonths of non-use X Amount of tax paidNumber of calendar months for which tax waspaid.  
(c) |  Where life time tax is paid and where thevehicle is not used during any continuous period not less thanone month. |  Number of continuous months of non-usemultiplied by the amount of life time tax paid divided by 120;  
  
[Explanation. - The period of use of a Motor Vehicle on a public road without
carrying any passengers, for the purpose of moving it from one Depot to
another or one Workshop to another for carrying out repairs shall not be
considered as used on any public road and such period may be taken into
account for computing the period for which the vehicle has not been used in
Public road.] [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 2678, Home (Transport I), dated the 14th
December 1998 (SRO A 9/89).]Conditions(i)Taxation licence shall be surrendered
to the proper authority within three days of the date of issue of the licence
in the case of refund of tax for the first month of the quarter/half-year/year
for which tax was paid, and for any subsequent month or months within three
days from the commencement of the month.(ii)The licence shall be surrendered
to the Secretary to the Regional Transport Authority of the region.(iii)No
refund shall be made in case where the tax is paid only after its non-payment
has been detected or after a prosecution or other proceeding has been
instituted in respect of such non-payment.(iv)No refund of tax shall be
allowed in respect of a vehicle for a period during which it was detained for
contravention of any provision of any law by-law, rule or order made
thereunder prohibiting or regulating the transport of goods or passengers or
persons.(v)No refund of tax shall be allowed in respect of a transport vehicle
for the period during which the vehicle was off the road unless :-(a)the non-
use of the vehicle has been intimated in writing (by Registered post with
acknowledgement due) together with the reasons for such non-use and details of
the place where the vehicle is garaged on or before the date of stoppage of
the vehicle to the Secretary to the Regional Transport Authority of the
region.(b)Registration certificate, tax licence and permit, if any, in respect
of the vehicle or where such documents are seized or retained by any
authority, a certificate obtained from the concerned authority for having
seized or retained the documents, has been surrendered to the Secretary to the
Regional Transport Authority of the region on or before the date of stoppage
of the vehicle.(vi)No refund shall be permissible for the non-use of the
vehicle for part of a month.(vii)where tax is paid by mistake or in excess,
the tax so paid or collected shall be refunded to the registered owner of the
vehicle, on application made to the Regional Transport Authority of the region
concerned in writing with a Court fee stamp to the value of Rs. 2 provided
such application is made within thirty days of such payment.Explanation 1. -
An application for refund may be preferred to the Secretary to the Regional
Transport Authority of the region. The Regional Transport Authority shall be
the competent authority to sanction the refund.Explanation 2. - An appeal
against the order of the Regional Transport Authority shall lie to the
transport Commissioner, Madras, within thirty days, from the date of receipt
of the order.

### 11A. [ [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 2150 Home (Transport I), dated the 7th
October 1989 (SRO A 177/1989).]

In the case of a non-transport vehicle for which life time tax has been paid,
but the vehicle is removed permanently from this State on transfer of
ownership or change of address or the registration of the vehicle has been
cancelled on account of scrapping during the currency of the life time tax so
paid the amount of tax to be refunded shall be the difference between the
actual amount of life time tax paid and the amount calculated by multiplying
the number of years for which the Motor Vehicle was actually used in the State
of Tamil Nadu by the rate of annual Tax prevailed on the date on which refund
is applied for. For computing the period of usage, any broken period less than
one year shall also be treated as one year.]

### 12. Application for refund of tax.

\- Every application for refund of tax shall be made to the Regional Transport
Officer concerned.

### 13. Authority for refund of tax.

\- The Regional Transport officer concerned shall be the authority competent
to sanction the refund of tax.

### 14. Conditions for refund of tax.

\- No refund of tax shall be allowed unless the applicant satisfied the
following conditions, namely:(a)Taxation licence shall be surrendered to the
Regional Transport Officer concerned within three days from the date of issue
of the licence in the case of refund of tax for the first month of the
quarter/half year/year for which tax was paid and for any subsequent month or
months within three days from the commencement of the month or within a
reasonable period thereafter.(b)The non-use of tax vehicle shall be intimated
in writing to the Regional Transport Officer concerned by Registered Post with
acknowledgment due together with reasons for such non use and details of the
place where the vehicle is garaged on or before the date of stoppage of the
vehicle or within a reasonable period and shall thereafter surrender.(i)in the
case of transport vehicles, the certificate of registration and permit;
and(ii)in the case of the other motor vehicles, the tax token and where the
documents are seized or retained by any authority, a certificate obtained from
the [authority concerned] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 330 Home (Transp. I), dated
the 13th February 1990 (Sro A 36/90).] for having seized or retained the
documents.[Provided that the conditions laid down this rule shall apply to a
Motor Vehicle belonging to a S.T.U. subject to the condition that it shall
produce an undertaking along with the application for refund that it will
produce the documents referred to therein before the disposal of the refund
application.] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 330 Home (Transp. I), dated the 13th
February 1990 (Sro A 36/90).]Explanation I. - If any question arises as to
whether or not the documents were surrendered within a reasonable period after
the specified date, the decision of the refunding authority or the appellate
authority as the case may be, shall be final.Explanation II. - In case where
the report regarding non-use of the vehicle has actually been given in person
and received by the Regional Transport Officer, the fact that non-receipt of
such report by Registered Post with acknowledgment due need not be adduced as
a ground rejecting the claim for refund of tax.

### 15. Refund of tax for part of a month.

\- No refund of tax shall be permissible for the non-use of the vehicle for
less than a month.

### 16. Refund of tax paid by mistake or in excess.

\- Where tax is paid by mistake or in excess, the tax so paid or collected
shall be refunded on application made to the Regional Transport Officer
concerned.

### 17. Appeal for refund of tax.

\- Where any person is agreed by an order of a Regional Transport Officer
refusing to refund the tax may, within thirty days from the date of receipt of
such an order, appeal to the Deputy Transport Commissioner of the region
concerned.[Provided that the Transport Commission shall have power to transfer
any appeal from the file of a Deputy Commissioner of one region to the file of
Deputy Commissioner of another resign if for any reason it is considered
necessary in the interest of administration of natural justice.] [Added by
G.O. Ms. No. 852 Home (Transport I), dated the 21st March 1980 (SRO A
134/80).]

### 18. Revision.

\- The Transport Commissioner, may, either on his own motion or on application
made to him, call for the records of any case in which an order has been made
by a Deputy Transport Commissioner under rule 17 and if it appears to the
Transport Commissioner that such order is improper or illegal, he may pass
such order in relation to the case as he deems fit:Provided that the Transport
Commissioner shall not pass an order under this rule prejudicial to any person
without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.

### 19. [ Application for exemption and remission. [Rule 19 caption
substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 2765 Home (Transp. I), dated the 20th December
1989 (SRO A 9/90).]

\- All application for exemption or concessional rate of tax and waiver of tax
or penalty shall be sent to the Secretary to Government, Fort St. George,
Chennai, through the Regional Transport Authority and the Transport
Commissioner, Chennai. Such application shall be forwarded by the said
authorities to Secretary to Government (Home) Department with their remarks.]

### 20. [ Circumstances or conditions for remission. [Rule 20 substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 2765 Home (Transport I), dated the 20th December 1989 (SRO A
9/90).]

\- Remission of tax or penalty or both shall be made under any of the
following circumstances or conditions namely :-(i)Where there is an
insecurable owner of motor vehicle tax due under the Act; or(ii)Where the
Government considers to forgo any arrears of motor vehicle tax due under the
Act on account of retrospective effective of a legislation, or order passed or
notification issued [or for any other reason as the Government may deem it
necessary]:Provided that in the case where due to incorrect fixation of tax
the difference tax with penalty remains due the amount of penalty alone shall
be remitted.]

## Schedule

Form I[Form of Licences Under Section 5(1)(A) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
Taxation Act, 1974. [Form substituted by SRO A 258/82.]Expiring
DatePermitFCICName and address of the registered owner or of person having
possession and control of the vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:]Licences under
section 5( 1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.[Form I]
[Form substituted by SRO A 258/82.]Expiring DatePermitFCICName and address of
the registered owner or of person having possession and control of the
vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:Form IINew-Transport Vehicle.[Licence under section
5(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.] [Substituted by
SRO A 258/82.]Name and address of the registered owner or of person having
possession and control of the vehicle.Seal:The half-yearly licences shall be
in the following forms : -[Licence under section 5(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974Form IIIExpiring DatePermitFCICName and
address of the registered owner or of person having possession and control of
the vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:] [Substituted by SRO A 258/82.][Licence under
section S(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Form
IIIExpiring DatePermitFCICName and address of the registered owner or of
person having possession and control of the vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:]
[Substituted by SRO A 258/82.]Form IVNew-Transport Vehicle.[Licence under
section 5(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Name and
address of the registered owner or of person having possession and control of
the vehicle.Seal:] [Substituted by SRO A 258/82.]The annual licences shall be
in the following forms :-[Licence under section 5(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Form VExpiring DatePermitFCICName and
address of the registered owner or of person having possession and control of
the vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:] [Substituted by SRO A 258/82.][Licence under
section 5(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Form
VExpiring DatePermitFCICName and address of the registered owner or of person
having possession and control of the vehicle.Sub-treasury Seal:] [Substituted
by SRO A 258/82.]Form VINew-Transport Vehicle[Licence under section 5(1)(a) of
the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.] [Substituted by SRO A
258/82.]Name and address of the registered owner or of person having
possession and control of the vehicle.Seal:The temporary licences granted
under clauses (a),(b) and (c) of section 6 the Act shall be in the following
form.Form VIILicence granted under clauses (a),(b) and (c) section 6 of the
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Name and address of the
registered owner or of person having possession and control of the
vehicle.Seal:The certificate in respect of motor vehicles not registered or
deemed to be registered under the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), for recording that the tax has been paid for a
specified quarter or quarters or that no tax is payable for any such vehicle,
shall be in the following form:Form VIIILicence under section 5(1)(b) of the
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.Certificate referred to in sub-
clause (1) of clause (b) of section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
Taxation Act, 1974 in respect of motor vehicles not registered or deemed to be
registered under the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974.

Description of the vehicle | Change of address  
---|---  
Register number and distinguishing mark. | First Change-  
Name of maker. | Name (Block Capitals)  
Type of vehicle. | Address:  
Capacity | Station:  
Carrying seating | Licensing Officer  
Horse power. |   
Number of Cylinders. |   
Unladen weight. |   
Class under Schedule. | Second change-  
Station: | Address:  
Date | Station:  
Licensing Officer | Licensing Officer  
Name of the registered owner. | Third Change-  
(Block Capitals) | Name (Block Capitals)  
Address: | Address:  
Station: | Station:  
Date: |   
Licensing Officer | Licensing Officer  
  
The tax due, viz., Rs........................................under the Tamil
Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 in respect of vehicle referred to in
this book has been collected
at.................................................................for the
period from .......................................................
to....................................................................No tax
is payable for quarter..................................................of
20..........................................................as the vehicle.

Date: | Regional Transport Officer Licensing Officer.  
---|---  
  
NotificationsLevy of Additional Surcharge, on tax in Respect of Stage
Carriages of Fleet Operators Under Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O.
Ms. No. 790, Home (Transport), dated the 14th March 1980 - No. II
(2)/HO/1186(a)/80]In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10-B of the
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby levies for the year commencing on the 1st April
1979 and ending with the 31st March 1980 an additional surcharge on the tax at
sixty-six per cent in respect of stage carriages kept or used by fleet
operators. The additional surcharge so levied shall be paid within thirty days
from the date of publication of this notification.This notification shall be
deemed to have come into effect from the 1st April 1979.Reduction of Tax
Payable by Public Carrier Goods Vehicles Having National Permits Under Tamil
Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 2685, Home (Transport-VI), dated
the 24th September 1986 - No. II (2)/HO/6834 (a)/86]In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home Department
Notification No. II(2) /HO/ 3266/86 dated the 28th April 1986, published at
page 396 in Part II-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the
21st May 1986, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby reduces the tax payable under
the said Act in respect of any pubic carrier goods vehicle registered in a
State or in an Union Territory, other than the State of Tamil Nadu and
authorised to ply in the State of Tamil Nadu, under a National permit granted
by the appropriate authority of the State in pursuance of sub-section (11) of
section 63 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of 1939) to Rs.
1,500 (Rupees one thousand and five hundred only) and Rs. 750 (Rupees seven
hundred and fifty only) respectively per annum per vehicle irrespective of the
laden weight of the vehicle.(i)The tax aforesaid shall be paid on or before
the 15th March of every year or, in two equal installments, the first
instalment before the 15th March of every year for the period April to
September and the second instalment before the 15th September (of the current
financial year) for the period October to March.(ii)Where the authorisation in
respect of the National permit is granted at any time after the first quarter
of the financial year, the tax shall be assessed on prorata basis for the
remaining quarters of the financial year, including the quarter in which, such
authorisation is granted.Exemption of All Motor Vehicles other than Transport
Vehicles Registered in Other States from Payment of tax Under Tamil Nadu Motor
Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 2716, Home (Transport-I), dated the 19th
December 1988 - No. II (2)/HO/70/89]In exercise of the powers conferred by
clause (1) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby exempts from
the payment of tax, all motor vehicles other than Transport Vehicles which are
registered in other States but have entered this State for a period not
exceeding four weeks subject to the conditions that -(a)the entry of such
vehicle into this State neither as a result of change of address or place of
business as provided for in section 30 nor as a result of transfer of
ownership to a person in the state of Tamil Nadu as provided for in section 34
of the Motor Vehicles Act; and(b)in respect of such vehicle the quarterly,
half yearly, annual or one lump sum life time tax (by whatever name called)
has already been paid in the other State or the payment of such tax has been
exempted by that State.Reduction of Rate of Tax Payable by Certain Motor
Vehicles Registered in Tamil Nadu[G.O. Ms. No. 1385, Home (Transport I), dated
the 20th July 1989 - No. II(2)/HO/ 4795/89]In exercise of the powers conferred
by clause (1) of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act,
1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home Department
Notification No. II(2)/HO/1790/83, dated the 21st March 1983, published at
page 300 of Part-II section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the
13th April 1983, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes reduction in the rate
of tax payable during the last two months of a quarter or during the second
and subsequent months of a half year or a year in respect of motor vehicles
registered in the State of Tamil Nadu as specified in the schedule below,
subject to the following conditions namely : -Conditions

### 1\. (i) The vehicle is used during the said period; or

(ii)Temporary permit is issued pending grant of renewal of regular permit;
or(iii)Temporary permit is issued under section 62 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1939 (Central Act IV of 1939); or(iv)Replacement of an existing vehicle by
another is allowed on a regular basis;(v)A fresh regular permit is granted;
or(vi)The vehicle resumes service after stoppage for repairs.

### 2\. The licence shall not be granted earlier than the last day of the
month proceeding the month from which the vehicle is to be used.

## Schedule 2

(i)In respect of quarterly licence, proportionate tax at one third of the
quarterly rate per month or part thereof.(ii)In respect of half yearly
licence, proportionate tax at one sixth of the half yearly rate per month or
part thereof.(iii)In respect of annual licence, proportionate tax at one
twelfth of the annual rate per month or part thereof.Explanation. - The
expression "motor vehicles registered in Tamil Nadu" shall include motor
vehicles continuing to have registration mark of another State for the period
allowed under section 29 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of
1939).

### 2\. The Notification hereby issued shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 1st April 1974.

Reduction In Rate Of Tax Payable In Respect Of Imported Motor Vehicles Under
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 739, Home (Transport A),
dated the 4th April 1990 - No. II(2)/HO/l973/90]In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (1) of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby reduces, with effect on and from the 1st April 1989, the tax in respect
of imported motor vehicles which were imported during the year 1974 or before,
to the rate as applicable to the similar Indian made motor vehicles payable as
per columns (2) and (3) of Class 7 of the First Schedule of the said
Act.Revised Rate of Levy of Surcharges in Respect of Stage Carriers Under
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974[G.O. Ms. No. 344, Home (Transport
A), dated the 27th February 1991 - No. II (2)/ HO/l535/91]In exercise of the
powers conferred by section 10-A of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home
Department Notification No. II (2)/HO/ 1609(c)/74 dated 1.4.1976 published at
page 1 of Part II section 2 of Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary
dated 1.4.1976 as amended by the Home Department Notification No.
II(2)/HO/1763(a)/76 dated 9.4.1976 published at page 7 of Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extra ordinary dated 9.4.1976 the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby levies the surcharge on the Tax mentioned in section (3) of the said
Act on the class of stage carriage including the reserve stage carriages or
spare buses falling under item (c) of Clause III of Class 2 of I Schedule to
the said Act, specified in column (1) of the Table below at the rate specified
in the corresponding entry in column (2) there of.Table

Class of Stage Carriage |  Rate of surcharges per quarter per passengerthe vehicle is permitted to carry  
---|---  
1 | 2  
Services classified as express services including the reservedstage carriages or spare buses liable to be taxed at the ratesapplicable to express service. | Rs. 40 (Rupees forty only)  
Services other than express services including the reservestage carriages or spare buses liable to be taxed at the ratesapplicable to services other than express services. | Rs. 35 (Rupees thirty five only)  
  
### 2\. The notification hereby issued shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 1st of April 1990.

Modification Of Rate Of Tax On Goods Carriages Exceeding 13,000 Kgs In Weight
Laden[G.O. Ms. No. 1699, Home (Transport A), dated the 13th November 1991 -
No. II(2)/ HO/5935(a)/91]In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (b)
of clause (1) section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home Department
Notification No. II(2)/HO/5835/91, dated the 13th November 1991, published on
page 660 of Part II-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the
13th November 1991, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the modification
in regard to the tax payable per quarter in respect of Goods Carriage
exceeding 13,000 kgs. in weight laden, used or kept for use in the State of
Tamil Nadu as specified in the table below :-Table

Class of vehicles | Quarterly tax  
---|---  
1 | 2  
(a) |  Goods Carriages exceeding 13,000 kgs. but notexceeding 15,000 kgs. in weight | Rs.2,190. laden kgs. in weight laden).  
(b) |  Goods Carriages exceeding 15,000 kgs. in weightladen. |  Rs.2,190 (plus Rs. 50 per every 250 kgs. or partthereof in excess of 15,000  
  
### 2\. The Notification hereby issued shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 1st October 1991.

Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Issue No. 5 Part II, Section 2 Page 54[G.O. Ms.
No. 67, Home (Transport A), dated the 10th January 1992 - No. II(2)/
576/HO/92]In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20(1)(b) of the Tamil
Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13/74), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes reduction in the rate of tax payable in respect of
reserve stage carriage or a spare Bus mentioned in Para III of clause 2 of the
first schedule to the said Act from the maximum payable per passenger for any
regular stage carriage of the permit holder to three fourths of the maximum
rate payable per passenger for any of the regular stage carriages of the
permit holder.

### 2\. The notification hereby issued shall come into force on 10/1/92.

[G.O. Ms. No. 1122, Home (Transport A), dated the 10th July 1992]No.
II(2)/HO/5422/92. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20(1) of
the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974),
the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes reduction in the rate of tax payable
under the said Act with effect on and from 7th November 1990, in respect of
Tourist Vehicles granted permit under section 88(a) of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) by the authority of any State other than the
State of Tamil Nadu at the rate specified in column (a) of the Table below for
the period of use specified in the corresponding entries in column (1)
thereof.Table

Period of use | Tax payable  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 | Not exceeding 7 days |  A sum equivalent to the 1/20th of theQuarterly Tax specified in the first schedule to Tamil Nadu Act13/74.  
2 | Exceeding 7 days but not exceeding 90 days. |  A sum equivalent to l/3rd of the Quarterly Taxspecified in the first schedule to Tamil Nadu Act 13/1974.  
3 | Exceeding 30 days but not exceeding 90 days |  A sum equivalent to the Quarterly Tax specifiedin the first Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Act 13/74.  
  
The Tax shall be paid on entering the State of Tamil Nadu at the nearest
cheek-post or any office of the Transport department, competent to receive the
tax:Provided that the failure to pay the Tax shall entail the payment of
penalty equal to the amount of Tax payable besides the Tax due.Reduction of
tax in respect of goods vehicles of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and
pondicherry ply in the state of Tamil Nadu[G.O. Ms. No. 483, Home (Transport-
VI), dated the 20th March 1993]No. II (2)/HO/1558(g)/93 . - In exercise of the
powers conferred by clause (1) section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the
Home Department Notification No. II(2)/HO/5688/88, published at page 769 of
Part II-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 19th October
1988, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby reduces with effect from the 1st April
1993 the tax payable to Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one thousand and five hundred only)
per annum, in respect of goods vehicles of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala
and Pondicherry, which ply in the State of Tamil Nadu with valid counter
signature of permit in accordance with the reciprocal agreements entered into
with the aforesaid States and published under sub-section (3-B) of section 63
of the Motor Vehicles Act 1939 (Central Act IV of 1939), subject to the
following conditions, namely :-(1)The said Motor Vehicle tax of Rs. 1,500
(Rupees one thousand and five hundred only) shall be paid in advance in one
lump sum before the 15th of April every year, failing which an additional sum
of Rs. 100 (Rupees one hundred only) for each calendar month, or part thereof
shall be paid as penalty, in addition to the aforesaid tax.(2)Where a fresh
counter signature is granted after the first quarter of the financial year,
the tax shall be paid on pro-rata basis for the remaining quarters, including
the quarter in which such fresh counter-signature is granted.(3)The amount
aforesaid shall be paid in favour of the Regional Transport Officer,
authorised by the State Transport Authority, Tamil Nadu, Madras-5, by means of
a crossed demand draft.(4)No refund of tax paid shall be made under any
circumstances.(5)No separate tax need be payable in respect of a motor vehicle
which replaces the existing motor vehicle during the course the financial
year.(6)The bilateral tax of Rs. 1,500 for the year ending 31st March 1994
shall be paid within thirty days from the date of publication of this
notification.[G. O. Ms. No. 655, Home (Transport-1), dated the 14th May 1993,
No. II (2)/ H0/2608/93JIn exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)
of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu
Act 13 of 1974) the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes reduction in rate of
Tax payable in respect of Motor Vehicles registered temporarily under section
43 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1985 and specified in column (1) of the Table
below at rates specified in column (2) thereofTable

Class of Motor Vehicle | Reduced rate of Taxes  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 |  Motor Vehicles specified under class (7) of thefirst schedule to the Act. | 1/2 of Annual rate of tax.  
2 |  Motor Vehicles specified in item (A) of theSecond Schedule to the said Act. | 2 percent of the Life Time Tax  
  
(2)The Tax so collected shall not be refundable nor shall it be adjustable in
case of the vehicle being subsequently registered permanently in this
State.Reduction in the Rate of Tax Under Paragraph II In Class 2 of the first
Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 724, Home
(Transport I), 28th May 1993]No. II (2)/HO/2594 (f)/93. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by clause (1) section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the
Home Department Notification No. II(2)/HO/4331/91 published at page 524 of
Part II-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 14th August
1991, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes with effect on and from the 1st
April 1993 reduction in rate of the tax payable : -(i)in respect of motor
vehicle permitted to ply solely as contract carriages excluding the contract
carriages belonging to the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation Limited
and India Tourism Development Corporation Limited and to carry more than five
person (other than the driver) from Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) per
seat per quarter to Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) per seat per quarter;
and(ii)in respect of contract carriages which are classified as "tourist
vehicle" excluding the tourist vehicles belonging to the Tamil Nadu Tourism
Development Corporation Limited and All India Tourism Development Corporation
Limited from Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) per seat per quarter to Rs.
500 (Rupees five hundred only) per seat per quarter.Modification Regarding
Payment of Tax in Respect of Certain Stage Carriage Used or Kept for use in
Tamil Nadu by Extending the Period[G.O. Ms. No. 1209, Home (Transport-I),
dated the 8th August, 1995]No. II(2)/HO/3094/95. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (1) section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes
with effect on and from the 25th October 1984 modification in regard to the
tax payable in respect of stage carriages used or kept for use in the State of
Tamil Nadu by extending the period within which tax is to be paid upto and
inclusive of the date specified in column (2) of the schedule below, for the
quarter/half year specified in the corresponding entry in column (1) thereof
:-

## Schedule 3

Quarter/Half year | Date  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 |  Quarter/Half year commencing from the 1stOctober 1984 | 30th November 1994  
2 | Quarter commencing from the 1st April 1986. | 15th May 1986.  
3 | Quarter commencing from the 1st July 1986. | 15th August 1986.  
4 |  Quarter/Half year commencing from the 1stOctober 1986 | 15th November 1986  
  
Reduction of tax on multi Axle vehicles under National Permit payable under
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act.Appointment of Certain Officers to
Exercise the Powers and Perform the Functions of the Licensing Offices Under
Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 912, Home (Transport-I),
dated the 29th June 1999]No. II(2)/HQ/990/99. - Under clause (3) of section 2
of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of
1974), and in supersession of the Home Department Notification No.
II(2)/HO/4258/79, dated the 30th June 1979, published at page 385 in part II-
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 18th July 1979, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby appoints the officers specified in column (1) of
the Table below, to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the
Licensing Officer under the said Act in respect of the classes of motor
vehicles specified in column (2) thereof in their respective
jurisdiction.Exemption from Payment of Tax Payable in Respect of Motor
Vehicles Belonging to Recognised Educational Institution of Southern States
for Certain Period[G.O. Ms. No. 1226, Home (Transport-I), dated the 8th
September 1999]No. II(2)/HO/1185/99. - In exercise of the powers conferred by
clause (1) of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes exemption
in regard to the tax payable in respect of motor vehicles belonging to the
recognised educational Institutions of Southern States, for plying in the
State of Tamil Nadu for a period not exceeding seven days, for the exclusive
purpose of educational tour of the educational institution concerned on
reciprocal basis, subject to the condition that the students, teachers and
staff should carry, while travelling identification cards issued by the
educational institution concerned.Payment of Proportionate Tax in Respect of
the Existing Vehicles at the Time of Replacement by another Vehicle[G.O. Ms.
No. 1255, Home (Transport I), dated the 16th September 1999]No.
II(2)/HO/1186/99. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) section
20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of
1974), and in supersession of the Home Department Notification No. II(2)/
HO/2221/77, dated the 18th April 1977, published at page 261 of Part II-
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated the 11th May 1977, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes Modifies in regard to the tax payable by a
person, to the effect that where replacement of existing vehicle by another
vehicle is proposed during the second month of the quarter, the tax payable in
respect of the existing vehicle shall be the proportionate tax of one third of
the quarterly rate, and where replacement of existing vehicle by another
vehicle is proposed during the third months of a quarter, the tax payable in
respect of the existing vehicle, shall be the proportionate tax of two-third
of the quarterly rate.Modification of Tax Payable by Public Carrier Goods
Vehicles Having National Permits Under Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act[G.O. Ms. No. 1695, Home (Transport-III), dated the 24th December 1999]No.
II (2)/HO/308(m-a)/2000. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1)
of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu
Act 13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home Department Notifications No.
II(2)/ HO/5142(h)/93, dated the 5th November, 1993, published at page I of
Part II-section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
11th March 1994, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby modifies the tax payable
under the said Act in respect of a goods carriage registered in a State other
than the State of Tamil Nadu under a national permit granted in pursuance of
sub-section (12) of section 88 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59
of 1988) by the appropriate authority of the other State and Union Territory
as Rs. 3,000 (Rupees Three thousand only), respectively per annum, per
vehicle, irrespective of the laden weight of the vehicle.(i)Provided that if
any other State or Union Territory, as the case may be, levies composite tax
at a higher rate in respect of a goods carriage registered in the State of
Tamil Nadu and authorised to ply in any such other State or Union Territory,
as the case may be under a national permit, the tax payable under the said Act
in respect of a goods carriage registered in such State or Union Territory, as
the case may be and authorised to ply in the State of Tamil Nadu under a
national permit shall be at such higher rate.(ii)The composite tax shall be
paid on the annual basis in one lump sum at the time of applying for national
permit.(iii)Both the validity period of authorisation as specified in sub-rule
3 of rule 87 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 and the validity period
of the composite tax should be concurrent.(iv)Option for subsequent period of
authorisation not exceeding one year at a time, shall be exercised prior to
fifteen days of the expiry of the existing authorisation along with the
composite tax due to the States authorised. Where any composite tax remains
unpaid on or before 15 (fifteen) days prior to the commencement of the
subsequent authorisation period, an additional tax of Rs. 100 (Rupees one
hundred only) per month or part thereof for each State shall be paid in
addition to the above said composite tax. The period of payment of additional
tax shall be reckoned from the date prior to fifteen days of expiry of
existing authorisation.(v)The option exercisable by a national Permit holder
either for inclusion of any New States or deletion of already authorised
States in the authorisation shall be made fifteen days prior to the expiry of
the existing annual period of authorisation and the annual period of composite
tax payment. Failure to do so will entitle inclusion of any new state or
deletion of already authorised State in the authorisation.(vi)In case, there
is a difference in the rates of composite tax paid by the National Permit
holder and the tax actually payable for any particular State, no fine shall be
levied on him.(vii)The Composite tax shall be payable so long as the
authorisation is valid.(viii)The composite tax once paid is not refundable
under any circumstances.NotificationsIncreasing the Rate of Tax in Respect of
Certain Classes of Vehicles Under the Said Act[G.O. Ms. No. 1184, Home
(Transport-I), dated the 30th November 2001]Notification INo.
II(2)/HO/892(f-2)/2001. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section
(2) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil
Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby increases the rate of
tax in respect of certain classes of vehicles specified in the First Schedule
to the said Act, as specified in the Table below : -

### 2\. This Notification shall come into force on the 1st December 2001.

Table

Serial | Class of Vehicle Number |  Existing rate of quarterly tax as per theschedule | Revised rate of quarterly tax  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
| 1\. Goods carriage. - |  |   
1 |  (a) Goods carriage hot exceeding 3,000 Kgs. inweight laden | 545.00 | 600.00  
2 |  (b) Goods carriage exceeding 3,000 Kgs. but notexceeding 5,500 Kgs. in weight laden | 885.00 | 950.00  
3 |  (c) Goods carriage exceeding 5,500 Kgs. but notexceeding 9,000 Kgs. in weight laden | 1355.00 | 1,500,00  
4 |  (d) Goods carriage exceeding 9,000 Kgs. but notexceeding 12,000 Kgs. in weight laden | 1775.00 | 1930.00  
5 |  (e) Goods carriage exceeding 12,000 Kgs. but notexceeding 13,000 Kgs. in weight laden | 1900.00 | 2100.00  
6 |  (f) Goods carriage exceeding 13,000 Kgs. but notexceeding 15,000 Kgs. in weight laden | 2300.00 | 2500.00  
7 |  (g) Goods carriage exceeding 15,000 Kgs. inweight laden |  2,300.00 (plus Rs. 50 per every 250 Kgs. andpart thereof in excess of 15,000 Kgs. in weight laden.) |  2,500.00 (Plus Rs. 400 per every 1,000 Kgs. andpart thereof in excess of 15,000 Kgs.in weight laden.)  
5A. |  Motor Vehicles Plying for hire and used for thetransport of passengers and in respect of which permits have beenissued under the Motor Vehicles Act (Central Act 59 of 1988) tocarry in all - |  |   
|  (b) More than four persons but not more than sixpersons including the driver - |  |   
8 |  (i) in respect of which tourist motor-cab permithas been issued | 1,000 (Annual Tax) (Rs. 5,000 for five years.) | 1,300 (Annual Tax) (Rs. 6,500 for five years.)  
9 |  (ii) in other cases (ordinary motor-cab meteredtaxi) | 500 | 800  
| (Annual Tax) (Rs. 3.500 for five years.) | (Annual Tax) (Rs. 4,000 for five years.) |   
2 |  Motor vehicles plying for hire and used for thetransport of passengers and in respect of which permits have beenissued under the Motor Vehicles Act. |  |   
10 |  I. Vehicles permitted to carry in all - (d) Morethan six persons but not more than thirteen persons including thedriver in respect of which tourist motor-cab or tourist maxi-cabpermit has been issued for every person other than the driver. | 175 | 250  
II. |  Vehicles permitted to ply solely as contractcarriage and to carry more than five persons (other than driver)- |  |   
11 |  For every person (other than the driver) whichthe vehicle is permitted to carry whether the contract carriageis classed as "Tourist Vehicle" or not. | 2000 | 3000  
|  8\. Motor vehicles, other than liable to taxunder the foregoing provisions of this schedule weighing morethan 3,000 kgs. unladen and covered by private transport vehiclepermit and those in respect of which private service vehiclepermit is required under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (CentralAct 59 of 1988)- |  |   
12 |  (b) in other cases-For every person (other thanthe driver which the vehicle is permitted to carry) | 75 | 100  
  
Increasing the Rate of Tax Payable in Respect of Certain Motor Vehicles Under
The Said Act[G.O. Ms. No. 1184, Home (Transport-1), dated the 30th November
2001]Notification IINo. II(2)/HO/892 (f-3)/2001. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (2) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby
increases the rate of tax mentioned in column (2) of the Table below payable
in respect of motor vehicles whether or not drawing a trailer or side car, at
the time of first registration, specified in item (A) of the Second Schedule
to the said Act, as specified in column (3) to the Table.

### 2\. This Notification shall come into force on the 1st December 2001.

Table

SI. No. | Classes of vehicle | Rate of tax as per Second schedule | Revised rate of tax  
---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  
|  | Rs. | Rs.  
1 |  Motor Cycles exceeding 50 c.c. but not exceeding75 c.c. | 1310 | 1350  
2 |  Motor Cycles exceeding 75 c.c. but not exceeding170 c.c. | 1950 | 2000  
3 | Motor Cycles exceeding 170 c.c. | 2340 | 2500  
  
Exemption of Tax Payable in Respect of Non-Transport Motor Vehicles Used by
the Disabled Soldiers and Officers of Defence Service for Certain Conditions
Under Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No. 162, Home (Transport I), dated
the 26th February 2002]No. II(2)/HO/837(d)/2002. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Act
13 of 1974) the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby exempts to the tax payable under
the said Act in respect of a non-transport (personal) motor vehicles owned and
used by the disabled soldiers and officers of defence service with effect on
and from 26-2-2002 subject to the following conditions, namely :-(i)The tax
exemption is applicable to one Vehicle only if the individual possess two or
more such vehicles.(ii)The tax exemption is not allowed to transport vehicles
like Omini bus, maxi cab, motor cab and auto rickshaw.(iv)The tax exemption is
allowed as long as the Vehicle is owned by the individual or till/life time,
whichever is earlier and it is not allowed to the legal-heirs of such
individuals.(v)Necessary entry in the disability certificate of the soldiers
or officers of the Defence Services shall be made by the appropriate
authority.Reduction of Tax Payable by the Operators of Mini Buses Plying in
the Unserved Rural Areas of all Districts Except the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Area Under Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act[G.O. Ms. No.
279, Home (Training III), dated the 28th March 2002]No. II(2)/HO/313(d)/2002.
- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes reduction in the rate of tax payable by
the operators of Mini Buses plying in the unserved rural areas of all the
districts except the Chennai Metropolitan Development Area from Rs. 360
(Rupees three hundred and sixty only) per seat per quarter to Rs. 250 (Rupees
two hundred and fifty only) per seat per quarter for the period commencing on
and from the 1st April 2002.Reduction in rate of Tax Payable in Respect of
Motor Vehicles Registered Temporarily Under Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act[G.O. Ms. No. 969, Home (Transport-I), dated the 16th October 2002]No.
H(2)/HO/958/2002. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of
section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act
13 of 1974), and in supersession of the Home Department Notification No.
II/(2)/HO/2609/93 at page 552 in Part II - section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, dated the 2nd June 1993, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby
makes reduction in the rate of the tax payable in respect of the motor
vehicles registered temporarily under section 43 of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) and specified in Column (1) of the Table below,
at the rates specified in column (2) thereof : -Table

Class of Motor Vehicles | Reduced rate of Tax  
---|---  
1 | 2  
1 |  Motor Vehicles specified in Part I of the ThirdSchedule to the said Act. | 2% of the Life time tax.  
2 |  Motor Cycles specified in item (A) of theSecond Schedule to the said Act. | 2% of the Life time tax  
  
### 2\. The tax so collected shall not be refundable nor shall it be
adjustable in case of the vehicle being subsequently registered permanently in
this State.

### 3\. The notification hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force
on the 2nd January 2001.

Exemption of tax Payable in Respect of Twenty Contract Carriages Belonging to
State Tourists Development Corporations of the Southern States Covered by
Permits Granted on Reciprocal Basis Under Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation
Act[G.O. Ms. No. 1200, Home (TR VI), dated the 12th December 2002]No.
H(2)/HO/28/2003. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of
section 20 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act
13 of 1974), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby exempts from payment of tax
payable under the said Act in respect of 20 (twenty) contract carriages
belonging to each of the State Tourist Development Corporations registered in
the States of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa and the
Union Territory of Pondicherry plying in the state of Tamil Nadu and covered
by permits granted under section 74 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central
Act 59 of 1988) subject to the condition that the above said States shall give
similar exemption from payment of tax in respect of the 20 (twenty) contract
carriages belonging to the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation Limited,
registered in the State of Tamil Nadu and covered by permits granted under the
said section 74 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) to
operate the said vehicles in the above said States.Provided that such
exemption shall not be in respect of those vehicle plying, picking up and
setting down passengers in the State of Tamil Nadu.Contiguous Areas of the
City of Chennai as Comprising the Chennai Metropolitan Area[G.O. Ms. No. 1067,
Home (Transport I), dated the 6th November 2006]No. II(2)/HO/547(b)/2006. -
Under clause (4) of section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act,
1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974) and in supersession of the Home Department
Notification No. 11(2)1 HO/1835(h)/96, published at pages 1-12 in Part II -
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 2nd
September 1996, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby specifies in the Schedule
appended to this Notification, the contiguous areas of the City of Chennai as
comprising the Chennai Metropolitan area :-

District Name | Taluk Name | Firka Name | SI. No. | Running No. | Village No. | Village Name  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
Kancheepuram | Tambaram | Alandur | 1 | 1 | 2 | Polichalur  
|  |  | 2 | 2 | 23 | Pamtnal  
|  |  | 3 | 3 | 35 | Hasthiriapuram  
|  |  | 4 | 4 | 21 | Pallavaram  
|  |  | 5 | 5 | 4 | Pallavaram Cantonment  
|  |  | 6 | 6 | 22 | Issa Pallavaram  
|  |  | 7 | 7 | 18 | Thirusoodam  
|  |  | 8 | 8 | 14 | Thalakkananjeri  
|  |  | 9 | 9 | 13 | Ullagaram  
|  |  | 10 | 10 | 16 | Moovarasampattu  
|  |  | 11 | 11 | 17 | Madipakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 12 | 19 | Nanmangalam  
|  |  | 13 | 13 | 20 | Nemilicheri  
|  |  | 14 | 14 | 18 | Koilambakam  
|  |  | 15 | 15 | 24 | Thiruneermalai  
Kancheepuram | Tambaram | Tambaram | 1 | 16 | 28 | Perungalathur  
|  |  | 2 | 17 | 29 | Mudichur  
|  |  | 3 | 18 | 31 | Erumbuliyur  
|  |  | 4 | 19 | 30 | Peerkankaranai  
|  |  | 5 | 20 | 27 | Tambaram  
|  |  | 6 | 21 | 26 | Kadapperi  
|  |  | 7 | 22 | 25 | Pulikoradu  
|  |  | 8 | 23 | 34 | Sittlapakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 24 | 33 | Selaiyur  
|  |  | 10 | 25 | 36 | Sembakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 26 | 37 | Rajakilpakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 27 | 38 | Gowriwakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 28 | 39 | Vengavassal  
|  |  | 14 | 29 | 54 | Madambakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 30 | 32 | Thiruvanjeri  
|  |  | 16 | 31 | 57 | Agaranthen  
|  |  | 17 | 32 | 56 | Vengapakkam  
|  |  | 18 | 33 | 55 | Kasapapuram  
Kancheepuram | Tambaram | Pallikaranai | 1 | 34 | 44 | Kotivakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 35 | 45 | Palavakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 36 | 47 | Neelankarai  
|  |  | 4 | 37 | 49 | Enjambakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 38 | 50 | Karapakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 39 | 48 | Okkiamthurappakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 40 | 43 | Perunkudi  
|  |  | 8 | 41 | 46 | Seevaram  
|  |  | 9 | 42 | 42 | Pallikaranai  
|  |  | 10 | 43 | 40 | Medavakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 44 | 41 | Jalladampettai  
|  |  | 12 | 45 | 52 | Perumbakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 46 | 53 | Sittalappakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 47 | 58 | Koilanjeri  
|  |  | 15 | 48 | 59 | Madurapakkam  
|  |  | 16 | 49 | 60 | Molacheri  
|  |  | 17 | 50 | 61 | Ottiambakkam  
|  |  | 18 | 51 | 62 | Arangalani  
|  |  | 19 | 52 | 63 | Semmanjeri  
|  |  | 20 | 53 | 51 | Sholinganallur  
|  |  | 21 | 54 | 64 | Uthandi  
Kancheepuram | Tambaram | Alandur | 1 | 55 | 6 | Nandampakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 56 | 7 | St. Thomas Moount  
|  |  | 3 | 57 | 8 | Alandur  
|  |  | 4 | 58 | 9 | Pamthivakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 59 | 10 | Adambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 60 | 11 | Palavanthangal  
|  |  | 7 | 61 | 12 | Nanganallur  
|  |  | 8 | 62 | 5 | Meenambakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 63 | 3 | Cowl Bazzar  
|  |  | 10 | 64 | 1 | Anakaputhur  
Kancheepuram | Kancheepuram | Tnenneri | 1 | 1 | 158 | Kunnavakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 2 | 165 | Venbakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 3 | 157 | Thiruvengaranai  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-perum-budur | Mangadu | 1 | 4 | 68 | Mangadu  
|  |  | 2 | 5 | 70 | Paraniputhur  
|  |  | 3 | 6 | 69 | Chinnapanicheri  
|  |  | 4 | 7 | 84 | Periapanicheri  
|  |  | 5 | 8 | 72 | Ayyappanthangal  
|  |  | 6 | 9 | 71 | Srinivasapuram  
|  |  | 7 | 10 | 73 | Thelliagaram  
|  |  | 8 | 11 | 75 | Mowlivakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 12 | 76 | Madanandapuram  
|  |  | 10 | 13 | 74 | Kolathuvanjeri  
|  |  | 11 | 14 | 77 | Mugalivakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 15 | 78 | Manappakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 16 | 80 | Gerugambakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 17 | 79 | Kolapakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 18 | 85 | Kovur  
|  |  | 16 | 19 | 87 | Moonrankattalai  
|  |  | 17 | 20 | 86 | Sikkarayapuram  
|  |  | 18 | 21 | 67 | Kolamainvakkam  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-perum-budur | Kunrathur | 1 | 22 | 66 | Malayambakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 23 | 89 | Thirunageswaram  
|  |  | 3 | 24 | 90 | Venkatapuram  
|  |  | 4 | 25 | 65 | Kollacheri  
|  |  | 5 | 26 | 88 | Mananjeri  
|  |  | 6 | 27 | 84 | Rendankattalai  
|  |  | 7 | 28 | 83 | Thandalam  
|  |  | 8 | 29 | 81 | Tharapakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 30 | 91 | Kunnathur  
|  |  | 10 | 31 | 122 | Sirukalathur  
|  |  | 11 | 32 | 64 | Kavanur  
|  |  | 12 | 33 | 61 | Nandambakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 34 | 97 | Poonthandalam  
|  |  | 14 | 35 | 59 | Amadurmedu  
|  |  | 15 | 36 | 98 | Nallur  
|  |  | 16 | 37 | 93 | Palanthandalam  
|  |  | 17 | 38 | 94 | Erumaiyur  
|  |  | 18 | 39 | 92 | Thirumudivakkam  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-perumbudur | Thandalam | 1 | 40 | 49 | Sengadu  
|  |  | 2 | 41 | 48 | Kandamangalam  
|  |  | 3 | 42 | 50 | Mannur  
|  |  | 4 | 43 | 51 | Nemili  
|  |  | 5 | 44 | 57 | Irungattukkottai  
|  |  | 6 | 45 | 56 | Katrambakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 46 | 60 | Puduppair  
|  |  | 8 | 47 | 62 | Tharavur  
|  |  | 9 | 48 | 55 | Thandalam  
|  |  | 10 | 49 | 54 | Mevalurkuppam  
|  |  | 11 | 50 | 53 | Valarpuram  
|  |  | 12 | 51 | 52 | Kondavakkam  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-Perumbudur | Thiru Perumbudur | 1 | 52 | 117 | Gunduperumbedu  
|  |  | 2 | 53 | 139 | Nallamperumbedu  
|  |  | 3 | 54 | 115 | Maganyam  
|  |  | 4 | 55 | 140 | Alagur  
|  |  | 5 | 56 | 104 | Navalur  
|  |  | 6 | 57 | 116 | Vellari  
|  |  | 7 | 58 | 103 | Pillaippakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 59 | 118 | Oddankaranai  
|  |  | 9 | 60 | 104 | Kolathur  
|  |  | 10 | 61 | 102 | Vengadu  
|  |  | 11 | 62 | 101 | Irumbedu  
|  |  | 12 | 63 | 58 | Pennalur  
|  |  | 13 | 64 | 42 | Thiruperumpudur  
|  |  | 14 | 65 | 43 | Vadamangalam  
|  |  | 15 | 66 | 44 | Padicheri  
|  |  | 16 | 67 | 47 | Ayakolathur  
|  |  | 17 | 68 | 45 | Sirukiloy  
|  |  | 18 | 69 | 46 | Kiloy  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-perumbudur | Vallam | 1 | 70 | 39 | Mambakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 71 | 40 | Pondur  
|  |  | 3 | 72 | 41 | Irungulam  
|  |  | 4 | 73 | 120 | Araneri  
|  |  | 5 | 74 | 119 | kaduyanjeri  
|  |  | 6 | 75 | 63 | Sirukalathur  
|  |  | 7 | 76 | 121 | Vadagal  
|  |  | 8 | 77 | 123 | Valathanjeri  
|  |  | 9 | 78 | 124 | Vallam  
|  |  | 10 | 79 | 136 | Vaipur  
|  |  | 11 | 80 | 137 | Perinjiambakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 81 | 135 | Mathur  
|  |  | 13 | 82 | 126 | mettupalayam  
|  |  | 14 | 83 | 127 | Panruti  
Kancheepuram | Thiru-perumbudur | Sanguvar-Sathiram | 1 | 84 | 34 | Santahavelur  
|  |  | 2 | 85 | 37 | Sirumangadu  
|  |  | 3 | 86 | 33 | Molasur  
|  |  | 4 | 87 | 32 | Sogandi  
|  |  | 5 | 88 | 38 | Thirumangalam  
|  |  | 6 | 89 | 36 | Echur  
|  |  | 7 | 90 | 125 | Budanur  
|  |  | 8 | 91 | 35 | Kunnam  
Kancheepuram | Thiru perumbu-dur | Madura Mangalam | 1 | 92 | 23 Kandur |   
|  |  | 2 | 93 | 31 | Nandimedu  
Kancheepuram | Thiru perumbu-dur | Padappai | 1 | 94 | 95 | Naduveerapattu  
|  |  | 2 | 95 | 99 | Somangalam  
|  |  | 3 | 96 | 100 | Karunagaracheri  
|  |  | 4 | 97 | 96 | Puducheri  
|  |  | 5 | 98 | 111 | Varadajapuram  
|  |  | 6 | 99 | 108 | Manimangalam  
|  |  | 7 | 100 | 110 | Karasangal  
|  |  | 8 | 101 | 109 | Thundalkalani  
|  |  | 9 | 102 | 106 | Malaippattu  
|  |  | 10 | 103 | 107 | Sethupattu  
|  |  | 11 | 104 | 113 | Padappai  
|  |  | 12 | 105 | 143 | Athananjeri  
|  |  | 13 | 106 | 142 | Salamangalam  
|  |  | 14 | 107 | 141 | Narlambakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 108 | 114 Sirumathur |   
Kancheepuram | Thiru perumbu-dur | Serapananjeri | 1 | 109 | 129 | Elichur  
|  |  | 2 | 110 | 128 | Panayur  
|  |  | 3 | 111 | 131 | Vadakkuppattu  
|  |  | 4 | 112 | 132 | Badarvadi  
|  |  | 5 | 113 | 130 | Poondi  
|  |  | 6 | 114 | 134 | Oragadam  
|  |  | 7 | 115 | 133 | Sennakuppam  
|  |  | 8 | 116 | 155 | Valayakkaranai  
|  |  | 9 | 117 | 154 | Umayalparancheri  
|  |  | 10 | 18 | 152 | Vattambakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 119 | 156 | Nattarasampattu  
|  |  | 12 | 120 | 157 | Siruvanjur  
|  |  | 13 | 121 | 167 | Kavanur  
|  |  | 14 | 122 | 160 | Erivakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 123 | 159 | Kattuppakkam  
|  |  | 16 | 124 | 158 | Vadamelpakkam  
|  |  | 17 | 125 | 165 | Nellamangalam  
|  |  | 18 | 126 | 164 | Korukkarithangal  
|  |  | 19 | 127 | 166 | Keelakkalani  
|  |  | 20 | 128 | 112 | Adanur  
|  |  | 21 | 129 | 169 | Madambakkam  
|  |  | 22 | 130 | 168 | Kuthanur  
|  |  | 23 | 131 | 162 | Arambakkam  
|  |  | 24 | 132 | 163 | Ammanambakkam  
|  |  | 25 | 133 | 161 | Orathur  
|  |  | 26 | 134 | 153 | Kanchivakkam  
|  |  | 27 | 135 | 151 | Navalur  
|  |  | 28 | 136 | 149 | Serapananjeri  
|  |  | 29 | 137 | 148 | Panappakkam  
|  |  | 30 | 138 | 144 | Vanjuvanjeri  
|  |  | 31 | 139 | 150 | Vellerithangal  
|  |  | 32 | 140 | 147 | Karanilhangal  
|  |  | 33 | 141 | 146 | Thiruvamputheri  
|  |  | 34 | 142 | 138 | Koolangancheri  
|  |  | 35 | 143 | 145 | Kavalkalani  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Manamathi | 1 | 144 | 176 | Manamathi  
|  |  | 2 | 145 | 177 | Agaram  
|  |  | 3 | 146 | 184 | Amur  
|  |  | 4 | 147 | 186 | Adigamanallur  
|  |  | 5 | 148 | 185 | Porundavakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 149 | 183 | Panchanhiruthi  
|  |  | 7 | 150 | 167 | Pundi  
|  |  | 8 | 151 | 168 | Rayamangalam  
|  |  | 9 | 152 | 192 | Paiyanur  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Thiruporur | 1 | 153 | 105 | Thirpporur  
|  |  | 2 | 154 | 106 | Salavakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 155 | 104 | Kannagapaitu  
|  |  | 4 | 156 | 102 | Illalur  
|  |  | 5 | 157 | 103 | Sengadu  
|  |  | 6 | 158 | 109 | Thandalam  
|  |  | 7 | 159 | 110 | Edayankuppam  
|  |  | 8 | 160 | 115 | Kattur  
|  |  | 9 | 161 | 101 | Vembedu  
|  |  | 10 | 162 | 114 | Sembakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 163 | 111 | Madayathur  
|  |  | 12 | 164 | 112 | Chettipatturama yankuppam  
|  |  | 13 | 165 | 187 | Sirudavur  
|  |  | 14 | 166 | 188 | Alathur  
|  |  | 15 | 167 | 191 | Karungulipallam  
|  |  | 16 | 168 | 189 | Vengaleri  
|  |  | 17 | 169 | 46 | Thaiyur  
|  |  | 18 | 170 | 47 | Kayar  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Karumbakkam | 1 | 171 | 163 | Valarkundram  
|  |  | 2 | 172 | 125 | Reddikuppam  
|  |  | 3 | 173 | 164 | Mullipakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 174 | 123 | Puiluppai  
|  |  | 5 | 175 | 122 | Karumbakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 176 | 165 | Rayalpattu  
|  |  | 7 | 177 | 121 | Viralpakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 178 | 119 | Vengur  
|  |  | 9 | 179 | 93 | Perunthandalam  
|  |  | 10 | 180 | 94 | Hanumanthapuram  
|  |  | 11 | 181 | 95 | Dasirikuppam  
|  |  | 12 | 182 | 96 | Sirukundram  
|  |  | 13 | 183 | 97 | Mauderi  
|  |  | 14 | 184 | 118 | Melur  
|  |  | 15 | 185 | 116 | Kilur  
|  |  | 16 | 186 | 120 | Mailai  
|  |  | 17 | 187 | 117 | Kottamedu  
|  |  | 18 | 188 | 166 | Edakundram  
|  |  | 19 | 189 | 100 | Nellikuppam  
|  |  | 20 | 190 | 98 | Kondangi  
|  |  | 21 | 191 | 99 | Agaram  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Kelam-bakkam | 1 | 192 | 33 | Navalur  
|  |  | 2 | 193 | 34 | Egattur  
|  |  | 3 | 194 | 36 | Kuttukkadu  
|  |  | 4 | 195 | 37 | Kalipattur  
|  |  | 5 | 196 | 42 | Kelambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 197 | 43 | Padur  
|  |  | 7 | 198 | 44 | Kovalam  
|  |  | 8 | 199 | 45 | Thiruvidanthai  
|  |  | 9 | 200 | 35 | Kanathur Reddikup-pam  
|  |  | 10 | 201 | 107 | Nemmeli  
|  |  | 11 | 202 | 108 | Krishnakaranai  
|  |  | 12 | 203 | 190 | Pattipulam  
|  |  | 13 | 204 | 193 | Saluvankuppam  
|  |  | 14 | 205 | 31 | Thalambur  
|  |  | 15 | 206 | 32 | Karani  
|  |  | 16 | 207 | 27 | Kilakottur  
|  |  | 17 | 208 | 24 | Melakottur  
|  |  | 18 | 209 | 29 | Mambakkam  
|  |  | 19 | 210 | 26 | Kolathur  
|  |  | 20 | 211 | 28 | Ponmar  
|  |  | 21 | 212 | 30 | Polacheri  
|  |  | 22 | 213 | 38 | Siruseri  
|  |  | 23 | 214 | 39 | Sonallur  
|  |  | 24 | 215 | 40 | Velichai  
|  |  | 25 | 216 | 41 | Pudupakkam  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Chengalpattu | 1 | 217 | 126 | Senneri  
|  |  | 2 | 218 | 91 | Anjur  
|  |  | 3 | 219 | 135 | Virapuram  
|  |  | 4 | 220 | 92 | Itchankaranai  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Palur | 1 | 221 | 63 | Vembakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 222 | 64 | Guruvanmedu  
|  |  | 3 | 223 | 73 | Kolathur  
|  |  | 4 | 224 | 62 | Dasirkunnathur  
|  |  | 5 | 225 | 61 | Appur  
|  |  | 6 | 226 | 58 | Thalimangalam  
|  |  | 7 | 227 | 59 | Perumalthangal  
|  |  | 8 | 228 | 60 | Senthamangalam  
|  |  | 9 | 229 | 71 | Chettipunyam  
|  |  | 10 | 230 | 72 | Venkatapuram  
|  |  | 11 | 231 | 69 | Sastramlambakkam  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Kattan kolathur | 1 | 232 | 50 | Kayarambedu  
|  |  | 2 | 233 | 79 | Gudalur  
|  |  | 3 | 234 | 54 | Potheri  
|  |  | 4 | 235 | 53 | Konathi  
|  |  | 5 | 236 | 52 | Thailavaram  
|  |  | 6 | 237 | 51 | Vallancheri  
|  |  | 7 | 238 | 56 | Kattankolathur  
|  |  | 8 | 239 | 55 | Ninnakkarai  
|  |  | 9 | 240 | 80 | Kadambur  
|  |  | 10 | 241 | 49 | Kalivanthapattu  
|  |  | 11 | 242 | 81 | Karumbur  
|  |  | 12 | 243 | 82 | Karunilam  
|  |  | 13 | 244 | 84 | Singaperumalkoil  
|  |  | 14 | 245 | 85 | Vinjiambakkara  
|  |  | 15 | 246 | 86 | Thirutheri  
|  |  | 16 | 247 | 87 | Pareri  
|  |  | 17 | 248 | 88 | Thenmelpakkam  
|  |  | 18 | 249 | 89 | Kachad imangalam  
|  |  | 19 | 250 | 90 | Kondamangalam  
|  |  | 20 | 251 | 83 | Sengundram  
|  |  | 21 | 252 | 78 | Chithamannur  
|  |  | 22 | 253 | 74 | Thirukatchur  
|  |  | 23 | 254 | 77 | Kilakkaranai  
|  |  | 24 | 255 | 75 | Panagottur  
|  |  | 25 | 256 | 76 | eramanur  
|  |  | 26 | 257 | 57 | Settamangalam  
Kancheepuram | Chengalpattu | Guduvancheri | 1 | 258 | 1 | Mannivakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 259 | 2 | Vandalur  
|  |  | 3 | 260 | 4 | Urapakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 261 | 8 | Ayyancheri  
|  |  | 5 | 262 | 3 | Kilambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 263 | 9 | Nedugundram  
|  |  | 7 | 264 | 10 | Puthur  
|  |  | 8 | 265 | 12 | Unamancheri  
|  |  | 9 | 266 | 11 | Kolapakkam  
|  |  | 10 | 267 | 21 | Nallambakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 268 | 23 | Vengadamangalam  
|  |  | 12 | 269 | 22 | Ralhnamangalam  
|  |  | 13 | 270 | 20 | Kirapakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 271 | 25 | Murugamangalam  
|  |  | 15 | 272 | 5 | Guduvamcheri  
|  |  | 16 | 273 | 6 | Nandivaram  
|  |  | 17 | 274 | 7 | Karanipuducheri  
|  |  | 18 | 275 | 13 | Arungal  
|  |  | 19 | 276 | 15 | Kannivakkam  
|  |  | 20 | 277 | 16 | Pandur  
|  |  | 21 | 278 | 19 | Kumili  
|  |  | 22 | 279 | 14 | Perumattunallur  
|  |  | 23 | 280 | 48 | Kalvoy  
|  |  | 24 | 281 | 17 | Hasthinapuram  
|  |  | 25 | 282 | 18 | Ottivakkam  
Thiruvallur | Uthukkottai | Uthukkottai | 1 | 1 | 68 | Ellapuram  
|  |  | 2 | 2 | 67 | Sitharipakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 3 | 41 | Senjiagaram  
|  |  | 4 | 4 | 60 | Thandalam  
|  |  | 5 | 5 | 49 | Parthumanikuppam  
|  |  | 6 | 6 | 55 | Sirunai  
|  |  | 7 | 7 | 58 | Kilakaramannur  
|  |  | 8 | 8 | 59 | Thoodareddikuppam  
|  |  | 9 | 9 | 64 | Ellapuram  
Thiruvallur | Uthukkottai | Periya-palayam | 1 | 10 | 66 | Periyapalayam  
|  |  | 2 | 11 | 68 | Moongilpattu  
|  |  | 3 | 12 | 82 | Panappakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 13 | 65 | Rallapadi  
|  |  | 5 | 14 | 87 | Akkarapakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 15 | 88 | Thirunilai  
|  |  | 7 | 16 | 86 | Maduravasal  
|  |  | 8 | 17 | 85 | Panayanjeri  
|  |  | 9 | 18 | 83 | Velapakkam  
|  |  | 10 | 19 | 84 | Seeyanjeri  
|  |  | 11 | 20 | 69 | Vadamadurai (A, B & C Block)  
|  |  | 12 | 21 | 46 | Enambakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 22 | 47 | Melmaligaipattu  
Thiruvallur | Uthukkottai | Kanni-gaipair | 1 | 23 | 90 | Kannigaipair(S)  
|  |  | 2 | 24 | 90 | Kannigaipair(W)  
|  |  | 3 | 25 | 92 | Manjakaranai  
|  |  | 4 | 26 | 91 | Kurambakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 27 | 93 | Kottakuppam  
|  |  | 6 | 28 | 89 | Amidanallur  
|  |  | 7 | 29 | 79 | Neyveli  
|  |  | 8 | 30 | 94 | Annadanakakavakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 31 | 78 | Thirukandalam  
|  |  | 10 | 32 | 95 | Madavilagam  
|  |  | 11 | 33 | 77 | Pusivakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 34 | 75 | Alinijivakkam  
|  |  | 13 | 35 | 76 | Perumudivakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 36 | 80 | Alapakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 37 | 74 | Athivakkam  
|  |  | 16 | 38 | 73 | Athangikavanoor  
|  |  | 17 | 39 | 72 | Pagalmedu  
|  |  | 18 | 40 | 70 | Mamballam .  
Thiruvallur | Uthukkottai | Velakapuram | 14 | 41 | 28 | Velakapuram  
|  |  | 2 | 42 | 34 | Peruttivakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 43 | 38 | Vadathillai  
|  |  | 4 | 44 | 31 | Kalavai  
|  |  | 5 | 45 | 30 | Alapakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 46 | 24 | Meyyur  
|  |  | 7 | 47 | 32 | Edambedu  
|  |  | 8 | 48 | 20 | Vembedu  
|  |  | 9 | 49 | 26 | Gurupuram  
Thiruvallur | Gummudi-poondi | Elavoor | 1 | 50 | 50 | Periyaobulapuram  
|  |  | 2 | 51 | 51 | Elavoor 1 & 2  
|  |  | 3 | 52 | 64 | Athupakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 53 | 67 | Valathulambedu  
|  |  | 5 | 54 | 65 | Melakkalini  
|  |  | 6 | 55 | 63 | Thervaji  
Thiruvallur | Guminudi-poondi | Poovalambedu | 1 | 56 | 16 | Poovalambedu  
|  |  | 2 | 57 | 17 | Sithurnatham  
|  |  | 3 | 58 | 18 | Amirthamangalam  
|  |  | 4 | 59 | 45 | Getanmalee  
|  |  | 5 | 60 | 43 | Kanulur  
|  |  | 6 | 61 | 29 | Thiruvayarkandigai  
|  |  | 7 | 62 | 19 | Chinnapuliyur  
|  |  | 8 | 63 | 33 | Seppedu  
|  |  | 9 | 64 | 32 | Manali  
Thiruvallur | Gummudi-poondi | Gummudi-poondi | 1 | 65 | 74 | Naduvanpallam  
|  |  | 2 | 66 | 79 | Kilmudalambedu 1 & 2  
|  |  | 3 | 67 | 75 | Gummudippondi  
|  |  | 4 | 68 | 48 | Karumbakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 69 | 70 | Chinnasoliyambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 70 | 81 | Melmudalambedu  
|  |  | 7 | 71 | 49 | Pappankuppam  
|  |  | 8 | 72 | 82 | Puduvoyal 1 & 2  
|  |  | 9 | 73 | 44 | Annapanaikenkuppam  
Thiruvallur | Ambathur | Madura-voyal | 1 | 74 | 64 | Ayanambakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 75 | 65 | Koladi  
|  |  | 3 | 76 | 66 | Perumalagaram  
|  |  | 4 | 77 | 71 | Vanagaram  
|  |  | 5 | 78 | 68 | Thundalam  
|  |  | 6 | 79 | 70 | Sivabootham  
|  |  | 7 | 80 | 69 | Chettiaragaram  
|  |  | 8 | 81 | 67 | Noombal  
|  |  | 9 | 82 | 73 | Maduravoyal  
|  |  | 10 | 83 | 72 | Karambakkam  
Thiruvallur | Ambathur | Ambathur | 1 | 84 | 12 | Koilpadagai -1 & 2  
|  |  | 2 | 85 | 62 | Nolambur  
|  |  | 3 | 86 | 63 | Adayalampattu  
|  |  | 4 | 87 | 60 | Mannur  
|  |  | 5 | 88 | 61 | Athipattu  
|  |  | 6 | 89 | 18 | Ambattur  
|  |  | 7 | 90 | 17 | Ayappakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 91 | 16 | Thirumullaivoyal 1 & 2  
|  |  | 9 | 92 | 21 | Oragadam  
|  |  | 10 | 93 | 19 | Patravakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 94 | 20 | Menambedu  
|  |  | 12 | 95 | 56 | Korattur  
|  |  | 13 | 96 | 59 | Mugappair  
|  |  | 14 | 97 | 57 | Kakapallam  
Thiruvallur | Ambathur | Morai | 1 | 98 | 1 | Kilgondaiyar  
|  |  | 2 | 99 | 2 | Alathur  
|  |  | 3 | 100 | 3 | Pandeswaram  
|  |  | 4 | 101 | 4 | Arakkambakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 102 | 5 | Morai - 1 & 2  
|  |  | 6 | 103 | 6 | Melapakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 104 | 7 | Kadavoor  
|  |  | 8 | 105 | 8 | Vellacheri  
|  |  | 9 | 106 | 9 | Palavedu  
|  |  | 10 | 107 | 10 | Mugahtapudupattu  
|  |  | 11 | 108 | 11 | Mitanmallee  
|  |  | 12 | 109 | 13 | Vellanur  
|  |  | 14 | 110 | 15 | Pothur  
|  |  | 15 | 111 | 14 | Pammadugulam  
Thiruvallur | Ambattur | Madavaram | 1 | 112 | 45 | Kathivakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 113 | 46 | Eranavoor  
|  |  | 3 | 114 | 47 | Thirvathiyur  
|  |  | 4 | 115 | 48 | Sathangadu  
|  |  | 5 | 116 | 44 | Sadayankuppam  
|  |  | 6 | 117 | 43 | Kadapakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 18 | 42 | Elnthacheri  
|  |  | 8 | 119 | 41 | Malai Mullaivayal Vaikadu  
|  |  | 9 | 120 | 50 | Madavaram  
|  |  | 10 | 121 | 49 | Chinnasekkadu  
Thiruvallur | Ambattur | Senkun-dram | 1 | 122 | 22 | Senkundraum  
|  |  | 2 | 123 | 53 | Kadervedu  
|  |  | 3 | 124 | 54 | Soorapattu  
|  |  | 4 | 125 | 52 | Pozal  
|  |  | 5 | 126 | 57 | Vilakkuputtu  
|  |  | 6 | 127 | 23 | Naravarikuppam  
|  |  | 7 | 128 | 36 | Thandalkalani  
|  |  | 8 | 129 | 34 | Lyon 1 & 2  
|  |  | 9 | 130 | 37 | Gtantlyn  
|  |  | 10 | 131 | 38 | Vadaperumbakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 132 | 31 | Payasambaakam  
|  |  | 12 | 133 | 30 | Settimedu  
|  |  | 13 | 134 | 33 | Athivakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 135 | 25 | Palavayal  
|  |  | 15 | 136 | 24 | Theerthangarianpattu  
|  |  | 16 | 137 | 32 | Alinijivakkam  
|  |  | 17 | 138 | 35 | Vadakarai  
|  |  | 18 | 139 | 26 | Valankadupakkam  
|  |  | 19 | 140 | 27 | Sirugavoor  
|  |  | 20 | 141 | 28 | Ariyalur  
|  |  | 21 | 142 | 28 | Senarambakkam  
|  |  | 22 | 143 | 28 | Theeyambakkam  
|  |  | 23 | 144 | 40 | Mathur  
|  |  | 24 | 145 | 39 | Manjanbakkam  
|  |  | 25 | 146 | 29 | Kasappur  
|  |  | 26 | 147 | 55 | Puthagaram  
Thiruvallur | Ambattur | Amman-bakkam | 1 | 148 | 33 | Ammanambakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 149 | 42 | Karanai  
|  |  | 3 | 150 | 36 | Guruvayal  
|  |  | 4 | 151 | 39 | Ayalaheri  
|  |  | 5 | 152 | 34 | Agaram  
|  |  | 6 | 153 | 35 | Sethupakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 154 | 44 | Thamaraipakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 155 | 30 | Sembedu  
|  |  | 9 | 156 | 31 | Vengal A-Block  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Poondi | 1 | 157 | 15 | Poondi  
|  |  | 2 | 158 | 14 | Krishnapuram  
|  |  | 3 | 159 | 16 | Kannamapettai  
|  |  | 4 | 160 | 19 | Ramanathandalam  
|  |  | 5 | 161 | 21 | Errayur  
|  |  | 6 | 162 | 20 | Seeyanjeri  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Pandoor | 1 | 163 | 69 | Pandoor  
|  |  | 2 | 164 | 58 | Thirupasoor A- Block  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Kadambat-tur | 1 | 165 | 108 | Kadambattur  
|  |  | 2 | 166 | 71 | Piryankuppam  
|  |  | 3 | 167 | 68 | Attupakkam  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Vengathur | 1 | 168 | 97 | Vengathur  
|  |  | 2 | 169 | 104 | Polivakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 170 | 72 | Egathur  
|  |  | 4 | 171 | 106 | Pinjivakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 172 | 124 | Erayamangalam  
|  |  | 6 | 173 | 99 | Papparambakkam - A and B Block  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Mappedu | 1 | 174 | 126 | Mappedu  
|  |  | 2 | 175 | 145 | Thiupandaiyur -  
|  |  | 3 | 176 | 135 | Ulandai  
|  |  | 4 | 177 | 138 | Kottaiyur  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Villiyur | 1 | 178 | 32 | Villiyur  
|  |  | 2 | 179 | 48 | Vishnuvakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 180 | 21 | Kerukampoondi  
|  |  | 4 | 181 | 49 | Perathur  
|  |  | 5 | 182 | 46 | Vathattur  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Thiruvur | 1 | 183 | 94 | Thiruvur  
|  |  | 2 | 184 | 86 | Pakkam A and B Block  
|  |  | 3 | 185 | 85 | Puliyur  
|  |  | 4 | 186 | 88 | Veppampattu  
|  |  | 5 | 187 | 81 | Sirukalathur  
|  |  | 6 | 188 | 96 | Aranvayal  
Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | Thiruvallur | 1 | 189 | 57 | Thiruvallur  
|  |  | 2 | 190 | 53 | Odhikkadu  
|  |  | 3 | 191 | 54 | Punnapakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 192 | 75 | Kakalur  
|  |  | 5 | 193 | 77 | Thandalam  
|  |  | 6 | 194 | 52 | Ikkadu  
|  |  | 7 | 195 | 95 | Putlur  
|  |  | 8 | 196 | 55 | Pullaravakkam  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Sholavaram | 1 | 197 | 114 | Nallur  
|  |  | 2 | 198 | 106 | Jaganathapuram  
|  |  | 3 | 199 | 108 | Athur  
|  |  | 4 | 200 | 109 | Erumaivettipalayam  
|  |  | 5 | 201 | 105 | Karanodai  
|  |  | 6 | 202 | 104 | Sothuperumbedu  
|  |  | 7 | 203 | 112 | Attanthangal  
|  |  | 8 | 204 | 113 | Vijayanallur  
|  |  | 9 | 205 | 111 | Alamati  
|  |  | 10 | 206 | 115 | Sembilivaram  
|  |  | 11 | 207 | 117 | Siruniam  
|  |  | 12 | 208 | 116 | Sholavaram  
|  |  | 13 | 209 | 118 | Padianallur  
|  |  | 14 | 210 | 124 | Angadu  
|  |  | 15 | 211 | 125 | Orakkadu  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Nayar | 1 | 212 | 77 | Amur  
|  |  | 2 | 313 | 100 | Nayar  
|  |  | 3 | 214 | 101 | Nerkundram  
|  |  | 4 | 215 | 102 | Sekkancheri  
|  |  | 5 | 216 | 103 | Sorrappattu  
|  |  | 6 | 217 | 119 | Sothupakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 218 | 120 | Melsingilimedu  
|  |  | 8 | 219 | 123 | Kummanur  
|  |  | 9 | 220 | 121 | Perungavoor  
|  |  | 10 | 221 | 126 | Pudur  
|  |  | 11 | 222 | 127 | Kandigai  
|  |  | 12 | 223 | 122 | Marambedu  
|  |  | 13 | 224 | 126 | Arumanthai  
|  |  | 14 | 225 | 130 | Pudupakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 226 | 131 | Mafuskhanpettai  
|  |  | 16 | 227 | 132 | Periyamullaivoyal  
|  |  | 17 | 228 | 146 | Chinnamullaivoyal  
|  |  | 18 | 229 | 133 | Vazhugaimedu  
|  |  | 19 | 230 | 134 | M.Adiyur  
|  |  | 20 | 231 | 146 | Seemapuram  
|  |  | 21 | 232 | 129 | Kodipallam  
|  |  | 22 | 233 | 147 | Thirunnai  
|  |  | 23 | 234 | 149 | Villivoyal  
|  |  | 24 | 235 | 150 | Vichur  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Arani | 1 | 236 | 61 | Peravallur  
|  |  | 2 | 237 | 60 | Vairavamkuppam  
|  |  | 3 | 238 | 63 | Vadakkanallur  
|  |  | 4 | 239 | 62 | Duranallur  
|  |  | 5 | 240 | 64 | Sevittupanapakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 241 | 65 | Secundapuram  
|  |  | 7 | 242 | 66 | Pondavakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 243 | 67 | Madavaram  
|  |  | 9 | 244 | 69 | Malliankuppam  
|  |  | 10 | 245 | 68 | Arani  
|  |  | 11 | 246 | 70 | Chinnamedu  
|  |  | 12 | 247 | 71 | Kilameni  
|  |  | 13 | 248 | 72 | Aampakkam  
|  |  | 14 | 249 | 73 | Natham  
|  |  | 15 | 250 | 75 | Panjeti  
|  |  | 16 | 251 | 76 | Thatchur  
|  |  | 17 | 252 | 107 | Bandikawanur  
|  |  | 18 | 253 | 74 | Eranavakkarri  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Ponneri | 1 | 254 | 44 | Arasur  
|  |  | 2 | 255 | 46 | Andavoyal  
|  |  | 3 | 256 | 47 | Aplavaram  
|  |  | 4 | 257 | 48 | Sombatu  
|  |  | 5 | 258 | 49 | Parnambedu  
|  |  | 6 | 259 | 50 | Kilikodu  
|  |  | 7 | 260 | 52 | Eliambedu  
|  |  | 8 | 261 | 51 | Thiruppair  
|  |  | 9 | 262 | 53 | Kanakavallipuram  
|  |  | 10 | 263 | 54 | Guduvarjcherry  
|  |  | 11 | 264 | 55 | Chinnakavanam  
|  |  | 12 | 265 | 57 | Aladu  
|  |  | 13 | 266 | 43 | Kattavoor  
|  |  | 14 | 267 | 58 | Thadaperumbakkam  
|  |  | 15 | 268 | 59 | Ponneri  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Thirupalaivanam | 1 | 269 | 5 | Karimanal  
|  |  | 2 | 270 | 8 | Pakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 271 | 6 | Kanavanthurai  
|  |  | 4 | 272 | 7 | Palaverkadu  
|  |  | 5 | 273 | 10 | Sirulapakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 274 | 9 | Avurivakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 275 | 29 | Thirupalaivanam  
|  |  | 8 | 276 | 30 | Vanjivakkam  
|  |  | 9 | 277 | 32 | Pralayampakkam  
|  |  | 10 | 278 | 41 | Asananudur  
|  |  | 11 | 279 | 35 | Thangalperumbulam  
|  |  | 12 | 280 | 34 | Andarmadam  
|  |  | 13 | 281 | 40 | Perumbedu  
|  |  | 14 | 282 | 56 | Lingapayanpettai  
|  |  | 15 | 283 | 42 | Medur  
|  |  | 16 | 284 | 45 | Vidathandalam  
Thiruvailur | Ponneri | Kollur | 1 | 285 | 1 | Poongulam  
|  |  | 2 | 286 | 3 | Kanrambakkam  
|  |  | 3 | 287 | 2 | Mangodu  
|  |  | 4 | 288 | 4 | Kallur  
|  |  | 5 | 289 | 11 | Annamalaicheri  
|  |  | 6 | 290 | 12 | Periyaveppathur  
|  |  | 7 | 291 | 13 | Uppunelvoyal  
|  |  | 8 | 292 | 14 | Seliambedu  
|  |  | 9 | 293 | 15 | Injur  
|  |  | 10 | 294 | 17 | Umippedu  
|  |  | 11 | 295 | 27 | Vembedu  
|  |  | 12 | 296 | 28 | Poovami  
|  |  | 13 | 297 | 18 | Seganyam  
|  |  | 14 | 298 | 16 | Kanganamedu  
|  |  | 15 | 299 | 19 | Devampattu  
|  |  | 16 | 300 | 20 | Agarara  
|  |  | 17 | 301 | 21 | Periyakarumbur  
|  |  | 18 | 302 | 25 | Kumarancheri  
|  |  | 19 | 303 | 22 | Kolur  
|  |  | 20 | 304 | 23 | Iluppakkam  
|  |  | 21 | 305 | 24 | Panappakkam  
|  |  | 22 | 306 | 26 | Avur  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Minjur | 1 | 307 | 78 | Anuppampattu  
|  |  | 2 | 308 | 98 | Nalur  
|  |  | 3 | 309 | 99 | Vannivakkam  
|  |  | 4 | 310 | 135 | Minjur  
|  |  | 5 | 311 | 136 | Nandiambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 312 | 138 | Ariyanvoyal  
|  |  | 7 | 313 | 97 | Yellampakkam  
|  |  | 8 | 314 | 137 | Kollati  
|  |  | 9 | 315 | 139 | Kalpakkam  
|  |  | 10 | 316 | 142 | Ennur  
|  |  | 11 | 317 | 143 | Athipattu  
|  |  | 12 | 318 | 144 | Vallur  
|  |  | 13 | 319 | 148 | Edayanchavadi  
Thiruvallur | Ponneri | Kattur | 1 | 320 | 33 | Sirupalaverkadu  
|  |  | 2 | 321 | 36 | Karangali  
|  |  | 3 | 322 | 37 | Ebrahampuram  
|  |  | 4 | 323 | 38 | Kadappakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 324 | 39 | Thathamanji  
|  |  | 6 | 325 | 31 | Eraakuracheri  
|  |  | 7 | 326 | 88 | Siriilappananjeri  
|  |  | 8 | 327 | 79 | Devadanam  
|  |  | 9 | 328 | 80 | Kumarasirulapakkam  
|  |  | 10 | 329 | 81 | Kaniambakkam  
|  |  | 11 | 330 | 96 | Thottakadu  
|  |  | 12 | 331 | 83 | Velur  
|  |  | 13 | 332 | 82 | Siruvelur  
|  |  | 14 | 333 | 85 | Eripinayarkuppam  
|  |  | 15 | 334 | 84 | Thiruvellavoyal  
|  |  | 16 | 335 | 86 | Athamanjeri  
|  |  | 17 | 336 | 87 | Somanjeri  
|  |  | 18 | 337 | 94 | Thinaipakkam  
|  |  | 19 | 338 | 95 | Merattoor  
|  |  | 20 | 339 | 141 | Puzhudivakkam  
|  |  | 21 | 340 | 89 | Kattoor  
|  |  | 22 | 341 | 90 | Kalanji  
|  |  | 23 | 342 | 91 | Kattupalli  
|  |  | 24 | 343 | 92 | Vayalur  
|  |  | 25 | 344 | 140 | Neidavoyal  
|  |  | 26 | 345 | 93 | Kadamanjeri  
Thiruvallur | Poonamallee | Avadi | 1 | 346 | 30 | Thiruverkadu  
|  |  | 2 | 347 | 29 | Sundaracholavaram  
|  |  | 3 | 348 | 31 | Veeraraghayapuram  
|  |  | 4 | 349 | 25 | Paruthipattu  
|  |  | 5 | 350 | 26 | Paleripattu  
|  |  | 6 | 351 | 24 | Vilinjambakkam  
|  |  | 7 | 352 | 23 | Soranjeri  
|  |  | 8 | 353 | 27 | Kannapalayam  
|  |  | 9 | 354 | 28 | Melpakkam  
Thiruvallur | Poonamallee | Thiruninravur | 1 | 355 | 3 | Thiruninravur  
|  |  | 2 | 356 | 1 | Naduguthagai  
|  |  | 3 | 357 | 5 | Korattur-A  
|  |  | 4 | 358 | 5 | Korattur-B  
|  |  | 5 | 359 | 4 | Agraharam Mel  
|  |  | 6 | 360 | 2 | Nemilicheri  
|  |  | 7 | 361 | 21 | Karunagaracheri  
|  |  | 8 | 362 | 20 | Amadhurmedu  
|  |  | 9 | 363 | 22 | Thandurai  
|  |  | 10 | 364 | 19 | Voyalanallur  
Thiruvallur | Poonamallee | Thiru-mazhisai | 1 | 365 | 36 | Thirumazhisai  
|  |  | 2 | 366 | 18 | Kilmanambedu  
|  |  | 3 | 367 | 37 | Udayaarkoil  
|  |  | 4 | 368 | 12 | Kuthambakkam  
|  |  | 5 | 369 | 14 | Sembarambakkam  
|  |  | 6 | 370 | 9 | Padur  
|  |  | 7 | 371 | 8 | Meyyur  
|  |  | 8 | 372 | 17 | Vellavedu  
|  |  | 9 | 373 | 16 | Narasingapuram  
|  |  | 10 | 374 | 15 | paravtharaj apuram  
|  |  | 11 | 375 | 13 | Palanjur  
|  |  | 12 | 376 | 10 | Nemam-A  
|  |  | 13 | 377 | 10 | Nemam-B  
|  |  | 14 | 378 | 11 | Thirumalairajapuram  
|  |  | 15 | 379 | 6 | Nochimedu  
|  |  | 16 | 380 | 7 | Gudapakkam  
Thiruvallur | Poonamallee | Poonamallee | 1 | 381 | 32 | Parivakkam  
|  |  | 2 | 382 | 33 | Banaveduthottam  
|  |  | 3 | 383 | 42 | Varadharajapuram  
|  |  | 4 | 384 | 38 | Madavilagam  
|  |  | 5 | 385 | 44 | Ariamandanallur  
|  |  | 6 | 386 | 43 | Tukkananabattu  
|  |  | 7 | 387 | 34 | Pidarithangal  
|  |  | 8 | 388 | 35 | Kolappancheri  
|  |  | 9 | 389 | 45 | Poonamallee  
|  |  | 10 | 390 | 46 | Agraharam  
|  |  | 11 | 391 | 49 | Kattuppakkam  
|  |  | 12 | 392 | 48 | Goparasanallur  
|  |  | 13 | 393 | 47 | Senneerkuppam  
|  |  | 14 | 394 | 41 | Nazaratpettai  
|  |  | 15 | 395 | 39 | Meppur  
|  |  | 16 | 396 | 40 | Agaram Mel

