## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956

## Act 39 of 1956

  * Published on 19 January 1957 
  * Commenced on 19 January 1957 
  * [This is the version of this document from 19 January 1957.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1956)Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act
39 of 1956). - For Statement of Objects and Reason, please see Part IV - A
pages 280-281 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated 21st
December 1956.Received the assent of the Governor on the 19th January 1957 and
first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 23rd January 1957.An Act
to provide for the adoption of Tamil as the language to be used for the
official purposes of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment), Order, 1969.].Whereas
the Constitution enables the Legislature of a State by law to adopt any one or
more of the languages in use in the State as the language to be used for all
or any of the official purposes of the State and to prescribe any language
other than the English language for use in Bills, Acts, Ordinances, Orders,
Rules, regulations and bye-laws.Be it enacted in the Seventh Year of the
Republic of India as follows : -

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment), Order, 1969.] Official Language Act,
1956.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment),
Order, 1969.].

### 2. Tamil to be the official language of the State.

\- The official language of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment), Order,
1969.] shall be Tamil.

### 3. English to be continued to be used for official purposes until the
Government otherwise direct.

\- Notwithstanding anything in section 2 and without prejudice to the
provisions of Articles 346 and 347 of the Constitution, the English language
shall continue to be used for all the official purposes of the State for which
it was being used before the commencement of this Act until the State
Government, by notification under section 4, otherwise direct in respect of
any official purpose specified in such notification.

### 4. Government's power to notify the official purposes for which Tamil to
be used.

\- The State Government may, by notification issued from time to time, direct
that Tamil shall be used in respect of such official purposes as may be
specified in the notification.

### 4A. [ Declaration of Tamil as the language of Courts for recording
evidence in all proceedings. [Inserted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Official
Language (Amendment) Act, (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of 1976).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 2, 3 and 4 of this Act or in
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) or in the Code of
Criminal Procedure 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), Tamil shall be the language
of all -(i)Civil and Criminal Courts subordinate to the High
Court;(ii)Tribunals; and(iii)Rent Courts and Revenue Courts;for the purpose of
recording evidence in all proceedings:Provided that the Presiding Officer of
any such Court or Tribunal may, in recording evidence in Tamil, employ English
words and phrases, wherever, he feels necessary to bring out the exact purport
and meaning:Provided further that the High Court may, by general or special
order, permit -(i)any class of Presiding Officers of Civil or Criminal Courts,
or Tribunals, or(ii)any Presiding Officer of any such Court or Tribunal to
record evidence in English in such circumstances and for such period as may be
specified in such order:Provided also that the Board of [Revenue] may, by
general or special order, permit -(i)any class of Presiding Officers of Rent
Courts or Revenue Courts, or(ii)any Presiding Officer of any such Court,to
record evidence in English in such circumstances and for such period as may be
specified in such order.Explanation. - In this section and in section 4-B,
"Rent Court" or "Revenue Court" shall mean any Court presided over by an
officer of the Revenue Department.]

### 4B. [ Declaration of Tamil as the language of Courts for writing
judgments, decrees and orders. [Inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Official Language (Amendment) Act, (Tamil Nadu Act 41 of 1976).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 2, 3 and 4 of this Act or in
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) or in the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), and subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), Tamil shall be the language of all -(i)Civil
Courts subordinate to the High Court;(ii)Criminal Courts subordinate to the
High Court;(iii)Tribunals; and(iv)Rent Courts and Revenue Courts;for the
purpose of writing judgments, decrees and orders:Provided that the Presiding
Officer of any such Court or Tribunal may, in writing judgments, decrees and
orders in Tamil, employ English words and phrases, wherever, he feels
necessary to bring out the exact purport and meaning:Provided further that the
High Court may, by general or special order, permit -(i)any class of Presiding
Officers of Civil or Criminal Courts, or Tribunals, or(ii)any Presiding
Officer of any such Court for Tribunalto write judgments, decrees and orders
in English in such circumstances and for such period as may be specified in
such order:Provided also that the Board of [Revenue] may, by general or
special order, permit -(i)any class of Presiding Officers of Rent Courts or
Revenue Courts, or(ii)any Presiding Officer of any such Court, to write
judgments and orders in English in such circumstances and for such period as
may be specified in such order.(2)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint
and different dates may be appointed in respect of -(i)Civil Courts
subordinate to the High Court;(ii)Criminal Courts subordinate to the High
Court;(iii)Tribunals; and(iv)Rent Courts and Revenue Courts,]

### 5. Language to be used to Bills, etc.

\- The language to be used -(i)in Bills introduced in, or amendments thereto
to be moved in, or Acts, passed by, Legislature of [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment), Order, 1969.];(ii)in Ordinances promulgated under Article 213 of
the Constitution;(iii)in orders, rules, regulation and bye-laws issued by the
State Government under the Constitution or under any law made by Parliament or
the Legislature of the State shall be in Tamil on and from such date as the
State Government may, by notification specify:Provided that the State
Government may appoint different dates in respect of the different items
referred to in clauses (i) to (ii).

### 6. Notifications issued under sections 4 and 5 to be placed before the
Legislature.

\- All notification issued under sections 4 and 5 shall, as soon as possible
after they are issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for 'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws and Order, 1987.] and shall be subject to such modifications by way of
amendments or repeal as the Legislative Assembly may make within fourteen days
on which the House actually sits either in the same session or in more than
one session.

