## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing and
Maintenance of Government Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing and
Maintenance of Government Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MINISTERS-AND-PRESIDING-OFFICERS-OF-LEGISLATURE-FURNISHING-
AND-MAINTENANCE-OF-GOVERNMENT-HOUSES-AND-PROVISION-OF-AMENITIES-RULES-1977 of
1977

  * Published on 1 November 1967 
  * Commenced on 1 November 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 November 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing and
Maintenance of Government Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14, read with
sub-section (1) of section 6-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951
(Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules: -

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers
of Legislature (Furnishing and Maintenance of Government Houses and Provision
of Amenities) Rules, 1977.(2)[ They shall apply to the furnishing and
maintenance of, and to the provision of amenities at any house occupied by any
Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition, the
Parliamentary Secretary or the Chief Government Whip and such houses having
been provided by the State Government free of rent.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.](3)[ There shall be
allowed a grace time of two months to vacate the house after demitting office
and a fair rent of two hundred and fifty rupees per mensem shall be collected
during the grace period of two months and, on the expiry of grace period in
addition to the recovery of fair rent, there shall be compulsion to vacate the
house.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 12th
August 1981.](4)They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st
November 1967.

### 2. [Definition. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 4, Public (Legislature Wing), dated the
2nd January 1989 (with effect from the 2nd January 1989).]

\- In these rules, -(a)[Omitted].(b)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951);(c)"Chief Government Whip"
means the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative
Assembly;(d)[***].(e)["Deputy Speaker"] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 961, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 18th June 1983.] means the Deputy Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly;(ee)["Electrical appliances"] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266,
Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with
effect from 1st November 1986).] includes fan, refrigerator, hot water boiler,
TV and motor;(f)"House" means a house mentioned in sub-rule (2) of rule
1;(g)"Leader of the Opposition" means the Leader of the opposition in the
Legislative Assembly;(h)"Minister" includes the Chief
Minister;(i)"Parliamentary Secretary" means the Parliamentary Secretary to the
Minister;(j)"Speaker" means the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly;(k)"Term
of office" means the period during which a person holds office as such and it
shall continue till the spell of five years after the general election
expires, unless he ceases to hold that post earlier.]

### 3. Structural alterations and additions to houses.

\- Such structural alterations and additions to houses as are required to be
made in any house for the accommodation and convenience of sentries, visitors
and personal staff, or as are necessitated by the posting of sentries and
personal staff, shall subject to the approval of the State Government, be
carried out at the cost of the State Government.

### 4. Electrical fittings.

(1)Any extension of electrical amenities, including increase in number of fans
required by the Minister, the Speaker or the Chairman, as the case may be,
shall, subject to the approval of the State Government, be provided at the
cost of the State Government.(2)[ The life of fan, refrigerator, hot water
boiler, television and motor shall be ten years and of other electrical
appliances shall be seven years from the date of purchase.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No.
1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with
effect from 1st November 1986).]

### 5. Furniture and fittings.

(1)Furniture and fittings shall, subject to the approval of the State
Government, be provided to the houses during the tenure of office of the
Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, and maintained at the cost of the
State Government.(2)[ The life of the furniture and furnishings shall, from
the date of their purchase, be as follows:] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from
1st November 1986).] -

(i) | Furniture - |  |   
---|---|---|---  
| (a) Wooden furniture |  | 10 years  
| (b) Steel or Aluminium furniture |  | 15 years  
(ii) | Furnishings - |  |   
| (a) Sofa, Pillow and mattress covers |  | 2 years  
| (b) Bed sheets and Bed spreads |  | 3 years  
|  (c) Curtain, Carpets, Mats, Mattress, Pillows,Woollen and Linen furnishings and Mosquito nets |  | 3 years and 6 months  
  
### 6. [ Refrigerator and hot water boiler. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.]

\- One refrigerator and two electric hot water boilers may be provided to the
house during [the term of office of the Minister, the Speaker],[the Deputy
Speaker] [ Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from 1st November 1986).], the Leader of
Opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary or the Chief Government Whip, as the
case may be, and maintained at the cost of the State Government:Provided that
if the house has a separate guest wing, an additional electric hot water
boiler may be provided at the cost of State Government.]

### 6A. [ Television. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1601, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from 1st November 1986).]

(1)Colour Television set shall be provided to the house during the term of
office of the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the
Opposition, as the case may be, at the cost of the State Government, if he
does not own one at his cost.(2)Black and White Television set shall be
provided to the house during the term of office of the Chief Government Whip,
the Parliamentary Secretary as the case may be, at the cost of the State
Government if he does not own one at his cost.]

### 7. [ Telephones. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public (Establishment-I), dated
the 12th August 1981.]

\- Telephone facilities shall be provided to the house during the [term of
office of Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker], [the Parliamentary
Secretary] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from 1st November 1986).], Leader of
Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, at the cost of
the State Government. Telephone charges shall also be borne by the State
Government.]

### 8. Water charges.

\- The water charges payable to the Municipal Corporation of Chennai and the
pumping charges shall be borne by the State Government.

### 9. Electricity consumption charges.

\- The electricity consumption charges shall be borne by the State Government.

### 10. Provision of electric bulbs.

\- The house shall be provided with electric bulbs and fused bulbs shall be
replaced, at the cost of the State Government.

### 11. Maintenance of buildings.

\- The house shall be maintained at the cost of the State Government.

### 12. [ Up-keep of house. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public (Establishment-I),
dated the 12th August 1981.]

\- The house shall be provided with one sweeper, one mazdoor and one gardener
at the cost of the State Government and, appointment to these posts shall be
made by the Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, at his own
accord:Provided that in the case of the house provided to the Deputy Speaker,
[the Parliamentary Secretary], the Leader of opposition of the Chief
Government Whip, one sweeper and one mazdoor shall be provided at the cost of
the State Government and appointment to these posts shall be made by the
Deputy Speaker, [the Parliamentary Secretary] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from
1st November 1986).], the Leader of opposition or the Chief Government Whip,
as the case may be, at his own accord.]

### 13. Maintenance of garden.

\- The garden inside the compound of the house shall be maintained by the
State Government.

### 14. Prior approval to incur expenditure.

\- On or after the publication of these rules in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, no expenditure exceeding Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) per
annum, shall be incurred under these rules for furnishing and maintenance of,
or provision of the amenities in, a house, except with the prior approval of
the State Government.

### 15. Usufructs.

\- The occupants shall be entitled to enjoy the usufructs of the trees and
other produce in the compound of the house during the period of their
occupation.

### 16. Inventory of furniture, fitting and electrical appliances.

\- An inventory of furniture, fittings and electrical appliances provided at
the house of the Minister, the Speaker, [the Deputy Speaker] [Vide G.O. Ms.No.
1568, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.], the Leader of
the Opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary or the Chief Government Whip, as
the case may be, shall be prepared and verified periodically by the Chief
Engineer (Buildings), Public Works Department in accordance with the
instructions issued by the State Government.

### 17. [ Receipt of acknowledgment. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from
1st November 1986).]

\- An acknowledgment shall be obtained from the Senior Personal Assistant to
the Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, and the Personal Assistant to
the Deputy Speaker, [the Leader of Opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary or
the Chief Government Whip], as the case may be, for furniture, fittings and
electrical appliances provided at the house by the Chief Engineer (Buildings),
Public Works Department. The Senior Personal Assistant or the Personal
Assistant, as the case may be, shall be responsible for the upkeep of all the
furniture, fittings and electrical appliances which are provided at the
house.]

