## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Establishment of Private Law Colleges (Prohibition) Act, 2014

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Establishment of Private Law Colleges (Prohibition) Act, 2014

## Act 13 of 2014

  * Published on 2 September 2014 
  * Commenced on 2 September 2014 
  * [This is the version of this document from 2 September 2014.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Establishment of Private Law Colleges (Prohibition) Act, 2014(Act
No 13 of 2014)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The Government have taken a
policy decision to establish adequate number of Government Law Colleges in the
State in a phased manner, to impart legal education at affordable cost. The
past experience reveals that private trusts/societies are not able to provide
legal education at affordable cost to the economically and socially weaker
Sections and also not able to continue to run the law colleges successfully.
The Government have, therefore, decided to prohibit the establishment of law
colleges by the private persons in the State by undertaking legislation.2\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.[Dated 2.9.2014]An Act to
prohibit the establishment of law colleges by private persons in the State of
Tamil Nadu.Whereas, in consonance with the spirit of Article 41 of the
Constitution of India, the Government have taken a policy decision to
establish adequate number of Government Law Colleges in the State in a phased
manner, to impart legal education at affordable cost;And Whereas, the past
experience reveals that private persons are not able to provide legal
education at affordable cost to the economically and socially weaker sections
and also not able to continue to run the law colleges;Now, therefore, the
Government have decided to prohibit the establishment of law colleges by
private persons in the State.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as
follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Establishment of Private Law Colleges
(Prohibition) Act, 2014.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Government" means
the State Government;(b)"Law College" means any college or institution
providing any course of study or training in law for admission to the
examination for law degrees, diplomas or other academic distinctions of the
University;(c)"private person" includes trust, society, association of
individuals or company, whether incorporated or not or any other private body
or group of persons whether recognised by law or not or individual or
individuals;(d)"University" means the Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University
established under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University Act,
1996.

### 3. Private Persons not to establish Law Colleges.

(1)No private person shall establish any law college or institution providing
any course of study or training in law for admission to the examination for
law degrees, diplomas or other academic distinctions of the
University.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, judgment or
order, no permission or certificate shall be granted by the Government or by
the University to any private person to establish any law college or
institution providing any course of study or training in law for admission to
the examination for law degrees, diplomas or other academic distinctions of
the University.

