## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965

## Act 1240 of 1965

  * Published on 25 November 1965 
  * Commenced on 25 November 1965 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 November 1965.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965Published vide
Notification No. G. O. MS. NO. 3266, Revenue, dated 25th November 1965 -
S.R.O. No. A-1240 of 1965G. O. MS. NO. 3266, Revenue, dated 25th November 1965
- S.R.O. No. A-1240 of 1965. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 94 of the Tam, Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling
on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961), the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rules, the same having been approved by the
Legislature, as required by the proviso to the said sub-section:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms Disposal oi Surplus
Land) Rules, 1965.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu
Act 58 of 1961);(b)[ "Appellate authority" means any Revenue Officer not below
the rank of Revenue Divisional Officer authorised by [Land Commissioner]
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.] by notification
to exercise the powers conferred on, and to discharge the duties imposed upon,
the appellate authority under these rules, for such area as may be specified
in the said notification;](bb)[ "Assigning authority" means any Revenue
Officer not below the rank of Tahsildar authorised by [Land Commissioner] [The
words 'Land Commissioner' were substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 2103, dated the
28th December 1982.] by notification to exercise the powers conferred on, and
to discharge the duties imposed upon, the assigning authority under these
rules, for such area as may be specified in the said notification;](c)"Form"
means a form appended to these rules;(d)"landless agricultural labourer" means
a landless person, whose principal means of livelihood is the income he gets
as wages for his manual labour on agricultural land;(e)[ ***] [Omitted by G.O.
Ms. No. 5267, dated the 29th August 1973.](f)"Section" means a section of the
Act;(g)[ "direct cultivation" means cultivation mainly by one's own labour or
by the labour of the members of his family supplemented by hired labour on
wages payable in cash or in kind in times of special need such as
transplantation and harvest.] [Inserted by G. O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st
June 1979.]

### 3. Register of surplus land.

(1)The [Assigning authority] [The words 'assigning authority' substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.] shall maintain a register of
surplus land in Form A.(2)As soon as may be after the publication of the
notification under sub-section (1) of section 18, the assigning authority
shall enter the particulars of the surplus land acquired by the Government
under that notification and situated within his jurisdiction, in the
register.(3)If the surplus land is situated outside the jurisdiction of the
assigning authority, he shall communicate the particulars of such land to the
assigning authority in whose jurisdiction such land is situated.(4)On receipt
of the particulars, the assigning authority in whose jurisdiction such land is
situated shall enter the particulars of such land in the register in Form A
maintained by him and shall intimate the serial number in the register and the
date of entry therein to the assigning authority from wham he received the
particulars of such land.

### 4. Assigning Authority to invite applications for assignment of surplus
land.

\- The [assigning authority] [The words 'assigning authority' substituted by
G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.] shall invite applications for
the assignment of surplus land and, for this purpose, shall publish a notice
in Form B in the following manner, namely:-(i)by affixture in the village
chavadi or if there is no village chavadi in some other conspicuous public
place in the village or town in which the land referred to in the notice is
situated;(ii)by beat of tom-tom in the said village or town;(iii)by affixture
on the notice boards of the offices of the District 1 Revenue Officer, Revenue
Divisional Officer, assigning authority and Tahsildar concerned and of the
office of the Panchayat Union Council, Panchayat or Municipality, within the
jurisdiction of which the land is situated.

### 5. [ Eligibility for assignment of surplus land and the maximum extent to
be assigned. [Substituted by GO. Ms. No. 5267, dated the 29th August 1973.]

(1)The following persons and societies shall be eligible for assignment of
surplus land and shall be entitled to preference, in the order given
below:-(i)[ A person who has been cultivating the land as on the date of the
commencement of the Act and who is completely dispossessed of the land, which
is declared surplus as a result of the provisions of the Act:]Provided that
the person should not have surrendered the lands subsequent to the date of the
commencement of the Act;(ii)[***] [Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the
21st June 1979](iii)A person whose extent of holding is reduced below [three
acres] [The words 'three acres wet land' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 715,
dated the 24th March 1980.] of dry land or one and a half acres of wet land
held by him partly as cultivating tenant and partly as owner or wholly as
cultivating tenant by virtue of the provisions of the Act;(iv)A landless
agricultural labourer belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe who
contributes his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in the
cultivation of the land;(v)[ A person who is, or who has been, a member of the
Armed Forces including, the persons who had served in the Indian National Army
or the Ex-Assam Rifles Personnel or any para-military force and members of
Armed Forces, who retired or were disbanded before the 26th January 1950, and
dependents of the persons of the above mentioned categories, killed in action,
namely, wife, widowed mother, minor sons and minor daughters. The servicemen
not killed in action, but disabled and alive, can get surplus lands in their
own names;] [Substituted by GO. Ms. No. 1358A dated the 21st June 1979.][(V-A)
A repatriate from Burma or Sri Lanka who is likely to contribute his own
physical labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of the
land and who has brought to India assets not exceeding Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten
thousand only) in value;] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.](vi)A landless agricultural labourer other than the landless
agricultural labourer referred in clause (iv) who contributes his own physical
labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of the
land;(vii)A cultivating tenant who is holding land which is less than [three
acres of dry land or one and a half acres of wet land in extent;] [The words
'three acres wet land' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 715, dated the 24th March
1980.](viii)[Omitted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979].(ix)A co-
operative farming society, the members of which are , landless agricultural
labourers, provided that the extent of land assigned to the society together
with the land, if any, already held by the society does not exceed the ceiling
area.(2)The total extent of land that may be assigned to any person referred
to in clauses (i) to (viii) of sub-rule (1) together with the extent of other
land, if any, already held by such person or if such person is a member of a
family, by such family shall not exceed Three acres of dry land or one and a
half acres of wet land:[Provided that in the case of any person falling under
clause (i) or (iii) of sub-rule (1), the extent assigned or the total extent
of his holding and the extent assigned, as the case may be, may exceed the
above limit by a margin not exceeding half an acre of dry land or quarter acre
of wet land wherever such assignment in excess over the limits is unavoidable
for practical reasons.] [Added by G O. Ms. No. 56, dated the 12th January
1983.]]

### 6. Liability of the assignee to pay value for the surplus land assigned
and value for the building and trees thereon, if any.

\- [(1) The assignee shall be liable to pay value for the surplus land
assigned. The value shall be twelve times the net annual income from the lands
of annual value of the land as determined under paragraph 3 of Part 1 of
Schedule III to the Act.] [Substituted by GO. Ms. No. 2864, dated the 29th
October 1981.](1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the
value for the surplus land assigned to landless agricultural labourers shall
be twelve times the annual value of the land as determined under paragraph 3
of Part I of Schedule III to the Act.] [Inserted by GO. Ms. No. 1816, dated
the 23rd October 1989.](2)The assignee shall also be liable to pay such value
for the buildings and trees, if any, on the surplus land assigned, as may be
fixed.(3)[ The value for the surplus land and for the buildings and trees
thereon, if any, shall, at the option of the assignee, be payable in a lump
sum or in equal annual instalments not exceeding twenty with interest at the
rate of five per cent per annum on the outstanding instalments:] [Substituted
by GO. Ms. No. 889, dated the 25th April 1969.]Provided that the assignee
shall be entitled to pay, at any time, any sum in excess of the annual
instalments and such excess shall be adjusted towards the subsequent
instalment or instalments.(4)[ If the assignee had been in possession of the
land prior to the assignment, either on account of having been a tenant under
the erstwhile land owner or having been put in possession as lessee by the
Government, the assigning authority may give effect to the assignment from the
date of vesting of the land with the Government only if the assignee agrees to
pay the land value from that date. The amounts collected by way of rent under
rule 23 or 23-A of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land)
Rules, 1962 with reference to section 18-F for the period between the date of
vesting of the land with the Government and the date of actual assignment
shall be adjusted against such land value instalments of principal and
interest as determined:] [Added by GO. Ms. No. 2864, dated the 29th October,
1931.]Provided that this provision will be applicable only on initial payment
of such amount as may be specified by the assigning authority and on execution
of an undertaking by the assignee for payment of the overdue, instalments on
or before the date or dates specified by the assigning authority.

### 7. Applications for assignment of surplus land to be made to the
[Assigning authority.] [The words 'assigning authority' substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.]

\- Applications for the assignment of surplus land shall be in Form C and
shall be presented within thirty days from the date of publication of the
notice under rule 4, in person to the [assigning authority] [The words
'assigning authority' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.] within whose jurisdiction the land is situated or sent to him by
registered post:[Provided that the assigning authority may, in his discretion,
allow further time not exceeding fifteen days for presenting any such
application if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not
presenting the application within the period specified in this rule.] [Added
by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.]

### 8. [ Procedure on receipt of applications. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No.
1358, dated the 21st June 1979.]

(1)As soon as may be after the expiry of the time allowed for the presentation
of applications for the assignment of surplus land, the assigning authority
shall prepare a list of all the applications received.(2)The assigning
authority shall, then, publish a notice in Form D in the manner prescribed in
rule 4, and fix a date for conducting an enquiry.(3)On the date fixed for
enquiry, the assigning authority shall conduct or cause to be conducted by an
officer of the Revenue Department not lower in rank than a Revenue Inspector,
an enquiry. The officer conducting such enquiry shall also give an opportunity
to the applicants and objectors, if any, to be heard during such enquiry.(4)[
The assessing authority shall, then, consider the respective claims of the
applicants and pass necessary orders in the light of enquiry conducted under
sub-rule (3). If the appointment for assignment of the surplus land in Form
"G" is a male member and if there is a female member in his family, the
assignment of the surplus land shall be ordered in favour of the female member
of the applicant in the following order:-](i)if the applicant has a wife, the
assignment of the surplus land shall be ordered in the name of the wife;(ii)if
there is no female member in the family of the applicant, the assignment shall
be ordered in favour of the other female members in the family of the
applicant (i.e.) to the dependent widowed sister or dependent widowed mother;
and(iii)if there is no female member in the family of the applicant, the
assignment shall be ordered in favour of the applicant (male member).The order
passed by the assigning authority shall be communicated not only to all the
applicants and objectors, but also to the female member, who have not applied
for assignment of the surplus land including the female member who has got
assignment of the land in her favour.(5)After passing orders under sub rule
(4), the assigning authority shall I issue to the assignee a notice in Form E
specifying the amount which the I assignee has to pay as value of the land and
of the buildings and trees I thereon, if any, the number of instalments in
which he can pay it, if he desires 1 to pay it in instalments instead of in a
lump-sum, the amount of each instalment, the date on which each instalment is
payable every year and the rate of interest payable on the outstanding
instalments. The land value specified in the notice is provisional and is
liable for revision, if the amount payable to the landowner in respect of the
land in question is revised by, or on the order of any competent authority.
The notice shall specify accordingly. The notice shall also direct the
assignee to remit into the treasury, either the full amount payable, or at his
option the first instalment thereof, and to produce the treasury challan, on a
specified date, before the assigning authority. After the challan is produced,
the assigning authority shall take action to get the deed of assignment in
Form F executed by the assignee. At the time of execution of deed of
assignment in Form F the assignee shall nominate, in writing, one of his legal
heirs who is otherwise eligible for assignment, as the person in whose favour
the assignment shall stand transferred in the event of his death before the
expiry of the time limit prescribed in clause (i) of sub-rule (1) of rule
9.(6)(a)If an assignee dies after the execution of the deed of assignment in
Form F, but before the expiry of the time limit prescribed in clause (i) of
sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the assignment made in his favour shall stand
transferred in favour of the legal heir nominated by such assignee under sub-
rule (5) with effect from the date of death of the assignee. If the legal heir
nominated as above is not eligible for assignment on the date of the death of
the assignee or is not willing to accept, the assignment may be transferred to
any one of the eligible legal heirs of the deceased assignee;(b)On such
transfer of the assignment in favour of a legal heir of the deceased assignee,
the provisions of these rules, shall apply as if it were an assignment made
under sub-rule (4);(c)If none of the legal heirs of the deceased assignees are
eligible for assignment or are not willing to take up the land on assignment,
the land shall revert to the Government.(7)If an assignee dies before the
execution of the deed of assignment in Form F, the assignment will be
transferred in the name of an eligible legal heir of the deceased by agreement
among the heirs or by drawing lots. If such deceased assignee had remitted any
amount towards the value of the land, buildings and trees thereon, such amount
shall be treated as paid by the legal heir in whose favour the assignment is
transferred.]

### 8A. [ Computation of period. [Inserted by GO. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st
June 1979.]

\- The periods mentioned in rules 7 and 8 shall be counted from the last date
of publication referred to in rule 4.]

### 9. Conditions of assignment.

\- [(1)] [Rule 9 renumbered as sub-rule (l)by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the
21st June 1979.] The assignment of land shall be, subject to the following
conditions, namely:-(i)[ The land assigned shall not be sold or otherwise
alienated [before the expiry of the period specified in sub-clause (a) of
clause (iii) below:] [Substituted by GO. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.]Provided that the lands may be hypothecated to Government under the Land
Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (Central Act XIX of 1883) or the Agriculturists
Loans Act, 1884 (Central Act XII of 1884) or to a Co-operative Institution or
a scheduled bank authorised by the Government for affording credit to the
agriculturists under the schemes of institutional financing agricultural
credit as security for loans obtained for improvements to the lands:Provided
further that, at any later date, the lands assigned to a member of the
Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe shall not be sold to any person other than
a member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, as the case may be.](ii)[
If the land has been assigned, subject to the payment of value of the land and
buildings and trees thereon in instalments,, (a) the first instalment shall be
payable before the execution of the deed of assignment; (b) the second and
subsequent instalments of land value shall be payable on the 10th February of
every succeeding year [xxx] [Substituted by No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.]; (c) in the event of default in the payment of an instalment, the
amount of the instalment shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue; (d)
in the event of default of the payment of two consecutive instalments, the
amount already paid shall be liable to be forfeited to the Government and the
land shall be liable to be resumed; and (e) if in any year, due to adverse
seasonal conditions, the land revenue in respect of the land is remitted or
suspended, the recovery of the instalment payable in that year and of the
instalment payable in subsequent years shall be postponed by one
year.](iii)[(a)] [Renumbered as sub-clause (a) by GO. Ms. No. 1358, dated the
21st June 1979.] The land will vest absolutely in the assignee only after the
value of the land and the buildings and trees thereon is paid [in full or
after the expiry of a period of twenty years from the date of assignment
whichever is later.] [The words 'in full or after whichever is later'
substituted by G. O.Ms.No 271/87,dated the l2th November 1987.](b)[] [Inserted
by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.] [If at any time before the
expiry of the period specified in sub-clause (a) above,] [The words 'if at any
time .... sub-clause (a) above' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 271/87, dated the
12th November 1987.] the land assigned is required for any public purpose, the
assignment shall be modified or cancelled and the land shall be resumed by
Government. In such cases [the annual value fixed under Schedule III of the
Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu
Act 58 of 1961),] [The words 'the annual value (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961)'
substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 391, dated the 14th March 1985.] for use of the
land from the date of assignment to the date of resumption by Government and
the loans and advances, if any, granted for the improvement of the land on the
security of the land will be recoverable from the assignee. Subject to
adjustment of such dues, the assignee shall be entitled to refund of the
instalments of land value paid by him and reimbursement of the cost of any
permanent improvement effected or any structure such as wells, buildings,
etc., erected on the land at his own expense for agricultural purposes or for
his own residence.(iv)The assignee shall engage himself in the direct
cultivation of the land assigned:[Provided that this condition shall not be
applicable to persons referred to in rule 5(l)(v) and persons who are
physically or mentally disabled, women including widows, and old persons who
have no dependents or family members to do cultivation on their behalf.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.](v)The assignee shall
pay, on the due dates, the land revenue assessment, cesses and local taxes in
force, from time to time, in respect of the land assigned, with effect from
the year in which the assignment is sanctioned.(vi)All sums due to the
assignor by virtue of the assignment shall be recoverable from the assignee
and his properties, movable and immovable, under the provisions of the Tamil
Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864), as if such sums
were arrears of land revenue or in such other manner as the assignor may deem
fit.[(vi-a) The assignee shall pay the difference of the land value and
interest thereon if the amount payable to the land owner in respect of the
land is revised by or on the orders of the Land Tribunal, High Court, Land
Commissioner or other authority competent to make such revision.] [Inserted by
G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June 1979.](vii)The assignee shall abide by
such other conditions as are [Applicable to the assignment of Government waste
lands and as may be specified in the order of assignment.] [The words
'applicable to' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.](2)[ Where any violation of the conditions of assignment as prescribed
in sub-rule (1) or in the deed of assignment in Form F is noticed, the
assigning authority shall cancel the assignment:] [Added by G.O. Ms. No. 1358,
dated the 21st June 1979.]Provided that no such cancellation shall be ordered
without giving the assignee an opportunity to make his representation.

### 10. [ Appeals. [Substituted by GO. Ms. No. 1358, dated the 21st June
1979.]

(1)Any person aggrieved by the orders of the assigning authority under sub-
rule (4) of rule 8 may, within thirty days from the date of such order, appeal
to the appellate authority. In computing the period of thirty days, the day on
which the order appealed against was pronounced or communicated and the time
required for obtaining a certified copy of that order, shall be excluded. On
all copies issued, the date of the order, the date of communication, the date
of application for copy and the date on which the copy was ready for delivery
shall be entered. The Court-fee payable in respect of an appeal shall be one
rupee:Provided that the appellate authority may, in his discretion, allow
further time not exceeding thirty days for the filing of any such appeal if he
is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the
appeal within the period specified in this rule.(2)No appeal shall be admitted
unless accompanied by certified copies of the order or orders appealed
against.(3)On receipt of an appeal, the appellate authority may, after giving
the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such orders as he
deems fit.(4)The orders in appeal shall be communicated to the parties
concerned.]

### 10A. [ [Inserted by GO. Ms. No. 1232, dated the 27th July 1984.]

(1)Any person aggrieved by the orders of the assigning authority under sub-
rule (2) of rule 9 may, within thirty days from the date of such order, appeal
to the appellate authority. In computing the period of thirty days, the day on
which the order appealed against was pronounced or communicated and the time
required for obtaining a certified copy of that order, shall be excluded. On
all copies issued, the date of the order, the date of communication, the date
of the application for copy and the date on which the copy was ready for
delivery shall be entered. The Court-fee payable in respect of an appeal shall
be one rupee:Provided that the appellate authority may, in his discretion,
allow further time not exceeding thirty days for the filing of any such appeal
if he is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring
the appeal within the period specified in this rule.(2)No appeal shall be
admitted unless accompanied by certified copies of the order or orders
appealed against.(3)On receipt of an appeal, the appellate authority may,
after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such
orders as he deems fit.(4)The orders in appeal shall be communicated to the
parties concerned.(5)If in a case where no appeal has been presented under
rule 10-A, at any time within five years of the date of the order passed under
rule 9 (2), the appellate authority is satisfied that there has been a
material irregularity the procedure or that the order was grossly inequitable
or that it was passed under a mistake of fact, he may set aside, cancel or in
any way modify order.]

### 11. [ Revision. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1870, dated the 8th September
1969.]

(1)The order of the Assigning authority, if no appeal is presented, or of the
[Appellate authority] if an appeal is presented, shall subject to the
provisions of sub-rules (2) to (6), be final.(2)If in a case where no appeal
has been presented under rule 10, at any time within three years of the date
of the order of assignment, the [Appellate authority] [The words 'appellate
authority' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1358. dated the 21st June 1979.] is
satisfied that there has been a material irregularity in the procedure or that
the order was grossly inequitable or that it was passed under a mistake of
fact or owing to fraud or misrepresentation or that the extent assigned
together with other lands, if any, held by the assignee (other than a co-
operative society) was in excess of [three acres of dry land or one and a half
acres of wet land,] [The words 'three acres wet land' substituted by G.O. Ms.
No. 715, dated the 24th March 1980.] he may set aside, cancel or in any way
modify the order.(3)[ The Land Commissioner may, at any time, of his own
motion, within a period of five years from the date of the order of assignment
or the date of the order of the appellate authority, as the case may be, set
aside, cancel, revise or in any way modify the order of assignment or the
order of appeal or revision or issue such directions as he may deem fit, if he
is satisfied that the order was grossly inequitable. If he is satisfied that
there has been a material irregularity in the procedure or that the order was
passed under a mistake of fact or owing to fraud or misrepresentation or that
the assignee is not eligible for assignment or that the extent assigned
together with other lands, if any, held by the assignee or the members of his
family other than a co-operative society exceeds the limits specified in sub-
rule (2) of rule 5, he may exercise such powers without any limit of time. He
may also issue such directions as he may deem fit even while the proceedings
are in progress before the assigning authority or the appellate authority.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 391, dated the 14th March 1985.](4)[ The
Government may, at any time, within one year, from the date of the Land
Commissioner's order under sub-rule (3) [xxx] [Substituted by GO. Ms. No.
1358, dated the 21st June 1979.] set aside, cancel or in any way modify the
order of the Land Commissioner, if they are satisfied that the order was
grossly inequitable or there has been a material irregularity, in the
procedure, or where it was passed under a mistake of fact or owing to fraud or
misrepresentation.(5)The authorities competent to pass orders in revision
under this rule may also grant stay, pending orders in revision.](6)No order
under this rule shall be passed without giving an opportunity to the assignee
of being heard.]

### 12. [ [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 391, dated the 14th March 1985.]

In the event of the modification or cancellation of an assignment, the land
assigned shall be resumed from the assignee, either in part or in full, as the
case may be, and, on such resumption, the assignee shall not be entitled to an
amount for any improvement effected by him on the land. The value of the land,
buildings and trees thereon paid by him may, at the discretion of the
assigning authority, be refunded to him, in part or in full. The assignee
shall be liable for payment, for each year of occupation, an amount equal to
the annual value as calculated in the manner specified in Part I of Schedule
III to the Act and ten per cent of the value of trees, structures and fixtures
thereon determined:Provided that where the land was such that it could not be
cultivated without considerable work and expenditure and also the land was
left fallow during any period, the amount may be waived for that period. The
assignee shall also be liable for damages, if any, caused by him to the land.
The amount for the occupation and the damages shall be recovered from him by
deduction from the value of the land, buildings and trees thereon paid by him,
and if the amount for the occupation and the damages exceed the value of the
land, building and trees thereon paid by him, such excess shall be recovered
from him, as if it were an arrear of land revenue.]

### 13.

Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to affect the power of the Government
to retain such portion of the surplus land acquired by the Government as is
necessary for the benefit of the public.

### 14. [ Assignment of land. [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 59, dated the 7th
January 1981 and substituted by No. 101, dated the 20th January 1989.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the lands held by a
sugar factory and acquired by the Government as surplus lands may be assigned
to the landless agricultural labourers if such lands are not required by the
Government on collection of market value, provided that the lands held by such
landless agricultural labourers after such assignment do not exceed the
ceiling limit specified in sub-rule (2) of rule 5.(2)The assignment of land
under sub-rule (1) shall be, subject to the following conditions,
namely:-(a)The assignment shall be modified or cancelled if it is found that
the extent assigned to the assignee is in excess of the limits prescribed in
the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 58 of 1961) or the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land)
Rules, 1965, as the case may be.(b)In the event of the modification or
cancellation of the assignment, as aforesaid, the land assigned shall be
resumed from the assignee, in part or in full, as the case may be, and on such
resumption, the assignee shall not be entitled to any amount for any
improvement effected by him on the land, but the value of the land, buildings
and trees thereon paid by him may, at the discretion of the Government, be
refunded to him, in part or in full. The assignee shall also be liable for the
damages, if any, caused by him to the land and the amount for the damages
shall be recovered from the assignee by deduction from the value of the land,
buildings and trees thereon paid by him and if the amount for the damages
exceeds the value of the land, such excess shall be recovered from him as if
it were an arrear of land revenue.(c)All sums found due to the Government
under, or by virtue of the order of assignment, shall be recovered from the
assignee and his movable and immovable properties under the provisions of the
Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1854 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864), as if such
sums were arrears of land revenue, or in any other manner as the Government
may deem fit.(d)The annual assessment on the land shall be liable to
periodical revision on resettlement.(e)The land assigned shall not be sold or
otherwise alienated before the expiry of twenty years from the date of
assignment. The land assigned to a member of Scheduled Caste or to a member of
Scheduled Tribe shall not be alienated to any person other than a member of
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, as the case may be:Provided that the
land may be mortgaged to Government under the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883
(Central Act XIX of 1883) or the Agriculturists Loans Act, 1884 (Central Act
XII of 1884) or to a co-operative institution or a Scheduled bank authorised
by the Government for affording credit to the agriculturists under the schemes
of institutional financing of agricultural credits, as security for loans
obtained for meeting cast of assignment and improvement to the lands.(f)(i)The
Government will give an interest subsidy of 5 per cent on the loans raised by
the assignee towards the cost of assignment.(ii)The repayment of the loan with
interest will be guaranteed by the Government.(g)The assignee shall engage
himself in direct cultivation of the land assigned:Provided that this
condition shall not be applicable to persons referred to in rule 5(1)(v) and
persons who are physically or mentally disabled, women including widows and
old persons who have no dependents or family members to do cultivation on
their behalf.(h)The assignee shall pay, on the due dates, the land revenue
assessment, cesses and local taxes, in force, from time to time in respect of
the land assigned, with effect from the year in which the assignment is
sanctioned.(i)The assignee shall pay the difference of the land value and the
interest thereon, if the amount payable to the land owner in respect of the
land is revised by, or on the orders of, any competent authority.(3)The
assignment shall be liable to be cancelled in case of violation of (any of the
conditions of assignment referred to in sub-rule (2).]

### 15. [ Sale of land. [Added by GO. Ms. No. 192, dated the 6th September
1988.]

\- Any surplus land referred to in sub-section (4) of section 94-A maybe sold
under these rules, on collection of market value, to any person, whose holding
after such purchase does not exceed the ceiling limit.]Form A[See rule 3(1) of
the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965]Register of
Surplus Land Acquired by Government under the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Fixation Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961)Name of the
district:Name of the taluk:Number and name of the village:

Serial numbers | Date of entry in the register | Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  | A. C. |  | Rs. P. |   
|  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Date of publication of notification under section18 (1) |  Details of building (Kachcha or pucca) masonrywells (in use or not in use) tube wells (in use) |  Details of trees) fruit of timber trees or youngones) |  How disposed of, with particulars of the personto whom assigned and the number and other details of the papersrelating to the disposal of the land. |  Value of the land and of the buildings and treesthereon, if any to be collected from the assignee; how the valuewas arrived at and the manner of collection | Remark  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13)  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
  
Form B[See rule 4 of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land)
Rules, 1965]Notice Inviting Applications for Assignment of Surplus Land
Acquired under the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961)(1)It is hereby notified that the land
specified in the Schedule below, which has been acquired by the Government
under sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation
of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961), is available for
disposal under section 94 of the said Act and the rules made thereunder; Any
person desiring to apply for the assignment of the land may present his
application in Form C or send it by registered post to the assigning authority
within thirty days from the date of the publication of this notice
in.village/town where the land is situated.(2)The following persons and
societies shall be eligible for the assignment of land and shall be entitled
to preference in the order given below:-(i)A person who has been cultivating
the lands as on the date of the commencement of the Act and who is completely
dispossessed of the land, which is declared as surplus as a result of the
provisions of the Act:Provided that the person should not have surrendered the
land subsequent to the date of the commencement of the Act;(ii)A person whose
extent of holding is reduced below three acres of dry land or one and a half
acres of wet land held by him partly as cultivating tenant and partly as owner
or wholly as cultivating tenant by virtue of the provisions of the Act;(iii)A
landless agricultural labourer belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled
Tribe, who contributes his physical labour or that of any member of his family
in the cultivation of the land;(iv)A person who is, or who has been a member
of the Armed Forces including persons, who have served in the Indian National
Army or the Ex-Assam Rifles Personnel or any Para-military force and members
of the Armed Forces who retired or were disbanded before the 26th January 1950
and dependents of the persons of the above mentioned categories killed in
action, namely, wife, widowed mother, minor sons and minor daughters. The
servicemen not killed in action, but disabled and alive, can get surplus land
in their own names;(v)A repatriate from Burma or Sri Lanka who is likely to
contribute his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in the
cultivation of the land and who has brought to India assets not exceeding Rs.
10,000 (rupees ten thousand only) in value;(vi)A landless agricultural
labourer other than a landless agricultural labourer referred to in item (iii)
above, who contributes his own physical labour or that of any member of his
family in the cultivation of the land;(vii)A cultivating tenant who is holding
land which is less than three acres of dry land or one and a half acres of wet
land in extent;(viii)A co-operative farming society, the members of which are
landless agricultural labourers:Provided that the extent of land assigned to
the society together with the land, if any, already held by the society does
not exceed the ceiling area.(3)The total extent of land that may be assigned
to any person referred to in items (i) to (viii) in paragraph 2, together with
the extent of other land, if any, already held by such person, or if such
person is a member of a family, by such family, shall not exceed three acres
of dry land or one and a half acres of wet land.(4)The assignment shall be
subject to the conditions contained in Appendix I to the Tamil Nadu Land
Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965.Form C[See rule 7 of the Tamil
Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965]Application for
Assignment of Surplus Land under Section 94 of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961)

### 1\. Name and address of the applicant.

### 2\. Particulars of the land applied for.

District | Taluk | village | Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(a) | (b) | (c) | (d) | (e) | (f) | (g) | (h)  
|  |  |  | A.C. | Rs. P |  |   
  
### 3\. Particulars of the land, if any, already held by the applicant and the
other members of his family.

District | Taluk | village | Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(a) | (b) | (c) | (d) | (e) | (f) | (g) | (h)  
|  |  |  | A.C. | Rs. P |  |   
  
### 4\. To which of the categories specified in paragraph 2 ot horm ri does
the applicant belong ?

### 5\. If he claims to belong to category (i) in paragraph 2 of Form B. -

(a)how long has he been cultivating the land ?(b)has he executed lease deeds
?(c)is he registered in the Record of Tenancy Rights ?(d)has he surrendered
the land subsequent to the date of the commencement of the Act and, if so,
when and why ?

### 6\. If he claims to belong to category (iii) in paragraph 2 of Form B. -

(a)to which community does he belong ?(b)means of
livelihood.........(c)average income per month.......(d)will he be able to
cultivate the land contributing his own physical labour or that of any member
of his family ?

### 7\. (a) If he is person other than a dependent, falling under category
(iv) specified in paragraph 2 of Form B. -

(i)his position in the Armed Forces, the Indian National Army, the Ex-Assam
Rifles personnel or any Para-Military Force;(ii)period of service in the Armed
Forces, the Indian National Army, the Ex-Assam Rifles Personnel or any Para-
Military Force;(iii)the date of discharge and reasons thereof, if he had been
discharged;(iv)present means of livelihood.(b)If he is a dependent as referred
to in category (iv) in paragraph 2 of Form B,----(i)the name of the person
killed in action;(ii)the position he held in the Armed Forces, the Indian
National Army, the Ex-Assam Rifles Personnel or any Para-Military Force at the
time of his death;(iii)the date of his death in action;(iv)the relationship of
the applicant to the person referred to in sub-paragraph (1) above;(v)how is
the applicant supporting himself after death of the serviceman ?(vi)if
employed, details..........

### 8\. If he is a person claiming under category (v) in Paragraph 2 of Form .
-

(a)is he a repatriate from Burma or Sri Lanka ?(b)what is the value of assets
brought by him to India from Burma or Sri Lanka ?(c)his present means of
livelihood and income;(d)assistance secured by him for rehabilitation;(e)will
he be able to cultivate the land by contributing his own labour or that of any
member of his family ?

### 9\. If he is a person claiming under category (vi) specified in paragraph
2 of Form B. -

(a)means of livelihood-(i)income from agricultural labour;(ii)other
sources.(b)will he be able to cultivate the land by contributing his own
physical labour or that of any member of his family.

### 10\. If he is a person claiming under category (vii) specified in
paragraph 2 of Form B -

(a)the extent of land held-(i)as owner in terms of ordinary acres and standard
acres;(ii)as tenant in terms of ordinary acres and standard acres;(b)will he
be able to cultivate the land by contributing his own labour or that of any
member of his family.

### 11\. (a) What is the extent of land, if any, held by (i) applicant (ii)
parents (iii) members of the family of the applicant in terms of ordinary
acres and standard acres ?

(b)Number of members in the family of the applicant (relationship and age may
be furnished).

### 12\. Total annual income of the applicant Rs.

(a)From lands cultivated as owner/tenant;(b)From agricultural labour;(c)From
other sources (Details should be given for each such source).Total

### 12\.

-A. Total annual income of the other members of the family of the applicant.

Details of the other members of the family ofthe applicant | From lands cultivated as owner/as tenant | From agricultural labour |  From other sources (Details of occupation likeprofession in Government Services, public under takings, etc,employment in private undertakings, companies, etc. business,etc. should be given for each such source of income) | Total  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |   
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5)  
(1) Spouse (name to be specified) | Rs. | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
(2) Minor sons | Name to be specified |  |  |   
(a)... | (") |  |  |   
(b)... | (") |  |  |   
(c)... | (") |  |  |   
(3) Unmarried daughters. |  |  |  |   
(a)... | (") |  |  |   
(b)... | (") |  |  |   
(c)... | (") |  |  |   
(4) Minor grandsons. |  |  |  |   
(a)... | (") |  |  |   
(b)... | (") |  |  |   
(c)... | (") |  |  |   
(5) Unmarried granddaughters. |  |  |  |   
(a)... | (") |  |  |   
(b)... | (") |  |  |   
(c)... | (") |  |  |   
Total |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - If the number of minor sons, unmarried daughters, minor grandsons and
unmarried granddaughters exceeds the numbers for which space has been allotted
above, additional sub-items shall be added, under the corresponding category.

### 13\. Postal address of the place of the normal residence of the applicant
j

### 14\. Other particulars (any other particulars) which the applicant desires
to furnish should be furnished here.

Signature of the applicant.DeclarationI hereby declare that the particulars
furnished in the application are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true
and correct.I also declare that I have read and understood the conditions of
assignment specified in Appendix I appended to the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965 and annexed to this application and I
shall abide by the conditions.Signature of the applicantForm D[See rule 8(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules 1965]Notice of
Enquiry Under Rule 8(2)The following list of applications for assignment of
surplus land is hereby published for general information.

### 2\. The applications will be enquired into on (date) at (Place).

The applicants are hereby requested to appear before the enquiry officer on
the said date.

Serial number | Name and address of the applicant | District | Taluk | village | Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11)  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Rs.P. |  |   
  
Place:

Dated: | Assigning authority.  
---|---  
  
Form E[See rule 8(6) of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land)
Rules, 1965]Notice To The Assignee of Surplus Land under the Tamil Nadu Land
Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of
1961)With reference to his application, dated for assignment of surplus land,
Thiru is informed that it is proposed to assign to him the land, the details
of which are given below:Name of the district:Name of the taluk:Number and
name of the village:

Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries |  Date of publication of notification under section18 (1) |  Details of building (Kachcha or pucca) masonrywells (in use or not in use) tube wells (in use) |  Details of trees( fruit or timber trees or youngones) |  Value of the land and of the buildings and treesthereon, if any to be collected from the assignee; how the valuewas arrived at  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9)  
|  |  | Rs. P. |  |  |  | Rs. P. |   
  
The value of the land and of the buildings and trees thereon amounting to
Rs.................(in figures and words), is payable either in one lump sum
or in twenty equal annual instalments of Rs...............(in figures and
words). Where the value is paid in instalments, the amount outstanding after
the payment of each instalment will bear interest of five per cent per annum.
The first instalment shall be payable before the execution of the deed of
assignment. The second and subsequent instalments of land value shall be
payable on the 10th day of February of every succeeding year.Accordingly,
Thiru is hereby directed to remit into the treasury at..............either the
entire value or, at his option, the first instalment thereof and to produce
the treasury chalan before the assigning
authority,..............on............(date)at............(time)in...........
(place).Thiru is hereby informed that he will be required to execute a deed of
assignment in Form F on the above date.Thiru..................is also informed
that the land value specified above is provisional and liable for revision if
the amount payable to the land owner in respect of the land is revised by or
on the orders of the Land Tribunal, High Court, Land Commissioner or other
authority competent to make such revision.Station:Date:Signature and
designation of the assigning authority.Form F[See rule 8(6) of the Tamil Nadu
Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land Rules, 1965]Deed of Assignment of
Surplus Land Under Section 94 of The Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of
Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961)This deed of assignment
made on the day of in the year one thousand nine hundred and between the
Governor of Tamil Nadu (hereinafter referred to as "the assignor") of the one
part and Thiru..... (here enter name, age, address, etc.) (hereinafter
referred to as 'the assignee') of the other part;Whereas the assignee has
applied for the assignment, and the assignor has sanctioned the assignment in
favour of the assignee, of the lands mentioned and described in the Schedule
hereunder written;Now these presents witness and it is hereby mutually agreed
as follows:-In consideration of the sum of Rs..........(here enter the amount
in figures and words) being the value of the said lands and of the buildings
and trees thereon, remitted into the treasury by the assignee.ORIn
consideration of the sum of Rs..........(here enter the amount in figures and
words) being the first instalment of the value of the said lands and of the
buildings and trees thereon remitted into the treasury by the assignee and of
the payments to be made under clause 2 below.

### 1\. The assignor both hereby demise unto the assignee by way of
assignment, all the lands mentioned and described in the Schedule hereunder
written, to hold the same permanently and for ever.

### 2\. The assignee shall pay the balance of the value of the said land and
of the buildings and trees thereon in equal annual instalments, each
instalment amounting to Rs...........(here enter the amount in figures and
words) together with the interest, at five per cent per annum on the amount
outstanding. The payments are due on the 10th day of February of every
succeeding year during the next years, commencing with the year 20.... and
shall be paid into the treasury to the credit of the State Government.

### 3\. The assignee shall pay the difference of land value and the interest
thereon, if the amount payable to the land owner in respect of the land is
revised by, or on the orders of, any competent authority.

### 4\. The deed of assignment shall be subject to the conditions specified in
Appendix I appended to Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land)
Rules, 1965 which is annexed to the deed and shall form part of this deed.

## Schedule

Name of the district.Name of the taluk.Number and name of the village.

Survey number | Extent | Classification | Assessment | Boundaries | Date |  Details of building (Kachcha or pucca) masonrywells (in use or not in use) tube wells (in use) |  Details of trees( fruit or timber trees or youngones)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8)  
|  |  | Rs. P. |  |  |  |   
  
In witness whereof Thiru...............the assigning authority, acting for and
on behalf, and by order and under the direction of the Government of Tamil
Nadu and Thiru...........the assignee, have hereunto set their hands the day
and year first above written.Signed, sealed and delivered by the above named
Thiru .................. assigning authority (the assignor),In the presence of
(witnesses)(1)(2)Signed by the above named Thiru.......(the assignee)In the
presence of (witnesses)(1)(2)[Appendix 1] [Appendix was added by G. O. Ms. No.
1358, dated the 21st June 1979 and amended by G. O. Ms. No. 715, dated the
24th March 1980, G. O. Ms. No. 391, dated the 14th March 1985, G. O. Ms. No.
271/87, dated the 12th November 1987.]Conditions of Assignments of Surplus
Lands

### 1\. The assignment shall be liable to be modified or cancelled, if it is
found that it was made under a mistake of fact or owing to misrepresentation
or fraud or that there was an irregularity in the procedure. The assignment
shall also be modified or cancelled if it is shown that the extent assigned to
the assignee is in excess of the limits prescribed in the Tamil Nadu Land
Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961) or
the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Disposal of Surplus Land) Rules, 1965, as the
case may be.

### 2\. In the event of the modification or cancellation of an assignment, the
land assigned shall be assumed from the assignee, either in part or in full,
as the case may be, and, on such resumption, the assignee shall not be
entitled to an amount for any improvement effected by him on the land. The
value of the land, buildings and trees thereon paid by him may, at the
discretion of the assigning authority, be refunded to him, in part or in full.
The assignee shall be liable for payment, for each year of occupation, an
amount equal to the annual value as calculated in the manner specified in Part
1 of Schedule III to the Act and ten per cent of the value of trees,
structures and fixtures thereon determined:

Provided that where the land was such that it could not be cultivated without
considerable work and expenditure and also the land was left fallow during any
period, the amount may be waived for that period. The assignee shall also be
liable for damages, if any, caused by him to the land. The amount for the
occupation and the damages shall be recovered from him by deduction from the
value of the land, buildings and trees thereon paid by him, if the amount for
the occupation and the damages exceeds the value of the lands, buildings and
trees thereon paid by him, such excess shall be recovered from him, as if it
were an arrear of land revenue.

### 3\. All sums found due to the Government under, or by virtue of the order
of assignment, shall be recovered from the assignee and his properties,
movable and immovable under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery
Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864) as if such sums were arrears of land
revenue, or in any other manner as the Government may deem fit.

### 4\. The annual assessment on the land shall be liable to periodical
revision at resettlement.

### 5\. The Government reserves the right to levy ground rent, in lieu of
assessment, if the land or a portion thereof is used for a no. - agricultural
purpose and such ground rent shall be liable to revision, from time to time,
in accordance with the rules in force.

### 6\. The land assigned shall not be sold or otherwise alienated before the
expiry of the period specified in paragraph 8 below and not even thereafter in
respect of lands assigned to a member of Scheduled Castes or to a member of
Scheduled Tribes except to other members of the Scheduled Castes or to the
member of the Scheduled Tribes, as the case may be:

Provided that the land may be hypothecated to Government under the Land
Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (Central Act XIX of 1883) and the Agricultural
Loans Act, 1884 (Central Act XII of 1884), or to a co-operative institution or
a scheduled bank authorised by the Government for affording credit to the
agriculturists under the scheme of institutional financing of agricultural
credits as security for loans obtained for improvements to the lands.

### 7\. Where the value of the land and buildings and trees thereon is payable
in instalments. -

(a)The first instalment shall be payable before the execution of the deed of
assignment;(b)The second and subsequent instalments of the land value shall be
payable on .the 10th day of February of every succeeding year;(c)In the event
of default in the payment of an instalment, the amount of the instalment shall
be recovered as an arrear of land revenue;(d)In the event of default in the
payment of two consecutive instalments, the amount already paid shall be
liable to be forfeited to the Government and the land shall be liable to be
resumed; and(e)If in any year, due to adverse seasonal conditions, the land
revenue in respect of the land is remitted or suspended, the recovery of the
instalment payable in that year and of the instalments payable in subsequent
years shall be postponed by one year.

### 8\. Subject to the conditions of this deed, the land will vest absolutely
in the assignee only after the value of the land, buildings and trees thereon
is paid in full or after the expiry of a period of twenty years from the date
of assignment, whichever is later. If any land assigned under these rules is
required for any public purpose before the recovery of the last instalment of
land value due from the assignee, the land may be resumed by the Government.
In such cases, the annual value as fixed under Schedule III of the Tamil Nadu
Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Amendment Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act
11 of 1979), for use of the land from the date of assignment, to the date of
resumption by Government and the loans and advances, if any, granted for the
improvement of the land or on the security of the land will be recoverable
from the assignee. Subject to adjustment against such dues, the assignee shall
be entitled to refund of the instalments of land value paid by him and
reimbursement of the cost of any permanent improvements effected or any
structure such as wells, buildings, etc. erected on the land at his own
expense for agricultural purposes or for his own residence.

### 9\. The assignee shall engage himself in direct cultivation of the land
assigned:

Provided that this condition shall not be applicable to persons referred to in
rule (l)(v), and persons who are physically or mentally disabled, woman,
including widows and old persons who have no dependants, or family members to
do cultivation on their behalf.

### 10\. The assignee shall pay, on the dates, the land revenue assessment,
cesses, and local taxes in force, from time to time, in respect of the land
assigned, with effect from the year in which the assignment is sanctioned.

### 11\. The assignee shall pay the difference of the land value and the
interest thereon, if the amount payable to the landowner in respect of the
land is revised by, or on the orders of, any competent authority.

### 12\. The assignment shall be liable to be cancelled in case of violation
of any of the conditions of assignment.

### 13\. The assignee shall abide by such other conditions as may be imposed
under rule 9.

