## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University Act, 2013

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University Act, 2013

## Act 30 of 2013

  * Published on 13 November 2013 
  * Commenced on 13 November 2013 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 November 2013.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University Act, 2013(Act No. 30 of 2013)[Dated
13.11.2013]An Act to provide for the establishment of a University for the
development of music and fine arts and for the furtherance of the advancement
of learning and prosecution of research, documentation, publishing of audio
and video recording popularising of all branches of music, fine arts and
performing arts in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-fourth Year of the Republic
of India as follows : -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University Act,
2013.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies to
-(a)the colleges and institutions specified in the Schedule; and(b)all
colleges and institutions which may be affiliated to, or established or
maintained by, the University in accordance with the provisions of this Act
and the statutes and regulations made thereunder.(4)It shall come into force
on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Academic Council"
means the Academic Council of the University;(b)"affiliated college" means any
college situate within the University area and affiliated to the University
and providing courses of study for admission to the examination for degrees,
diplomas or other academic distinctions of the University and includes a
college deemed to be affiliated to the University under this Act;(c)"appointed
date" means such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint under
sub-section (4) of section 1;(d)"approved college" means any college situate
within the University area and approved by the University and providing
courses of study for admission to the examination for titles and diplomas of
the University and includes a college deemed to be affiliated to the
University under this Act;(e)"college" means any college or institution
established or maintained by, or approved by, or affiliated to the University
providing courses of study or training or providing for prosecution of
research or providing extension education in music and fine arts for admission
to the examination for degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of
the University;(f)"Faculty" means a Faculty of the University;(g)"fine arts"
means painting, sculpture, print making, traditional architecture, traditional
sculpture, traditional painting and drawing and includes industrial design in
ceramics, industrial design in textile, visual communication design and such
other fine arts, as the University may decide;(h)"Government" means the State
Government;(i)"hostel" means a unit of residence for students of the
University maintained or recognised by it, either as a part of, or separate
from, college of the University;(j)"performing arts" means and includes Vocal,
Violin, Veena, Mridangam, Nathaswaram, Thavil, Folk Arts, Bharathanatyam and
such other performing arts, as the University may decide;(k)"prescribed" means
prescribed by the statutes or regulations made under this Act;(l)"regulations"
and "statutes" mean respectively, the regulations and statutes made under this
Act;(m)"Schedule" means the Schedule appended to this Act;(n)"teachers" mean
such Professors, emeritus Professors, Readers, Associate Professors, Assistant
Professors, Lecturers and other like persons as may be declared by the
statutes to be teachers;(o)"University" means the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine
Arts University established under section 3;(p)"University area" means the
area to which this Act extends under sub-section (2) of section
1;(q)"University Grants Commission" means the Commission established under
section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956;(r)"University
Library" means a library maintained by the University, whether instituted by
it or not.

## Chapter II  
The University

### 3. Establishment of University.

(1)For the development of music and fine arts and for furthering the
advancement of learning and prosecution of research in music and fine arts, on
and from the appointed date, there shall be established a University by the
name, "The Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University".(2)The University shall
be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and
shall sue and be sued by the said name.(3)The headquarters of the University
shall be located within the limits of the Chennai city or in any place within
a radius of hundred kilometers around those limits.

### 4. Objects of University.

\- The objects of the University shall be -(a)to provide instructions in all
branches of music, fine arts and performing arts and to make provisions for
research and advancement of studies in music, fine arts and performing arts
and dissemination of knowledge thereof;(b)to function as a high-level
teaching, training and research organisation in all forms and genres of music,
fine arts and performing arts and their studies;(c)to preserve, foster,
popularise and promote the traditional system of Indian music, performing arts
and fine arts with an emphasis on various forms of music, fine arts and
performing arts practiced in Tamil Nadu;(d)to highlight the wisdom contained
in music, fine arts and performing arts and above mentioned disciplines and
their relevance to the modern World;(e)to make music and performing arts
popular among all the folks of the society;(f)to prepare, consolidate, revive,
promote, translate, publish all forms and genres in music, fine arts,
performing arts and ancient manuscripts in Tamil and other languages;(g)to
regularise the study of all forms of music, fine arts and performing
arts;(h)to foster and formulate programmes and their relevance and
significance of music and fine arts in the modern scientific technological
days and to strengthen the rich tradition and heritage of music and
dance;(i)to computerise and digitise the entire corpus of manuscripts and
music and fine arts texts and also to bring out Research Journals of high
standard through the University and its various departments;(j)to establish
high-tech Studio with Audio-Video recording and Photography facilities to
record and shoot the music, fine arts and performing arts and to provide live
performance and photographs;(k)to organise music, fine arts and performing
arts concerts, seminars, work-shops, conferences, training programmes with a
view to promote awareness and knowledge about the messages carried on in
ancient music and performing arts traditions;(l)(i)to establish directorates
for supportive education leading to all forms of music, fine arts and
performing arts;(ii)to establish distance and online education; and(iii)to
establish a publication department to publish books and works related to
music, fine arts and performing arts;(m)to establish chairs in various
discipline for conducting advanced research and to conduct hobby classes for
all sections of the society;(n)to conduct programme to create awareness,
interest and to popularise music, fine arts and performing arts;(o)to
experiment music, fine arts and performing arts as a therapy for health and
medical ailments;(p)to do such acts and other things, whether incidental or
not as may be required in order to promote the objectives of the
University;(q)to create a net work of music, fine arts and performing arts,
Institutions and Educational Research Oriented Institutions having similar
objectives with reciprocal arrangements and facilities for interaction with
the view to foster a synergy of efforts made by all such Universities and
Institutions;(r)to take appropriate measures for promoting Inter-disciplinary
studies and research in the University and such other related activities
congenial at the University level; and(s)to impart teaching of music, fine
arts and performing arts.

### 5. Powers and functions of University.

\- The powers and functions of the University shall be, -(a)to institute
degrees, diploma and other academic distinctions in music, fine arts and
performing arts;(b)to confer degrees, diploma and other academic distinctions
in music, fine arts and performing arts on persons who shall have carried out
research in the University or in any other Institution or Centre recognised by
the University under conditions prescribed, irrespective of their religion,
race, creed, caste, sex or class or any of them;Explanation. - For the purpose
of this clause and other provisions of this Act, "Institution" or "Centre"
recognised by the University shall mean an Institution or a Centre situated in
India or in other countries, recognised by the University for the purpose of
furthering the objectives of the University, after obtaining due permission
from the authorities concerned.(c)to confer honorary degrees or other academic
distinctions in music, fine arts and performing arts in the manner
prescribed;(d)to supervise and control hostels and to regulate and enforce
discipline among the students of the University and to make arrangements for
promoting their health and general welfare;(e)to co-operate with other
Universities and authorities in such manner and for such purposes as it may,
further time to time, be prescribed;(f)to establish and maintain University
libraries, research stations, museums for research and publication
bureau;(g)to create administrative, research and other posts and to appoint
persons to such posts;(h)to institute and award fellowships, including
travelling fellowships, scholarships, medals and prizes in the manner
prescribed;(i)to accept, hold and manage any endowments, donations or funds
which may have become vested in the University by grant, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and invest such endowments, donations or funds in any
manner, that may deem fit:Provided that no donations from a foreign country,
foreign foundation or from any person in such a country shall be accepted by
the University save with the approval of the Government;(j)to establish,
maintain or recognise hostels for students of the University and residential
accommodation for the staff of University and to withdraw any such
recognition;(k)to fix fees and to demand and receive such fees, as may be
prescribed;(l)to hold and manage endowments and other properties and funds of
the University;(m)to borrow money with the approval of the Government on the
security of the property of the University for the purpose of the
University;(n)to enter into agreement with other bodies or persons for the
purpose of promoting the objects of the University, including the assuming of
the management of any institution under them and-the taking over of the rights
and liabilities;(o)to acquire and hold property, both movable and immovable,
to lease, sell or otherwise transfer any movable or immovable property which
may have become vested in or been acquired by it for the purpose of the
University with the prior approval of the Government and to enter into
contract and to do all other things necessary for the purposes of this Act.

### 6. Colleges not to be affiliated to any other University.

\- No college imparting music and fine arts within the University area shall
be affiliated to any University other than the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts
University:Provided that this section shall not apply to the colleges other
than the colleges specified in the Schedule, imparting music and fine arts,
affiliated to any other University on the appointed date.

### 7. Visitation.

(1)The Chancellor shall have the right to cause an inspection or inquiry to be
made, by such person or persons as he/she may direct, of the University, its
buildings, libraries, museums and equipments, and of any institutions,
maintained or recognised by the University and also of the research, teaching
and other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause an inquiry to
be made in respect of any matter connected with the University. The Chancellor
shall, in every case give notice to the University of his/her intention to
cause such inspection or inquiry to be made and the University shall be
entitled to be represented thereat.(2)The Chancellor shall communicate to the
Syndicate his/her views with reference to the results of such inspection or
inquiry and may, after ascertaining the opinion of the Syndicate thereon,
advise the University upon the action to be taken and fix a time limit for
taking such action.(3)The Syndicate shall report to the Chancellor, the
action, if any which is proposed to be taken, or has been taken upon the
results of such inspection or inquiry. Such report shall be submitted within
such time as the Chancellor may direct.(4)Where the Syndicate does not take
action to the satisfaction of the Chancellor within the time limit as may be
fixed under sub-section (2), the Chancellor may, after considering any
explanation furnished or representation made by the Syndicate, issue such
directions as he/she may think fit, and the Syndicate shall comply with such
directions. In the event of the Syndicate not complying with such directions
within such time as may be fixed in that behalf by the Chancellor, the
Chancellor shall have power to appoint any person or body to comply with such
directions and make such orders as may be necessary for the expenses thereof.

## Chapter III  
Officers of University

### 8. Officers of University.

\- The University shall consist of the following Officers, namely : -(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The
Registrar;(5)The Finance Officer;(6)The Controller of Examinations;(7)The Dean
of Faculties; and(8)Such other persons as may be declared by the statutes to
be officers of the University.

### 9. Chancellor.

(1)The Chief Minister of the State of Tamil Nadu shall be the Chancellor of
the University. He/She shall by virtue of his/her office be the head of the
University and shall, when present, preside at any convocation of the
University and confer degrees, diploma or other academic distinctions upon
persons entitled to receive them.(2)Where power is conferred upon the
Chancellor to nominate persons to the authorities, the Chancellor shall, to
the extent necessary, nominate persons to represent interests not otherwise
adequately represented.(3)The Chancellor may, on his/her own motion or on
application, call for and examine the record of any officer or authority of
the University in respect of any proceedings to satisfy himself/herself as to
the regularity of such proceedings or the correctness, legality or propriety
of any decision taken or order passed therein, and if, in any case, it appears
to the Chancellor that any such decision or orders shall be modified,
annulled, revised or remitted for reconsideration, he/she may pass orders
accordingly:Provided that every application to the Chancellor for the exercise
of the powers under this section shall be preferred within three months from
the date on which the proceedings, decision or order to which the application
relates was communicated to the applicant:Provided further that no order
prejudicial to any person shall be passed unless such person has been given an
opportunity of making his representation.(4)The Chancellor shall exercise such
other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred on him/her by
or under this Act.

### 10. Pre-Chancellor.

(1)The Minister in-charge of portfolio of Culture in the State of Tamil Nadu
shall be the Pro-Chancellor of the University.(2)The Pro-Chancellor shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred on him by or
under this Act.

### 11. Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole-time officer of the University.(2)The
Government shall constitute a Search Committee consisting of three persons of
whom one shall be nominated by the Chancellor, one by the Syndicate and one by
the Government. [The nominee of the Chancellor] [Substituted for 'The nominee
of the Government' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.] shall function as the Chairman of the Committee. The Secretary to
Government, in-charge of Culture or his nominee not below the rank of the
Deputy Secretary to Government shall be the Convener of the Search
Committee.(3)No person connected with the affairs of the Government, the
University or any college or institution affiliated to the University shall be
nominated as the member of the Search Committee.(4)The Search Committee shall
submit to the Government a panel of three persons who are eminent academicians
in the field of music, fine arts and performing arts. The Government shall
forward the panel to the Chancellor who shall, keeping in view, merit, equity
and social justice and with the concurrence of the Government, appoint one
person from the panel as the Vice-Chancellor:Provided that the Chancellor may,
with the concurrence of the Government, call for a second panel if he/she
considers it necessary, and the Search Committee shall submit a second panel
of three different names and shall appoint one of the persons in the second
panel as Vice-Chancellor.(5)No person shall be appointed or hold office of the
Vice-Chancellor if he has attained the age of seventy years.(6)The Vice-
Chancellor shall, subject to the pleasure of the Chancellor and the provisions
of sub-section (5), hold office for a period of three years:Provided that the
Vice-Chancellor may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Chancellor and
after giving two months notice, resign his office:Provided further that a
person appointed as Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office if, during the
term of his office or any extension thereof, he completes the age of seventy
years.(7)When any temporary vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-
Chancellor or when the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of illness, absence or
for any other reason, unable to exercise the powers and perform the duties of
his office, the senior most Professor of the University shall exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the Vice-Chancellor till the Syndicate makes
the requisite arrangement for exercising the powers and performing the duties
of the Vice-Chancellor.(8)The Vice-Chancellor shall not be removed from his
office except by an order of the Chancellor passed on the ground of wilful
omission or refusal to carry out the provisions of this Act or for abuse of
the powers vested in him and on the advice tendered by the Government on
consideration of the report of an inquiry under sub-section (9).(9)For the
purpose of holding an inquiry under sub-section (8), the Government shall
appoint a person who is or has been a Judge of the High Court or who is or has
been an Officer of the Government not below the rank of Chief Secretary to
Government. The inquiry authority shall hold the inquiry after giving an
opportunity to make representation by the Vice-Chancellor and shall submit a
report to the Government on the action to be taken including penalty, if any,
to be imposed, and the Government shall on consideration of the
representation, advise the Chancellor. The Chancellor shall act in accordance
with such advice, as far as may be, in any case, within three months.(10)The
emoluments and other conditions of service of the Vice-Chancellor shall be as
follows : -(a)There shall be paid to the Vice-Chancellor such salary as may be
fixed by the Government, from time to time, and he shall be entitled without
payment of rent to the use of a furnished residence throughout his term of
office and no charge shall fall on the Vice-Chancellor personally in respect
of the maintenance of such residence. He may be entitled to such other
perquisites as may be provided in the statutes.(b)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled to such terminal benefits and allowances as may be fixed by the
Syndicate, with the approval of the Chancellor, from time to time:Provided
that, where an employee of, -(i)the University; or(ii)any other University or
college or institution maintained by, or affiliated to, that University, is
appointed as Vice-Chancellor, he shall be allowed to continue to contribute to
the Provident Fund to which he is a subscriber, and the contribution of the
University shall be limited to what he had been contributing immediately
before his appointment as Vice-Chancellor.(c)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled to travelling allowances at such rates as may be fixed by the
Syndicate.(d)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to earned leave on full pay
at one-eleventh of the periods spent by him on active service:Provided that
when the earned leave applied for by the Vice-Chancellor, in sufficient time
before the date of expiry of the term of his office, is refused by the
Chancellor in the interest of the University and if he does not avail of the
leave before the date of expiry of the term of his office, he shall be
entitled to draw cash equivalent to leave salary after relinquishment of his
office in respect of earned leave at his credit, subject to a maximum of two
hundred and forty days.(e)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled, on medical
grounds or otherwise, to leave without pay for a period of not exceeding three
months during the term of his office:Provided that such leave may be converted
into leave on full pay to the extent to which he is entitled to earned leave
under clause (d).(11)If a Professor of the University or of an other
University in the State is appointed as Vice-Chancellor, his terms and
conditions of service as Professor shall not be revised to his disadvantage
during his tenure as Vice-Chancellor and he shall retain his lien in his post.

### 12. Powers and duties of Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the academic head and the principal executive
officer of the University and shall in the absence of the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
diploma or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to receive them.
He shall be a member ex-officio and Chairperson of the Syndicate, the Academic
Council and the Finance Committee and shall be entitled to be present at and
to address any meeting of any authority of the University but shall not be
entitled to vote thereat unless he is a member of the authority
concerned.(2)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to ensure that the
provisions of this Act, statutes and regulations are observed and carried out
and he may exercise all powers necessary for this purpose.(3)The Vice-
Chancellor shall have power to convene meeting of the Syndicate, the Academic
Council and the Finance Committee.(4)(a)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power
to take action on any matter and shall by order, take such action as he may
deem necessary, but shall, as soon as may be, thereafter report the action
taken to the officer or authority or body who or which would have ordinarily
dealt with the matter:Provided that no such order shall be passed unless the
person likely to be affected, has been given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard;(b)When action taken by the Vice-Chancellor under this sub-section
affects any person in the service of the University, such person may prefer an
appeal to the Syndicate within thirty days from the date on which the order is
communicated to him and the Vice-Chancellor shall give effect to the order
passed by the Syndicate on such appeal.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall give
effect to the orders of the Syndicate regarding the appointment, suspension
and dismissal of the teachers and other employees of the University and any
other decision of the Syndicate.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall exercise control
over the affairs of the University and shall be responsible for the due
maintenance of discipline in the University.(7)The Vice-Chancellor shall
exercise such other powers and perform such other duties, as may be
prescribed.

### 13. Registrar.

(1)The Registrar shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the University
appointed by the Syndicate on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor. The
qualifications and the method of recruitment shall be such as may be
prescribed. The terms and conditions of service of the Registrar shall be as
follows : -(a)[ The holder of the post of Registrar shall be a person not
lower in rank than that of a Professor of the University. If no Professor of
the University is available, then, an Associate Professor of the University or
college or an officer of the Government not lower in rank than that of the
Deputy Secretary to Government may be appointed as Registrar;] [Substituted by
Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated 15.09.2016.](b)The
Registrar shall hold office for a period of three years:Provided that the
Registrar shall retire on attaining the age of sixty years in the case of a
Professor of the University or of an other University in the State and fifty-
eight years in the case of a Government Servant or on the expiry of the period
specified in this clause, whichever is earlier;(c)The emoluments and other
terms and conditions of service of the Registrar shall be such as may be
prescribed;(d)When the office of the Registrar is vacant or when the Registrar
is, by reason of illness, absence or for any other cause, unable to perform
the duties of his office, the duties of the office of the Registrar shall be
performed by such person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the
purpose.(2)(a)The Registrar shall have power to take disciplinary action
against such of the employees, excluding teachers of the University and
academic staff, as may be specified in the orders of the Syndicate and to
suspend them pending inquiry, to administer warnings to them or to impose on
them the penalty of censure or withholding of increments:Provided that no such
penalty shall be imposed unless the person concerned has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be
taken against him;(b)An appeal shall lie to the Vice-Chancellor against any
order of the Registrar imposing any of the penalties specified in clause
(a);(c)In any case where the inquiry discloses that penalty beyond the powers
of the Registrar is called for, the Registrar shall, upon conclusion of the
inquiry, make a report to the Vice-Chancellor along with his
recommendations:Provided that an appeal shall lie to the Syndicate against an
order of the Vice-Chancellor imposing any penalty;(d)No appeal under clause
(b) or clause (c) shall be preferred after the expiry of sixty days from the
date on which the order appealed against was received by the appellant.(3)The
Registrar shall be the ex-officio Member-Secretary to the Syndicate, the
Academic Council, the Faculties and the Boards of Studies, but shall not be
deemed to be a member of any of these authorities.(4)It shall be the duty of
the Registrar, -(a)to be the custodian of the records, the common seal and
such other property of the University, as the Syndicate shall commit to his
charge;(b)to issue all notices convening meetings of the Syndicate, the
Academic Council, the Faculties, the Boards of Studies and of any Committee
appointed by the authorities of the University;(c)to keep the minutes of all
proceedings of the meetings of the Syndicate, the Academic Council, the
Faculties, the Boards of Studies and of any Committee appointed by the
authorities of the University;(d)to conduct the official correspondence of the
Syndicate;(e)to supply to the Chancellor copies of the agenda of the meetings
of the authorities of the University as soon as they are issued and the
minutes of the proceedings of such meetings; and(f)to exercise such other
powers and perform such other duties as may be specified in the statutes, or
the regulations or as may be required, from time to time, by the Syndicate or
the Vice-Chancellor.

### 14. Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall be a whole-time salaried officer of the
University appointed by the Syndicate from out of a panel of three names
recommended by the Government. The qualification and the method of recruitment
shall be such as may be prescribed.(2)The Finance Officer shall hold office
for a period of three years subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified by the Syndicate:Provided that a person appointed as Finance Officer
shall retire from office, if during the term of his office, he completes the
age of fifty-eight years.(3)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of
service of the Finance Officer shall be such as may be prescribed.(4)When the
office of the Finance Officer is vacant or when the Finance Officer, is by
reason of illness, absence or for any other cause unable to perform the duties
of his office, the duties of the Finance Officer shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(5)The Finance
Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Finance Committee, but shall
not be deemed to be a member of such Committee.(6)The Finance Officer shall,
-(a)exercise general supervision over the funds of the University and shall
advise the University as regards its financial policy; and(b)exercise such
other powers and perform such other financial functions, as may be assigned to
him by the Syndicate or as may be prescribed:Provided that the Finance Officer
shall not incur any expenditure or make any investment exceeding such amount
as may be prescribed without the previous approval of the Syndicate.(7)Subject
to the control of the Syndicate, the Finance Officer shall, -(a)hold and
manage the property and investment on the University including trust and
endowment property;(b)ensure that the limit fixed by the Syndicate for
recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a year are not exceeded and that
all moneys are expended on the purposes for which they are granted or
allotted;(c)be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts, financial
estimates and the budget of the University and for their presentation to the
Syndicate;(d)keep a constant watch on the cash and bank balance and of
investments;(e)watch the progress of the collection of revenue and advise on
the methods of collection employed;(f)ensure that the registers of buildings,
lands, furniture and equipments are maintained upto date and that stock
checking is conducted, of equipments and other consumable materials in all
offices, special centres maintained by the University;(g)bring to the notice
of the Vice-Chancellor any unauthorised expenditure or other financial
irregularity and suggest appropriate action to be taken against person at
fault; and(h)call from any office and centre, maintained by the University,
any information or returns that he may consider necessary for the performance
of his duties.(8)The receipt of the Finance Officer or of the person or
persons duly authorised in this behalf by the Syndicate for any money payable
to the University shall be a sufficient discharge for payment of such money.

### 15. Controller of Examinations.

(a)The Controller of Examinations shall be an academician in the field of Art
and Culture with a degree of Bachelor of Music or Fine Arts or Performing Arts
and a whole time salaried officer of the University appointed by the Syndicate
on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor for such period and on such terms
and conditions as may be prescribed.(b)The Controller of Examinations shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed.

### 16. Dean of Faculties.

(1)Every Dean shall be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor from among the
Professors in the Faculty for a period of three years and he shall be eligible
for reappointment:Provided that a Dean on attaining the age of sixty years
shall cease to hold office as such:Provided further that if at any time there
is no Professor in a Faculty, the Vice-Chancellor shall exercise the powers of
the Dean of the Faculty.(2)When the office of the Dean is vacant or when the
Dean is by reason of illness, absence or any other cause, unable to perform
the duties of his office, the duties of his office shall be performed by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(3)The Dean shall be
Head of the Faculty and shall be responsible for the conduct and maintenance
of the standards of research in the Faculty. The Dean shall have such other
functions as may be prescribed.(4)The Dean shall have the right to be present
and to speak at any meeting of any Board of Studies or Committee or the
Faculty, as the case may be, but shall not have the right to vote thereat
unless he is a member thereof.

### 17. Vice-Chancellor and other officers, etc. to be public servants.

\- The Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar, the Finance Officer, the Controller of
Examinations and other employees of the University shall be deemed, when
acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act,
to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code.

## Chapter IV  
Authorities of University

### 18. Authorities of University.

\- The authorities of the University shall be the Syndicate, the Academic
Council, the Faculties, the Finance Committee, the Board of Studies and such
other bodies of the University as may, from time to time, be declared by the
statutes to be authorities of the University.

### 19. Syndicate.

(1)The Chancellor shall, as soon as may be, after the first Vice-Chancellor is
appointed under section 52, constitute the Syndicate.(2)The Syndicate shall,
in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the following members, namely :
-Class I - Ex-Officio Members.(a)The Secretary to Government, in-charge of
Culture;(b)The Secretary to Government, in-charge of Finance Department;(c)The
Secretary to Government, in-charge of Law Department;(d)Commissioner of Art
and Culture.Class II - Other Members.(a)Two members nominated by the
Chancellor from among eminent educationists in the field of music, fine arts,
performing arts and other related professions;(b)Six persons nominated by the
Chancellor on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor from amongst eminent
persons in the field of music, fine arts and performing arts, educationists or
awardees in music, fine arts and performing arts or persons from other
professions;(c)Principals of the Colleges specified in the Schedule;(d)One
member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly nominated by the Chancellor on
the recommendation of the Government.(e)[ Two Principals nominated by the
Vice-Chancellor from among the affiliated colleges other than the colleges
specified in the Schedule.] [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016,
publish dated 15.09.2016.](3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the ex-officio
Chairperson of the Syndicate.(4)(a)In case the Secretary to Government in-
charge of Culture or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance
Department or the Secretary to Government in-charge of Law Department, is
unable to attend the meetings of the Syndicate, for any reason, he may depute
any officer of his department, not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to
Government to attend the meetings. The officer so deputed shall have the right
to take part in the discussion of the meeting and shall have the right to
vote.(b)In case the Commissioner of Art and Culture is unable to attend the
meetings of the Syndicate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his
department, not below the rank of Joint Commissioner, to attend the meetings.
The officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussion of
the meeting and shall have the right to vote.(5)(a)Save as otherwise provided,
the members of the Syndicate, other than the ex-officio members, shall hold
office for a period of three years and such members shall be eligible for
nomination for another period of three years;(b)Where a member is nominated to
the Syndicate in a casual vacancy, the period of office for not less than one
year by any such member shall be construed as a full period of three
years:Provided that a member of the Syndicate who is nominated in his capacity
as a member of a particular body, or the holder of a particular appointment,
shall cease to be a member of the Syndicate from the date on which he ceases
to be a member of that body, or the holder of that appointment, as the case
may be:Provided further that where a nominated member of the Syndicate is
appointed temporarily to any of the offices by virtue of which he is entitled
to be a member of the Syndicate ex-officio, he shall, by notice in writing
signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from
the date of his taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he will
continue to be a member of the Syndicate by virtue of his nomination or
whether he will vacate office as such member and become a member ex-officio by
virtue of his appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to
make such a choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a
nominated member.(6)When a person ceases to be a member of the Syndicate, he
shall cease to be a member of any of the authorities of the University of
which he may happen to be a member by virtue of his membership of the
Syndicate.(7)The members of the Syndicate shall not be entitled to receive any
remuneration from the University except such daily and travelling allowances
as may be prescribed:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall
preclude any member from drawing his normal emoluments to which he is entitled
by virtue of the office he holds.(8)A member of the Syndicate, other than ex-
officio member, may tender resignation of his membership at any time before
the term of his office expires. Such resignation shall be conveyed to the
Chancellor by a letter in writing by the member, and the resignation shall
take effect from the date of its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 20. Powers of Syndicate.

(1)The Syndicate shall have the following powers, namely : -(a)to make
statutes and amend or repeal the same;(b)to co-operate with other
Universities, other academic authorities and colleges in such manner and for
such purposes as it may determine;(c)to provide for instruction and training
in such branches of learning as it may think fit;(d)to provide for research
and advancement and dissemination of knowledge;(e)to institute Assistant
Professorships, Associate Professorships, Professorships and any other
teaching or research posts required by the University;(f)to provide for such
lectures and instructions for students, as the Academic Council may
determine;(g)to institute degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions;(h)to confer degrees, titles, diplomas and other academic
distinctions on persons who -(i)have pursued an approved course of study in
the University or have been exempted therefrom in the manner prescribed and
have passed the prescribed examinations of the University;(ii)have carried on
research under conditions prescribed;(i)to confer honorary degrees or academic
distinctions on the recommendations of not less than two-thirds of the members
of the Syndicate;(j)to establish and maintain hostels;(k)to institute
fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions,
medals and prizes;(l)to prescribe the fees to be charged for admission to the
examinations, degrees, titles and diplomas of the University and for all or
any of the purposes specified in section 5;(m)to consider and take such action
as it may deem fit on the annual report, the annual accounts and the financial
estimates;(n)to institute publication bureau, students unions, employment
bureau and University athletic clubs and to maintain them;(o)to enter into any
agreement with the Central or any State Government or with a private
management for any purposes not repugnant to the provisions of this Act;(p)to
make statutes regulating the procedure at the meeting of the Syndicate,
Academic Council and other authorities of the University and quorum of members
required for the transaction of business by the authorities of the University
other than the Academic Council;(q)to hold, control and administer the
properties and funds of the University;(r)to direct the form, custody and use
of the common seal of the University;(s)to regulate and determine all matters
concerning the University in accordance with this Act, the statutes and the
regulations;(t)to administer all properties and funds placed at the disposal
of the University for specific purposes;(u)(i)to appoint the Assistant
Professors, Associate Professors, Professors and the teachers of the
University, fix their emoluments, if any, define their duties and the
conditions of their services and provide for filling up of temporary
vacancies;(ii)to prescribe the mode of appointment of administrative and other
similar posts and fix their emoluments, if any, define their duties and the
conditions of their services and provide for filling up of temporary
vacancies;(v)to suspend and take disciplinary action on the Assistant
Professors, Associate Professors, Professors and the Teachers and other
employees of the University;(w)to accept, on behalf of the University,
endowments, bequests, donations, grants and transfers of any movable and
immovable properties made to it;(x)(i)to raise, on behalf of the University,
loans from the Central or any State Government or the public or any
corporation owned or controlled by the Central or any State Government;
and(ii)to borrow money, with the approval of the Government, on the security
of the property of the University for the purposes of the University;(y)to
prescribe the qualifications of teachers of the University;(z)to award
fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions,
medals and prizes in accordance with the statutes;(aa)to charge and collect
such fees as may be prescribed;(ab)to conduct the University examinations and
approve and publish the results thereof;(ac)to make statutes regarding the
admission of students to the University or prescribing examinations to be
recognised as equivalent to University examinations;(ad)to appoint members to
the Board of Studies;(ae)(i)to appoint examiners, after consideration of the
recommendation of the Board of Studies; and(ii)to fix their
remuneration;(af)to supervise and control the residence and discipline of the
students of the University departments and make arrangements for securing
their health and well-being;(ag)to institute and manage University centres,
laboratories, libraries, museums, institutes of research and other
institutions established or maintained by the University;(ah)to manage hostels
instituted by the University;(ai)to manage any publication bureau, students
unions, employment bureau and University athletic clubs instituted by the
University;(aj)to review the instruction and teaching of the University;(ak)to
promote research within the University and to require reports, from time to
time, of such research;(al)to exercise such other powers and perform such
other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by this Act or the statutes
and regulations; and(am)to delegate any of its powers to the Vice-Chancellor,
to a committee from among its own members or to a committee appointed in
accordance with the statutes.(2)The Syndicate may consult the Academic Council
in respect of any matter where it considers such consultation is necessary.

### 21. Meetings of Syndicate.

(1)The Syndicate shall meet at least once in every two months at such time and
places and shall, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3),
observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its
meetings as may be prescribed.(2)One-third of the total strength of the
members of the Syndicate shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the
Syndicate.(3)The Vice-Chancellor or in his absence any member chosen by the
members present, shall preside at a meeting of the Syndicate.(4)All questions
at any meeting of the Syndicate shall be decided by a majority of the votes of
the members present and voting and in the case of an equality of votes, the
Vice-Chancellor or the member presiding, as the case may be, shall have and
exercise a second or casting vote.(5)(a)The Syndicate may, for the purpose of
consultation, invite any person having special knowledge or practical
experience in any subject under consideration to attend any meeting. Such
person may speak in, and otherwise take part in, the proceedings of such
meeting but shall not be entitled to vote.(b)The person so invited shall be
entitled to such daily and travelling allowances as are admissible to a member
of the Syndicate.

### 22. Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall consist of the following members, namely :
-Class I-Ex-Officio Members.(a)The Vice-Chancellor;(b)The Commissioner of Art
and Culture;(c)The Deans of faculties;(d)Director of Libraries;(e)Principals
of all Government Music Colleges;(f)Principals of all Government College of
Fine Arts;(g)Principal of Government College of Architecture and Sculpture,
Mamallapuram;(h)[ principal of Kalaikaveri Fine Arts College,
Tiruchirappalli.] [Inserted by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish
dated 15.09.2016.]Class II - Other Members.Eight persons nominated by the
Vice-Chancellor who are known for their outstanding contribution in the field
of music, fine arts and performing arts.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the
ex-officio Chairperson of, and the Registrar shall be the ex-officio Secretary
to the Academic Council.(3)(a)Save as otherwise provided, nominated member of
the Academic Council shall hold office for a period of three years and such
member shall be eligible for nomination for not more than another period of
three years;(b)Where a member is nominated to the Academic Council to a casual
vacancy, the period of office held for not less than one year by any such
member shall be construed as a full period of three years for the purpose of
this clause:Provided that a member of the Academic council who is nominated in
his capacity as a member of a particular body, or the holder of a particular
appointment, shall cease to be a member of the Academic council from the date
on which he ceases to be, a member of that body or the holder of that
appointment, as the case may be:Provided further that where a nominated member
of the Academic Council is appointed temporarily to any of the office by
virtue of which he is entitled to be a member of the Academic Council ex-
officio, he shall, by notice in writing signed by him and communicated to the
Vice-Chancellor within seven days from the date of his taking charge of his
appointment, choose whether he shall continue to be member of the Academic
Council by virtue of his nomination or he shall vacate office as such member
and become a member ex-officio by virtue of his appointment and the choice,
shall be conclusive. On failure to make such a choice he shall be deemed to
have vacated his office as a nominated member.(4)When a person ceases to be a
member of the Academic Council, he shall cease to be member of any of the
authorities of the University of which he may happen to be a member by virtue
of his membership of the Academic Council.(5)The members of the Academic
Council shall not be entitled to receive any remuneration from the University
except such daily and travelling allowances as may be prescribed:Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall preclude any member from drawing
his normal emoluments to which he is entitled by virtue of the office he
holds.(6)A member of the Academic Council, other than ex-officio member, may
tender resignation of his membership at any time before the term of his office
expires. Such resignation shall be conveyed to the Chancellor by a letter in
writing by the member and the resignation shall take effect from the date of
its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 23. Powers and duties of Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of the University
and shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, have the
control and general regulation of teaching and examination in the University
and be responsible for the maintenance of the standards thereon.(2)The powers
and duties of the Academic Council shall be, -(a)to exercise general control
on teaching and other educational programmes and maintain and promote the
standards thereof;(b)to make regulations and amend or repeal the same;(c)to
make regulations -(i)regarding the admission of students to the University and
the number of students to be admitted;(ii)regarding the courses of study
leading to degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions;(iii)regarding
the conduct of examinations and maintenance and promotion of standards of
education;(iv)prescribing equivalence of examinations, degrees, titles,
diplomas and certificates of other Universities, Colleges, Institutions and
Boards;(v)for the assessment, evaluation and grading of students
performance;(d)to advise the Syndicate on all academic matters including the
control and management of libraries;(e)to make recommendations to the
Syndicate for the institution of Assistant Professorship, Associate
Professorship, Professorship and other teaching posts including posts in
research and in regard to the duties and emoluments thereof;(f)to formulate,
modify or revise schemes for the constitution or reconstitution of departments
of teaching and research;(g)to make recommendations to the Syndicate regarding
under graduate and post-graduate teaching and research;(h)to make
recommendations to the Syndicate for the conferment of honorary degrees or
other distinctions;(i)to review and act upon the proposals of Board of Studies
in formulating rules, regulations, syllabi and methods of evaluation,
introduction of new courses and modification of existing courses;(j)to make
recommendations to the Syndicate regarding institution of fellowships and
scholarships;(k)to recommend to the Syndicate measures for promoting
collaboration between industries and Government employers on the one hand and
the University on the other;(l)to delegate to the Vice-Chancellor or to any of
the committees of the Academic Council, any of its powers;(m)to assess and
make recommendations laying down standards of accommodation, equipment,
apparatus, library, maintenance and other physical facilities required for
each faculty; and(n)to exercise such other powers and perform such other
duties as may be prescribed.

### 24. Meetings of Academic Council.

(1)The Academic Council shall meet at least twice in every year on dates to be
fixed by the Vice-Chancellor. One of such meetings shall be called the annual
meeting. The Academic Council may also meet at such other dates as it may,
from time to time, determine.(2)One-third of the total strength of the members
of the Academic Council shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the
Academic Council:Provided that such quorum shall not be required at a
convocation of the University, or a meeting of the Academic Council held for
the purpose of conferring degrees, titles, diplomas or other academic
distinctions.(3)The Vice-Chancellor may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall
upon a requisition in writing signed by not less than fifty per cent of the
total members of the Academic Council, convene a special meeting of the
Academic Council.

### 25. Constitution and functions of Faculties.

(1)The University shall have the Faculties of Vocal Music, Instrumental Music,
Musicology, Fine Arts and Performing Arts and such other Faculties as may be
prescribed.(2)The constitution and functions of the faculties shall in all
other respects, be such as may be prescribed.(3)Each Faculty shall comprise
such departments of teaching as are specified in the statutes.

### 26. Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members, namely :
-(a)The Vice-Chancellor;(b)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance
Department;(c)The Secretary to Government in-charge of Culture;(d)The
Commissioner of Art and Culture;(e)One member nominated by the Syndicate from
among its members;(2)If for any reason, the members referred to in clause (b)
or clause (c) of sub-section (1) is unable to attend any meeting of the
Finance Committee, he may depute any officer of his department not below the
rank of a Deputy Secretary to Government to attend such meeting. The officer
or person deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussions of the
committee and shall have the right to vote.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the
ex-officio Chairperson and the Finance Officer shall be the ex-officio
Secretary of the Finance Committee.(4)All the members of the Finance
Committee, other than the ex-officio members, shall hold office for a period
of three years.(5)The Finance Committee shall meet at least once in three
months to examine the accounts and to scrutinize proposals for
expenditure.(6)The Annual accounts and the Annual Financial Estimates of the
University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance
Committee for consideration and comments and thereafter submitted to the
Syndicate for approval.(7)The Finance Committee shall, recommend limits for
the total recurring expenditure and the total non-recurring expenditure for
the year based on the income and resources of the University, which, in the
case of productive works may include the proceeds of loans.(8)The Finance
Committee shall, -(a)review the financial position of the University, from
time to time;(b)make recommendations to the Syndicate in every proposal
involving investment or expenditure for which no provision has been made in
the Annual Financial Estimates or which involves expenditure in excess of the
amount provided for in the Annual Financial Estimates;(c)prescribe the methods
and procedure and forms for maintaining the accounts of the University;(d)make
recommendations to the Syndicate on all matters relating to the finances of
the University; and(e)perform such other functions as may be prescribed.(9)The
Financial estimates of the University prepared by the Finance Officer shall be
laid before the Finance Committee for consideration and comments. The said
estimates as modified by the Finance Committee shall be then laid before the
Syndicate for consideration. The Syndicate may accept the modification made by
the Finance Committee.

### 27. Board of Studies.

\- There shall be a Board of Studies attached to each Department of teaching.
The constitution and powers of the Board of Studies shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 28. Constitution of other authorities.

\- The Constitution and powers of such other bodies as may be declared by the
statutes to be authorities of the University shall be such as may be
prescribed.

### 29. Constitution of committees and delegation of powers.

\- All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit. Such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the
authority in each case, may deem fit.

### 30. Disqualification for membership.

(1)A person shall be disqualified for nomination as a member of any of the
authorities of the University, if on the date of such nomination he is, -(i)of
unsound mind;(ii)adjudicated as an undischarged insolvent;(iii)convicted by a
criminal court to imprisonment for any offence.(2)In case of dispute or doubt,
as regards disqualification, the Syndicate shall determine whether a person is
disqualified or not under subsection (1) and its decision shall be final.

### 31. Disqualification for nomination to Syndicate and Academic Council in
certain cases.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) of sub-section (5) of
section 19 and clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 22, no person who has
held office as a member for a total period of six years in the Syndicate or
the Academic Council or in both, of the University shall be eligible for
nomination to either of the said two authorities:Provided that for the purpose
of computing the total period of six years referred to in this sub-section,
the period of three years during which a person held office in one authority
by nomination and the period of three years during which he held office in
another authority by nomination shall be taken into account and accordingly
such person shall not be eligible for nomination to either Syndicate or the
Academic Council:Provided further that for the purpose of this sub-section, if
a person who has held office for a period not less than one year in any one of
the authorities referred to in this sub-section in a casual vacancy shall be
deemed to have held office for a period of three years in that
authority:provided also that for the purpose of this sub-section, if a person
was nominated to one authority and such person becomes a member of another
authority by virtue of the membership in the first mentioned authority, the
period for which he held office in the first mentioned authority alone shall
be taken into account.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall have application in
respect of -(i)ex-officio members referred to in section 19; (ii) ex-officio
members referred to in section 22.

## Chapter V  
Statutes and Regulations

### 32. Statutes.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely : -(1)the holding of convocation to
confer degrees;(2)the conferment of honorary degrees and academic
distinctions;(3)the constitution, powers and functions of the authorities of
the University;(4)the manner of filling vacancies among members of the
authorities of the University;(5)the allowances to be paid to the members of
the authorities and committees thereof;(6)the authentication of the orders or
decisions of the authorities;(7)the condition of recognition of approved
institution and of affiliation to the University of affiliated colleges;(8)the
procedure at meetings of authorities including the quorum for the transaction
of business at such meetings;(9)the formation of departments of music and fine
arts at the affiliated colleges;(10)the terms of office and methods of
appointment and conditions of service of the officers of the University other
than the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor;(11)the qualifications of the
teachers and other persons employed by the University;(12)the classifications,
the method of appointment and determination of the terms and conditions of
service of teachers and other persons employed by the University;(13)the
institution of pension, gratuity, insurance or provident fund for the benefit
of the officers, teachers and other persons employed by the University;(14)the
institution of fellowships, travelling fellowships, scholarships,
studentships, bursaries, exhibitions, medals and prizes and the conditions of
award thereof;(15)the establishment and maintenance of halls and
hostels;(16)the conditions for residence of students of the University in the
halls and hostels and the levy of fees and other charges for such
residence;(17)the delegation of powers vested in the authorities or officers
of the University;(18)admission of students to the University;(19)the
conditions and mode of appointment and duties of examining bodies and
examiners;(20)the conditions of maintenance of the discipline among the
students of the University;(21)the fees to be charged for research; and(22)any
other matter which is required to be or may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 33. Statutes, how made.

(1)The Syndicate may, from time to time, make statutes and amend or repeal
them in the manner hereafter provided in this section.(2)The Academic Council
or the Vice-Chancellor may propose to the Syndicate, the draft of any statute
or of any amendments to, or of repeal of, a statute, to be passed by the
Syndicate and such draft shall be considered by the Syndicate at its next
meeting:Provided that the Vice-Chancellor shall not propose any amendment to
any statute affecting the powers and constitution of any authority of the
University, until such authority has been given an opportunity of expressing
its opinion, and the opinion, so expressed shall be considered by the
Syndicate.(3)The Syndicate may consider the draft proposed by the Academic
Council or the Vice-Chancellor under sub-section (2) and may either pass the
draft or reject or return it with or without amendments to the Academic
Council or the Vice-Chancellor, as the case may be, for
reconsideration.(4)(a)Any member of the Syndicate may propose to the
Syndicate, the draft of a statute or of any amendment to, or of repeal of, a
statute and the Syndicate, may, either accept or reject the draft, if it
relates to matter not falling within the purview of the Academic Council.(b)In
case such draft relates to a matter within the purview of the Academic
Council, the Syndicate shall refer it for consideration to the Academic
Council, which may either report to the Syndicate that it does not approve the
draft or submit the draft to the Syndicate in such form as the Academic
Council may approve and the Syndicate may, either pass with or without
amendments or reject the draft.(5)The Syndicate shall, obtain the opinion of
the Finance Committee in respect of such of the statutes involving financial
implications.(6)The Syndicate, if it thinks necessary, may also obtain the
opinion of any officer, authority or body of the University in regard to the
draft of the statute, before taking it up for consideration.(7)The statute
passed by the Syndicate shall not be given effect to until it is assented to
by the Chancellor.

### 34. Regulations.

(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, the authorities of
the University may make regulations to provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely : -(a)the manner in which and the conditions subject to which
the pension, gratuity, insurance and provident fund may be instituted for the
benefit of the officers, teachers and other employees of the University;(b)the
appointment, procedure for selection, and pay and allowances and other
conditions of services of officers, teachers and other employees of the
University;(c)the giving of notice to the members of any authority of the
University, the dates of the meetings and the business to be transacted at the
meetings and for keeping a record of the proceedings of the meetings;(d)the
procedure to be observed at the meetings and the number of members required to
form the quorum; and(e)any other matter which is required to be or may be
prescribed by regulations.(2)The Academic Council may, subject to the
provisions of the statutes, make regulations providing for the courses of
study, system of examinations and award of degrees, diplomas and other
academic distinctions of the University, after receiving the draft of the same
from the Board of Studies concerned.(3)The Syndicate may issue such direction,
as it may think fit to the concerned authority to amend any regulation.

## Chapter VI  
Admission of Students

### 35. Admission to University courses.

(1)The University shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
statutes, be open to all persons:Provided that special efforts shall be taken
to encourage the oppressed classes, namely, Backward Communities, Most
Backward Communities, Denotified Communities, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes.(2)Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall require the University
-(a)to admit to any course of study any person who does not possess the
prescribed academic qualification or standard;(b)to retain on the rolls of the
University any student whose academic record is below the minimum standard
required for the award of a degree, diploma or other academic distinction;
or(c)to admit any person or retain any student whose conduct is prejudicial to
the interests of the University or the rights and privileges of the other
students and teachers.(3)Every candidate for a University examination shall,
unless exempted from the provisions of sub-section (2) by a special order of
the Syndicate made on the recommendation of the Academic Council be enrolled
as a member of an affiliated or approved college, as the case may be. Any such
exemption may be made subject to such conditions as the Syndicate may think
fit.(4)Students exempted from the provisions of sub-section (2) and students
admitted in accordance with the conditions prescribed, to courses of study
other than courses of study for a degree, shall be non-collegiate students of
the University.

### 36. Admission to University Examinations.

\- No candidate shall be admitted to any examination of the University unless
he is enrolled as a member of an affiliated or approved college and has
satisfied the requirements as to the attendance required under the regulations
for the same or unless he is exempted from such requirements of enrolment or
attendance or both by an order of the Syndicate passed on the recommendation
of the Academic Council made under the regulations prescribed. Exemptions
granted under this section shall be subject to such conditions as the
Syndicate may think fit.

### 37. Attendance qualifying for University examinations.

\- No attendance at instruction given in any college or institution, other
than that conducted, affiliated or approved by the University, shall qualify
for admission to any examination of the University.

## Chapter VII  
University Funds

### 38. General Fund.

\- The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited,
-(a)its income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any
contribution or grant made by the Central Government, any State Government,
the University Grants Commission or like authority, any local authority or any
corporation owned or controlled by the Government; and(c)endowments and other
receipts.

### 39. Other funds.

\- The University may have such other funds as may be prescribed by the
statutes.

### 40. Management of funds.

\- The funds and all moneys of the University shall be managed in such manner
as may be prescribed.

### 41. Annual report.

\- The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate and
shall be submitted to the Academic Council on or before such date as may be
prescribed and shall be considered by the Academic Council at its next annual
meeting. The Academic Council may pass resolutions thereon and communicate the
same to the Syndicate which shall take action in accordance therewith. The
Syndicate shall inform the Academic Council of the action taken by it. A copy
of the report with a copy of the resolution thereon, if any, of the Academic
Council shall be submitted to the Government.

### 42. Annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts shall be submitted to such examination and audit, as
the Government may direct and a copy of the annual accounts and audit report
shall be submitted to the Government.(2)The University shall settle objections
raised in the audit and carry out such instructions as may be issued by the
Government on the audit report.(3)The Government shall cause the annual
accounts and the audit report to be laid before the Legislative Assembly
together with their comments.

## Chapter VIII  
Conditions of Service

### 43. Pension, gratuity, etc.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers
and other persons employed by the University, such pension, gratuity,
insurance and provident fund, as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject
to such conditions, as may be prescribed.(2)Where the University has so
instituted a provident fund under sub-Central Act XIX section (1), the
Government may declare that the provisions of the Provident of 1925. Funds
Act, 1925, shall apply to such funds as if the University were a local
Authority and the fund a Government Provident Fund.(3)The University may, in
consultation with the Finance Committee, invest the Provident Fund amount in
such manner as it may determine.

### 44. Conditions of service.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selection, pay and allowance, and other terms and conditions of service of
officers, teachers and other persons employed in the University shall be such
as may be prescribed.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, the word
"officers" shall not include the Chancellor, the Pro-Chancellor.

### 45. Selection Committees.

(1)There shall be a Selection Committee for making recommendations to the
Syndicate, for appointment to the posts of Professor, Associate Professor,
Assistant Professor and Librarians of the University.(2)The Selection
Committee for appointment to the posts specified in sub-section (1) shall
consist of the Vice-Chancellor, a nominee of the Government and such other
persons as may be prescribed:Provided that the selection for such appointment
by the Selection Committee shall be made in accordance with the guidelines
that may be issued by the University Grants Commission or other agencies
concerned in relation to such appointment.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall preside
at the meeting of a Selection Committee.(4)The meeting of a Selection
Committee shall be convened by the Vice-Chancellor.(5)The procedure to be
followed by a Selection Committee in making recommendations shall be such as
may be prescribed.(6)If the Syndicate, is unable to accept recommendations
made by a Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case
to the Chancellor for final orders.(7)Appointments to temporary posts shall be
made in the manner indicated below : -(i)If the temporary vacancy is for
duration longer than one academic session, it shall be filled on the advice of
the Selection Committee in accordance with the procedure, indicated in the
foregoing provisions:Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in
the interest of work, it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may
be made on a temporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in
sub-clause (ii) for a period not exceeding six months;(ii)If the temporary
vacancy is for a period of less than a year, an appointment to such vacancy
shall be made on the recommendation of a local Selection Committee consisting
of the Dean of the Faculty concerned, the Head of the Department and a nominee
of the Vice-Chancellor:Provided that if the same person holds the offices of
the Dean and the Head of the Department, the Selection Committee may consist
of two nominees of the Vice-Chancellor:Provided further that in case of sudden
casual vacancies in teaching posts caused by death or any other reason, the
Dean may in consultation with the Head of the Department concerned, make a
temporary appointment for a month and report to the Vice-Chancellor and the
Registrar about such appointment;(iii)No teacher appointed temporarily shall,
if he is not recommended by a Selection Committee for appointment under this
Act, be continued in service on such temporary employment unless he is
subsequently selected by a local Selection Committee or a Selection Committee,
for a temporary or permanent appointment, as the case may be.

### 46. Terms and conditions of service of Heads of Department.

(1)Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be a
Professor and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions of
appointment shall be such as may be prescribed:Provided that if there is more
than one Professor in any Department, the Head of the Department shall be
appointed in the manner prescribed:Provided further that in a Department where
there is no Professor, an Assistant Professor may be appointed as Head of the
Department in the manner prescribed.(2)It shall be open to a Professor or
Assistant Professor to decline the offer of appointment as Head of the
Department.(3)A person appointed as Head of the Department shall hold office
as such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
reappointment:Provided that a Head of the Department on attaining the age of
sixty years shall cease to hold office as such.(4)A Head of the Department may
resign his office at any time during his tenure of office.(5)A Head of the
Department shall perform such functions as may be prescribed.

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 47. Filling of casual vacancy.

\- All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio members) of
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as
conveniently may be, by the person or body who or which, nominated the member
whose place has become vacant and the person nominated to a casual vacancy
shall be a member of such authority or body for the remainder of the term for
which the person whose place he fills would have been a member:Provided that
no casual vacancy shall be filled, if such vacancy occurs within six months
before the date of the expiry of the term of the member of any authority or
other body of the University.

### 48. Proceedings of the University authorities and bodies not invalidated
by vacancies.

\- No Act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any
defect or irregularity in the nomination or appointment of a member of any
authority or other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in
such act or proceedings not affecting the merits of the case or on the ground
only that the authority or other body of the University did not meet at such
intervals as required under this Act.

### 49. Removal from membership of the University.

(1)The Syndicate may remove by an order in writing made in this behalf any
person from membership of any authority of the University by a resolution
passed by a majority of the total membership of the Syndicate and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members of the Syndicate present
and voting at the meeting, if such person has been convicted by a criminal
court for an offence which in the opinion of the Syndicate involves moral
turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross misconduct and for the same
reason, the Syndicate may withdraw any degree or diploma conferred on, or
granted, to that person by the University.(2)The Syndicate may also by an
order in writing made in this behalf remove any person from the membership of
any authority of the University if he becomes of unsound mind or deaf-mute or
has applied to be adjudicated or has been adjudicated an insolvent.(3)No
action under this section shall be taken against any person unless he has been
given a reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to be
taken.(4)A copy of every order passed under sub-section (1) or sub- section
(2), as the case may be, shall as soon as may be, after it is so passed, be
communicated to the person concerned in the manner prescribed.

### 50. Disputes as to the constitution of University authorities and bodies.

\- If any question arises whether any person has been duly nominated as, or is
entitled to be, a member of any authority of the University or other body of
the University, the question shall be referred to the Chancellor whose
decision thereon shall be final.

### 51. Power to obtain information.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
information from the University on any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
furnish to the Government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may place the same before the Chancellor and the
Pro-Chancellor.

### 52. Appointment of first Vice-Chancellor.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 11, within three months from
the appointed date, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the
Government on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three
years and on such other conditions as they think fit:Provided that a person
appointed as first Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office, if during the
term of his office, he completes the age of seventy years.

### 53. Appointment of first Registrar.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 13, within
three months from the appointed date, the first Registrar shall be appointed
by the Government on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding
three years and on such other conditions as they think fit.

### 54. Transitory powers of the first Vice-Chancellor.

(1)It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Syndicate, the Academic Council and such other authorities of
the University within six months after the appointed date or such longer
period, not exceeding one year as the Government may, by notification,
direct.(2)The First Vice-Chancellor shall, in consultation with the
Government, make such rules as may be necessary for the functioning of the
University.(3)The authorities constituted under sub-section (1) shall commence
to exercise their functions on such date as the Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf.(4)It shall be the duty of the first
Vice-Chancellor to draft such statutes, as may be necessary and submit them to
the Syndicate for their approval. Such statutes when framed shall be published
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act and the statutes and until such time an authority is duly
constituted, the first Vice-Chancellor may appoint any officer or constitute
any committee temporarily to exercise and perform any of the powers and duties
of such authority under this Act and the statutes.

### 55. Certain Tamil Nadu Acts not to apply.

\- [(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6), the Chennai
University Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923), the Madurai-Kamaraj
University Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1965) and the Bharathidasan
University Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1982) (hereafter in this section
referred to as the University Acts) shall, with effect on and from the
appointed date, cease to apply in respect of colleges specified in the
Schedule.Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-section (1), "appointed date"
means, -(a)in so far as it relates to the colleges specified in Part-I of the
Schedule, the date appointed under sub-section (4) of section 1;(b)in so far
as it relates to the colleges specified in Part-II of the Schedule, the date
of commencement of the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University (Amendment)
Act, 2016.](2)Such cessor shall not affect -(a)the previous operation of the
said University Acts in respect of the colleges referred to in sub-section
(1);(b)any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed against the said University Acts; or(c)any investigation,
legal proceedings or remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be
instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University
Act, 2013 had not been passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), all statutes, ordinances and regulations made under the
University Acts and in force on the appointed date shall, in so far as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue to be in force
in respect of the colleges specified in the Schedule, until they are replaced
by statutes and regulations made under this Act.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, the statutes, ordinances and regulations continued in
force under sub-section (3) or made under this Act, every person who
immediately before the appointed date was a student of a college specified in
the Schedule, affiliated to or approved by, the [Chennai University, Madurai
Kamaraj University or Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai
University, Bharathidasan University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016,
publish dated 15.09.2016.] or was eligible to appear for any of the
examinations of the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or
Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan
University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.] shall be permitted to complete his course of study in the Tamil
Nadu Music and Fine Arts University and the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts
University shall make arrangements for the instruction, teaching and training
for such students for such period and in such manner as may be determined by
the Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University in accordance with the course of
study in the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or Bharathidasan
University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan University' by
Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated 15.09.2016.] and such
students shall during such period be admitted to the examinations held or
conducted by the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or
Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan
University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.] and the corresponding degree, diploma or other academic
distinctions of the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or
Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan
University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.] shall be conferred upon the qualified students on the result of
such examinations by the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or
Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan
University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.].(5)All colleges specified in the Schedule which immediately
before the appointed date,-(a)continue to be affiliated to, or recognised by
the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or Bharathidasan
University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan University' by
Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated 15.09.2016.];
and(b)providing courses of study for admission to the examination for degrees
and diplomas of the [Chennai University, Madurai Kamaraj University or
Bharathidasan University] [Substituted for 'Chennai University, Bharathidasan
University' by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.] shall be deemed to be colleges affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Music
and Fine Arts University under this Act and the provisions of this Act shall
as far as may be applied accordingly.(6)Subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2) but without prejudice to the provisions of sub-sections (3) to
(5), anything done or any action taken before the appointed date under any
provision of the said University Acts, in respect of any college specified in
the Schedule to which the provisions of this Act apply shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall
continue to have an effect accordingly unless and until superseded by anything
done or any action taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

### 56. Special mode of appointment.

(1)The Syndicate may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of a Professor in the University on
such terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do
so, appoint him to the post, subject to the approval by the Chancellor.(2)The
Syndicate may appoint a teacher or any other member of the academic staff
working in any other University or organisation for undertaking a joint
project in accordance with the manner prescribed.

### 57. [ [Section 57 omitted by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish
dated 15.09.2016.]

***] [Substituted by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.]

### 58. Power to give direction.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
University, as it may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this
Act and it shall be the duty of the University, to comply with such
directions.

### 59. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the University after the appointed date or otherwise in
giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by
notification, make such provision, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, as may appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such notification shall be issued after the expiry
of five years from the date of establishment of the University under section
3.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under any other
provisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such notification or the Assembly decides that, the
notification should not be issued, the notification shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that notification.[The
Schedule] [Substituted by Act No. 16 of 2016, dated 14.09.2016, publish dated
15.09.2016.](See sections 1(3), 6 and 55)Part-I

### 1\. Tamil Nadu Government Music College, Chennai.

### 2\. Tamil Nadu Government Music College, Madurai.

### 3\. Tamil Nadu Government Music College, Tiruvaiyaru.

### 4\. Tamil Nadu Government Music College, Coimbatore.

### 5\. Government Fine Arts College, Chennai.

### 6\. Government Fine Arts College, Kumbakonam.

### 7\. Government College for Architecture and Sculpture, Mamallapuram.

### 8\. Kalaikaveri Fine Arts College, Tiruchirappalli.

Part-II 1. Tamil IsaiKalloori, Raja Annamalai Mandram, Chennai.

### 2\. Sathguru Sangeetha Vidyalayam, Madurai.

