## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous
Provisions Act, 1983

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions
Act, 1983

## Act 23 of 1983

  * Published on 14 May 1983 
  * Commenced on 14 May 1983 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 May 1983.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions
Act, 1983(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1983)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of l987). - The Tamil Nadu Payment of
Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 1983), provides for the payment, among other things, of pension to
the Tamil Scholars. In view of the rise in the cost of living conditions, the
Government have decided to increase the pension payable under the said Act
from Rs. 150 to Rs. 250 per mensem with effect on and from the 14th April
1987.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part
IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
17th November 1987.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of
Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1990
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1990). - The Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil
Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1983),
as amended by Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1987, provides for the payment, among other
things, of pension to the Tamil Scholars. In view of the rise in the cost of
living conditions, the Government have decided to increase the pension payable
under the said Act from Rs. 250 to Rs. 350 per mensem and it shall be deemed
to have come into force on the first October 1989.2\. The Bill seeks to give
effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th March 1990.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and
Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1993). -
The Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous
Provisions Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1983), provides for the payment,
among other things, of pension to the Tamil Scholars. In view of the rise in
the cost of living conditions, the Government have decided on and from the 1st
January 1991, to increase the pension payable under the said Act from Rs. 350
to Rs. 400 per mensem.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 29th October 1993.Received the assent of the Governor
on the 14th May 1983 and published in Part IV - Section 2, pages 108 to 112 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th May 1983.An
Act to provide for the sanction of pension or grant or scholarships to those
who have exhibited courage or nobility in their zeal to preserve the growth of
Tamil language or Tamil culture or exhibited conspicuous talents in Tamil
language and to provide for the sanction of pension or grant to the families
of persons who have evinced remarkable enthusiasm for Tamil language or Tamil
culture, and while striving to uphold their enthusiasm for Tamil language or
for the preservation of Tamil culture, lost their lives.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-fourth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1983.(2)It extends to the whole of the State
of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may,
by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"dependant" means
the wife or husband, as the case may be, and includes -(i)sons who have not
attained the age of eighteen years;(ii)unmarried or widowed
daughters;(iii)parents;(iv)brothers who have not attained the age of eighteen
years; and(v)unmarried or widowed sisters;of a person or martyr and who had
been wholly dependant on such person or martyr, as the case may
be;(b)"Government" means the State Government;(c)"grantee" means a person to
whom pension, grant or scholarship has been sanctioned under this
Act;(d)"martyr" means a person, who has evinced remarkable enthusiasm for
Tamil language and Tamil culture and while striving to uphold his enthusiasm
for Tamil language or in his zeal to preserve the growth of Tamil language or
to preserve the Tamil culture, has lost his life.

### 3. Sanction of pension, grantor scholarship.

(1)The Government may sanction a pension of four hundred rupees per mensem, or
a grant not exceeding ten thousand rupees or both -(a)to every person who has
exhibited conspicuous courage and nobility in his enthusiasm for the Tamil
language or in his zeal to preserve the growth of Tamil language or to
preserve the Tamil culture;(b)to the dependant of every martyr:Provided that
where there are more than one dependant of a martyr, the pension or grant
shall be sanctioned only to one of such dependants and for purpose of such
sanction of pension, preference shall be given to a dependant in the order
specified in clause (a) of section 2 and where there are more than one
dependants of the same category specified therein, the pension or grant shall
be apportioned among such dependants in such manner as may be prescribed;(2)On
the death of a person who has been sanctioned pension under clause (1) of sub-
section (1), the Government may sanction a pension of [two hundred and fifty
rupees] [Substituted for 'three hundred and fifty rupees per mensem' by the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1993). Previously amended by Tamil
Nadu Payment of Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions
(Amendment) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 45 of 1987) and Tamil Nadu Payment of
Pension to Tamil Scholars and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1990
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1990).] per mensem to the dependant of such
person:Provided that where there are more than one dependant of such person,
the pension under this sub-section shall be sanctioned to only one of such
dependants and for purpose of such sanction of pension, preference shall be
given to a dependant in the order specified in clause (a) of section 2 and
where there are more than one dependants of the same category specified
therein, the pension or grant shall be apportioned among such dependants in
such manner as may be prescribed.(3)The Government may sanction scholarships
not exceeding five thousand rupees in such number of instalments and in such
manner, as may be prescribed, to -(i)students who have exhibited conspicuous
talents or marked skill in Tamil language;(ii)teachers who have evinced
notable interest to the preservation and growth of Tamil language;(iii)poets
and writers of outstanding merit in Tamil language; and(iv)persons engaged in
research work in Tamil language or Tamil culture.

### 4. Application for pension, etc.

(1)Any person who is eligible for sanction of pension, grant or scholarship
under this Act may make an application to the Government in such form and in
such manner, as may be prescribed.(2)The application under sub-section (1)
shall be accompanied by a certificate from such officer, in such form, and in
such manner, as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of an application under sub-
section (1), the Government may cause such enquiries as they may deem
necessary, to be made regarding the eligibility or otherwise of the applicant
and may sanction the pension, grant or scholarship, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.(4)The Government, while sanctioning pension (other than the
pension referred to in sub-section (4)), grant or scholarship under this Act,
shall take into consideration the following factors, namely: -(i)the
remarkable skill or conspicuous talent in the Tamil language exhibited by the
applicant or the martyr, as the case may be;(ii)the outstanding merit of the
applicant or the martyr, as the case may be, in contributing to the growth of
Tamil language and the preservation of Tamil culture;(iii)the courage and
nobility exhibited by the applicant in his zeal to preserve the growth of
Tamil language or to preserve the Tamil culture;(iv)the remarkable enthusiasm
for Tamil language and his lead to preserve Tamil culture, evinced by the
martyr;(v)the nature of the suffering either by way of imprisonment or
otherwise undergone by the applicant or the martyr, as the case may be;
or(vi)such other factors as may be prescribed.(5)The Government, while
sanctioning pension under sub-section (2) of section 3, shall take into
consideration such factors as may be prescribed.

### 5. Sanction of pension or scholarship to lapse in certain cases.

(1)On the death of the grantee, the sanction of pension or scholarship to such
grantee shall, from the date of his death, including unpaid arrears,
lapse:Provided that the Government may, if they deem fit, make the payment of
such arrears in exceptional circumstances, to a claimant who shall be a
dependant of such grantee.(2)The sanction of pension under clause (b) of sub-
section (f) of section 3 or under sub-section (2) of that section shall lapse,
-(i)where the grantee is the daughter or sister of the martyr or of the person
referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3, who is unmarried,
on her marriage;(ii)where the grantee is the son or brother of the martyr or
the person referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3, on his
attaining the age of eighteen years.

### 6. Cancellation of pension, etc.

\- In the event of the grantee ceasing to reside in the State. -
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Government may cancel the
pension or scholarship sanctioned under this Act, if the grantee is absent
from the State of Tamil Nadu for a continuous period exceeding three
months:Provided that if the grantee has returned to the State of Tamil Nadu at
any time and continues to reside there, the Government may revive the payment
of pension or scholarship, as the case maybe, after due verification in such
manner as may be prescribed.

### 7. Cancellation of pension, etc., sanctioned on misrepresentation or
fraud, etc.

\- If the Government are satisfied, either on a reference made to them in this
behalf, or otherwise, that -(a)any pension, grant or scholarship sanctioned
under this Act, has been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud; or(b)any
pension, grant or scholarship has been sanctioned to any person under this Act
under a mistake of fact;then, the Government may, by order in writing, cancel
the pension, grant or scholarship, as the case may be, so sanctioned:Provided
that no such order shall be made except after giving the person affected a
reasonable opportunity of making his representations.

### 8. Finality of the decision of the Government.

\- The decision of the Government under this Act shall be final.

### 9. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for -(a)the
procedure for, and the manner of, enquiring in respect of the eligibility of a
person who has applied for pension, grant or scholarship under this Act;(b)the
manner of verification of applications for pension, grant or scholarship under
this Act;(c)the procedure to be followed by the authorities for sending the
enquiry report to the Government;(d)any other matter which is to be, or may
be, provided for by rules under this Act.(3)All rules made under this Act
shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(4)Every rule made under this Act shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for the words 'both Houses of Legislature' by Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session
in which it is so placed or the next session, the [Legislative Assembly,
agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both House agrees' by Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or the [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both House
agrees' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule should
not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

