## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength of Members, Division of Wards)
Rules, 1995

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength of Members, Division of Wards)
Rules, 1995

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-FIXATION-OF-STRENGTH-OF-MEMBERS-DIVISION-OF-
WARDS-RULES-1995 of 1995

  * Published on 18 July 1995 
  * Commenced on 18 July 1995 
  * [This is the version of this document from 18 July 1995.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength of Members, Division of Wards)
Rules, 1995Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. Panchayat Rural
Development (C-II), Dated the 18th July 1995 - No. SRO A-39 (a)/95G.O. Ms.
Panchayat Rural Development (C-II). - In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Fixation of Strength
of Members and Division of Wards) Rules, 1995.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994); and(2)all other
words and expressions used in these Rules, but not defined therein shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.

### 3. Fixation of strength of members of Panchayat.

(1)Village Panchayats. - The members to be elected from the wards in every
village panchayat shall be fixed with reference to the population of such
panchayat village as per the scale given below: -

Population | No. of Members  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
500 and above up to and inclusive of 2,000 | 6  
Over 2,000 and up to and inclusive of 6,000 | 9  
Over 6,000 and up to and inclusive of 10,000 | 12  
Over 10,000 | 15  
  
(2)Panchayat Union Councils. - The number of members to be elected from the
wards in every Panchayat Union Council shall be fixed at the rate of one
member, as far as practicable, for every five thousand population of that
Panchayat Union area.(3)District Panchayat. - The number of members to be
elected from the territorial wards of every District Panchayat shall be fixed
at the rate of one member, as far as practicable, for every fifty thousand
population of that District Panchayat area.

### 4. Division of wards and allocation of seats.

(1)Village Panchayat. -(1)For the purposes of the elections of the members of
Village Panchayats, area of every Panchayat Village shall be divided into
convenient number of territorial constituencies known as wards depending upon
the number of inhabited areas in the Panchayat Village, their population and
their geographical locations.(2)The number of wards in every Panchayat Village
shall not be less than two or more than five.(3)Every ward so divided under
sub-rule (1) shall be compact, contiguous and of easily recognisable areas
like localities, colonies, habitations, hamlets, etc., and also comprised, in
as far as practicable, full house numbering blocks.(4)The number of members
determined for a Village Panchayat shall be allocated among the wards so
divided in such manner that the ratio between the population of each ward and
the number of members allocated to it for the purposes of election shall, as
far as practicable, be the same throughout the Panchayat Village area:Provided
that where uniform ratios between the population of a ward and the number of
members allocated to it could not be ensured due to practical difficulties
like unequal distribution of population or peculiar geographical location of
inhabited areas and as such it has become necessary to deviate from the
aforesaid ratio in respect of any particular ward or wards, such deviation
shall not exceed twenty-five per cent either way:Provided further that the
number of members that may be allocated to a ward shall not exceed
three.Explanation. - Where the population figures in relation to any census
are not available in respect of any ward of a Panchayat Village, the Inspector
may determine the population of such area with reference to the voting
strength of the area as per the relevant portion of the current electoral roll
of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Constituency.(2)Panchayat Union
Council. - For the purpose of election of members, area of every Panchayat
Union shall be divided into as many Territorial Constituencies known as "ward"
as the total number of members to be elected to the Panchayat Union Council in
such manner -(a)that every ward of a Panchayat Union shall, as far as
practicable, have equal population; and(b)that every ward of a Panchayat Union
shall, as far as practicable, be contiguous, compact and comprise one or more
Panchayat Villages generally. Where it is not practically possible to secure
such contiguous and compact area with the required population in one or more
Panchayat Villages, the Panchayat Union ward may comprise portion or portions
of Panchayat Villages, which are full ward or wards of such Panchayat
Village.(3)District Panchayat. - For the purpose of election of members, area
of every District Panchayat shall be divided into as many territorial
constituencies known as "Territorial Wards", as the total number of members to
be elected to that District Panchayat in such manner -(a)that each territorial
ward, as far as practicable, has equal population;(b)that each territorial
ward, as far as practicable, be contiguous, compact and comprised one or more
full Panchayat Union wards; and(c)that no Panchayat Village in any such Union
ward shall lie in the jurisdiction of more than one such territorial ward.

### 5. Determination of population.

\- For the first election to be held immediately after the commencement of the
Act, the provisional population figures as published in relation to 1991
census shall be deemed to be the population.

