## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Procedure for Conducting Public Auction of Leases
and Sales in the Panchayats) Rules, 2001

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Procedure for Conducting Public Auction of Leases and
Sales in the Panchayats) Rules, 2001

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-PROCEDURE-FOR-CONDUCTING-PUBLIC-AUCTION-OF-
LEASES-AND-SALES-IN-THE-PANCHAYATS-RULES-2001 of 2001

  * Published on 22 November 2001 
  * Commenced on 22 November 2001 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 November 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Procedure for Conducting Public Auction of Leases and
Sales in the Panchayats) Rules, 2001Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms.
No. 277, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 22nd November 2001 - No.
SRO-A-72(a)/2001G.O. Ms. No. 277. - In exercise of the powers conferred by
clause (xix) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats
Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the earlier Rules
made in this regard, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Procedure for
Conducting Public Auction of Leases and Sales in the Panchayats) Rules, 2001.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Properties and rights to be auctioned.

(1)The Panchayat shall lease out or sell, in public auction in an open and
transparent manner, the right to enjoyment of properties of a Panchayat or
right to the collection of fees for the use of public places in the Panchayat
for commercial and other purposes, specified in sub-rule (2) The Panchayat
shall also sell, in public auction, any unusable or unserviceable article as
specified in clause (xi) in sub-rule (2) whose estimated value is more than
Rs. 100 (Rupees one hundred only).(2)The list of items that may be leased out
are, -(i)own lands and other immovable properties of the Panchayat;(ii)vested
or regulated poramboke lands under the control of the Panchayat;(iii)buildings
consisting of shops, rooms, rest sheds, carnages, market stalls, canteens,
hotels, lodging houses and other permanent buildings for which rent is payable
monthly or for a longer period;(iv)cutting of grass (vizhal for laying roof
for huts) grown in irrigation tanks and other places under the control of
Panchayats;(v)usufructs of trees on the Panchayat roads, topes and on roads
belonging to the Highways and Rural Works Department. Trees on Public Works
Department lands over which the Panchayats has been given control and other
Panchayat properties;(vi)right to collect the fees in the public market, cart-
stand, public landing or halting-places, bus-stand, slaughter-houses, fish
markets or ferry places under the control of the Panchayat;(vii)collection of
minor forest produce as defined in section 130-A of the Tamil Nadu Forest Code
collected in the unreserved forest of the Panchayat and other Panchayat
properties;(viii)use of road margins under the control of the Panchayat and
street margins for sale of articles;(ix)use of public places for erecting
advertisement boards, etc.;(x)any other items for which right of enjoyment or
collection of fees can be leased out;(xi)The sale of unusable or unserviceable
articles are, -(i)wind-fallen and withered trees;(ii)sweepings in the
Panchayat properties;(iii)unserviceable and worn out machinery tools, plants
and electrical fittings;(iv)old stores, materials and furniture;(v)old
newspapers, journals and obsolete records after tearing out them; and(vi)any
other unserviceable or unusable article which can be sold.(3)In the case of
stalls or bunks or other structures or buildings constructed by the Government
from their Funds for rehabilitation of the repatriates from other Countries,
if any, handed over to the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council,
as the case may be, for maintenance, they shall be leased out only to such
persons according to the instructions of the Government in force at the time
of auction.

### 4. Lease of land and immovable property belonging to a Panchayat.

\- The Panchayat shall have power to lease out its own land or any other
immovable property belonging to it as referred to in rule 3 above:Provided
that no such lease shall be valid in case the period of lease exceeds three
years or where the lessee is permitted to put up any building or structure
whether of masonry, brick, wood, mud or of any materials unless the sanction
of the Inspector has been obtained therefor.

### 5. Lease of Government poramboke vested with the Panchayat.

\- The Panchayat shall have power to lease out any property vested in it, but
not belonging to it other than road sides and street margins referred to in
rule 3 above:Provided that no lease shall be granted, -(a)in contravention of
the conditions, subject to which such property became vested in the
Panchayat;(b)for a period exceeding twelve months, without the previous
sanction of the Inspector:Provided further that no such lease shall be valid,
if the lessee is permitted to put up any building or structure whether of
masonry, bricks, wood, mud or any other materials unless prior sanction of the
Inspector has been obtained.

### 6. Lease of roadside and street margins.

\- The Panchayat shall have power to lease out road margins under the control
of the Panchayat and street margins subject to the following restrictions and
control: -(i)the Panchayat shall require each intending bidder to furnish
information as to the use to which the land will be put and the period for
which lease is required which shall not exceed one year at a time. If the
intending bidder desires to construct any temporary structure, information to
the materials to be used for the construction shall be furnished;(ii)for a
lease period not exceeding twelve months, materials like prefabricated
structures or palmyra or coconut leaves, bamboos, jute or gunny cloth or
similar other materials which may be removed easily, shall be permitted for
the structures. Necessary fees, if any, leviable for such temporary structure
shall also be collected before permitting such construction. Such a temporary
structure is liable for removal by the Panchayat, if the Panchayat or the
Inspector considers so in public interest during the middle of the lease
period and lessee shall have no right to claim any compensation for the
same;(iii)no lease for a structure made of materials other than those
mentioned in items (i) and (ii) above or for a period exceeding twelve months
shall be granted without the previous approval of the Inspector, who while
granting approval may lay down such conditions as may be considered necessary,
subject to which the lease may be granted by the Panchayat. The Panchayat
shall embody such conditions in the lease notice and lease deed before
granting orders to entry into the property;(iv)no road margins shall be leased
out for cultivation;(v)every lease under item (ii) or item (iii) shall
expressly provide that the lease is liable to be terminated at any time within
the period of the lease without payment of compensation to the lessee, if in
the opinion of the Panchayat or the Inspector, it is necessary in the public
interest to remove any structure erected in the land.

### 7. Collection of ground-rent assessment, peshkash or quit-rent and payable
to Government.

(1)Whenever any vested property of the Panchayat is leased out, the lessee
shall pay to the Government such assessment of ground-rent, peshkash or quit-
rent as the Inspector may determine, from time to time, and the same is
subject to revision, from time to time, in accordance with the rules in force
at the time of revision except in respect of quit-rent on enfranchised inam
lands and peshkash on lands in proprietary villages acquired by the Panchayat
by private negotiation. Such assessment of quit-rent shall be, in addition to
the, lease amount, and the lessee shall be liable to pay the amount in
addition to the lease amount.(2)Nothing contained in this rule shall affect
the right of the Government to recover from the Panchayat the assessment,
ground-rent, peshkash or quit-rent leviable on lands not transferred by sale
or exchange or otherwise permanently alienated.

### 8. Leasing out of public places for erecting advertisement boards and
hoardings for advertisement.

(1)The Panchayat may set apart places in the lands owned by it or in the
premises of its buildings or in the vested porambokes and lease out such
places for erecting up advertisement boards or hoardings.(2)The Panchayat may
also erect advertisement boards and hoardings at its own cost and lease out
such structures for the exhibition of advertisements.

### 9. Authority to conduct auction or sale.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case
may be, shall conduct auction of lease or sale of articles belonging to
Panchayat.

### 10. Time to conduct auction.

(1)The auction of lease shall be conducted sufficiently in advance of period
or date from which the lease period is due to commence, taking into
consideration the extra period that may become necessary for conducting re-
auction on account of any compelling circumstances, action may be taken to
complete well in advance the preliminary steps like preparing auction notices,
publication in proper manner, conducting of auction, getting approval of the
Panchayat and execution of lease deed.(2)So far as the sale of article in an
outright manner is concerned, such article may be got condemned by the
Panchayat well in advance wherever necessary and then sold out in public
auction without undue delay thereby avoiding theft, pilferage, natural loss,
damage or worning out, rendering their sale difficult or infructuous. In case,
where technical opinion or advice is considered essential or have been
prescribed by the Inspector for condemning any article by the Panchayat such
as radio, television set, electric motor pumpset, electrical fittings,
vehicles, etc., such technical advice or opinion in respect of that material
shall also be obtained.

### 11. Period of lease.

\- The Panchayat shall, in respect of property other than the property vested
with it, fix the period of lease of right to enjoy the property and the period
of lease of properties as specified in the Table below, subject to conditions
prescribed under this rule: -

Nature of Property | Maximum lease period at a time  
---|---  
1. | Own lands. |  Three years initially and renewal for a further period ofthree years.  
2. |  Own buildings used as shops, rooms, carriages,canteen, hotels, lodging houses, rest-sheds. |  Three years initially and renewal for a further period ofthree years.  
3. |  Government poramboke land vested with orregulated by the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat UnionCouncil, as the case may be, excluding road and street margins. | One year  
4. |  Right to cut grasses in minor and majorirrigation tanks and other water sources. | One year  
5. |  Usufructs of avenue trees in the VillagePanchayat or the Panchayat Union Council roads, trees, as thecase may be, in Public Works Department lands and Highways andRural Works Department roads and trees in topes. | One year  
6. |  Minor forest products as defined in section130-A of the Tamil Nadu Forest Code. | One year  
7. |  Right to collect fees for the use of publicplaces like markets/fairs, during festivals, landing and haltingplaces, bus stand, cart-stand, slaughter-house, fish market,fishing in water supply sources under the control or vested withthe Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council, as the casemay be, ferry. | One year  
8. |  Sale on road margins and street margins andpublic places in the Villages. | One years  
9. |  Right to enjoy fishery rights in water sourcesunder the control of the Village Panchayat or the Panchayat UnionCouncil, as the case may be. The Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Lease andLicensing of Fishery Rights in Water Sources Vested and Regulatedby the Village Panchayats and the Panchayat Union Councils)Rules, 1999, will apply for the auction procedures. | Five years  
  
### 12. Fixing of number and amount of instalments.

(1)The Panchayat shall fix the number of instalments for the payment of lease
amount by the lessee as follows: -(a)Where the lease period does not exceed
one year, the lease amount may be permitted to be paid in not exceeding two
instalments, to be decided by the Panchayat in respect of every lease:
Provided that the last instalment shall be paid before six months of expiry of
the period of lease:Provided further that in case the lease amount does not
exceed Rs. 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only), it shall be paid in one lump sum
within five days of execution of lease deed:Provided also that in the case of
lease of usufructs of avenue trees, the lease amount shall be paid in one lump
sum before the execution of lease deed;(b)Where the lease period exceeds one
year, the lease amount may be permitted to be paid in not more than two
instalments for every year of lease, the last instalment being payable at
least one year before the period of expiry of the lease period of lease or in
the beginning of the lease period, whichever is earlier.(2)The Panchayat shall
take action to terminate the lease in case a lessee fails to remit the
instalment within seven days after the expiry of due date besides initiating
action to realise the balance as per the lease deed from the lessee.(3)The
Panchayat shall fix the amount of the security deposit for each item of lease,
so that he may not retreat from the lease after the final bid. This amount
shall be retained till the expiry of the lease period as a security against
the violation of lease condition. In case where the estimated lease amount
exceeds Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only), the bidder shall be required to
produce suitable solvency certificate for an amount to be specified in the
auction notice.(4)Every successful bidder in an auction shall be required to
remit, soon after the bidding is over for an item, and before starting the bid
for the next item, an initial amount, excluding the recently deposited amount,
calculated at not less than ten per cent of the bid amount which, together
with early paid amount, would constitute the first instalment of the amount in
the case of lease not exceeding one year and fifteen per cent of the bid
amount in cases where the lease period exceeds more than a year, equal to two
instalments of amount.

### 13. Place of auction.

\- Ordinarily, every auction or sale shall be conducted in the office of the
Panchayat. In special cases, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or
the Secretary, as the case may be, shall decide the place of auction of the
lease or sale depending upon the nature of lease or sale and the place where
the properties or articles lie. However, the auction of usufructs of the
trees, wind-fallen and withered trees may be conducted at the site itself. In
case of avenue trees, the entire road length may be divided into convenient
reaches, i.e., say two hundred or four hundred metres and may be auctioned
reach by reach individually.

### 14. Issue of auction notice.

(1)The notice of auction of lease or sale may be issued not less than ten days
and not more than twenty one days prior to the date of auction or sale. The
Panchayat shall approve the terms and conditions and for each kind or type of
lease, before they are included in the auction notice. If new conditions or
terms are to be included or existing conditions or terms to be amended, the
prior approval of the Panchayat shall be necessary. The notice may contain,
inter alia, terms and conditions on the following matters, subject to which
the lease shall be granted: -(i)place of auction or sale, date and time of
auction;(ii)period of lease;(iii)details of property to be sold or rights to
be auctioned. In the case of avenue trees, the details of reach of the road
and, in other cases, the location of the property may be specified
clearly;(iv)security deposit payable for each item;(v)number of instalments of
lease amount permitted for each item;(vi)initial amount payable at the time of
auction or sale by the successful bidder;(vii)details of solvency certificate
to be produced where it is considered necessary;(viii)prohibition of
defaulters in the payment of past leases from participating in the auction or
sale;(ix)confirmation of auction or sale being subject to the approval of the
Panchayat;(x)rate of interest chargeable for belated payment of
instalment;(xi)need for and mode of execution of lease or sale
deed;(xii)details of payment of assessment, ground-rent, peshkash or quit-rent
fixed by the Inspector, from time to time, which will be in addition to the
lease amount;(xiii)schedule of payment of the lease or sale amount;(xiv)in
case where the rent of own lands, poramboke lands and own building of the
Panchayats, proposed to be leased out, the rent, lease amount, may be reckoned
in terms of monthly rent for the entire lease period. This information may be
specified in the auction notice also for the information of the intending
bidders; and(xv)power of the administration, to reserve any right either to
postpone the sale or auction of any lease and also to cancel any lease in
public interest with or without showing any reasons therefor, in the middle of
the lease period for which the lessee has no right to claim any compensation.

### 15. Publication of auction notice.

(1)The auction notice for the lease of property or right to collect fees or
sale of articles shall be published in the manner specified below. Due
publicity shall be given by publishing a notice containing full particulars of
the property to be transferred or leased or sold and the fees to be collected,
-(i)in the notice board of the concerned Panchayat;(ii)in the notice board of
the Panchayat Union or the District Panchayat in which the Village Panchayat
or Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, is situated;(iii)in the notice
board of the adjacent Panchayat lying within five kilo metres radius of the
Village Panchayat or the Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, in which
the property lies;(iv)in important places in the Panchayat Village area or the
Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, like chavadi, post office, fair
price shops, temples, etc.;(v)by beat of tom tom in the Panchayat Village or
the Panchayat Union Council, as the case may be, where the property or place
lies, on the day of auction, three hours before the time fixed for
auction;(vi)a record of publication of auction notice shall be prepared and
kept in the relevant file;(vii)by sending copy of notice to the prospective
traders, dealers or agents in the District who are dealing with the property
of the nature mentioned in the auction;(viii)on the property to be leased out
or place where the fees are to be collected;(ix)any other method, the
Panchayat may consider necessary.(2)The auction notice shall be caused to be
published, -(i)in the District Gazette at least seven days in advance of the
date of auction, in case the lease amount is expected not to exceed Rs. 10,000
(Rupees ten thousand only);(ii)by inserting brief advertisement, in a Tamil
daily newspapers having wide daily circulation in the Panchayat area, at least
three days ahead of the date of auction, in case the lease is expected to
exceed Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only).(3)The Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall estimate and decide
whether a lease or sale of article would fetch an amount below or above Rs.
2,000 (Rupees two thousand only), as the case may be, and record his decision
in the relevant file quoting reasons therefor.(4)The Panchayat may dispense
with the publication of auction notice in the District Gazette or in the
newspapers, in the case of re-auction, during the middle of the lease period
arising out of termination of the lease for non-fulfilment of lease
conditions.

### 16. Auction procedure.

(1)In the case of auction conducted by the Panchayat, a Committee comprising
of three members for supervising the conduct of auction, of leases or sale may
be constituted by the concerned Panchayat for ensuring greater transparency.
In case of a Village Panchayat, such Committee may include besides the
Executive Authority, the Vice-President and the members from the ward where
the property to be leased or sold lies. The Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall inform the Committee
members in writing at least three days in advance for making themselves
present at the place of auction or sale.(2)The Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, or the person authorised to
conduct the auction shall be present sixty minutes ahead of the time fixed for
auction at the appointed place. If more number of items are to be auctioned,
auction shall be conducted one after another. The highest bid amount shall be
either recovered along with necessary security deposit or the first instalment
of total bid are collected before commencing the next item of auction. The
deposit of all unsuccessful bidders may be refunded to them on the spot or
after all the auctions under the question are over with due
acknowledgement.(3)No person shall be eligible to participate in the auction,
if he was irregular in paying instalment amounts in respect of any previous
auction held in that Panchayat or if he has failed to comply with any of the
terms or conditions of a previous auction, resulting in the damage to the
lease property.(4)A suitable upset price may be fixed at the commencement of
auction which may be based on the last auction, the prevailing market prices
and the prospect at the present auction. If the situation warrants, reasons
for which shall be recorded in writing amount may be lowered to a further
reasonable level from which the bid be increased by the bidders.(5)As soon as
the auction is over, the security deposit amount and the lease amount released
in full or in parts shall be remitted into the concerned Panchayat Fund
Account and printed receipts issued to the payees by the Executive Authority
or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be.

### 17. Procedure for lease cancellation in the middle of lease period.

(1)If it is found that a lessee has violated any of the lease conditions,
which is considered by the Panchayat as a serious irregularity like failure to
remit the instalment of the dues on or before the due date or cause serious
damages to the leased property and failed to restore the damages to the
original position, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, shall issue a show cause notice to the lessee
as to why the lease should not be terminated on account of the violation of
lease conditions which shall be specified in the show cause notice and require
him to submit his reply within seven days. This notice shall be served on him
as per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Manner of Publication of
Notification or Notice and Manner of Service of Documents to the Public)
Rules, 2000.(2)After the expiry of the period specified in the show cause
notice, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the
case may be, shall decide on the merit of the case after taking into
consideration the explanation of the lessee, if any, received and after
obtaining the resolution of the Panchayat for termination of lease, issue
suitable orders to the lessee. If the lease is terminated, such order shall
also be served on the lessee as per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats (Manner of Publication of Notification or Notice and Manner of
Service of Documents to the Public) Rules, 2000. The orders of termination
shall include the consequences of termination in accordance with the
conditions of lease deed, the important among them, being that the lessee
shall be liable to pay any loss to the Panchayat arising out of the
termination of lease and re-auctioning or by departmental management of the
lease property or right.

### 18. Circumstances and procedure to conduct re-auction.

(1)Re-auction of lease may be conducted in the following circumstances:
-(a)When the lease was cancelled due to violation of lease condition by the
lessee;(b)When another person comes forward to bid for higher amount by
remitting an amount higher, by one and a half times more than the bid
amount;(c)When the Inspector or any other authority empowered by him cancel
the auction on account of proven irregularities committed in the auction held
already; and(d)When the Panchayat itself resolves to conduct re-auction on the
ground that the bid amount is too low to be considered as a reasonable bid,
compared to the last auction or taking into consideration of the prevailing
circumstances.(2)In the event of re-auction, the procedure laid down for
conducting auction in these rules shall be observed all over again, starting
from the issue of re-auction notice onwards. Before commencing re-auction
proceedings, a written order cancelling the previous auction, shall be issued
by the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case
may be, based on the resolution of the Panchayat or the orders of the
Inspector.(3)The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as
the case may be, shall be competent to cancel an auction in the event of a
situation specified in clause (b) in sub-rule (1) and issue orders before
seeking permission of the Panchayat for conducting a re-auction.(4)When re-
auction is ordered, the publication of a notice in the District Gazette and
the newspapers may be dispensed with if the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, considers that the bid
amount at the re-auction may not be at a level warranting such publication and
accordingly notice for shorter duration may be given.

### 19. Confirmation of auction.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case
may be, shall, as soon as possible or within a week of conduct of auction,
during which period a request for auction for a higher amount is likely to be
expected, place before the Panchayat, the records of auction of lease or sale
with his remarks in writing on the acceptability or otherwise of one or all
the bids. The Panchayat shall decide as to which of the bids shall be accepted
and record its reasons where the bid accepted is not the highest or for
rejecting a bid or bids higher than the one accepted. In case the Panchayat
decides to reject all the bids and resolve to conduct re-auction, it shall
record the reasons for ordering such re-auction. If the Executive Authority or
the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, is not satisfied with
the decision of the Panchayat, he may bring it to the notice of the Inspector.
The decision of the Inspector thereon shall be final.

### 20. Execution of lease deed.

(1)Soon after the approval of the auction of a lease by the Panchayat, the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
shall confirm the auction in writing to the successful bidder. If the lease
amount exceeds Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only), the bidder shall be
directed to execute a lease deed within five days of the confirmation of the
auction in a stamped paper of suitable value and register it. If the bidder
fails to execute the lease deed, the auction shall be cancelled forfeiting the
security deposit and the initial amount paid on the day of auction and also
the re-auction of lease shall be ordered. The successful bidder shall not
enter into the lease property before executing lease deed and obtaining
permission for such entry from the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or
the Secretary, as the case may be.(2)The lease deed shall specify the terms
and conditions, inter alia, the following matters, in addition to the other
conditions specified in the auction notice: -(a)duration of the
lease;(b)amount of each instalment of the lease amount and the due date before
which it is payable;(c)lease liable for cancellation in case the instalment of
the lease amount is not paid within seven days on the expiry of the due date
or such larger period or as the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, may fix and not exceeding thirty days from the
due date, at any rate;(d)liability of the lessee to make good, the loss, if
any, caused to the Panchayat on re-auction, departmental management of the
property or right of re-auction, owing to the default on the part of the
lessee to fulfil the terms of his contract;(e)the rate of fees leviable by the
lessee in respect of public markets, landing places, halting places, cart-
stands, slaughter houses, fisheries and ferries under the control of the
Panchayat;(f)restrictions and controls to be imposed for preventing damages to
the lease property in any way as would affect the revenue yielding capacity of
the property and should it happen, the lessee shall restore the property to
its original position or state, failing which the damage shall be restored at
his cost which shall be recoverable from him besides cancellation of the
lease;(g)prohibition against indiscriminate cutting of any branch of a tree or
palmy rah or coconut leaves for a better yield;(h)liability of the lessee to
pay assessment, ground-rent, peshkash or quit-rent at such rate as the
Inspector may fix, from time to time;(i)right to enjoy the lease is subject to
the satisfactory compliance with all the terms and conditions in the auction
notice, as well as that of the lease deed; and(j)any other conditions or terms
which may be found necessary in the case of a different type or particular
kind of lease.(3)The lease deed shall be executed in the prescribed form
depending upon the property leased out for enjoyment or right of collecting
fees for using public places belonging to or vested with or regulated by the
Panchayat.(4)No person shall be allowed to exercise his right under the lease
until he has executed the lease deed.(5)In case any lessee fails to pay the
instalment of the lease amount, as agreed upon within thirty days of due date
of payment, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as
the case may be, shall forthwith report the matter to the concerned Panchayat
which shall have power to terminate the lease and order its management
departmentally at the risk of the lessee till it is leased out in re-
auction.(6)No sale deed is necessary in the case of sale of articles and for
which the sale amount has been realised in full, but when confirming the
auction for sale, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, shall specify the date before which the
property sold may be removed from the spot or taken possession of any balance
amount due from the bidder shall be collected with due sales tax and
surcharge, if any, before permitting the removal of the property from the spot
or taking possession of the property.

### 21. Procedure for sealed tenders.

(1)The Panchayat shall have power to invite tenders in an open and transparent
manner for the enjoyment of lease of a property or right to collect fees
covering the salient formalities and legal aspects of -(i)if, the Panchayat
has reason to believe that due to collusion among the bidder or due to any
other reason like, either there was no bid at least on two occasions;
or(ii)the bid was kept at a very low level whereby the interest of the
Panchayat was deliberately defeated. The terms and conditions which are
normally prescribed in the auction notice for lease may be adopted with such
modifications as are necessary when calling for tenders.(2)When tenders are
invited for letting out the lease of a property or right to collect fees, the
Panchayat shall have power to accept either the highest tender or a tender
which is not the highest, but the next higher, after recording the reasons for
the same in writing.

### 22. Auction-cum-tender procedure.

(1)If the Panchayat considers and decides its advantageous to adopt the
auction-cum-tender procedure, it shall have power to adopt such procedure in
the sale of property or leasing out the right to enjoy property or to collect
fees for the use of public places, if it has reason to believe that due to
collusion among the intending bidders or due to threat by habitual
participants to the new entrants in the bidding, either there is a low bid or
no bid at all, at least on two occasions, it shall record the fact in the
minutes of the meeting and opt for adopting auction-cum-tender procedure in
respect of lease or sale of any item which it proposes to conduct.(2)When the
Panchayat decides to adopt the auction-cum-tender procedure, the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall
issue auction-cum-tender notice with appropriate terms and conditions covering
the salient formalities and legal aspects of each of the system in the same
notice fixing a suitable time for conducting the auction and some other time
on the same day following the completion of auction proceedings, for opening
the tenders for the same items of leases or sales. Under any circumstances,
the time appointed for the receipt of tenders shall not exceed the time
appointed for the conduct of auction and any tender, received after the
commencement of the auction shall be straightaway rejected without opening.
Security deposits shall be specified separately for auction and tender. The
time, place and the last day for the receipt of tenders and the time, place
and last day for the sale of tenders documents and payment of tenders
deposits, shall also be specified in the notice. A Tenderer can send his
tender by registered post sufficiently in advance so as to reach the office of
the tenderee before the appointed date and time and the official who receives
the postal cover up to the time on the last day fixed for the receipt of
tenders shall deposit it into the tender box prepared and kept for that
purpose.(3)On the day and time fixed for the conduct of auction, strictly
observing all the formalities and subject to the terms and conditions
mentioned to take action under current notice, the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall commence the auction
proceedings, conduct and complete the auction or sale of each item one by one
and simultaneously completing the records of auction or sale and obtain
necessary initial amount from the successful bidders at the time appointed for
the opening of the tenders. The tenders received up to the prescribed time and
date shall be opened and the amount quoted therein in respect of each item
shall be read openly at the meeting of bidders and tenderers. The tender
details may be entered in the register of tenders maintained for that purpose.
After completing all the formalities, the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall place before the
concerned Panchayat, the records of auction and of tenders for approval. The
Panchayat shall have power, either to decide the higher bid in an auction or
quoted in tender or any suitable bid or tender amount which is next to the
highest amount. In case, it accepts a lower amount than the highest tender or
the auction amount, the reasons for the same shall be specifically recorded in
the minutes of the meeting.

### 23. Renewal of lease.

(1)The Panchayat shall have power to renew the lease of right of enjoyment of
shops, rooms, garages, public markets, canteen, hotels or lodging houses
belonging to it and for which rent is payable on a monthly basis or for a
longer period in favour of the existing lessee, if the lessee agrees to the
renewal of the lease for a higher amount to be decided by the Panchayat,
supported by not less than one half of the members than holding office which
shall not be less than fifteen per cent for every year on the previous years
lease or of rent fixed:Provided that such extension of renewal of lease shall
be done only up to a maximum of three years.(2)The existing lessee, if he
desires to continue the lease for a further period, he may apply to the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
requesting the renewal of the lease in his favour at least three months before
the expiry of the lease period. On receipt of such a request, the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall
place the matter before the respective Panchayats to fix provisionally a sum
at which the lease can be renewed, taking into consideration the following
factors: -(a)the increase in the market value of the building subsequent to
the letting out of the present lease;(b)the appreciation in the increase of
rental value of the building and other similar buildings in the
locality;(c)consideration of growth and business of the locality in which the
building is situated;(d)other factors such as the location of the property in
close proximity to railway station, bus stand, business area and other factors
which may have effect in the promotion of business.(3)The Executive Authority
or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, may fix the lease
amount at fifteen per cent, if the annual rise in prices less than fifteen per
cent, over the existing lease amount for the fourth year of lease and this
rate of increase may be fixed at more than fifteen per cent for the fifth year
and sixth year of the lease period as may be decided by the Panchayat.(4)The
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
shall place before the Panchayat within two weeks of the receipt of the
request from the lessee, the request for renewal together with his
recommendation regarding the probable amount of lease or rent to be fixed for
ensuing lease period.(5)The Panchayat shall be at liberty to accept the offer
of the lessee and fix up the rent for each of the next three years at a
progressive rate of increase so as to derive not less than forty-five per cent
of the total amount for the next term of three years, over the previous term
of lease. If the Panchayat decides not to accept the request of the lessee,
the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may
be, shall take further action to conduct auction of the lease for that
particular item of lease in the usual manner, by observing the procedures
prescribed under these rules.(6)In case, the Panchayat decides to accept the
offer at a meeting where not less than fifty per cent of members than on the
Panchayat is present, it shall fix lease rent for each year for the next three
years period and the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary,
as the case maybe, shall intimate the lessee, the decision of the Panchayat
before six weeks to the expiry of the lease period with the condition to
indicate his willingness to accept the offer within a week of the date of
receipt of intimation from the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be. On receipt of the intimation from the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, the lessee
may express his willingness to accept the offer consisting of graded increase
of lease amount any year of the renewal at an amount indicated by the
Panchayat or unwillingness to accept the offer. In which case the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall take
action to conduct the auction of the lease before the expiry of the period of
the lease after getting the approval of the Panchayat. In case, the lessee
expresses his willingness in writing to the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, to accept the offer of the
Panchayat, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as
the case may be, shall get a fresh lease deed executed and registered by the
lessee. The lease deed shall contain all the conditions normally stipulated
for such a lease with a specific reference for the acceptance of increase of
lease amount during each year of the three years period in a graded manner. If
the lessee fails to execute the lease deed within the period mentioned above,
the offer of the Panchayat shall stand withdrawn and the Executive Authority
or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall report the
matter to the Panchayat immediately, obtain its permission to let the property
on auction.(7)The Panchayat is competent to renew the lease of the property
only for a period of three years to an existing lessee and shall not renew for
the second time, even if the lessee is willing to pay higher rent. The
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
shall put on such lease of property on auction after the sixth year when the
existing lessee will be free to compete in auction and knock out the lease at
any amount as he may desire.(8)Where the lessee fails to pay the rent
specified in the lease deed or where he fails to pay the revised rent, he
shall be evicted in accordance with the conditions of the deed and a fresh
lease of the property shall be effected in public auction in the manner
specified in these rules.

### 24. Direct management by the Panchayat.

(1)The Panchayat shall have power to manage itself the affairs of letting on
lease, the enjoyment or right of a property of collection of fees, for the use
of public places like public market, bus stands, vehicle stand, etc., in one
or more of the following circumstances. However, the Panchayat can resort to
the management by itself only for a short period till the lease of such
property is let out, -(a)when the lease is terminated for the violation of
conditions of lease deed by the lessee and the lease property or right has to
be necessarily managed by the Panchayat at the risk of the lessee till the
lease for the remaining period is auctioned and a fresh lease deed is executed
for its management;(b)when the process of leasing could not be finalised due
to extraordinary unforeseen circumstances or administrative reasons, before
the period of commencement of lease;(c)in case of collection of fees during an
annual festival of a temple, lasting for a very short period, when there is no
bid at the first auction of a lease or when the lease amount is comparatively
low due to collusion or other unhealthy means and the Panchayat does not see
reason to accept such a low lease amount.(2)When a Panchayat decides to take
up the management by itself of a lease of enjoyment or right of a property,
the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may
be, may utilise the service of its employees for the collection work. In
exceptional cases, where it is essential to engage temporary staff for
collection, it shall also decide regarding the appointment of temporary staff,
their daily wages not exceeding the rates fixed by the Inspector for such
period of Panchayat management, mode of selection of person for appointment,
the amount of security deposit to be collected from the temporary staff,
expenditure on the printing of tickets or receipt books and other contingent
expenditure. The Panchayat shall be competent to incur expenditure for the
departmental management not exceeding thirty per cent of the anticipated
receipt without outside sanction and for any expenditure exceeding this limit,
the previous permission of the Inspector shall be obtained.(3)The Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case maybe, shall
decide the colour of ticket for different denominations, for different rates
of fees, the design and size of ticket leaves, the number of series of ticket
books for different rates of fees, the actual letter of series (such as "A, B,
C") of ticket books for different rates of fees, the number of ticket leaves
to be provided for each denomination, the details to be provided in the ticket
leaf, the size of the leaf, the number of tickets to be printed in each series
in each denomination, etc., the details of ticket leaf may be similar to those
approved by the Panchayat already when the lease for a particular purpose was
auctioned last. Each ticket book shall contain one hundred leaves having
printed serial number on the leaves. Depending upon the number of series of
ticket book to be printed and number of books to be prefixed in each series,
the first letter of each series may be printed to serial number of leaf. By
this way, the leaves of same denomination can be identified on the basis of
letter of series prefixed to such serial numbers. The ticket book in each
denomination in each series shall be serially numbered. The receipt for the
printing of ticket books shall show details, names of series of ticket books
printed in each denomination, the total number of leaves in each book and the
total number of ticket leaves printed in each series in each denomination.(4)A
stock register of ticket books shall be maintained in two parts. In the part
one of the register, the details of ticket books printed and brought to stock
shall be entered and the details of issues of ticket book to the collecting
staff, who are appointed with a separate set of serially numbered for all
ticket books under each denomination, the ticket books serial be numbered in a
separate series for each denomination, the total number of leaves serially
numbered under each denomination, the serial number of leaves bound as a
ticket-book being printed on the ticket book. The leaves in the ticket-book
shall bear the facsimile of the signature of the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, and signature of the
collecting staff in ink. Part two of this register shall be treated as a
personal ledger for each collecting staff showing the details of ticket books
issued to each collecting person under each denomination together with total
number of leaves and the total value of ticket books supplied. Whenever ticket
books are issued, the dated signature of the collecting person shall be
obtained in the register as a token of his acknowledgement. The details of
amount daily collected and remitted into the Panchayat shall be noted in this
part of the register, denomination-wise and date-wise under the dated
signature of the collecting person. In this way, the balance amount to be
remitted by each collecting person can be ascertained on any date and the
responsibility and accountability of the collecting person can be ensured and
fixed.(5)The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the
case may be, shall issue a set of directions to the collecting staff on all
matters enumerated below relating to the collection work, -(a)area or zone
allotted for each collecting person;(b)rate of fees to be collected for
different articles/purposes or person, etc.;(c)remittance of daily collection
at the Panchayat Office in the evening of the everyday with details of the
collection work for that day and surrender the counter-foil
books;(d)authorised persons for receiving the collections and counter-foil
books from the collecting staff and give acknowledgement in the register or
note book maintained by him for this record;(e)any other pertinent matter
which may arise in a particular case;(f)the person receiving the cash daily at
the Panchayat must verify the number of counter-foils and assess the amount
which should have been collected and tally it with the cash actually received.
If any discrepancy is notified in the verification, then, he should take up
the matter to the notice of the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, for suitable further action.(6)The Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall keep
strict watch over the collection work of the staff. He shall undertake the
following measures in this regard. He shall take immediate and effective
action in case he notices any irregularity or misappropriation during his
check-(a)verify with vendors or other persons who have to pay fees, whether
they receive tickets for the amount they pay to the collecting person, whether
they were demanded to pay or give more amount than that specified in the
ticket or mentioned in the notice board installed at the site of
collection;(b)verify whether the collecting persons are collecting fees from
all persons/vendors or they omit to collect fees from some persons/vendors or
whether they collect money, but omit to give receipts;(c)whether the tickets
available with the vendors are genuine or spurious;(d)any other kind of check,
as he may consider necessary or essential;(e)if he thinks desirable or
necessary, he can authorise the Vice-President to undertake the measures he is
taking, on days on which he could not undertake them, due to his pre-
occupation with any other official business; and(f)surprise verification of
stock of tickets and cash on hand with the collecting person at frequent
intervals.(7)Each and every collecting person shall maintain a separate
account in two parts for his record in respect of tickets entrusted to him and
collections made and remitted into the Panchayat. Details of collection made
and remitted into Panchayat shall be entered daily in the register.(8)The
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
shall verify the number of ticket books used, cash on hand with every
collecting person and append a certificate of verification in the stock
register of the collecting persons with a view to keeping strict vigil to
prevent misappropriation and defalcation. Any irregularity noticed during such
verification should be given due serious consideration and follow up action
taken. The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the
case may be, shall arrange to issue a receipt for the cash remitted into the
Panchayat Office daily to the collecting person when they remit money and
receive used ticket book. The miscellaneous register shall also indicate the
serial number of tickets from which fees were collected and the serial number
of used ticket books received by the office.(9)After the period of management
by the Panchayat is over, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case maybe, shall review the overall position with reference
to the number of ticket books printed, number issued, amount collected and
remitted and the net savings accrued and report the matter to the concerned
Panchayat at its next meeting.

### 25. Collection of lease and sale amount.

(1)After completing the execution of lease deed, necessary entries shall be
made in the register of miscellaneous demand under the attestation of the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may
be.(2)The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the
case may be, shall make necessary posting regarding the total amount, initial
payment, when the deed is executed, what the amount to be recovered in
instalments at the beginning of each month, scrutinise this register, note
down the due date of instalments of lease amount, and issue advance reminder
to the lessee for remitting the dues. If they fail to remit the instalment due
even after a reasonable period, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or
the Secretary, as the case may be, shall take action to terminate the lease
besides taking appropriate action to realise the dues with interest.

