## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislature (Prohibition of Simultaneous Membership) Act, 1950

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislature (Prohibition of Simultaneous Membership) Act, 1950

## Act 20 of 1950

  * Published on 27 September 1950 
  * Commenced on 27 September 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 September 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislature (Prohibition of Simultaneous Membership) Act,
1950(Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1950)Received the assent of the Governor on the 27th
September 1950 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the
3rd October 1950.An Act to provide for the vocation by a person who is chosen
a member of both Houses of the State Legislature of his seat in one House or
the other.Whereas it is necessary to provide for the vacation by a person who
is chosen a member of both Houses of the State Legislature of his seat in one
House or the other. It is hereby enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Legislature (Prohibition
of Simultaneous Membership) Act, 1950.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)"Assembly" means the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(2)"Council" means the Legislative Council of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)"House" means the Assembly or the Council.

### 3. Vacation of seat by a person who is a member of one House chosen member
of the other House.

(1)If a person is chosen a member of the Council after he has taken his seat
in the Assembly and while he continues to be a member thereof, his seat in the
Assembly shall become vacant on the date on which he is chosen a member of the
Council.(2)If a person is chosen a member of the Assembly after he has taken
his seat in the Council and while he continues to be a member thereof, his
seat in the Council shall become vacant on the date on which he is chosen a
member of the Assembly.

### 4. Vacation of seat by a person who is chosen member of both the Assembly
and the Council.

(1)In cases not governed by section 3, any person who is chosen a member of
both the Assembly and the Council may, within fifteen days from the date on
which he is so chosen or if he is so chosen on different dates, then, within
fifteen days from the later of such dates-(a)take his seat in either Houses,
whereupon his seat in the other House shall become vacant; or(b)by notice in
writing signed by him and delivered to the Secretary of each of the Houses or
to any person authorized by the Governor in this behalf intimate in which of
the Houses he wishes to serve, whereupon his seat in the other House shall
become vacant.(2)If the seat of such person in one of the Houses does not
become vacant in pursuance of clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1),
then, upon the expiry of the time specified in that sub-section, his seat in
the Assembly shall become vacant.

