## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Entry into Public Places (Removal of Restriction on Dress) Act,
2014

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Entry into Public Places (Removal of Restriction on Dress) Act,
2014

## Act 9 of 2014

  * Published on 21 August 2014 
  * Commenced on 21 August 2014 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 August 2014.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Entry into Public Places (Removal of Restriction on Dress) Act,
2014(Act No. 9 of 2014)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - During the Assembly
session on 16.07.2014, the Hon'ble Chief Ministers has announced as follows:
-"It was brought to the notice of the Government that some clubs are denying
entry to persons wearing Dhoti reflecting Tamil culture or any Indian
traditional dress into public places under their control or management on the
ground that they are not wearing dress or apparels in keeping with western
culture. It has become imperative in the context of happening in the past to
remove such restriction. In order to settle the issue permanently, necessary
Bill will be introduced and passed in the current session of the Legislative
Assembly".2\. To give effect to the above announcement, the Government have
decided to bring out a new legislation for the said purpose.3\. The Bill seeks
to give effect to the above decision.[Dated 21.08.2014]An Act to provide for
removal of restriction imposed by recreation clubs, hotels, theatres, malls,
halls, auditoriums and stadiums on persons wearing veshti (dhoti) reflecting
Tamil culture or any Indian traditional dress, to enter into such
places.Whereas it is brought to the notice of the Government that some clubs
are denying entry to persons into public places under their control or
management on the ground that they are not wearing dress or apparels in
keeping with western culture;And Whereas it is the fundamental duty of every
Indian citizen to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite
culture;And Whereas Imposition of restriction on persons for entry into public
places on the ground that their dress does not conform to western culture
would amount to continuation of the colonial imperialistic attitude;And
Whereas it has become imperative in the context of happenings in the past to
remove such restrictions;Now, Therefore, in order to preserve our culture,
custom and heritage, the Government have decided to remove the restriction
imposed on persons wearing veshti (dhoti) reflecting Tamil culture or any
Indian traditional dress for entry into public places.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-fifth Year of the
Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Entry into Public Places (Removal of
Restriction on Dress) Act, 2014.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Government" means
the State Government;(b)"public places" means recreation clubs, hotels,
theatres, malls, halls, auditoriums, stadiums and such other places as may be
notified by the Government, where people including members congregate in
connection with any function, event, entertainment, sports or other activity.

### 3. Removal of restriction of entry.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any rule, regulation or bye-law made
by, or circular, instruction or guideline issued by, any recreation club,
association, trust, company or society, no person, wearing a veshti (dhoti)
reflecting Tamil culture or any other Indian traditional dress, shall be
denied entry into any public place, by reason only of his dress:Provided that
the dress shall be worn in a decent manner.(2)No recreation club, association,
trust, company or society, whether incorporated or not, shall make any rule,
regulation or bye-law or issue any circular, instruction or guideline imposing
restriction on entry to any person wearing a veshti (dhoti) reflecting Tamil
culture or any other Indian traditional dress, into any public place under its
control or management.(3)Anything contrary to the provision of this Act,
contained in any rule, regulation or bye-law made by, or circular, instruction
or guideline issued by, any recreation club, association, trust, company or
society shall be null and void.

### 4. Cancellation of licence/permission.

\- If any recreation club, association, trust, company or society which
violates the provisions of this Act, the licence or permission granted by the
Government to that recreation club, association, trust, company or society
shall be cancelled after notice to the licence concerned.

### 5. Penalty.

\- Whoever violates the provisions of section 3 shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and with fine which may
extend to twenty five thousand rupees.

### 6. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in-charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, -(a)"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in relation to -(i)a firm,
means a partner in the firm;(ii)a society, a trust or other association of
individuals, means the person who is entrusted under the rules of the society,
trust or other association with the management of the affairs of the society,
trust or other association, as the case may be.

### 7. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any
of the purposes of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed
to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on
which they are so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall,
unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into
force on the day on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or
notification or order issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after
it is made or issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and
if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next
session, the Legislative Assembly makes any modification in any such rule or
notification or order or the Legislative Assembly decides that the rule or
notification or order should not be made or issued, the rule or notification
or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule or notification or order.

### 8. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order, make such provision not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as appears to them to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this Act.

