## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

## Act 26 of 1963

  * Published on 11 December 1963 
  * Commenced on 11 December 1963 
  * [This is the version of this document from 11 December 1963.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1963(Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu
Act 26 of 1963). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Fort St. George
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th April 1962, Part IV-Section 3, pages
46-47; for Select Committee Report, see Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 14th August 1963, Part IV - Section 3 pages 121 to 188.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966. - The Madras Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 26 of 1963), provides for the
acquisition of rights of landholders in inam estates in the State of Madras
and for the introduction of the ryotwari settlement in such estates. It has
been represented to the Government that in respect of existing inam estates,
in respect of which the rent has not been determined before the notified date,
under the Madras Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXX of
1947), it will cause undue hardship to the ryots if they are asked to pay rent
from fasli year 1357 onwards even though on reduced basis. The Government have
examined this representation and they consider that in respect of existing
inam estates, where the rent has not been reduced before the notified date
under the Rent Reduction Act, it is unnecessary to effect the reduction of
rents under the above Act after the said date.2\. The Government have also
decided to give relief to the ryots in such estates by providing that arrears
for any fasli year prior to fasli year 1371 will stand completely wiped out,
if the ryot has already paid to the landholder before the notified date or
pays to the landholder within two years of that date the rent due for fasli
years 1372 and 1371. A new sub-section (2-A) in section 56 is accordingly
sought to be inserted. Under this sub-section, the Government do not assume
any responsibility for the collection of arrears of rent in non-notified
existing inam estates. Sub-section (1) of section 56 is also sought to be
amended so as to make it clear that the said sub-section will be applicable
only to cases of existing inam estates, where the rent has already been
reduced before the notified date under the Rent Reduction Act.3\. It has also
been suggested that there will be no cases falling within the scope of the
first and second provisos to sub-section (1) of section 56 at this distance of
time. Accordingly, it is proposed to omit the said provisos.4\. In the case of
existing inam estates, where the rent has been reduced before the notified
date, the intention has always been that claims for arrears of rent for fasli
year 1356 and earlier faslis should not be revived, if such claims have become
time-barred. A suitable explanation has been added to sub-section (1) of
section 56 to make this intention quite clear. Appropriate provisions have
also been made in new sub-section (2-A) of section 56 and also in existing
subsection (3) of section 56 making it clear that time-barred claims will not
be revived.5\. It is also proposed to make necessary consequential alterations
in the other sections in the Act.6\. According to the proviso to clause (a) of
sub-section (1) and the proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 9
of the Act, in the case of private lands, in order that the landholder shall
be entitled to ryotwari patta, the land must be proved to have been cultivated
by the landholder by himself or by his own servants or by hired labour with
his own or hired stock in the ordinary course of husbandry for a continuous
period of three years within a period of twelve years immediately before the
1st April 1960. This applies to religious institutions also. So far as
religious institutions governed by the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Act, 1959 (Madras Act 22 of 1959) are concerned, under the rules
made under that Act, such religious institutions are prohibited from carrying
on pannai cultivation without obtaining the previous approval of the Deputy
Commissioner of the division concerned. In view of this, the religious
institutions have not been carrying on pannai cultivation and consequently
they will not be satisfying the requirement of the provisos referred to above.
This causes undue hardship to such institutions and it is proposed not to
insist on personal cultivation for three years for the purpose of grant of
ryotwari patta in the case of private lands of religious institutions governed
by the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959.7\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 656 of
the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th October
1966.Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Schedule I to the Madras Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 26 of1963),
contains a list of 83 Pudukkottai inam estates. The list was prepared with
reference to the standard list of inam villages maintained by the Ex-Durbar of
Pudukkottai State. However, it is now found that in the case of some of the
villages included in the Schedule, the names given in the Schedule are
different from the names given in the relevant inam title deeds. It has also
been reported that item No. 74 of Schedule I, namely, Vengalaveli village, is
not an inam estate. The Government have, therefore, decided to substitute for
the existing Schedule I a new Schedule incorporating the correct names of the
villages as given in the relevant inam title deeds and also omitting the entry
relating to Vengalaveli village.2\. At present, under section 2(14) of the
Act, Government have the power to notify a whole inam village in Pudukkottai
as a Pudukkottai inam estate. The Government consider that they should have
also power to amend suitably any entries in columns (3) and (4) of Schedule I,
where the said entries are found to be either incomplete or incorrect.
Accordingly, a new section 73-A is proposed to be inserted for this purpose
with the necessary consequential amendment to section 2 (14) of the Act.3\.
The Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1970. - Under clause (d) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26
of 1963), the Government may, after removing any obstruction that may be
offered, forthwith take possession of the inam estate and all accounts, etc.
But under the proviso to the said clause (d), the Government shall not
dispossess any person of any land in the inam estate in respect of which they
consider that he is prima facie entitled to a ryotwari patta pending the
decision of the Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special Appellate
Tribunal, on appeal, if any, as to whether such person is actually entitled to
such patta. Rule 5 of the Madras Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Rules, 1965, framed under the said Act prescribes the procedure for
taking possession of land in an inam estate. The intention is that whoever is
in actual possession of the land in an inam estate on the notified date should
not be disturbed until it is decided by the Settlement Officer and the
Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, that such
person is not actually entitled to ryotwari patta under the Act. The
Government consider that the existing provision regarding determination about
prima facie entitlement to patta as now contained in clause (d) of section 3
of the said Act has led to complications. They also consider that when there
is a special machinery provided for under the Act for deciding the question of
grant of patta under section 12 of the said Act, it is unnecessary for the
Manager to conduct a parallel enquiry for deciding the very same question just
to find out whether the person is prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta. It
is also considered that if a person is dispossessed on the basis of a decision
arrived at after following the procedure prescribed under rule 5 of the said
rules, it is quite possible that his chances for getting a patta before the
regular machinery provided by the Act will become weak in many cases. It is,
therefore, proposed to recast the proviso to clause (d) of section 3 of the
said Act so as to provide that the Government shall not dispossess any person
who, on the notified date, is in actual possession of any land in the inam
estate until the Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special Appellate
Tribunal, on appeal, if any, decide that such person is not actually entitled
to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land under the said Act, or until a
competent court finally decides that such possession was not lawful, whichever
decision is earlier. The amendment is given retrospective effect from the date
of the commencement of the principal Act.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the
above objects.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 190 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary dated the 1st September 1970.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1971). - Under clause (d)
of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963), the Government may, after
removing any obstruction that may be offered, forthwith take possession of the
inam estate and all accounts, etc. But, under the proviso to the said clause
(d), the Government shall not dispossess any person of any land in the inam
estate in respect of which they consider that he is prima facie entitled to a
ryotwari patta pending the decision of the Settlement Officer, and the
Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, as to whether
such person is actually entitled to such patta. Rule 5 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965, framed under the
said Act prescribes the procedure for taking possession of land in an inam
estate. The intention is that whoever is in actual possession of the land in
an inam estate on the notified date should not be disturbed until it is
decided by the Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special Appellate
Tribunal, on appeal, if any, that such person is not actually entitled to
ryotwari patta under the Act. The Government consider that the existing
provision regarding determination about prima facie entitlement to patta as
now contained in clause (d) of section 3 of the said Act has led to
complications. They also consider that when there is a special machinery
provided for under the Act for deciding the question of grant of patta under
section 12 of the said Act, it is unnecessary for the manager to conduct a
parallel enquiry for deciding the very same question just to find out whether
the person is prima facie entitled to ryotwari patta. It is also considered
that if a person is dispossessed on the basis of a decision arrived at after
following the procedure prescribed under rule 5 of the said rules, it is quite
possible that his chances for getting a patta before the regular machinery
provided by the Act will become weak in many cases. It is, therefore, proposed
to recast the proviso to clause (d) of section 3 of the said Act so as to
provide that the Government shall not dispossess any person who is personally
cultivating any land in the inam estate, until the Settlement Officer and the
Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, decide that
such person is not actually entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that
land under the provisions of this Act. A person is said to personally
cultivate a land when he contributes his own physical labour or that of the
members of his family in the cultivation of that land. The amendment is given
retrospective effect from the date of the commencement of the principal
Act.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV-
Section 3 page 470 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 6th July 1971.Received the assent of the President on 11th December 1963
and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
1st January 1964.An Act to provide for the acquisition of the rights of
landholders in inam estates in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] and the
introduction of the ryotwari settlement in such estates.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for ',State of Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the Fourteenth Year of
the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963.(2)It extends to the whole of the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for ',State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.], except-(i)the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli district;(ii)the Kanyakumari district; and(iii)the territories
specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Madras (Alteration
of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959).(3)It applies to all inam
estates.By virtue of section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease holds and
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976) the provisions in respect of private tanks and
ooranies shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
contained in any other law for the time being in force or any custom, usage or
contract of decree or order of a court or other authority.(4)This section and
sections 2,4, 5, 7, 8,56(3), 59, 64 [73 and 75] [These figures and xvord were
substituted for the figures and word '73, 75 and 76' by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1968
(Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1968.] shall come into force at once; and the rest of
this Act shall come into force in regard to an existing inam estate or a part
village inam estate or a Pudukkottai inam estate, on such date as the
Government may, by notification, appoint:Provided that where the operation of
any such notification has been stayed or interrupted by order of Court or
Tribunal or other authority constituted under any law for the time being in
force, the date from which the Government have been in uninterrupted
possession of such estate shall be deemed to be the date so appointed.(5)The
Government may, by notification, cancel or modify any notification issued
under sub-section (4) in respect of any inam estate, but the cancellation
shall not be deemed to affect the power of the Government under sub-section
(4) again to extend the rest of this Act to that inam estate.(6)Where a
notification is cancelled under sub-section (5), the rest of this Act shall be
deemed never to have applied to the inam estate concerned, and every
proceeding taken thereunder and pending in respect of such inam estate shall
abate.(7)[ Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-sections
(4) to (6), in regard to Pudukkottai inam estates specified in Schedule 1-A,
this section and sections 2,4, 5, 7, 8, 56(3), 59, 64, 73 and 75 shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964; and the rest of this
Act shall be deemed to have come into force in regard to such Pudukkottai inam
estates on the 15th February 1965:Provided that in the case of any such
Pudukkottai inam estate, the settlement of which is published under sub-
section (2) of section 3 of the Pudukkottai (Settlement of Inams) Act, 1955
(Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1955), on a date subsequent to the 15th February
1965, the rest of this Act as aforesaid shall be deemed to have come into
force in regard to such Pudukkottai inam estate on such subsequent
date:Provided further that where, in regard to any such inam estate, the
operation of the rest of this Act as aforesaid has been stayed or interrupted
by order of Court or Tribunal, or other authority, constituted under any law
for the time being in force, the date from which the Government have been in
uninterrupted possession of such estate shall be deemed to be the date on
which the rest of this Act as aforesaid shall be deemed to have come into
force.] [Added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969).]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"agriculture", with
its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall include
horticulture;(2)"Director" means the Director of Settlements appointed under
section 4;(3)"Estates Land Act" means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land
Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908);(4)"existing inam estate" means an
inam village which became an estate by virtue of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVIII of
1936);(5)"Government" means the State Government;(6)"impartible inam estate"
means an inam estate governed immediately before the notified date, by the
Tamil Nadu Impartible Estates Act, 1904 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act II of
1904);(7)"inam estate" means an existing inam estate or a new inam
estate;(8)"landholder"-(i)in relation to an existing inam estate shall have
the same meaning as in clause (5) of section 3 of the Estates Land Act;
and(ii)in relation to a new inam estate shall mean a person owning a new inam
estate or part thereof and shall include every person entitled to collect the
rents of the whole or any portion of the new inam estate by virtue of any
transfer from the owner or his predecessor-in-title or of any order of a
competent Court or of any provision of law.Explanation I. - For the purposes
of sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii) of this clause "landholder" shall
include -(a)a joint Hindu family where the right to collect the rents of the
whole or any portion of the inam estate vests in such family persons; and(b)a
darmila inamdar other than a darmila inamdar governed by the Tamil Nadu
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXVI of 1948).Explanation II. - For the purposes of sub-clause (ii), where
there is a dispute between two or more persons as to which of them is the
landholder for all or any of the purposes of this Act or between two or more
joint landholders as to which of them is entitled to proceed and be dealt with
as such landholder, the person who shall be deemed to be the landholder for
such purposes shall be the person whom the Settlement Officer subject to any
decree or order of a competent Civil Court may recognise or nominate as such
landholder in accordance with rules to be framed by the Government in this
behalf;(9)"new inam estate" means a part village inam estate or a Pudukkottai
inam estate;(10)"notified date" in relation to the inam estate [other than a
Pudukkottai inam estate specified in Schedule I-A] [Inserted by section 3(i)
of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969).], means the date appointed by
a notification issued under sub-section (4) of Section 1 as the date on which
the provisions of this Act other than sections 2,4,5,7,8,56(3), 59,64 [73 and
75] [Substituted for the figures and word '73, 75 and 76' by section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1968).] shall come into force in regard to the
inam estate, or where the operation of any such notification has been stayed
or interrupted by order of Court or Tribunal or other authority constituted
under any law for the time being in force, the date from which the Government
have been in uninterrupted possession of the inam estate, and the word
"notified" shall be constructed accordingly;[(10-A) "notified date" in
relation to a Pudukkottai inam estate specified in Schedule I-A means the 15th
February 1965: [Inserted by section 3(H) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act
23 of 1969).]Provided that in the case of any such Pudukkottai inam estate,
the settlement of which is published under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the
Pudukkottai (Settlement of Inams) Act, 1955 ([Tamil Nadu] Act XXIII of 1955),
on a date subsequent to the 15th February 1965, "notified date" means such
subsequent date:Provided further that where the operation of this Act other
than Sections 2,4, 5, 7, 8, 56(3), 59,64,[73 and 75] [Substituted for the
figures and word '73, 75 and 76' by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1968).] has been stayed or interrupted by order of Court or Tribunal or
other authority constituted under any law for the time being in force, the
date from which the Government have been in uninterrupted possession of such
inam estate shall be deemed to be the notified date;](11)"part village inam
estate" means a part of a village (including a part of a village in the merged
territory of Pudukkottai) [but not including such of the inam areas in the
said territory as are specified in Schedule 1-A] [Inserted by section 3(iii)
of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969), which was deemed to have come
into force on the 15th February 1965.] the grant of which part has been made,
confirmed or recognised by the Government, notwithstanding that subsequent to
the grant, such part has been partitioned among the grantees or the
successors-in-title of the grantee or grantees.Explanation I. - (a) Where the
grant of a part of a village as an inam is expressed to be a specified
fraction of, or a specified number of shares in, a village, such part shall be
deemed to be a part village inam estate notwithstanding that such grant refers
also to the extent of such part in terms of acreage or caw-nies, or of other
local equivalent.(b)Where a grant as an inam is expressed to be only in terms
of acreage or caw-nies, or of other local equivalent, the area which forms the
subject-matter of the grant shall not be deemed to be a part village inam
estate.Explanation II. - A part of a village granted in inam shall be deemed
to be a part village inam estate notwithstanding that different parts of such
part village were granted, confirmed or recognised on different dates or by
different title-deeds or in favour of different persons;(12)"principal
landholder" means the person who held the inam estate immediately before the
notified date; and (a) in the case of an inam estate held by a joint Hindu
family immediately before that date means such joint family; and (b) in the
case of an impartible inam estate means the person entitled to the possession
of such estate immediately before that date;(13)"private land"-(i)in relation
to an existing inam estate shall have the same meaning as in sub-clause (b) of
clause (10) of section 3 of the Estates Land Act; and(ii)in relation to a new
inam estate shall mean-(a)[ the domain or home-farm land of the landholder by
whatever designation known, such as, kambattam, khas, sir or pannai; or]
[['Kambattam ' is private land (AIR 1925 Mad 291 and AIR 1926 Mad 140)'Kims'
is private land, where revenue is collected immediately, by Government without
agency of Government. 'Sir - Lands cultivated by hereditary proprietors or
zamindars themselves not being lease or farm cultivation. 'Pannai' -
cultivated ground village.'Kudiwaram' - cultivator's share of the
produce.'Melwaram' - Landlord's share of the produce (Courtesy - The Law
Laxicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyer.).]](b)land which is proved to have been
cultivated by the landholder himself, by his own servants or by hired labour,
with his own or hired stock for a continuous period of twelve years
immediately before the 1st day of April 1960, provided that the landholder has
retained the kudiwaram ever since and has not converted the land into ryoti
land; or(c)land the entire kudiwaram which was acquired by the landholder
before the 1st day of April 1960 for valuable consideration from a person
owning the kudiwaram, but not the melwaram, provided that the landholder has
retained the kudiwaram ever since and has not converted the land into ryoti
land and provided further that where the kudiwaram was acquired at a sale for
arrears of rent, the land shall not be deemed to be private land unless it is
proved to have been cultivated by the landholder himself, by his own servants
or by hired labour, with his own or hired stock for a continuous period of
twelve years since the acquisition of the land and before the 1st day of April
1960;(14)"Pudukkottai inam estate" means an inam village in the merged
territory of Pudukkottai and specified in Schedule I [xxx] [The words 'and
includes such other whole inam village in the said territory as the Government
may, by notification, from time to time, specify' were omitted by section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1965).] [and includes such of the inam areas
in the said territory as are specified in Schedule I-A] [This expression was
added by section 3(iv) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 15th February
1965.];(15)"rent"-(i)in relation to an existing inam estate shall have the
same meaning as in clause (11) of section 3 of the Estates Land Act; and(ii)in
relation to a new inam estate shall mean whatever is lawfully payable in money
or in kind or in both to a landholder by a ryot for the use or occupation of
land for the purpose of agriculture and shall include whatever is lawfully
payable on account of water supplied by the landholder o taken without his
permission for cultivation of land when the charge for water has not been
consolidated with the charge for the use or occupation of the land, and shall
include -(a)any local tax, cess, fee or sum lawfully payable to a landholder
by a ryot as such in addition to the rent due according to law or usage having
the force of law and also money recoverable under any enactment for the time
being in force as if it was rent; and(b)sums lawfully payable to a landholder
by a ryot as such on account of pasturage fees and fishery rents;(16)"ryot"
-(i)in relation to an existing inam estate shall have the same meaning as in
clause (15) of section 3 of the Estates Land Act; and(ii)in relation to a new
inam estate shall mean a person who holds for the purpose of agriculture ryoti
land in such estate on condition of paying to the landholder the rent which is
legally due upon it.Explanation. - In relation to a new inam estate -(i)a
person who has occupied ryoti land for a continuous period of twelve years
immediately before the 1st day of April 1960 shall be deemed to be a ryot for
all the purposes of this Act;(ii)a person unauthorisedly occupying ryoti land
from whom the landholder received or recovered any payment for a continuous
period of two years immediately before the 1st day of April 1960 shall be
deemed to be a ryot for all the purposes of this Act unless within two years
from the date of receipt or recovery of payment or the first of such payments,
if more than one, the landholder has filed a suit in a Civil Court for
ejectment against such person;(17)"ryoti land"-(i)in relation to an existing
inam estate shall have the same meaning as in clause (16) of section 3 of the
Estates Land Act; and(ii)in relation to a new inam estate shall mean
cultivable land in such estate other than private land, but does not include
-(a)beds and bunds of tanks and of supply, drainage, surplus or irrigation
channels;(b)threshing floor, .cattle-stands, village sites and other lands
situated in any new inam estate which are set apart for the common use of the
villagers;(c)lands granted on service-tenure either free of rent or on
favourable rates of rent granted before the passing of this Act so long as the
service-tenure subsists;(18)"Settlement Officer" in relation to any inam
estate or part of an inam estate, means the officer appointed therefor under
sub-section (1) of section 5;(19)"Tribunal" means a Tribunal constituted under
section 8 and having jurisdiction;(20)"village"-(i)in relation to an existing
inam estate shall have the same meaning as in clause (19) of section 3 of the
Estates Land Act; and(ii)in relation to a new inam estate shall mean any local
area which is designated as a village in the revenue accounts and for which
the revenue accounts are separately maintained by one or more [karnams] [Now
this post was abolished and renamed as Village Administrative Officer.] or
which is now recognised by the Government or may hereafter be declared by the
Government for the purposes of this Act to be a village, and shall include any
hamlet or hamlets which may be attached thereto.

## Chapter II  
Consequences of Notification of Inam Estate

### 3. Consequences of notification of inam estate.

\- With effect on and from the notified date and save as otherwise expressly
provided in this Act -(a)The Tamil Nadu Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act,
1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of 1947) [except insofar as it relates to reduction
of rents and the collection of arrears of rent in existing inam estates in
respect of which the rate of rent has been determined before the notified date
under that Act,] [Substituted for the words 'in so far as it relates to
matters other than reduction of rents and the collection of arrears of rent',
by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to
have come into force on the 1st January 1964.] the Tamil Nadu Estates Land
Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908), the Pudukkottai (Settlement of Inams)
Act, 1955 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIII of 1955) and all other enactments
applicable to the inam estate as such shall be deemed to have been repealed in
their application to the inam estate;(B)The Entire Inam Estate (Including All
Conanunal Lands And Poram-Bokes, Other Non-Ryoti Lands, Waste Lands, Pasture
Lands, Forests, Mines And Minerals, Quarries, Rivers And Streams [Tanks And
Ooranies (Including Private Tanks And Ooranies) And Irrigation Works ]
[Substituted And Were Deemed Always To Have Been Substituted For The Words
'Tanks And Irrigation Works' By Section 2(1) Of The Tamil Nadu Inam Estates,
Lease-Holds And Minor Inams (Abolition And Conversion Into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 Of 1976).] Fisheries And Ferries), Shall Stand
Transferred To The Government And Vest In Them Free Of All Encumbrances, And
The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act II of
1864), The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act Vii Of
1865), And All Other Enactments Applicable To Ryotwari Areas Shall Apply To
The Inam Estate; By Virtue Of Section 6 Of The Tamil Nadu Inam Estates,
Leaseholds And Minor Inams (Abolition And Conversion Into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act Ii Of 1976), The Provisions In Respect Of Private
Tanks And Ooranies Shall Have Effect Notwithstanding Anything Inconsistent
Therewith Contained In Any Other Law For The Time Being In Force Or Any
Custom, Usage Or Contract Or Decree Or Order Of A Court Or Other
Authority.(c)all rights and interests created in or over the inam estates
before the notified date by the principal or any other landholder, shall as
against the Government, cease and determine;(d)the Government may, after
removing any obstruction that may be offered, forthwith take possession of the
inam estate and all accounts, registers, pattas, muchilikas, maps, plans and
other documents relating to the inam estate which the Government may require
for the administration thereof:[Provided that the Government shall not
dispossess any person who is personally cultivating any land in the inam
estate, until the Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special
Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, decide that such person is not actually
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land under the provisions of
this Act.] [[Substituted for the following proviso by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1971) which was deemed to have come into force on the
1st January 1964:-'provided that the Government shall not dispossess any
person of any land in the inam estate in respect of which they consider that
he is prima facie entitled to a ryotwari patta pending the decision of the
Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal, on
appeal, if any, as to whether such person is actually entitled to such
patta;']]Explanation. - For the purposes of this proviso, a person is said to
personally cultivate a land when he contributes his own physical labour or
that of the members of his family in the cultivation of that land;(e)the
principal or any other landholder and any other person, whose rights stand
transferred under clause (b) or cease and determine under clause (c), shall be
entitled only to such rights and privileges as are recognized or conferred on
him by or under this Act;(f)the relationship of landholder and ryot, shall, as
between them, be extinguished;(g)any rights and privileges which may have
accrued in the inam estate, to any person before the notified date against the
principal or any other landholder thereof, shall cease and determine, and
shall not be enforceable against the Government or such landholder, and every
such person shall be entitled only to such rights and privileges as are
recognized or conferred on him by or under this Act.

### 4. Appointment and functions of the Director of Settlements.

\- As soon as may be after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], the Government shall
appoint a Director of Settlements to carry out survey and settlement
operations in inam estates and introduce ryotwari settlement therein. The
Director shall be subordinate to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue
was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].

### 5. Appointment and functions of the Settlement Officer.

\- As soon as may be after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], the Government shall
appoint one or more Settlement Officers to carry out the functions and duties
assigned to them by or under this Act.(2)Every Settlement Officer shall be
subordinate to the Director and shall be guided by such lawful instructions as
he may issue, from time to time; and the Director shall also have power to
cancel or revise any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the Settlement
Officer, other than those in respect of which an appeal lies to the Tribunal.

### 6. Managers of inam estates.

(1)With effect on and from the notified date, the Government shall appoint one
or more persons to manage the inam estate.(2)Every Manager shall be
subordinate to the District Collector and shall be guided by such lawful
instructions as he may issue, from time to time; and the District Collector
shall also have power to cancel or revise any of the orders, acts or
proceedings of the Manager.

### 7. Powers of control of the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No.
2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.].

\- The [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil
Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now,
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] shall have the power-(a)to give effect to the
provisions of this Act and in particular to superintend the taking over of
inam estate and to make due arrangements for the interim administration
thereof;(b)to issue instructions for the guidance of the Director, District
Collectors, Settlement Officers and Managers of inam estates; and(c)to cancel
or revise any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the Director or of any
District Collector, including those passed, done or taken in the exercise of
revisional powers.

### 8. Constitution of Tribunals for certain purposes.

(1)The Government shall constitute as many Tribunals as may be necessary for
the purposes of this Act.(2)Each Tribunal shall consist of one person only who
shall be a judicial officer not below the rank of a Subordinate Judge.(3)Each
Tribunal shall have such jurisdiction, and over such inam estates or parts
thereof, as the Government may, by notification, from time to time,
determine.(4)[Every Tribunal shall, subject to the provisions of section
72-A,] [Substituted for 'Every Tribunal shall' by section 2(f) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975).] have the same powers as are
vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V
of 1908) when trying a suit or when hearing an appeal.Under section 72-A power
is not given to the Tribunal or other functionaries under the Act to appoint
Receivers or Commissioners in respect of proceedings before them.

## Chapter III  
Grant of Ryotwari pattas

### 9. Lands in which landholder is entitled to ryotwari patta.

(1)In the case of an existing inam estate, the landholder shall, with effect
on and from the notified date, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
-(a)all lands which immediately before the notified date-(i)belonged to him as
private land within the meaning of sub-clause (b) of clause (10) of section 3
of the Estates Land Act, or(ii)stood recorded as private land in a record
prepared under the provisions of Chapter XI or Chapter XII of the said
Act:Provided that the private land referred to in sub-clauses (i) and
(ii)-(1)has not been subsequently converted into ryoti land or has not been
finally held to be ryoti land under section 3-A of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of
1947); and(2)[is, in the case of a landholder other than a religious
institution, proved to have been cultivated by the landholder himself]
[Substituted for the words 'is proved to have been cultivated by the
landholder himself by section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964.], by his own
servants or by hired labour with his own or hired stock, in the ordinary
course of husbandry, for a continuous period of three years within a period of
twelve years immediately before the 1st day of April 1960; and(b)(i)all lands
which were properly included or which ought to have been properly included in
the holding of a ryot and which have been acquired by the landholder by
inheritance or succession under a will, provided that the landholder has
cultivated such lands himself, by his own servants or by hired labour with his
own or hired stock, in the ordinary course of husbandry', from the date of
such acquisition or the 1st day of July 1950 whichever is later and has been
in direct and continuous possession of such lands from such later date;(ii)all
lands which were properly included, or which ought to have been properly
included, in the holding of a ryot and which have been acquired by the
landholder by purchase, exchange or gift, including purchase at a sale for
arrears of rent, provided that the landholder has cultivated such lands
himself, by his own servants or by hired labour, with his own or hired stock,
in the ordinary course of husbandry, from the 1st day of July 1950 and has
been in direct and continuous possession of such lands from that date;(iii)all
lands not being (i) lands of the description specified in sub-clauses (a), (b)
and (c) of clause (16) of section 3 of the Estates Land Act, or (ii) forest
land which have been, voluntarily abandoned or relinquished by a ryot, or
which have never been in the occupation of a ryot, provided that the
landholder has cultivated such lands himself, by his own servants or by hired
labour with his own or hired stock, in the ordinary course of husbandry, from
the 1st day of July 1950 and has been in direct and continuous possession of
such lands from that date.(2)In the case of a new inam estate, the landholder
shall, with effect on and from the notified date, be entitled to a ryotwari
patta in respect of-(a)all lands which immediately before the notified date
belonged to him as private land:[Provided that in the case of a landholder
other than a religious institution, the private land specified in clause
(13)(ii)(a) of section 2 is proved to have been cultivated by the landholder
himself, by his own servants or by hired labour, with his own or hired stock,
in the ordinary course of husbandry, for a continuous period of three years
within a period of twelve years immediately before the 1st day of April 1960;
and] [Substituted for 'Provided that in the case of private land specified in
clause 13(ii)(a) of section 2, such land is proved' by section 3(ii) of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into
force on the 1st January 1964.](b)(i)all lands in the holding of a ryot and
which have been acquired by the landholder by inheritance or succession under
a will, provided that the landholder has cultivated such lands himself, by his
own servants or by hired labour with his own or hired stock, in the ordinary
course of husbandry, from the date of such acquisition or the 1st day of April
1960 whichever is later and has been in direct and continuous possession of
such lands from such later date;(ii)all lands in the holding of a ryot and
which have been acquired, by the landholder by purchase, exchange or gift,
including purchase at a sale for arrears of rent, provided that the landholder
has cultivated such lands himself, by his own servants or by hired labour,
with his own or hired stock, in the ordinary course of husbandry, from the
27th day of September 1955 or from the date of such acquisition whichever is
later and has been in direct and continuous possession of such lands from such
later date:Provided that nothing in this sub-clause shall apply to any
acquisition by purchase, exchange or gift including purchase at a sale for
arrears of rent by the landholder on or after the 1st day of April
1960.(iii)all lands not being (i) lands of the description specified in items
(a), (b) and (c) of sub-clause (ii) of clause (17) of section 2, or (ii)
forest lands which have been voluntarily abandoned or relinquished by a ryot,
or which have never been in the occupation of a ryot, provided that the
landholder has cultivated such lands himself, by his own servants or by hired
labour, with his own or hired stock, in the ordinary course of husbandry, from
the 27th day of September 1955 and has been in direct and continuous
possession of such lands from that date.(3)In the case of an inam estate or
part thereof held immediately before the notified date by an individual on
condition of rendering service to a religious institution, the grant of
ryotwari patta under sub-section (1) or (2) shall be subject to the provisions
of section 33.[Explanation I. [The Explanation to section 9 was numbered as
Explanation 1 of that section by section 3(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January
1964.] \- "Cultivate" in this section includes the planting and rearing of
topes, gardens and orchards, but does not include the rearing of topes of
spontaneous growth.][Explanation II. [This Explanation was added by section
3(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966) which was deemed to have come
into force on the 1st January 1964.] \- For the purposes of item (2) of the
proviso to clause (a) of sub-section (1) and of the proviso to clause (a) of
sub-section (2), "religious institution" shall mean a religious institution as
defined in clause (18) of section 6 of the [TamilNadu] Hindu Religious
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for ',Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 22 of 1959).]

### 10. Lands in respect of which a ryot is entitled to ryotwari patta.

(1)In the case of an existing inam estate, every ryot shall, with effect on
and from the notified date, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
-(i)all his lands which were finally held to be ryoti lands under section 3-A
of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947);and(ii)all ryoti lands which immediately before
the notified date, were properly included or ought to have been properly
included in his holding and which are not lands in respect of which a
landholder or some other person is entitled to a ryotwari patta under any
other provision of this Act:Provided that no person who has been admitted into
possession of any land by a landholder on or after the 1st day of July 1950
shall, except where the Government, after an examination of all the
circumstances otherwise direct, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
such land.(2)(a)In the case of a new inam estate every ryot shall, with effect
on and from the notified date, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
all ryoti land in his holding except lands in respect of which a landholder or
some other person is entitled to a ryotwari patta under any other provision of
this Act:Provided that no person who has been admitted into possession of any
land by a landholder on or after the 1st day of April 1960 shall, except where
the Government, after an examination of all the circumstances otherwise
direct, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of such land.(b)A ryot as
defined in clause 16(ii) of section 2 shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta to
the exclusion of the ryots, if any, specified in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of
the Explanation to the said clause 16(ii) and a ryot specified in paragraph
(i) of the said Explanation shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta to the
exclusion of the ryot, if any, specified in paragraph (ii) of the said
Explanation.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2),
no ryot shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), if such ryot has voluntarily abandoned or
relinquished his rights in respect of such land on or before the date of the
decision of the Settlement Officer under sub-section (1) of section
12.Explanation. - No person to whom a right to collect the rent of any land
has been leased before the notified date, including an inamdar or a farmer of
rent, shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of such land under this
section.

### 11. Grant of ryotwari patta on the basis of personal cultivation in
certain cases.

(1)Where no person is entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of a land in an
inam estate, under section 9 or 10 and the land vests in the Government, the
persons specified below shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
that land in the following order of preference:-(i)firstly, a person who had
been personally cultivating such land for a continuous period of twelve years
immediately before the 1st day of April 1960;(ii)secondly, if there is no such
person as is referred to in clause (i), then, a person who had been lawfully
admitted into possession of such land on or after the 27th day of September
1955 and who had been personally cultivating such land ever since;
and(iii)thirdly, if there is no such person as is referred to in clauses (i)
and (ii), then, a person who had been personally cultivating that land on the
26th day of September 1955 and for a period of twelve years immediately before
that date:Provided that no person shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta in
respect of any land under clause (i) or (ii) of this sub-section if such
person has voluntarily abandoned or relinquished his rights in respect of such
land on or before the date of the decision of the Settlement Officer under
sub-section (1) of section 12:Provided further that no ryotwari patta shall be
granted in respect of any land falling under any of the categories specified
below:-(a)forests;(b)beds and bunds of tanks and of supply, drainage, surplus
or irrigation channels;(c)threshing floor, cattle stands, village sites, cart-
tracks, roads, temple sites and such other lands as are set apart for the
common use of the villagers;(d)rivers, streams and other
porambokes.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, a person is
said to personally cultivate a land when he contributes his own physical
labour or that of the members of his family in the cultivation of that
land.(2)Among the persons specified in sub-section (1) those specified in
clause (i) of that sub-section shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta to the
exclusion of the persons specified in clauses (ii) and (iii) of that sub-
section and those specified in clause (ii) of that sub-section shall be
entitled to a ryotwari patta to the exclusion of the persons specified in
clause (iii) of that sub-section.(3)Any ryotwari patta granted under this
section shall take effect on and from the date of the grant of such patta.

### 11A. [ Ryotwari patta not to be granted in respect of private tank or
oorani. [Inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section 2(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Leaseholds and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no ryotwari patta shall be
granted in respect of any private tank or oorani.(2)Any ryotwari patta granted
in respect of any private tank or oorani under this Act before the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Leaseholds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975, in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, shall stand cancelled, and for purposes of
compensation under this Act, the private tank or oorani shall be deemed to be
land in respect of which neither the landholder nor any other person is
entitled to ryotwari patta under this Act.]

### 12. Determination of lands in which any person is entitled to ryotwari
patta.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall examine the claims of any person for a
ryotwari patta under section 9 or section 10 or section 11, as the case may
be, and decide in respect of which lands the claim should be
allowed.(2)Against a decision of the Settlement Officer under sub-section (1),
the Government may, within one year from the date of the decision, and any
person aggrieved by such decision may, within three months from the said date,
appeal to the Tribunal:Provided that the Tribunal may, in its discretion,
allow further time not exceeding six months for the filing of any such
appeal:Provided further that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, entertain an
appeal by the Government at any time if it appears to the Tribunal that the
decision of the Settlement Officer was vitiated by fraud or by mistake of
fact.

### 13. Liability to pay assessment, etc., to Government.

(1)(a)Every person who becomes entitled to a ryotwari patta under this Act
(other than under section 11) in respect of any land shall, for each fasli
year commencing with the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified, be
liable to pay to the Government such assessment, as may be lawfully imposed on
the land.(b)Every person who becomes entitled to a ryotwari patta under
section 11 in respect of any land shall, for each year commencing with the
fasli year in which such patta is granted, be liable to pay to the Government
such assessment, as may be lawfully imposed on the land.(2)If a ryot was
liable immediately before the notified date to make any payment to the
landholder otherwise than by way of rent, whether periodically or not, in
respect of any land to which he is entitled to a ryotwari patta, he shall
continue to make such payments as accrue on or after that date to the
Government.

### 14. Ryotwari patta in service-tenure lands.

(1)Where any land (not consisting of an entire village or not being a part
village inam estate) granted on service-tenure, whether to an individual or
institution falls under sub-clause (c) of clause (16) of section 3 of the
Estates Land Act or under item (c) of sub-clause (ii) of clause (17) of
section 2 of this Act, then,-(a)if the service to be rendered is personal or
private service to the landholder, not being a religious, educational or
charitable institution, the land shall be discharged from the condition of
such service and the holder of such land shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta
in respect of the land with effect on and from the notified date;(b)in all
other cases, the holder of such land shall have the same rights in the land,
and be subject to the same liabilities as the inamdar of a minor-service inam
in a ryotwari village has in respect of his land:Provided that no ryotwari
patta shall be granted in respect of any land which is forest or which falls
under sub-clause (a) or (b) of clause (16) of section 3 of the Estates Land
Act or item (a) or (b) of sub-clause (ii) of clause (17) of subsection (2) of
this Act.(2)The provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall apply also
to dasabandam inam lands in inam estates.

## Chapter IV  
Buildings in Estates

### 15. Vesting of buildings situated in inam estates.

(1)Every building situated within the limits of an inam estate, which
immediately before the notified date, belonged to any landholder thereof and
was then being used by him as an office in connection with its administration
and for no other purpose, shall vest in the Government, free of all
encumbrances, with effect on and from the notified date.(2)Every building so
situated which, immediately before the notified date, belonged to any such
landholder and the whole or principal part whereof was then in the occupation
of any religious, educational or charitable institution shall also vest in the
Government, free of all encumbrances, with effect on and from the notified
date:Provided that when such institution ceases to exist, the building shall
revert to such landholder, or if he is dead, to his heirs or legal
representatives.(3)Where any building so situated -(a)which belonged to any
such landholder on the 1st day of July 1960; and(b)(i)which on that date was
being used by him as an office in connection with the administration of the
inam estate, and for no other purpose, or(ii)the whole or principal part
whereof was on that date in the occupation of any religious, educational or
charitable institution, orhas, after the 1st day of July 1960 and before the
notified date, been sold or made a gift of by the landholder or ceased to be
used by him as an office as aforesaid, or ceased to be in the occupation of
such institution, the value of the building shall be assessed by the Tribunal
in such manner as may be prescribed; and the Tribunal shall pay to the
Government such value from out of the compensation deposited in its office
under sub-section (1) of section 36.(4)Every building other than a building
referred to in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall, with effect on and from
the notified date, vest in the person who owned it immediately before that
date; but the Government shall be entitled, for each fasli year commencing
with the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified,-(i)in every case to
levy the appropriate assessment thereon; and(ii)in the case of a building
which vests in a person other than a landholder, also to the payments which
such person was liable immediately before the notified date to make to any
landholder in respect thereof, whether periodically or not and whether by way
of rent or otherwise, insofar as such payments, may accrue due on or after the
notified date.(5)In this section, "building" includes the site on which it
stands and any adjacent premises occupied as an appurtenance thereto.(6)If any
question arises whether any building or land falls or does not fall within the
scope of sub-sections (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5), it shall be referred to the
Government whose decision shall be final.(7)Any person holding a mortgage or
charge on any building referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
shall, for the purpose of section 37, be a secured creditor and be entitled to
priority over any person holding a mortgage or charge subsequently created by
the landholder over any part of the inam estate.Protection of Certain Rights
and Enforceability of Certain Obligations

### 16. Rights of persons admitted into possession of ryoti land for non-
agricultural purpose.

\- Where any person has been admitted into possession of any ryoti land by any
landholder for a non-agricultural purpose, that person shall be entitled to
remain in possession of the land subject, however, to the payment by him to
the Government of the ryotwari or other assessment or the ground-rent which
may be imposed upon the land for each fasli year commencing with the fasli
year in which the inam estate is notified:Provided that such transaction was
not void or illegal under any law in force at the time:Provided further that a
person who has been admitted into possession of any ryoti land (i) on or after
the 1st day of July 1950 in the case of an existing inam estate, and (ii) on
or after the 1st day of April 1960, in the case of a new inam estate, shall be
entitled to no rights in respect of such land except where the Government
otherwise direct.

### 17. Persons admitted into possession of non-ryoti land, how dealt with.

(1)Except where the Government otherwise direct, no person admitted by a
landholder into possession of any communal land or forest or other land which
is not a ryoti land, shall be entitled to any rights in, or to remain in
possession of, such land:Provided that nothing contained herein shall apply to
lands for which the landholder is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section
9.(2)A direction under sub-section (1) allowing any person to remain in
possession of any such land may specify -(i)the assessment or ground-rent
payable to the Government on the land for each fasli year commencing with the
fasli year in which the inam estate is notified, and(ii)such special terms and
conditions, including the period for which such person may remain in
possession of the land as the Government may consider necessary in the public
interest.Explanation. - In this section, "communal land" means any land of the
description mentioned in sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) of clause (16) of
section 3 of the Estates Land Act and in item (a) or item (b) of sub -clause
(ii) of clause (17) of section 2 of this Act.

### 18. Rights of certain lessees and others.

(1)In cases not governed by any other provision of this Act, where on or after
(i) the 1st day of July 1950 in the case of an existing inam estate; and (ii)
the 1st day of April 1960 in the case of a new inam estate, but before the
notified date, a landholder has created, by way of lease or otherwise, rights
in any mines or minerals, quarries, fisheries or ferries, the transaction
shall be deemed to be valid; and all rights and obligations arising
thereunder, on or after the notified date shall be enforceable by or against,
the Government:Provided that the transaction was not void or illegal under any
law in force at the time and that any such right was created for a period not
exceeding one year.(2)(a)Where any such right was created before (i) the 1st
day of July 1950 in the case of an existing inam estate; and (ii) the 1st day
of April 1960 in the case of a new inam estate, for a period exceeding one
year, the Government may, if in their opinion, it is in the public interest to
do so, by notice given to the person concerned, terminate the right with
effect from such date as may be specified in the notice, not being earlier
than three months from the date thereof.(b)The person whose right has been so
terminated shall be entitled to compensation from the Government which shall
be determined by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by
the Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide
G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] in such manner as
may be prescribed, having regard to the value of the right and the period for
which the right was created.(c)Where any such right created before (i) the 1st
day of July 1950 in the case of an existing inam estate; and (ii) the 1st day
of April 1960 in the case of a new inam estate is not determined under this
sub-section, the transaction whereby such right was created shall be deemed to
be valid and all rights and obligations arising thereunder, on or after the
notified date, shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that
the transaction was not void or illegal under any law in force at the
time.(3)The Government may, if in their opinion, it is in the public interest
to do so, impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any right
continued under this section.Explanation. - Any rights granted in perpetuity
shall cease and determine and be dealt with under section 3(e) and not under
this section.

## Chapter V  
Survey and Settlement of Inam Estates

### 19. Survey of inam estates.

(1)Any inam estate or part thereof may be surveyed, or if it has been surveyed
before the notified date, may be re-surveyed, as if it were Government land,
in accordance with the provisions for the survey of such land contained in the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act VIII of 1923):Provided that any re-survey made under this sub-section may
be limited to what is necessary for the introduction of the ryotwari
settlement in the inam estate or part thereof.(2)The cost of the survey or re-
survey, except so much thereof as is payable by any person under the
provisions of section 8 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act,
1923 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII of 1923), shall be borne by the Government.

### 20. Manner of effecting ryotwari settlement of inam estate.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall effect a ryotwari settlement of the inam
estate or part thereof in accordance with a settlement notification framed and
published by the Government for the purpose.(2)(i)In the case of the City of
[Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of
Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).], the said notification shall
embody the principles adopted in making ryotwari settlement in the adjoining
district and shall adopt such rates of- assessment as may be specified by the
Government having regard to the rates under the [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Land Revenue Act, 1851 (Central Act XII of 1851) and the
settlement notification in force in the adjoining district; and(ii)in the case
of other areas in the State, the said notification shall embody the principles
adopted in making ryotwari settlements in ryotwari areas and shall adopt
-(a)the rates of assessment set out in the resettlement notification in force
on the date of the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now, Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], in the district in which the inam
estate is situated, or(b)if more than one such notification is in force in the
district, or if the inam estate is situated in more than one district, the
rates set out in one of those notifications, which the Government consider to
be most appropriate to the case.(3)All rates of assessment imposed at a
ryotwari settlement shall be liable to revision, from time to time, as laid
down in the settlement notification referred to in sub-sections (1) and
(2).(4)Neither the settlement notification nor any order passed in pursuance
thereof shall be liable to be questioned in any Court of Law.(5)Nothing in
this section shall be construed -(i)as entitling any person to a ryotwari
patta for any land in respect of which he has not made any claim under section
12; or(ii)as empowering the appropriate officer or authority to reopen any
decision made under section 12.

### 21. Determination of land revenue before ryotwari settlement is brought
into force.

\- The land revenue payable to the Government for each fasli year commencing
with the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified shall, until a
ryotwari settlement effected in pursuance of section 20 has been brought into
force in the inam estate, be calculated as follows:-(a)In respect of any land
in an existing inam estate held for the purpose of agriculture, not being
private land, the land revenue shall be -(i)where the rent payable to the
landholder immediately before the notified date has been determined under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil
Nadu] [[The following proviso was omitted by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil
Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st
January 1964:-'Provided further that in cases falling under sub-clause (ii)
where after the rent has been determined under the Madras Estates Land
(Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXX of 1947), it is found that the
land revenue paid exceeds the rent so determined such excess shall be adjusted
towards the land revenue payable in the subsequent fasli year or years.']] Act
XXX of 1947), the rent so determined; or(ii)where the rent has not been so
determined, the rent which would have been payable to the landholder in
respect of the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified; or(iii)where
no rent was payable, the rent which would have been payable to the landholder
immediately before the notified date, by a ryot holding similar land with
similar advantages, in the neighbourhood:Provided that in cases falling under
sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the land revenue in respect of the fasli year in
which the inam estate is notified shall be the rent due to the landholder less
any payment made to him before the notified date and authenticated in the
prescribed manner;[xxx] [The following proviso was omitted by section 4 of the
Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into
force on the 1st January 1964.](b)In respect of other lands in the existing
inam estate and in respect of all lands in the new inam estate, the land
revenue payable shall be calculated at such rate or rates as the Government
may, by general or special order, determine.

## Chapter VI  
Determination, Apportionment and Payment of Compensation General Provisions

### 22. The compensation how determined.

\- The compensation payable in respect of an inam estate shall be determined
in accordance with the following provisions.

### 23. Compensation to be determined for inam estate as a whole.

\- The compensation shall be determined for the inam estate as a whole, and
not separately for each of the interest thereon.

### 24. Basic annual sum.

\- A sum called the basic annual sum shall first be determined in respect of
the inam estate.Basic Annual Sum for Inam Estate

### 25. Component parts of basic annual sum in inam estate.

\- The basic annual sum shall be the aggregate of the sums specified below,
less the deductions specified in section 28:-,(i)the whole of the gross annual
ryotwari demand in respect of all, lands in the inam estate in respect of
which any person other than the landholder is entitled to a ryotwari patta, as
ascertained under section 26, less the deduction specified therein.(ii)the
whole of the average net annual miscellaneous revenue derived from all other
sources in the inam estate specified in clause (b) of section 3, but not
including lands in respect of which the landholder is entitled to ryotwari
patta, as ascertained under section 27.

### 26. Computation of ryotwari demand and deduction therefrom.

(1)The gross annual ryotwari demand in respect of the lands referred to in
clause (f) of section 25, shall be the total of the ryotwari assessments
imposed in pursuance of a settlement effected under section 20 on the lands
occupied by any person other than the landholder on the notified date.(2)From
the gross annual ryotwari demand as computed above, there shall be deducted
3-1/3 per cent of such demand on account of the maintenance of irrigation
works serving the inam estate:Provided that no such deduction shall be made,
if there is no irrigation work serving the inam estate, or if the landholder
is under no legal obligation to maintain any such work serving the inam
estate:Provided further that where the obligation of the landholder to
maintain every one of the irrigation works serving the inam estate is shared
by him either with the Government or with the landholder of some other inam
estate, the percentage of such deduction shall be reduced by such extent as
the Government may deem reasonable.Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-
section (1), the expression "ryotwari assessment", in respect of any land
which has been registered as wet at the settlement referred to in that sub-
section under an irrigation work belonging to, constructed or maintained by,
or on behalf of the Government, and which was liable to pay water-cess under
any law governing the levy of such cess in the State of Tamil Nadu for
irrigation from the said work before the said settlement, shall be taken to be
the appropriate assessment determined in the prescribed manner, which the land
would bear in the absence of facilities for irrigation from the said work.

### 27. Computation of net miscellaneous revenue.

\- The average net annual miscellaneous revenue from the sources referred to
in clause (ii) of section 25, shall be the average of the net annual income
derived by the Government from such sources during the fasli year commencing
on the notified date, if such date was the 1st day of July, or on the 1st date
of July immediately succeeding the notified date, if such date was not the 1st
day of July and the next fasli year in case ryotwari settlement is effected in
that year or the next two fasli years in other cases.

### 28. Assessment and jodi, etc., to be deducted.

\- From the aggregate of the sums referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of
section 25, ascertained as aforesaid, there shall be deducted -(a)the whole of
the assessment levied on any land in an inam estate under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956) in respect
of which land the landholder is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section
9;(b)the whole of the jodi, quit-rent or other amount, if any, of a like
nature, payable annually by the landholder to the Government; and(c)the whole
of the [jodi] [Rent on easy.terms.], kattubadi or other amount, if any
(excluding local cesses and taxes), payable annually by the landholder
immediately before the notified date, to a landholder of some other inam
estate, including the value, as ascertained in the prescribed manner of
whatever was deliverable in kind annually:Provided that the amount deducted
under clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall, in no case, exceed one-half of the net
amount computed in accordance with section 26.

### 29. A person deemed to be landholder in certain cases.

(1)For the purpose of sections 25,26 and 28, any person who had, immediately
before the notified date, any right or interest in any land in an inam estate
as a landholder, shall be deemed to be a landholder of such inam estate.(2)The
ryotwari assessment imposed on, and the miscellaneous revenue derived from,
all lands in an inam estate in respect of which, any landholder mentioned in
sub-section (1) is entitled to ryotwari patta under any provision of this Act,
shall be excluded in determining the basic annual sum.

### 30. Special provision in respect of lands falling under section 11.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 25 to 29 -(i)the ryotwari
assessment imposed on all lands in an inam estate in respect of which any
person including a landholder is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section 11
shall be excluded in determining the basic annual sum;(ii)the miscellaneous
revenue derived from all lands in an inam estate in respect of which any
person (other than a landholder) is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section
11 shall be included in determining the basic annual sum.Scale of Compensation

### 31. Scale of compensation except in the case governed by section 32.

\- The total compensation payable in respect of any inam estate shall, except
in the case governed by section 32, be determined in accordance with the
following scale:-

(i) |  where the basic annual sum does not exceed Rs.1,000 | 30 times such sum  
---|---|---  
(ii) |  where the annual sum exceeds Rs. 1,000 but doesnot exceed Rs. 3,000 |  25 times such sum or Rs. 30,000 whichever isgreater  
(iii) |  where the basic annual sum exceed Rs. 3,000 butdoes not exceed Rs. 20,000 |  20 times such sum or Rs. 75,000 whichever isgreater  
(iv) |  where the annual sum exceeds Rs. 20,000 but doesnot exceed Rs. 50,000 |  17'/2 times such sum or Rs. 4,00,000 whicheveris greater  
(v) |  where the basic annual sum exceeds Rs. 50,000but does not exceeds Rs.1,00,000 |  15 times such sum or Rs. 8,75,000 whichever isgreater.  
(vi) | where the basic annual sum exceeds Rs. 1,00,000 |  12'/2 times such sum or Rs. 15,00,000 whicheveris greater  
  
Payments to Religious, Educational and Charitable Institutions

### 32. Payment of tasdik allowance and additional compensation to
institutions.

\- [(1) Where an inam estate or part thereof was held immediately before the
notified date by any religious, educational or charitable institution, the
Government shall pay to the institution every year as a tasdik allowance-(a)in
the case of an entire inam estate, the basic annual sum;(b)in the case of a
part of an inam estate, such portion of the basic annual sum as may, on a
calculation in the prescribed manner, be ascribed to that part.](2)Where the
tasdik allowance payable is less than the difference between-(a)the average
net annual income derived by the institution from all sources in the inam
estate or part as calculated in the prescribed manner during the five complete
fasli years immediately preceding the fasli year 1357 or during that portion
of those fasli year in which the inam estate or part was held by the
institution, and(b)the income as calculated in the prescribed manner which the
institution may be expected to receive from the lands in respect of which it
is entitled to a ryotwari patta, the deficiency shall be made good to the
institution by the Government every year.(3)All amounts which accrued due to
the institution during the period to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) shall be
taken into account, whether the amounts were actually collected or
not:Provided that the value in money of anything deliverable in kind to the
institution at any time during the period aforesaid shall, where any price has
been fixed by the Government for the sale of such thing at such time in the
area concerned, be calculated at such price.(4)Payment shall be made to the
institution under sub-sections (1) and (2) so long as it exists.(5)Nothing
contained in this section shall apply where any land (not consisting of an
entire village or not being a part village inam estate) granted on service-
tenure to the institution falls under sub-clause (c) of clause (16) of section
3 of the Estates Land Act or item (c) of sub-clause (ii) of clause (17) of
section 2 of this Act.

### 33. Inam estates or part thereof held by service-holder how dealt with.

(1)Where an inam estate or part thereof was held immediately before the
notified date by an individual (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
service-holder) on condition of rendering service to a religious institution,
the individual shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (8), be bound
to render such service after the notified date.(2)The compensation and interim
payment payable under this Act in respect of part of an inam estate referred
to in sub-section (1) shall be such portion of the compensation or interim
payment, as the case may be, payable for the inam estate as may, on a
calculation in the prescribed manner, be ascribed to that part.(3)The
Government shall deposit in the office of the Tribunal the compensation and
interim payment payable under this Act in respect of the said estate or part
thereof:Provided that the Government shall be entitled to deduct from the
amount to be deposited all moneys, if any, due to them in respect of the said
estate or part thereof.(4)On the making of the deposit under sub-section (3),
the Government shall be deemed to have been completely discharged in respect
of all claims to, or enforceable against, the compensation payable under this
Act.(5)In respect of any inam estate or part thereof referred to in sub-
section (1), such amount as the Tribunal may adjudge as the sum payable to the
service-holder out of the compensation or interim payments deposited under
sub-section (3) shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, be paid
by the Tribunal to the religious institution concerned.(6)Any sum received by
a religious institution under sub-section (5) shall be invested by the
institution in securities in the prescribed manner, for the sole benefit of
the service concerned.(7)For so long as the service-holder renders the
service, the religious institution concerned shall pay the service-holder
every year-(i)the income accruing from the investment made under sub-section
(6); and(ii)the amount received by the institution in respect of the interim
payment for the year.(8)(i)Where a service-holder is entitled to a ryotwari
patta under section 9 in respect of any land, he shall have the
option-(a)either to pay to the religious institution the amount specified in
subsection (9) and on such payment the land shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (11), be discharged from the condition of the
service; or(b)to hold the land and continue to render service subject to the
provisions contained in sub-sections (1) to (7) and (11).(ii)the option
referred to in clause (i) shall he exercised within such period from the
notified date and in such manner as may be prescribed.(9)The amount referred
to in sub-section (8) shall be twenty times the difference between the fair
rent in respect of such land determined in accordance with the provisions
contained in Schedule II and the land revenue due on such land.(10)Where the
service-holder has exercised his option to pay the amount specified in sub-
section (9), the investment made under sub-section (6) and the interim
payments, if any, received by the institution for. the period subsequent to
the date of exercise of such option, shall be the absolute property of the
institution and the institution shall be at liberty to make such arrangement
as it thinks fit for the performance of the service.(11)If the service-holder
fails to render the service, the prescribed authority shall, after such
enquiry and notice to the service-holder as may be prescribed in this behalf,
notify such failure in such manner as may be prescribed. He shall, then,
declare that the investment made under sub-section (6) and the interim
payments, if any, received by the institution for the period subsequent to the
date of default by the service-holder and the land for which the service-
holder was granted ryotwari patta in accordance with the provisions of section
9 shall be the absolute property of the institution and the institution shall
be at liberty to make such arrangement as it thinks fit for the performance of
the service.Explanation I. - For the purposes of this section "individual"
means the person who would have held the inam estate or part thereof if it had
not vested in the Government under this Act.Explanation II. - For the purposes
of this section,-(i)service-holder includes his heirs;(ii)non-performance of
the service due to illness or other temporary disability shall not be deemed
to be failure to render service, provided that the service-holder makes
alternative arrangements for rendering the service during the period of such
illness or of other temporary disability.Explanation III. - For the purposes
of sub-section (9) "land revenue" means the ryotwari assessment including the
additional assessment, water-cess and additional water-cess.Determination of
Basic Annual Sum and Total Compensation

### 34. Determination of basic annual sum and total compensation.

(1)The Director shall determine, in accordance with the foregoing
provisions,-(a)the basic annual sitm in respect of an inam estate;
and(b)except in the case governed by section 32, also the total compensation
payable in respect of such estate.(2)Any landholder or other person interested
may, within such time as may be prescribed or such further time as the
Director may in his discretion allow, apply in writing to the Director for a
copy of the data on the basis of which he purposes to determine the basic
annual sum.(3)On the receipt of such application, the Director shall furnish
the data aforesaid to the applicant; and he shall also, before passing any
order under sub-section (1), give the applicant a reasonable opportunity of
making his representations in regard thereto, in writing or orally.(4)A copy
of every order passed under sub-section (1) shall be communicated to every
landholder concerned, and also to every applicant under sub-section
(2).(5)(a)The Director may, at any time, either suo motu or on the application
of any person, review an order passed by him under sub-section (1) on any one
or more of the following grounds, namely:-(i)that the said order is vitiated
by any clerical or arithmetical mistake or error apparent on the face of the
record; or(ii)that subsequent to the passing of the said order, data for the
better calculation of the basic annual sum have become available, or(iii)that
the said order requires to be modified in pursuance of the final order of any
competent authority or Court:Provided that the Director shall not exercise his
powers under this subsection in respect of any inam estate, without giving
every landholder concerned, and every applicant under this sub-section and
sub-section (2), a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(b)A copy of every
order passed under this sub-section shall be communicated to the Board of
Revenue1 and also to every landholder concerned, and every applicant under
this sub-section and sub-section (2).(6)Any person deeming himself aggrieved
by an order made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) may, within three
months from the date of the order or such further time as the Board of
Revenue2 may, in its discretion allow, appeal to the Board; and the Board
shall, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard,
pass such orders on the appeal as it thinks fit.(7)The [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition)
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] may also in its discretion at any time, either suo motu or on the
application of any person, call for and examine the record of any order
passed, or proceeding taken, by the Director under this section, for the
purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality, regularity or propriety of
such order or proceeding and pass such order in reference thereto as it thinks
fit:Provided that the basic annual sum or the total compensation payable in
respect of any inam estate shall not be altered by the Board without giving
every landholder concerned and every person who has made an application under
subsection (2) a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(8)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (6), or sub-section (7), [the Board of
Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner
of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.] may, on application made to it by the Director or by any other
person in that behalf, review any order passed by it under sub-section (6) or
sub-section (7) if it is of the opinion that the said order is vitiated by an
error in the decision on a point of law or by a mistake and may make such
order on the application as it thinks fit:Provided that no application for the
review shall be granted by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No.
2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] without previous notice to every
landholder concerned, and the applicant, to enable them to appear and be heard
in support of the order a review of which is applied for.(9)No order passed by
the Director under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) shall be liable to be
cancelled or modified except by [the Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue
was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms.
No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] as aforesaid; and no order
passed by [the Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition) Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980).
Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue,
dated the 1st December 1980.] under sub-section (6), (7) or (8) shall be
liable to be cancelled or modified by the Government or any other
authority.Manner of Payment

### 35. Compensation, etc., to be paid in prescribed manner.

(1)The compensation payable to any person under this Act and the sums payable
to any religious, educational or charitable institution under sub-sections (1)
and (2) of section 32, may be paid in such form and manner, and at such time
or times, and in one or more instalments, as may be prescribed.Deposit and
Apportionment of Compensation

### 36. Compensation to be deposited in office of Tribunal.

(1)The Government shall deposit in the office of the Tribunal, the
compensation in respect of each inam estate as finally determined under
section 34, in such form and manner, and at such time or times and in one or
more instalments, as may be prescribed:Provided that the Government shall be
entitled to deduct from the amount to be deposited-(a)all moneys, if any,
still remaining due to them-(i)in respect of quit-rent, jodi or other dues of
a like nature, or(ii)in respect of any claim which was secured immediately
before the notified date by a mortgage of, or a charge on, the inam estate or
any portion thereof;(b)the whole or any portion of the rents and excess
collections referred to in the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 45 which
cannot be adjusted by deduction under the said sub-section; and(c)all interim
payments deposited under sub-section (5) of section 45 in excess of the
amounts finally found to be payable under that section:Provided further that
where the total amount of the compensation payable in respect of any inam
estate stands altered after the deposit referred to above has already been
made, the Government may deposit the difference or withdraw the same from the
deposit already made or otherwise adjust the same in such manner and at such
time or times, as may be prescribed, and the provisions of sections 37 to 44
and of sections 46 and 47 shall apply to the amount finally under deposit, and
to this extent the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case may
be, shall be competent to revise its orders, if any, already passed.(2)On the
making of such deposit, the Government shall be deemed to have been completely
discharged in respect of all claims to, or enforceable against, the
compensation aforesaid.

### 37. Claims to be made within six months.

(1)Every person who makes a claim to, or enforceable against, the compensation
deposited under any of the provisions of this Act or any portion thereof,
including the principal or any other landholder, members of his family
claiming any portion of such compensation, whether by way of a share or by way
of maintenance or otherwise, and creditors, whether their debts are secured or
not, shall apply to the Tribunal within six months from the date on which the
amount was deposited or within such further time not exceeding three months as
the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow.(2)Every claim to, or enforceable
against, the compensation or any portion thereof which is not made to the
Tribunal within the time aforesaid shall,-(i)in so far as it relates to the
amount paid by the Tribunal under section 48;or(ii)subject to the provisions
of section 51, in so far as it relates to the amount in respect of which an
order for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal in favour of any person, cease to be enforceable.

### 38. Duty of Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal shall, after giving notice to all persons who have applied
under section 37 and to any others whom it considers to be interested, make
inquiry into the validity of the claims received by it, and determine the
persons who, in its opinion, are entitled to the compensation deposited and
the amount to which each of them is entitled.

### 39. Compensation to be apportioned by Tribunal.

(1)As a preliminary to such determination, the Tribunal shall apportion the
compensation among the principal landholder and any other persons whose rights
or interests in the inam estates stand transferred to the Government under
clause (b) of section 3, or cease and determine under clause (c) of section 3,
including persons who are entitled to be maintained from the inam estate and
its income, as far as possible in accordance with the value of their
respective interests in the inam estate.(2)The value of those interests shall
be ascertained-(a)in the case of the impartible inam estates referred to in
section 40, in accordance with the provisions contained in that section and in
such rules, not inconsistent with that section, as may be made by the
Government in this behalf; and(b)in the case of other inam estates, in
accordance with such rules as may be made by the Government in this behalf.

### 40. Apportionment in the case of certain impartible inam estates.

(1)In the case of an impartible inam estate which had to be regarded as the
property of a joint Hindu family for the purpose of ascertaining the
succession thereto immediately before the notified date, the following
provisions shall apply.(2)The Tribunal shall determine the aggregate
compensation payable to all the following persons, considered as a single
group:-(a)the principal landholder and his legitimate sons, grandsons, and
great-grandsons in the male line living or in the womb on the notified date,
including sons, grandsons and great-grandsons adopted before such date (who
are hereinafter called "sharer"); and(b)other persons who, immediately before
the notified date were entitled to maintenance out of the estate and its
income either under section 9 or 12 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Impartible
Estates Act, 1904 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 11 of 1904), or under any decree or
order of a Court, award, or other instrument in writing or contract or family
arrangement which is binding on the principal landholder (who are hereinafter
called "maintenance-holders"):Provided that no such maintenance-holder shall
be entitled to any portion of the aggregate compensation aforesaid, if, before
the notified date, his claim for maintenance or the claim of his branch of the
family for maintenance, has been settled or discharged in full.(3)The Tribunal
shall next determine which creditors, if any, are lawfully entitled to have
their debts paid from and out of the assets of the impartible inam estate and
the amount to which each of them is so entitled; and only the remainder of the
aggregate compensation shall be divisible among the sharers and maintenance-
holders as hereinafter provided.(4)The portion of the aggregate compensation
aforesaid payable to the maintenance-holders shall be determined by the
Tribunal and notwithstanding any arrangement already made in respect of a
maintenance, whether by a decree or order of a Court, award or other
instrument in writing or contract or family arrangement, such portion shall
not exceed one-fifth of the remainder referred to in sub-section (3), except
in the case referred to in the second proviso to subsection (2) of section
42.(5)(a)The Tribunal shall, in determining the amount of compensation payable
to the maintenance-holders and apportioning the same among them, have regard,
as far as possible, to the following considerations, namely:-(i)the
compensation payable in respect of the inam estate;(ii)the number of persons
to be maintained out of that estate;(iii)the nearness of relationship of the
person claiming to be maintained;(iv)the other sources of income of the
claimant; and(v)the circumstances of the family of the claimant.(b)For the
purpose of securing-(i)that the amount of compensation payable to the
maintenance-holders does not exceed the limit specified in sub-section (4);
and(ii)that the same is apportioned among them on an equitable basis, the
Tribunal shall have power, wherever necessary, to reopen any arrangement
already made in respect of maintenance, whether by a decree or order of a
Court, award, or other instrument in writing, or contract or family
arrangement.(6)The balance of the aggregate compensation shall be divided
among the sharers, as if they owned such balance as a joint Hindu family and a
partition thereof had been effected among them on the notified date.

### 41. Claims of creditors.

\- After the compensation has been apportioned among the persons referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 39, or where it is more convenient so to do
pending such apportionment, the Tribunal shall take into consideration the
applications of the creditors other than those dealt with in subsection (3) of
section 40, and decide the amount to which each such creditor is entitled and
the person or persons out of whose share or shares of the compensation such
amount should be paid.

### 42. Grant of ryotwari patta to maintenance-holders in certain impartible
inam estates.

(1)Every maintenance-holder entitled to a portion of the compensation under
section 40 shall also be entitled to the grant of a ryotwari patta in respect
of a portion of the lands referred to in section 9.(2)The Tribunal shall
determine the total extent of the lands in respect of which ryotwari pattas
may be granted to the maintenance-holders and divide the same among them and,
in doing so, the Tribunal shall, unless for reasons recorded in writing, it
considers that it is inappropriate to do so, have regard to the considerations
set forth in sub-section (5) of section 40 and the manner in which the
compensation payable to the maintenance-holders has been or may be apportioned
among them under that sub-section:Provided that the total extent of the lands
granted to all such maintenance-holders shall not exceed one-fifth of the
extent of the lands in respect of which ryotwari patta may be granted under
section 9:Provided further that where it is found to be inconvenient or
impracticable to grant any such lands, or to grant any such lands to the full
extent to which the maintenance-holder may be regarded as entitled, whether on
the ground that such a grant will result in the creation of an uneconomic
holding or for any other reason, the share of the compensation awarded to the
maintenance-holder may be increased by such amount as the Tribunal may
consider reasonable.(3)The lands in respect of which ryotwari patta may be
granted under section 9, after excluding any lands which may be granted to
maintenance-holders under sub-section (2), shall be divided among the sharers,
as if they owned such lands, as a joint Hindu family and a partition thereof
had been effected among them on the notified date.

### 43. Certain estates to be treated as impartible inam estates for purposes
of compensation.

\- Where the power of the landholder to alienate any property in an inam
estate is restricted whether by the terms of the grant or otherwise, the
provisions of this Act relating to the payment and apportionment of
compensation in respect of impartible inam estate shall, so far as maybe and
subject to such rules as may be made by the Government in this behalf, apply
to the payment and apportionment of the compensation payable in respect of the
inam estate.

### 44. Devolution of interest in compensation.

\- Where it is alleged that the interest of any person entitled to receive
payment of any portion of the compensation has devolved on any other person or
persons, whether by act of parties or by operation of law, the Tribunal shall
determine whether there has been any devolution of the interest, and if so, on
whom it has devolved.

## Chapter VII  
Interim Payments

### 45. Interim payments to principal landholder and others.

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply in every case not governed by
section 32.(2)After the notified date and until the compensation is finally
determined and deposited in pursuance of this Act, interim payments shall be
made by the Government every fasli year prior to the fasli year in which the
said deposit is made, to the principal landholder and to the other persons
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 39 as follows:-(3)In respect of the
fasli year in which the inam estate is notified they shall, together, be
entitled to such amount as the Government may, on a rough calculation,
determine to be the basic annual sum referred to in section 24:Provided that
the rents, if any, collected before the notified date by the landholder from
the ryots in respect of the fasli year aforesaid [and in the case of an
existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of rent has been determined
before the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'and in the
case of an existing inam estate, also any amount collected by him from the
ryots in excess of the rent determined under the Madras Estates Land
(Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXX of 1947)', by section 5(i) of
the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into
force on the 1st January 1964.] Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947]
[By virtue of section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Leaseholds and Minor
Inams (Abolition and Converston into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 2 of 1976) the amount of compensation determined under Tamil Nadu Act 26
of 1963 for an inam estate as a whole before the date of the publication of
the former Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette shall be re-determined in
accordance with the provisions of Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963 as amended by
Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976.] ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), also any
amount collected by him from the ryots in excess of the rent so determined],
and outstanding to the credit of the ryots on the first day of that fasli
year, shall be deducted.[Explanation. [This Explanation was substituted for
the following explanation by section 5(h) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of 1956), which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January,
1964:- 'Explanation.- Any amount collected by the Government on behalf of the
landholder as rent from the ryots in excess of the rent determined under the
Madras Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXX of 1947) and
paid to the landholder shall, for the purposes of this sub-section, be deemed
to be an amount collected by the landholder.' Substituted for Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] \- In the case of an
existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of rent has been determined
before the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu] Estates Land (Reduction of
Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), any amount collected
by the Government on behalf of the landholder as rent from the ryots in excess
of the rent so determined and paid to the landholder shall, for the purpose of
this sub-section, be deemed to be an amount collected by the landholder.](4)In
respect of each subsequent fasli year, they shall together be entitled to the
amount estimated under sub-section (3) to be the basic annual sum, unless data
for the better calculation thereof have since become available, in which case
the amount to be paid shall be revised by the Government with reference to
such data:Provided that if, for any reason, the whole or any portion of the
rents and excess collections referred to in the proviso to sub-section (3) was
not deducted in pursuance of that proviso, the amount remaining undeducted
shall be deducted from the amount payable under this sub-section.(5)The
Government shall deposit all such amounts in the office of the Tribunal and
the Tribunal shall, after such inquiry, if any, as it thinks fit, apportion
the amounts among the principal landholder and the other persons referred to
in sub-section (2), as far as possible in accordance with the value of their
respective interests.(6)On the making of such a deposit, the Government shall
be deemed to have been completely discharged in respect of all claims to, or
enforceable against, the amount so deposited.(7)(a)After the compensation has
been finally determined, the Government shall ascertain the aggregate interim
payment which would have been due in respect of the inam estate under sub-
sections (3) and (4) for the fash years concerned if the basic annual sum as
finally determined had been adopted instead of the basic annual sum as roughly
estimated.(b)If the aggregate interim payment thus determined exceeds the
aggregate amounts already deposited under sub-section (5), the balance with
interest thereon at three per cent per annum shall be deposited by the
Government in the office of the Tribunal.(c)If the aggregate interim payment
determined under clause (a) is less than the aggregate amount already
deposited under sub-section (5), the excess amount deposited shall be deducted
by the Government from the amount of compensation finally determined and the
balance shall be deposited in the office of the Tribunal.(8)No interim payment
made under this section shall be deemed to constitute any part of the
compensation which the Government are liable to deposit under sub-section (1)
of section 36 or to any extent to be in lieu of such compensation.(9)The
Tribunal shall revise the apportionment of the interim payments with reference
to the aggregate interim payments as finally determined by the Government
under sub-section (7) on the basis that each of the persons entitled to
receive any portion of the interim payments shall be entitled separately to
the same share of the said aggregate interim payments as the share of the
compensation to which he is finally held to be entitled under section 39. Any
excess payment disclosed by such revision shall be deducted by the Tribunal,
with interest thereon at three per cent per annum from the compensation
payable to the person concerned.

## Chapter VIII  
Appeals

### 46. Appeals.

(1)Against any decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (2) of section 12,
and sections 38 to 45, the Government may, within six months from the date of
the decision, and any person aggrieved by such decision may, within three
months from the date of such decision, appeal to a Special Appellate Tribunal
consisting of two Judges of the High Court nominated, from time to time, by
the Chief Justice in that behalf:Provided that the Special Appellate Tribunal
may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding three months for the
filing of such appeal.(2)The members of the Special Appellate Tribunal shall
hear the appeal on all points, whether of law or of fact. Where on any such
point or points the members are divided in their opinion, they shall state the
point or points on which they are so divided and such point or points together
with their opinions thereon, shall, then, be laid before one or more Judges
nominated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such Judge or Judges shall
hear the appeal insofar as it relates to such point or points, and on each
such point, the decision of the majority of the Judges who have heard the
appeal including those who first heard it shall be deemed to be the decision
of the Special Appellate Tribunal.(3)[The Special Appellate Tribunal shall and
subject to the provisions of section 72-A] [Substituted for 'The Special
Appellate Tribunal shall' by section 2(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975).] have the same powers as are vested in a Civil
Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), when
trying a suit or when hearing an appeal.Under section 72-A, the Tribunal or
any authority under the Act shall not have power to appoint Receivers or
Commissioners in respect of proceedings pending before them.(4)The decision of
the Special Appellate Tribunal and subject to such decision, the decision of
the Tribunal shall be final.(5)Every decision of the Special Appellate
Tribunal and subject to such decision, every decision of the Tribunal shall be
binding on all persons claiming an interest in any inam estate notwithstanding
that any such person has not preferred any application or filed any statement
or adduced any evidence or appeared or participated in any proceeding before
the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.

### 47. Restriction on the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and Special Appellate
Tribunal in certain cases.

\- In cases of apportionment of the compensation among the persons referred to
in section 39 and of the apportionment of the interim payments among the
persons referred to in section 45, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and the
Special Appellate Tribunal shall be limited to the apportionment as such and
neither the Tribunal nor the Special Appellate Tribunal shall have
jurisdiction to go into the question of the correctness of the determination
or the adequacy of the compensation or of the interim payments, as the case
may be.(2)In cases falling under section 42, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal,
and in cases of appeal from the order under section 12, the jurisdiction of
the Special Appellate Tribunal, shall be limited to the division of the lands
in respect of which ryotwari patta may be granted under section 9 and neither
the Tribunal nor the Special Appellate Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to go
into the question of the correctness of the order under section
12.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
nothing in this section shall be Construed to limit the jurisdiction of the
Tribunal when hearing an appeal under sub-section (2) of section 12 or of the
Special Appellate Tribunal when hearing an appeal under sub-section (1) of
section 46 from the decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (2) of section
12.

### 48. Disbursement of compensation.

\- All payments made out of the compensation deposited in the office of the
Tribunal under section 36 shall be made by it in accordance with its order and
decisions subject to the modifications, if any, made on appeal under section
46.

### 49. Interim payments to institutions.

(1)In cases governed by section 32, after the notified date and before the
sums payable to the religious, educational or charitable institutions
concerned under sub-sections (1) and (2) of that section have been finally
determined, the Government shall pay to the institution-(a)in respect of the
fasli year in which the inam estate is notified, such sums as they may, on a
rough calculation, determine to be payable to the institution under sub-
sections (1) and (2) of section 32:Provided that the rents, if any, collected
before the notified date by the institution from the ryots in respect of the
fasli year aforesaid [and in the case of an existing inam estate in respect of
which the rate of rent has been determined before the notified date under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'and in the case of an existing inam estate also
any amount collected by it from the ryots in excess of the rent determined
under the Madras Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act No.
XXX of 1947)' by section 6(i) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964.] Estates
Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947] ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), also any
amount collected by it from the ryots in excess of the rent so determined] and
outstanding to the credit of the ryots on the first day of that fasli year
shall be deducted;(b)in respect of each subsequent fasli year, the sums
determined under clause (a), unless data for the better calculation thereof
have since become available, in which case the sums to be paid shall be
revised by the Government with reference to such data:Provided that if, for
any reason, the whole of any portion of the rents and excess collection
referred to in the proviso to clause (a) was not deducted in pursuance of that
proviso, the amount remaining undeducted shall be deducted from the amount
payable under this clause.(2)After the sums payable to the institution under
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 32 have been finally determined, all
interim payments made to the institution under sub-section (1) of this section
together with such rents, if any, collected by it before the notified date
[and in the case of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of
rent has been determined before the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'and in the case of an existing inam estate also any amount
collected by it from the ryots in excess of the rent determined under the
Madras Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act No. XXX of
1947)' by section 6(i) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964.] Estates
Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947] ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), also any
amount collected by it from the ryots in excess of the rent so determined] and
outstanding to the credit of the ryots on the first day of the fasli year in
which the inam estate is notified shall be adjusted towards the sums so
determined; and any deficiency shall be made good to the institution by the
Government and any excess shall be deducted from the sums payable to it by the
Government in any subsequent fasli year or years.(3)The deductions made under
sub-section (1) shall not exceed 25 per cent of the amount determined to be
payable to the institution for the fasli year concerned and any balance in
excess thereof which remains unadjusted under subsection (2) shall be deducted
in annual instalments from the aggregate sum payable to the institution under
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 32 as finally determined in amounts not
exceeding 25 per cent of the sum so payable for the fasli year
concerned.[Explanation. [This Explanation was substituted/or the following
explanation by section 6(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates t (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January
1964:-'Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, in the case of an
existing inam estate, any amount collected by the Government on behalf of the
institution as rent from the ryots in excess of the rent determined under the
Madras Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 (Madras Act XXX of 1947) and
paid to the institution shall be deemed to be an amount collected by the
institution.'] \- For the purposes of this section, in the case of an existing
inam estate in respect of which the rate of rent has been determined before
the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu] Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act,
1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), any amount collected by the
Government on behalf of the institution as rent from the ryots in excess of
the rent so determined and paid to the institution shall be deemed to be an
amount collected by the institution.]

### 50. Limitation for claims by persons entitled to payment.

\- Every person in whose favour an order for payment has been made by the
Tribunal shall make an application for payment within three months from the
date of such order:Provided that the Tribunal may, within such further time
not exceeding six months as it may in its discretion allow, admit a claim
preferred after the period of three months aforesaid if it is satisfied that
the claimant had sufficient cause for not preferring the claim within that
period:Provided further that, where an appeal has been filed before the
Special Appellate Tribunal against the said order for payment, the aforesaid
period of three months shall be reckoned from the date of the decision of the
Special Appellate Tribunal on the appeal.

### 51. Unclaimed and undisbursed amounts how dealt with.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of Tribunal under sub-section (1) of
section 36, sub-sections (5) and (7) of section 45, or sub-section (2) of
section 57 and remaining unpaid and with reference to which no claim has been
made within the time specified in sub-section (1) of section 37 or in sub-
section (4) of section 57, as the case may be, or no application for payment
has been made within the time specified in section 50; and(b)all amounts
deposited as aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of
six months from the date of the disposal of the application under section
50;shall be withdrawn by the Tribunal and deposited in the District Court
having jurisdiction over the inam estate concerned in the name of the inam
estate or, as the case may be, in the name of the person or persons in whose
favour an order for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal.(2)All amounts deposited by the Tribunal in the District
Court under subsection (1) shall be dealt with by the District Court in
accordance with such rules as may be made by the Government in this
behalf.(3)Every person who makes a claim to, or enforceable against, any
amount held in deposit under sub-section (1) shall apply to the District Court
in the prescribed form setting forth his claim.(4)The District Court shall,
after giving notice to all persons who have applied under sub-section (3) and
to any others whom it considers to be interested, make enquiry into the
validity of the claims received by it and subject to the provisions of sub-
section (5) determine the persons who are entitled to the amount held in
deposit and the amount to which each of them is entitled.(5)Every order for
payment made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in favour of
any person shall be binding on the District Court.

### 52. Amounts which may be deducted under section 36 recoverable as arrear
of land revenue.

\- Any sum representing the whole or any portion of the rents and excess
collections referred to in clause (b) of the first proviso to sub-section (1)
of section 36 which cannot be adjusted by deduction under the said clause
shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 53. Wrong and excess payment to be recoverable as arrear of land revenue.

\- Where any payment made to any person is subsequently found to be not due to
him or to be in excess of the amounts due to him, the amount which is found to
be not due or which is in excess, as the case may be, with interest thereon at
three per cent per annum or any portion thereof, which cannot be otherwise
adjusted by deduction from any amounts due to such person, shall be
recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 54. Recovery of amount paid on cancellation of notifications issued under
section 1(4).

\- If any amount has been paid to any person under this Act in pursuance of a
notification issued under sub-section (4) of section 1 and if such
notification is subsequently quashed by order of Court, or cancelled by the
Government, the amount so paid, with interest thereon at three per cent per
annum, shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 55. Recovery of excess collections made by a darmila inamdar.

(1)If, in an inam estate notified under this Act, a darmila inamdar has
collected any amount by way of rent or miscellaneous revenue in respect of the
portion of the inam estate comprising his darmila inam for the fasli year in
which the inam estate is notified and for any subsequent fasli years, then,
such amount, together with interest thereon at three per cent per annum, shall
be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.(2)If, in respect of
the said fasli years, any person is liable to pay land revenue or
miscellaneous revenue under this Act to the Government, the amounts paid by
him to the darmila inamdar shall be adjusted towards such
liability.Explanation. - Any amount collected by the Government on behalf of
the darmila inamdar in respect of the portion of the inam estate comprising
his darmila inam by way of rent or miscellaneous revenue and paid to him shall
be deemed to be an amount collected by him.

## Chapter IX  
Miscellaneous

### 56. Collection of arrears of rent which accrued before the notified date.

(1)[In the case of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of
rent has been determined before the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu]
[These words, brackets and figures were substituted for the words 'In the case
of an existing inam estate, after the notified date, the landholder shall not
be entitled to collect' by section 7(1)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act
27 of l966), which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January
1964.] Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of
1947), the landholder shall not, after the notified date, be entitled to
collect] any rent which accrued due to him from any ryot before, and is
outstanding on, that date; but the Manager appointed under section 6 shall be
entitled to collect all such rent and any interest payable thereon together
with any costs which may have been decreed, as if they were arrears of land
revenue; and there shall be paid to the landholder all amounts so collected
after deducting:(a)ten per cent thereof on account of collection
charges,(b)the arrears of quit-rent, jodi or other amount, if any, of a like
nature due from the land holder to Government, and(c)the rent, if any,
collected before the notified date by the landholder from the ryots in respect
of the fasli year in which the inam estate is notified under this Act and any
amount collected by the landholder from the ryots in excess of the rent
determined [before the notified date] [Inserted by section 7(i)(b) of the
Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1966.] under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Reduction of
Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), and outstanding to the
credit of the ryots on the first day of the fasli year.Provisos were omitted
by section 7(i)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966) which was
deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964.Explanation [I] [The
Explanation to sub-section (2) of section 56 was numbered as Explanation I of
that subsection and this Explanation was added by section 7(i)(d) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into force on the
1st January 1964.]. - Any amount collected by the Government on behalf of the
landholder as rent from the ryots in excess of the rent determined [before the
notified date] [These words were inserted by section 7(i)(d)(l) of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to have come into force on the
1st January 1964.] under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Reduction of
Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947) and paid to the
landholder shall, for the purposes of this sub-section, be deemed to be an
amount collected by the landholder.[Explanation II. [Substituted for 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] \- For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in this sub-section shall be
construed as reviving any claim for arrears of rent for fasli year 1356 and
prior fasli years, if such claim is barred by limitation under any law for the
time being in force.][(2-A) (i) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, in the case of an existing inam estate in respect of which the rate of
rent has not been determined before the notified date under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Inserted by section 7(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964.] Estates
Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of 1947), if the
ryot has paid to the landholder before the notified date or pays to the
landholder within two years of the notified date or of the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 in the Fort St. George Gazette, whichever is
later, the rent due for the fasli years 1371 and 1372 and any interest payable
thereon together with any costs which may have been decreed, then, all arrears
of rent due from such ryot to the landholder in respect of all prior fasli
years including interest and costs, if any, shall be deemed to have been
completely discharged.(ii)In any suit or proceeding for the recovery of any
arrears of rent due to a landholder from a ryot for any fasli year prior to
fasli year 1371, the Court or authority concerned shall, upon deposit in the
court or before the authority, or upon proof by the ryot of the payment to the
landholder, of the rent due for the fasli years 1371 and 1372, dismiss the
suit or proceeding.(iii)If before the notified date, any decree or order has
been passed in any suit or proceeding for the recovery of any arrears of rent
due from a ryot for any fasli year prior to fasli year 1371, the Court or
authority concerned shall, upon deposit in the Court or before the authority
or upon proof of the payment to the landholder, of the rent due from the ryot
for fasli years 1371 and 1372 and on the application of any person affected by
such decree or order, whether or not he was a party thereto, vacate the decree
or order:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to
any suit or proceeding in which the decree or order has been satisfied in full
before the notified date.Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that nothing in this sub-section shall be construed as
reviving any claim for arrears of rent if such claim is barred by limitation
under any law for the time being in force.](3)(i)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, in the case of a new inam estate, all arrears of rent
payable by a ryot to a landholder in respect of any land in such estate and
outstanding on the date of publication of this Act in the Fort St. George
Gazette shall, to the extent to which such arrears are in excess of the rent
due for three fasli years in respect of that land, be deemed to be discharged
whether or not a decree has been obtained therefor, if the ryot pays to the
landholder the arrears of rent due for a period of any three fasli
years.(ii)In any suit or proceeding for the recovery of any arrears of rent
referred to in clause (i), the Court or authority concerned, shall, upon
deposit in the Court or before the authority, or upon proof by the ryot of the
payment, of arrears of such rent for three fasli years, dismiss the suit or
proceeding.(iii)If before the date of publication of this Act in the Fort St.
George Gazette, any decree or order has been passed in any suit or proceeding
for the recovery of any arrears of rent due from a ryot, which is inconsistent
with the provisions of this sub-section, the Court or authority concerned
shall, upon deposit in the Court or before the authority or upon proof of the
payment of the arrears of rent due from the ryot for three fasli years and on
the application of any person affected by such decree or order, whether or not
he was a party thereto, vacate the decree or order:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall apply to any suit or proceeding in which
the decree or order has been satisfied in full, before the date of publication
of this Act in the Fort St. George Gazette.(iv)The provisions of this section
shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in
the Tamil Nadu Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Amendment Act,
1963.[Explanation I. [The Explanation to sub-section (3) of section 56 was
numbered as Explanation I of that subsection and this Explanation was added by
section 7(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966), which was deemed to
have come into force on the 1st January 1964.] \- For the removal of doubts,
it is hereby declared that the payment, or deposit, of arrears of rent for
three fasli years referred to in this subsection shall be payment or deposit
made after the date of publication of the Act in the Fort St. George
Gazette.][Explanation II. [The Explanation to sub-section (3) of section 56
was numbered as Explanation I of that subsection and this Explanation was
added by section 7(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1966),
which was deemed to have come into force on the 1st January 1964] \- For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in this sub-section
shall be construed as reviving any claim for arrears of rent, if such claim is
barred by limitation under any law for the time being in force.]

### 57. Apportionment of amounts collected under section 56.

(1)Where any doubt or dispute arises as to who the lawful landholder entitled
to receive the payments under sub-section (1) of section 56 is or where there
is more than one claimant, what, if any, the share of each claimant is, the
question shall be referred to the Tribunal and intimation of the fact given to
the claimants and so far as information is a available with the manager
appointed under section 6, to the landholder or landholders.(2)Pending the
decision of the Tribunal, the amount due under sub-section (1) of Section 56
shall be deposited in the office of the Tribunal and no interest shall accrue
thereon.(3)The fact of every such deposit shall be published in the Fort St.
George Gazette and intimation thereof shall also be given to the claimants and
to the landholder or landholders referred to in sub-section (1).(4)Every
person who makes a claim to, or enforceable against, the amount so deposited
or any portion thereof, as a landholder shall apply to the Tribunal within
three months of the date of publication of the fact of such deposit in the
Fort St. George Gazette or within such further period not exceeding three
months as the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow.(5)Every claim to, or
enforceable against, the amount so deposited or any portion thereof which is
not made to the Tribunal within the time aforesaid shall-(i)in so far as it
relates to the amount paid by the Tribunal; or(ii)subject to the provisions of
section 51, in so far as it relates to the amount in respect of which an order
for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in
favour of any person.Lease to be Enforceable(6)The Tribunal shall, after
giving notice to all persons who have applied under sub-section (4) and to any
others whom it considers to be interested, make enquiry into the validity of
the claims received by it and determine the persons who in its opinion are
entitled to the amount so deposited and the share of each person in respect of
it.(7)Any person deeming himself aggrieved by any decision of the Tribunal may
appeal to the Special Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 46 and the
provisions of that section shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of such
appeals.(8)Neither the Tribunal nor the Special Appellate Tribunal shall have
jurisdiction to go into the correctness of the amount placed in deposit.

### 58. Jodi or quit-rent.

\- Jodi or quit-rent, as the case may be, in respect of an inam estate shall
cease to accrue with effect from the end of the fasli year immediately
preceding the notified date.

### 59. Stay of execution proceedings and prohibition of certain transfers.

(1)No Court shall, before the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance
of this Act is made in the office of the Tribunal, order or continue execution
in respect of any decree or order passed against the principal or any other
landholder of an inam estate against his interest in the inam estate or
against his other immovable property or against him personally by arrest and
detention; and with effect on and from such date, execution in the cases
aforesaid may be ordered or continued as specified in, and in accordance with
the provisions of section 60.(2)All proceedings for the execution of any
decree or order by the arrest and detention in prison of the principal or any
other landholder of an inam estate pending on the notified date, shall stand
dismissed and if on such date the principal or any other landholder is
detained in a prison in execution of any such decree or order, he shall be
released forthwith.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force, no principal or other landholder of an inam estate
shall, on or after the notified date and before the date on which the earliest
deposit as aforesaid is made, sell, mortgage, lease, or otherwise assign or
alienate any of his immovable property and any transaction of the nature
hereby prohibited shall be void and inoperative and shall not confer or take
away any right whatever on or from any party to the transaction.

### 60. Transitional provision in regard to other liabilities of landholder.

(1)No claim or liability enforceable immediately before the notified date
against the principal or any other landholder of an inam estate or against any
other person whose rights stand transferred to the Government in pursuance of
clause (b) of section 3 shall, on or after that date, be enforceable against
the interests he had in the inam estate; and all such claims and liabilities
shall, after the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act
is made in the office of the Tribunal, be enforceable-(a)against the interim
payments or the compensation, or other sums paid or payable to him under this
Act to the same extent to which such claims and liabilities were enforceable
against his interest in the inam estate immediately before the notified date;
and(b)against his other property, if any, to the same extent to which such
claims and liabilities were enforceable against such property immediately
before the notified date.(2)No Court shall, on or after the notified date,
order or continue execution in respect of any decree or order passed against
the principal or any other landholder or any other person aforesaid against
the interest he had in the inam estate; and execution shall be ordered or
continued in such cases in conformity with the provisions of sub-section (1)
only as against the interim payments or against the compensation or other sum
or sums paid or payable to him as aforesaid or against his other property, if
any.(3)No Court shall, in enforcing any claim or liability against the
principal or any other landholder or any other person aforesaid, allow
interest at a rate exceeding six per cent per annum simple interest for the
period commencing on the notified date and ending with the date on which the
earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the office of the
Tribunal.

### 61. Liability of person unauthorisedly occupying land to forfeiture of
crops, etc.

\- When, under this Act, any person is dispossessed of any land, any crop or
other produce raised on the land and any building or other construction
erected or anything deposited thereon shall, if not removed by him after such
written notice as the officer who issued the order for dispossession may deem
reasonable, be liable to forfeiture. Forfeitures under this section shall be
adjudged by the said officer and any property so forfeited shall be disposed
of in such manner as that officer may direct.

### 62. Provisions for inam estate staff.

\- Notwithstanding any law, custom, or contract to the contrary, the following
provisions shall apply in regard to the persons employed in the administration
of any inam estate immediately before the notified date:-(1)The Government
shall have power to terminate the services of any such person after giving him
one calendar month's notice or paying him one month's pay in lieu of such
notice.(2)Persons whose services are retained shall be governed by such rules
as the Government may make in regard to them.

### 63. Maintenance by Government of institutions maintained by landholder.

\- Every educational or other charitable institution which was being
maintained during the three fasli years immediately preceding the notified
date by any landholder of an inam estate may, with effect on and from the
notified date, be maintained by the Government, if they think fit.

### 64. Removal of doubts in regard to existing inam estates in Chingleput
district.

\- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the Estates Land Act
applies, and shall be deemed always to have been applied, to existing inam
estates situated on the 31st day of October 1936 within the limits of the
Chingleput district as then constituted notwithstanding that the areas in
which such inam estates are situated have been or may be included within the
limits of the Presidency town, after that date; and the provisions of this Act
shall apply to every such date accordingly.

### 65. Presumption that a land in an inam estate is ryoti land.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), when in any proceeding under
this Act it becomes necessary to determine whether any land is a ryoti land or
a private land, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is provided that such
land is a ryoti land.(2)(i)Any expression in a lease, patta or the like
executed or issued on or after the 1st day of July 1918 in the case of an
existing inam estate and the 19th day of April 1949 in the case of a new inam
estate to the effect of implying that a tenant has no right of occupancy or
that his right of occupancy is limited or restricted in any manner shall not
be admissible in evidence for the purpose of proving that the land concerned
was private land at the commencement of the tenancy.(ii)Any such expression in
a lease, patta or the like executed or issued before the 1st day of July 1918
in the case of an existing inam estate and the 19th day of April 1949 in the
case of a new inam estate shall not, by itself, be sufficient for the purpose
of proving that the land concerned was private land at the commencement of the
tenancy.(3)Nothing contained in this section shall apply to any communal land,
poramboke land, pasture land and forest.

### 66. Decision of questions regarding forests.

\- If any question arises whether any land in an inam estate is a forest or is
situated in a forest or as to the limits of a forest, it shall be determined
by the Settlement Officer subject to an appeal to the Director within such
time as may be prescribed and also to revision by [the Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue (Abolition)
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.].

### 67. Rights of owner or occupier not to be affected by temporary
discontinuance of possession or occupation.

\- Where a person-(a)is entitled to the ownership or to the possession or
occupation of any land or building immediately before the notified date, but
has transferred his right to the possession and occupation thereof or has been
temporarily dispossessed or deprived of his right to the occupation thereof;
and(b)has not on that date lost his right to recover the possession or
occupation of such land or building;he shall, for the purposes of this Act and
subject to the provisions thereof, be deemed to be the owner, or to be in
possession or occupation, of such land or building:Provided that any lawful
transferee of the right to the possession or occupation of such land or
building shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, continue to
have the same rights against his transferor, as he had immediately before the
notified date:Provided further that any lawful transferee of the title to such
land or building shall be entitled to all the rights under this Act of his
transferor.

### 68. Res judicata.

(1)The decision of a Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal in any proceeding
under this Act or of a Judge of the High Court hearing a case under sub-
section (2) of section 46 on any matter falling within its or his jurisdiction
shall be binding on the parties thereto and persons claiming under them in any
suit or proceeding in a Civil Court insofar as such matter is in issue between
the parties or persons aforesaid in such suit or proceeding.(2)The decision of
a Civil Court (not being the Court of a District Munsif or a Court of Small
Causes) on any matter falling within its jurisdiction shall, except in so far
as such decision is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be binding
on the parties thereto and persons claiming under them in any proceeding under
this Act before a Tribunal or Special Appellate Tribunal or a Judge of the
High Court under sub-section (2) of section 46 insofar as such matter is in
issue between the parties or persons aforesaid in such proceeding.

### 69. Saving of limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation for any suit or application filed in
a Civil Court by a creditor in respect of any matter which was the subject of
a proceeding under any of the following sections, namely, 37, 38, 39,40,
41,43,44,45 and 46, the period commencing on the notified date and ending with
the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the
office of the Tribunal and the time during which such proceedings were pending
as well as the time taken for obtaining certified copies of the order passed
in such proceeding shall be excluded.

### 70. Limitation.

(1)A copy of every decision or order in any proceeding against which an appeal
or revision is provided for under this Act shall be communicated in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)For the purposes of computing the period of
limitation in respect of any appeal or application for revision against any
decision or order, the date of communication of a copy of the decision or
order to the appellant or applicant shall be deemed to be the date of the
decision or order.(3)The provisions of section 4 and sub-section (1) and (2)
of section 12 of the [Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Central Act IX of 1908)]
[Now the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963).] shall, so far as may
be, apply to any appeal or application for revision under this Act.(4)Where
under this Act an appeal or application for revision may be preferred to any
authority or officer within a prescribed period or within such further time
not exceeding a specified period as may be allowed by such authority or
officer, the further time aforesaid shall be computed on and from the expiry
of such prescribed period computed in accordance with the provisions of sub-
sections (2) and (3).

### 71. Finality of orders passed under this Act.

(1)Any order passed by any officer, the Government or other authority or any
decision of the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal under this Act in
respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall,
subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act, be
final.(2)No such order or decision shall be liable to be questioned in any
Court of law.

### 72. Jurisdiction of Courts barred in certain cases.

(1)No suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government for any act
done or purporting to be done under this Act or any rule made
thereunder.(2)(a)No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against
any officer or servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be
done under this Act or any rule made thereunder without the previous sanction
of the Government.(b)No officer or servant of the Government shall be liable
in respect of any such act in any civil or criminal proceeding if the act was
done in good faith in the course of the execution of the duties or the
discharge of the functions imposed by or under this Act.(3)No suit,
prosecution or other proceeding shall be instituted against any officer or
servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be done under this
Act or any rule made thereunder after the expiry of six months from the date
of the act complained of.

### 72A. [ Tribunal or other authority not to appoint receiver, etc. [Inserted
by section 2(3) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) of section 8 or sub-
section (3) of section 46 or in any other provision of this Act or in any
other law for the time being in force, no Tribunal or other authority under
this Act shall have the power to appoint a receiver or commissioner in respect
of any land in an inam estate and in respect of which any proceeding is
pending before such Tribunal or other authority.(2)Any person who was
personally cultivating any such land on the notified date and continues to be
in possession of that land shall not be dispossessed of the land, until it is
finally decided that such person is not actually entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of that land under the provisions of this Act.(3)Where any receiver or
commissioner appointed before the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu
Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975) by any Tribunal or other
authority in respect of any land in an inam estate, is functioning on such
date, the Tribunal or other authority shall, either on an application made by
the aggrieved party within sixty days from such date, or suo motu cancel such
appointment, and on such cancellation, the possession of such land shall stand
transferred to the person who was personally cultivating such land immediately
before the date of the appointment of such receiver if such person had been
dispossessed of such land by the receiver.(4)If it is finally decided that any
such person as is referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) who was
personally cultivating any such land (hereinafter in this section referred to
as the "said person") is not actually entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of
such land under the provisions of this Act, the person who has been granted
ryotwari patta in respect of such land shall be entitled to recover arrears of
fair rent in respect of such land determined in accordance with the provisions
contained in Schedule II, from the said person.(5)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, the
said person shall be deemed to be a cultivating tenant and shall continue to
be a cultivating tenant for the purposes of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955) and the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIV of
1956) and the arrears referred to in sub-section (4) shall be paid to the
owner or deposited in Court, in such manner and in such number of instalments
and within such period as may be prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section, a person is said to personally cultivate a land when he
contributes his own physical labour or that of the members of his family in
the cultivation of that land.(6)The said person shall not be liable to be
evicted under the [Tamil Nadu] Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXV of 1955), in respect of the arrears referred
to in sub-section (4), except for failure to pay the said arrears in
accordance with the rules made in this behalf under sub-section (5).]

### 73. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for-(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by the Tribunals,
Special Appellate Tribunal, authorities and officers appointed, or having
jurisdiction, under this Act;(c)the delegation of the powers conferred by this
Act on the Government or any other authority, officer or person;(d)the time
within which applications and appeals may be presented under this Act in cases
for which no specific provision in that behalf has been made herein;(e)the
application of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908), to applications, appeals and proceedings under this Act;(f)the
fees to be paid in respect of applications and appeals under this Act;(g)the
transfer of proceedings from one Tribunal, authority or officer to
another;(h)the manner in which, and the officer by whom, fair rents shall be
ascertained for the purposes of this Act.(3)A rule made under clause (c) of
sub-section (2) may provide for restrictions and conditions subject to which
the power delegated may be exercised and also for control and revision by the
delegating authority either suo motu or on application of the orders of die
authority or person to whom the power is delegated.(4)(a)All rules made under
this Act shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now, Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.] and unless they are expressed to come into force on the
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(5)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for 'both Houses of
Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both
Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Lam Order,
1987.] in making any modification in any such rule or notification or
[Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Lam Order, 1987.] that the rule
or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or notification shall,
thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notification.

### 73A. [ Power to include new entries, or correct the entries, in Schedule
I. [Inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1965).]

(1)The Government may, by notification, from time to time, include in Schedule
I any whole inam village in the merged territory of Pudukkottai, and upon such
inclusion,-(i)the provisions of the [Tamil Nadu] Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), shall be
deemed never to have applied to that inam village, [and every order passed in
any proceeding taken under that Act in respect of that inam village shall be
deemed to be of no effect and if any proceeding taken under that Act is
pending on the date of such inclusion, such proceeding shall abate;]
[Substituted for the words 'and every proceeding taken under that Act and
pending in respect of that inam village shall abate' by section 4 of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969).](ii)any amount paid under that Act to any person
in respect of that inam village, shall, with interest thereon at three per
cent per annum, be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.(2)Where the entries relating to the name of the inam village, and the
revenue number and name of revenue village as specified in columns (3) and
(4), respectively, of Schedule I are found to be either incomplete or
incorrect with reference to the corresponding entries in the revenue
registers, the Government may, by notification, from time to time, amend
suitably the entries in columns (3) and (4) aforesaid:Provided that nothing in
this sub-section shall be construed as empowering the Government to omit any
entry from columns (3) and (4) aforesaid.(3)All references made in this Act to
Schedule I shall be considered as relating to the said Schedule as for the
time being amended in exercise of the powers conferred by this section.]

### 73B. [ Tamil Nadu Acts 30 and 31 of 1963 hot to apply to Pudukkottai inam
estates specified in Schedule I-A. [Inserted by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu
Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of1969) which was deemed to have come into force on the
15th February 1965.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963) and in the
Tamil Nadu Inams (Supplementary) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963)-(i)the
provisions of the said Acts shall be deemed never to have applied to a
Pudukkottai inam estate specified in Schedule I-A, and every order passed in
any proceeding taken under the said Acts in respect of that inam estate shall
be deemed to be of no effect and if any proceeding under the said Acts is
pending on the date of the publication of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969 in the [Fort St.
George Gazette], such proceeding shall abate; and(ii)any amount paid under the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963) to any person in respect of that inam estate
shall, with interest thereon at three per cent per annum, be recoverable as if
it were an arrear of land revenue.(2)Where the entries relating to the inam
area and the revenue number and name of revenue village as specified in
columns (3) and (4), respectively, of Schedule I-A are found to be either
incomplete or incorrect with reference to the corresponding entries in the
revenue registers, the Government may, by notification, from time to time,
amend suitably the entries in columns (3) and (4) aforesaid.(3)All references
made in this Act to Schedule I-A shall be considered as relating to the said
Schedule as for the time being amended in exercise of the powers conferred by
this section.]

### 74. Repeals.

\- With effect on and from the notified date,-(i)the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted/or 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Impartible Estates Act, 1904 ([Tamil Nadu] [Inserted by section 5 of the Tamil
Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1969) which was deemed to have come into force on the
15th February 1965.] Act II of 1904), shall be deemed to have been repealed in
its application to the inam estate, if that estate had been governed by that
Act immediately before that date; and(ii)the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Tenants and
Ryots Protection Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of 1949), shall
be deemed to have been repealed in its application to private lands in the
existing inam estate.

### 75. Special provision relating to fixation of ceiling area in respect of
lands in an inam estate.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation
of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961), but subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), the authorized officer shall, in the fixation
of the ceiling area of any person under that Act, exclude any land in an inam
estate.(2)As soon as may be, after a ryotwari settlement is brought into force
in any land referred to in sub-section (1) and after the grant of the ryotwari
patta in respect of such land to any person in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, the authorized officer shall calculate or re-calculate the
ceiling area of such person and in so calculating or re-calculating, the
authorised officer shall take into account the extent of the land in respect
of which a ryotwari patta has been granted to such person under this
Act.(3)For the purposes of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on
Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961), any ryotwari patta granted under
this Act, shall be deemed to have effect on the 6th day of April 1960 and for
the purposes of calculating the standard acre under that Act, "land revenue"
shall in respect of the land referred to in sub-section (1) mean the ryotwari
assessment payable in pursuance of the ryotwari settlement referred to in
subsection (2).

### 76.

[Section 76 was omitted by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1968).][Schedule I] [This Schedule was substituted for the following Schedule
I by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 11 of 1965), which was deemed to
have come into force on the 1st January, 1964:-][See sections 2(14) and 73-A]

SI. No. | Taluk | Name of inam village |  Revenue number and name of revenue villagecomprising the inam village  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | Alangudi | Tiruvarankulam alias Renganath-apuram | 18\. Immanampatti  
2. | Do. | Vijaya Ragunathapuram alias Kokku-mavadipatti | 12\. Vijaya Raghunathapuram  
3. | Do. | Pudupatti alias Vijayareghtnath-asamudram | 86\. Pallavaranpattai  
4. | Do. | Mathur alias Rengammalsamudram | 42\. Kulavoipatti  
5. | Do. | Vellavettanviduthi alias Vijayapuram | 45\. Perungalur  
6. | Do. | Vannianviduthi alias Srinivasa-Samudram | 71\. Arayappatti  
7. | Do. | Vellakollai alias Sundareswarapuram | 32\. Kilaiyur  
8. | Kulathur | Sittannavasal | 132\. Sittannavasal  
9. | Do. | Perujinai | 118\. Perunjinai  
10. | Do. | Kodandaramapuram | 123\. Kodandaramapuram  
11. | Do. | Kurukkapatti | 124\. Kurukkapatti  
12. | Do. | Singathakkurichchi | 50\. Singathakkurichchi  
13. | Do. | Nanjur alias Namanarayasamudram | 78\. Nanjur  
14. | Do. | Pinnangudi | 145\. Pinnangudi  
15. | Do. | Talinji alias Kambarajapuram | 142\. Talinji  
16. | Do. | Nallambalsamudram | 132\. Sittannavasal  
17. | Do. | Nedunjeri alias Suppammalsamudram | 103\. Satyamangalam  
18. | Do. | Sellukudi alias Brahadambal-samudram | 120\. Ayingudi  
19. | Do. | Kilapatti alias Vijayakalyanareghu-nathasamudram | 123\. Kodandaramaouram  
20. | Do. | Sendamangalam | Do.  
21. | Do. | Kilapalinji | Do.  
22. | Do. | Nilayapatti | 126\. Pulvayal  
23. | Do. | Pidampatti | 50\. Singathakkurichchi  
24. | Do. | Orandakkudi | 49\. Sengalakku  
25. | Do. | Santhanathakurichi | 33\. Kunnathur  
26. | Kulathur | Rasipuram alias Meenakshiammal Samudtam | 52\. Mathur  
27. | Do. | Thethanvayal | 125\. Sundarappatti  
28. | Thirumayam | Idayanvayal alias Mookkammalpuram. | 121\. Idayanvayal  
29. | Do. | Sittampatti alias Mookkammalpuram | 119\. Sittampatti.  
30. | Do. | Chittur | 45\. Chittur  
31. | Do. | Kadambavayal alias Naganathapuram | 77\. Kadambavayal  
32. | Do. | Rayapviram Rayasamudram | 91\. Rayapuram.  
33. | Do. | Kalanivoipatti | 25\. Kalanivoipatti  
34. | Do. | Madagam | 134\. Madagam  
35. | Do. | Seppavayal | 137\. Seppavayal  
36. | Do. | Tanikkadu | 136\. Tanikkadu  
37. | Do. | Tillaivayal | 133\. Tillaivayal  
38. | Do. | Tirapidingi | 135\. Tirapidingi  
39. | Do. | Tiruvakkudi | 138\. Tiruvakkudi  
[xxx] [[The following item and the entries relating thereto were omitted and
were deemed always to have been omitted by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1968):-'40 Do. Alattivayal 131. Alattivayal']]  
41. | Do. | Arasut | 132\. Arasur  
42. | Do. | Pallivasal | 62\. Pallivasal  
43. | Do. | Karanapatti | 26\. Karanapatti  
44. | Do. | Kulakkattainali | 122\. Kurichchi  
45. | Do. | Andakkudi alias Venkatachalapuram | 141.Embal  
46. | Do. | Vayalangudi alias Venkatachalapuram | Do.  
47. | Do. | Ullur Ulkadai Thenathivayal | Do.  
48. | Do. | Virthanvayal | Do.  
49. | Do. | Mummudichanvayal | Do.  
50. | Do. | Santhirattanvayal alias Lakshminaray-anapuram | Do.  
51. | Do. | Echaikkottai Ulkadai Pulavanavayal | Do.  
52. | Do. | Thakkadivayal | 139\. Kurimgalur  
53. | Do. | Melakkarambai | 124\. Tonnakkudi  
54. | Do. | Keelakkarambai alias Gobinatha-puram | Do.  
55. | Do. | Maratti alias Gobinathapuram | Do.  
56. | Do. | Porkudi alias Gobinathapuram | Do.  
57. | Do. | Alathivayal alias Gobinathapuram | Do.  
58. | Do. | Sitharambur | Do.  
59. | Do. | Kadankudi | Do.  
60. | Do. |  Makkaravayal alias RajaVijayaraghu-natharayasamudram | 96\. Melanilaivayal  
61. | Do. | Kurungalur Ulkadai Thengudi | 139\. Kurungalur  
62. | Do. | Kurungalur Ulkadai Koothangudi | Do.  
63. | Thirumayam (contd.) | Olaikudipatti alias Sathyashetrapuram | 73\. Thirumayam  
64. | Do. | Sivapuram | 82\. Tekkattur  
65. | Do. | Kanapettai alias Brahmavid-yasamudram | 86\. Panankudi  
66. | Do. | Chettipatti | Do.  
67. | Do. | Meenikone Endal alias Ramachan-drapuram | 95\. Kummangudi  
68. | Do. | Ponthupuli Puduvayal | Do.  
69. | Do. | Karambakkudivayal | 96\. Melanilaivayal  
70. | Do. | Velani Ulkadai Machumurichanvayal | 139\. Kurungalur  
71. | Do. | Maravanvayal | 125\. Irumbanadu  
72. | Do. | Mudukkuvayal | Do.  
73. | Do. | Korakkanvayal | Do.  
74. | Do. | Kothalangudivayal | Do.  
75. | Do. | Thonnakkudi Ulkadai Sithavayal | 124\. Tonnakkudi  
76. | Do. | Vellalavayal Ulkadai Melakkadu | 126\. Vellalavayal  
77. | Do. | Vellalavayal Ulkadai Piramarvayal | 125\. Irumbanadu  
78. | Do. | Nallikudi | Do.  
79. | Do. | Tonrtakkudi Thenvayal | 124\. Tonnakkudi  
80. | Do. | Ilayangudi alias Mookkammalpuram | 120\. Valaramanikkam  
81. | Do. | VadagadirTengadu | 139\. Kurungalur  
82. | Do. | Vellalavayal Ulkadai Mudukkuvayal | 126\. Vellalavayal.  
  
[Schedule I-A] [This Schedule urn inserted by section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Inam
Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1969 (Tamil
Nadu Act 23 of1969), which urn deemed to have come into force on the 15th
February 1965.][See sections 1(7), 2(10), 2(10-A), 2(11), 2(14) and 73-B]

SI. No. | Taluk |  Inam area with reference to title deed numberor survey number |  Revenue number and name of revenue villagecomprising the inam area  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1. | Thirumayam | T. D. Nos. 7253 to 7276 and S. No,87. | 1\. Oliamangalam  
2. | Do. |  T. S. Nos. 7909 to 7979, 8310 to 8312,8315,8316, 9209,9618 to 9623,9519,9795 and 9796 | 10\. Varpet  
3. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7221,7222 Part, 7223,7224 Part, 7225Part, 7226 to 7244,8511,8512 and 9602 | 14\. Moolangudi  
4. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 9423 and 8606 | 18\. Rangiam  
5. | Do. | T. D. No. 7485 | 23\. Melapanaiyur  
6. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 9038 to 9047,9052 to 9056,9062 to9068,9088 to 9099,9120 to 9122,9201,9261,9262,9293,9530,9764,9765andS. Nos. 116-3,134-18, 134-19,149-17 to 149-21 | 38\. Neiveli  
7. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7245 to 7252,7568 and 7569 | 52\. Vellikudi II bit  
8. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 804 to 809 and 811 | 53\. Seranur  
9. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7859 to 7873,7874 Part, 7875 Part,8028, 8029,8030, 8116,8561,8562, 8563,8576,8783,8914,9133,9250 to9255,9257 to 9259,9263 to 9274,9676 and 9305 | 54\. Nallur  
10. | Do. | T. D. No. 6068 | 58\. Kulamangalam  
11. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6946 to 6969,6978 to 7059,7163 to7177 | 66\. Thekkattur  
12. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6936 and 6937 | 70\. Thanjavur  
13. | Do. | T.D. No. 18 Part | 71\. Thirumayam  
14. | Do. |  T. F. Nos. 5555,7141,7142,7143,8153,8155,8156,8157,8976,8354,8355 and 8356 | 73\. Lembalakudi  
15. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 5631 to 5644,7129 to7132,8804,9102,9338,9339 and 9346. | 74\. Neikonam  
16. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 8144 to 8152,150 GL, No. 12590 and S.Nos. 93-4,94,97-2,121-11,126-1,127,129,130-1,130-2,131-1,132-1,135-1,136,138-1,140-2,141,175-5,198-2,201-1,201-3,202-4,202-6,203-1,205-2,207,208-2,223-1,229-2,231-1,233-1,233-6,233-9,233-12,234-1,235-2,235-4,235-6,237-1,237-4,246,248-1,248-3 to 248-7,251-1 to251-4,252,253-4,253-5,254-3,254-5,254-7,254-9,255-3,256-5,256-7,256-13,256-18,257-2,257-5,260-1 to 260-20,263-1 to263-9,263-11 to 263-17,264-1 to 264-5,264-7,264-8,324-3-,336-2,338-3,370-4,371-1,371-4,371-6,371-7,372-6,373-2 and 373-8. | 76\. Melur  
17. | Thirumayam | T. D. Nos. 6775 and 6776 | 80\. Tholayanur  
18. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7107,7137,7138,7139 and 7981 | 91\. Adanur  
19. | Do. | T. D. No. 504 | 93\. Unaiyur  
20. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 5539 to 5549,7982 to 7993 | 96\. Panangudi  
21. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6622 to 6641,6970 to 6977, 8575,8686to 8691. | 97\. Sengriai  
22. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7705 to 7726,8882,7072 to 7079,7080to 7102,7567,7602 to 7605,8594 to 8602 | 100.Perungudi  
23. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 533 to 551 | 103\. Mirattunilom  
24. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7814 to7858,7892,7893,8234,8578,9320,9321 and 9758. | 111\. Thuiuaiyur  
25. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7178 to 7181 and 9439 | 113\. Melanilaivayal  
26. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6714 to 6743,6941 to 6945,8158,8992,8993,9328,9329,9784,9785,9800 to 9803 and S. Nos.9-14,11-2,12-20,13-6,14-2,26-1,29-1,34-1,56-2,70-2,84-1,84-6,85-15,85-42,85-57,88-1,88-3.91-2,91-4,91-10,91-12,91-14,91-24,91-31,92-3.92-13,92-32,92-37,93-1,94-1,95-1,95-2,96-2,96-3,96-6,96-8,96-12,96-13,96-15,96-19,96-24,96-29,96-31,96-37,97-1,97-7,97-9,97-14,97-18,97-22,97-25,97-29,97-26,97-27,98-2,98-5,99-2,99-4,99-6,99-10,99-16,99-20,99-26,99-28,99-32,100-3,100-8,100-12,100-17,100-19,100-24,100-36,101-14,101-22,102-20,102-25,102-28,102-38,103-1,103-2,103-4,103-5,103-6,103-32,103-44,106-2,106-10,106-12,106-14,106-15,107-3,107-11,107-16,107-21,107-27,107-36,107-34,108-2, | 114\. Pudunilaivayal  
|  |  108-6,108-8,108-9,108-10110-3,110-13,110-17,110-23,111-2,111-8,112-1,112-3,112-4,112-7,112-8,112-10,112-16,113-1,113-2,113-5,113-6,114-2,114-8,114-11,114-13,114-16.114-17,114-20,114-22,114-23,114-28, i 15-4,116-2,116-5,117-1, 117-20. 118-1,119-4,119-5, 120-1, 120-5, 120-6,121-22,124-13,124-18,124-36,124-41,124-61,124-63, 130-4, 131-2,134-2,134-3, 135-2,135- 6,136-2, 136-12,136-15,137-2, 138-1, 138-8,138-9,139-3,139-5,139-7,140-1,140-3,140-6, 140- 14, 141-2,142-1,142-3,143-1,144-2,144-4, 144-5,146-1,146-2,151-1, 153-10,200-5,200-6,205-22, 205-27,206-1,206-3, 206-4,208-2,208-4,208-5,210-2,211-2,221-11,222-5,226-15,226-16,227- 10,235-2,237-5, 237-7,238-6, 240-11, 240-13,242-14,243-1,243-7,243-8,244-8, 244-19, 245-1,245-3,245-5,246-6,248-3,248-12,248-13,251-15,252-3,252-4,252-8.254-1,255-3,262-1,263-1.264- 2, 264-7,264-9,265-2,269-1,269-19,270-7,273-1,273-3, 273-5,273-7, 281, 287-1,291-1,292-2,302, 303-2, 305-2,391-6, 309-1, 309-4, 309-10,314-2,315-19,316-2,316-6,317-20,318-10.318-29,318- 38, 321-6,322-13, 323-7, 325-1,327-2, 328-10, 328-19, 328-24,328-27,328-28, 328-31,329-7,329-13, 329-18, 329-19, 330-7,332-2,335-23, 335-0, 336-4,336-21,336-23, 337-7,337-24,338-1,338-14, 338- 16, 339-1, 340-1, 340-3, 340-6,343-1.92-24,97-16,130-37,107-2,9-8,9-10, 84-8, 85-2. |   
27. | Thirumayam | T. D. Nos. 5801 to 5909,5810A and 5811 A. | 116\. Nallambalsamudram  
28. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7727 to 7747, 8319,8133 and Gl. 13048 | 118\. Kaikulanvayal  
29. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6655 to 6675, 8317. 8728,9766 and9767. | 119,Thalayathivayal  
30. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7730,7733 to 7736 and 7739. | 121\. Agavayal  
31. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6826 to 6851 and 7140. |   
32. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6805 to 6825, 8318, 8753 and 8817. | 123\. Allanvayal  
33. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7994 to 8004. | 124\. Anikkini  
34. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6799,6804,6852 to 6857 and 8153. | 126\. Valaramanimanickam  
35. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7785 to 7813, 8289 to 8293, 8755 and8756. | 146\. Palakurichi  
36. | Alangudi | T. D. No. 6353 | 2\. Sembattur  
37. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 5010 to 5023 | 3\. Puthambur  
38. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 4961 to 4966,6348 Part, and S. Nos.729- 1,729-2,730,732,735,736,738-13,744-5,746-17,746-18,747-1,747-3,747-5,747-8,747-12,750-1.750-17,751 -1,751-2,751 -6,752-12,752-28,752-29,752-30,752-31,753-9,774-1,774-2,788-1,788-2,788-3, 788-5. | 12\. Mullur  
39. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 729,734 to 750, Gl. 13078. | 15\. Vadavalam  
40. | Do. | T. D. No. 757 | 20\. Thirukkattalai  
41. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 6218,6226 | 21\. Pudukottai  
42. | Do. | T. D. No. 861 | 22\. Nathainpannai  
43. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 5151 to 5180,5835,7575,6241 to 6256 | 23\. Sellukudi  
44. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 6219,6221 | 25\. Kavinad West  
45. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6301 to 6313, 6315 to 6323 | 26\. Kavinad East  
46. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 863 to890,6222,6223,6224,6231,6233,6237 Part. 6238,6240. | 27\. Thirumalayasamudram  
47. | Do. | T. D. No. 8667 | 28\. Kaikurichi  
48. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7584 and 7585 | 31.Poovarasakudi  
49. | Do. | T. D. No. 8936 | 34\. Vallathirakottai  
50. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6295 to 6300 | 36\. Gudalur  
51. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 913A to 929 | 45\. Kothamangalam  
52. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6258 to 6279,9218,9440, 9441. | 49\. Vennavalkudi  
53. | Alangudi |  T. D. Nos. 6280 to 6284,6286 to 6294, 8325, 8326and S. Nos. 1-1,1-10,4-2,265-2,265-4,265-6,265- 9,266-5,266-7,266-8,268-8,269-3,269-5,270-2,271-5,273-1,275-1,275-6,276-1,276-2,276-7,278-2, 279-1,279-2, 279-4,280-2,281-2,282-1,283-2,283-1,283-3,284-1,285-2,286-2,287-1,288-2,289-1,289-3,289-5,290-2,291-1,291-3,296-1,296-5,297-2,297-5,298-4,300-1,300-3,302-7. | 57\. Kovilur  
54. | Do. | T. D. No. 6225 | 60\. Kothakottai  
55. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 5181 to 5184 | 61\. Manjanviduthi  
56. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 3041,6324 to 6343,7876 | 67\. Kulavoipatti  
57. | Do. | T. D. No. 8837 | 69\. Mangalathupatti  
58. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 5437, 8653 to 8663,4954, 5061 to5096,5098 to 5106, 6344 to 6347, 8032 to 8044, 8837,9461,9541,5015. | 70\. Perungalur  
59. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8657 and 8658 | 71\. Manaviduthi  
60. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7882 to 7885, 8570, 8571,9416 | 72\. Semmatividuthi  
61. | Do. | T.D. Nos. 4953, 5722,8154. | 73\. Varappur  
62. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 899 to 906,930 to 965,967 to 995,997. | 76\. Adanakottai  
63. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 619 and 620 | 78\. Sothupalai  
64. | Do. | T. D. No. 628. | 79\. Valavampatti  
65. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 8459, 8994 to9004,9048,9049,9050,9345,9380,4931 to 4942, 5470,5471. | 90\. Malaiyur  
66. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7877 to 7881, 8568, 8569,9015 | 91\. Therukutheru  
67. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8883, 5514, 5494 to 5497 | 93\. Ponnanviduthi  
68. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 5478,5497, 5499 to5509,5514,5517,5714 to 5717.8880,8881,9546 | 100\. Kanakkankadu  
69. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 5486, 5487,5494,5496, 5497,5514,5714,5715,6188 to 6212, 8719, 8721 | 108\. Mullankurichi  
70. | Kolathur |  T. D. Nos. 6544 to 6549,6918,6919, 6920,7489,8323 | 1\. Meenaveli  
71. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 9411 and 9412 | 2\. Agarapatti  
72. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6356,6360, 6363 to 6367,6369 to6372,6374,6375,6377,6378,6380,6381,6383, 6922 Part. 6923 Part,6924 to 6928,6931.9777 Gl.11914 and S. Nos. 256-2.280-1 to280-3,329-1,329-4,332-7,332-9,357,359,366-1,386,389-3,391-5,391-6,435-1,436-7,436-8,436-9,438-2,438-3,446-3,447-1,447-2,447-4,447-5,450-2 to 450-5,450-11,452-1210 452-17. | 4\. Kodumbalur  
73. | Do. |  T. D. Nos.6357,6358,6359,6361,6362,6346,6368,6373,6375,9569. | 5\. Kasavanur  
74. | Do. | T. D. No. 8308 | 6\. Thengathinnipatti  
75. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6476 to 6482,6485 to 6491, 6493 to6497,6499,6500,6501,6503,6506,6508,6509,6510,6511.6517,6518,6520,6522,6523,7519 to 7521, 8166,8167,8296to 8308,8294,8295,8309. | 7\. Virudappatti  
76. | Kolathur | T. D. Nos. 6524.6525,6874 to 6900,9130 | 13\. Rajalipatti  
77. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6476.6477,6479,6481 to6484,6492,6498,6499,6502,6504,6505,6511 to 6513,6515,6516,6519.6521.6876,6877,6892,6895,6899,7519,7522, 8052 to8055,8057, 8059 to 8062, 8166, 8167,9130,9182,9183,9348 to9350,9365,9366 and S.Nos. 69.116-3,116-4,132-11,132-13,150-1 to150-3,164-4,164-6,195-1,195-3,216-2,260-3,260-4,260-12,260-15,260-16,260-17,339-19,341 -7 to 341-11,345-3,345-5,345-6,346-2,346-3,346-6,346-8,346-9,347-2,347-4, 347-7,347-8,349-2,349- 3,349-13,350-1 to350-3,351 -1 to 351 -5,351 -7 to 351-12,351-15,351-16, 351-19 to351-22,351-27, 351-28, 352-18 to 352-22, 352-24 to 352-31, 353-1to 353-4, 353-8, 353-9, 353-11 to 353-18, 354-1,354-2, 354-4,354-12, 356-8.356-9, 356-13, 357-1,357-2,357-4,357-5.360-1, 362-1to 362-6, 363-1,363-2, 363-7,363-8,363-9,378-3,378-4,379-7,379-8, 382-1, 383-2, 383-8,383-9,383-10,383-16, 383-17,383-20, 383-21, 384-2 to 384-5, 384-7, 384-8. | 14 Nammanpatti  
78. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8863 to 8872,9306 | 18\. Boothakudi  
79. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7391,8052 to 8062,8675,9182,9183,9348,9349,9350,9430 and S. Nos. 178-3,413-1,415-1,419-34,419-35,423-22,441-1. | 21\. Vanathirayanpatti  
80. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7397,7400 Part, 7528 to 7538, 8806,8917 to 8920,9216 and S. Nos. 198-13,207-1,328. 331-13,331-14,331 -17,331 -18,331-23,336-3 to336-8,375-1,375-2,375-6, 377-9,378-5, 378-6. 379-8, 380-5,380-12,380-14,383-2,383-6,384-11,384-12,388-6, 388-10, 388-U,389-6, 389-9, 389-11, 390-2, 390-5,390-8,398-4,398-6,400-2,401-16,402-1,408-2,410-7,411-10,411-15,412-2,412-3,412-4,414-1,431 -1,431 -3,432-1,432-6,435-2,435-7,435-8.436-1,436-6,438-1,438-2,438-3. | 22\. Viralur  
81. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7550,7551 | 34\. Madiyani patti  
82. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7614,7615,7616, 8165, 8648,8649,8650, 8708, 8566 and S. Nos.259-1.259-2,259-4,259-14,267-3,267-4, 281-1, 281-2,356-4 to356-7,356-11,356-16,356-20,402-4,402-8,402-9,509-25,509-26,514-6,525-14. | 47\. Neerpalani  
83. | Do. | T. D. No. 8567 | 48\. Mandaiyur  
84. | Do. | T. D. Nos 6390 to 6394 | 53\. Lakshmanapatti  
85. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7523 to 7527 and 9021 | 55\. Keeranur  
86. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 4986 to 5009, 8707.9009 to 9011.9598and S. Nos. 261-1.261-3,267-2,367-4,369-1 to369-3.370-3,371-2,371-4,374-5.375-2,376-4,379-9,380-3,380-4,383-3,383-7,384-5.386-18,386-21,386-22,386-23,387-4,387-12,388-6,388-20to 388-23,388-26,388-27.390-6,391-8.392-9,392-19,397-3,398-7,400-2,403-7,408-5,409-11,409-25,409-26,410-3,411-7,411-15.411-19,411-22,412-5,412-11,414-4,414-9,414-14,415-1,415-14,419-12.420-2,420-4.420-7.422-4,426-2,426-10,426-15,426-16. | 68\. Vathanakottai  
87. | Kolathur | T. D. Nos. 6395,6396 and 9564 | 74\. Marudur  
88. | Do. | T. D. No. 6386 | 80\. Uppiliakudi  
89. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 332,333,334,336 to 339. | 83\. Valamangalam  
90. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8402 to 9410. | 85\. Vetrakudi  
91. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 4952,5107 to 5122,5767 to 5770,7539to 7541 | 86\. Kilanur  
92. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 828 to 836 | 90\. Uchani  
93. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6424 to 6427,6429 to 6447,9679,Gl.12881 and S. Nos.35,181,182,183-1,184-1,185-1,185-4,185-9,186-9,186-10,186-13,188-5,189-9,192-2,192-4,192-5,192-7,192-9,193-9,194-3,194-16,195-6,196-3,196-4,196-12,199-9,199-10,200-1,201-2,202-2,203,204, 206,211-3,21 1-1,212-2, 212-3,212-4,213-1,213-2,213-7,216-9,217-5,218-10,219-3,225-6,225-21,225-22,225-24,227-12,227-13, 227-20,228-1,228-4,228-6,228-13,228- 16,229-2,229-3,229-8,229-1 1,229-14,229-17, 229-19. 231-2,231-9,231-10,232-6,232-16,233-16,236-9,238-3,239-1,239-14,239-25,239-28,240-1,242-3,243-3,243-7,243-11,243-16,243-17,244-2,244-J,244-4,245-1, 248-2,251-5,251-15, 252-7,253-1 to253-3,255-2,255-5,259-3,260-2. | 94\. Mootampatti  
94. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8 136 and 8 137 | 97\. Thudaiyur  
95. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 5758,5760 to 5766,8752, Gl. 8541. | 98\. Muttukadu  
96. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 5772 to 5779,5836,6460,6461,6462,6533,6471 to 6474,6534, 8160 to 8164. | 101\. Vellanur  
97. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6550 to 6559,6564 to 6566, 8636 andS.Nos. 1-13,330-1,330-2, 330-6, 335-2, 340-7, 342-5,342-13,342-24, 343-3, 343-7,345-1,348-1, 348-11, 363-1. | 103\. Sathiamanglam  
98. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 8507 to 8510, 8517 to 8525 and S.Nos. 302-1, 332-4. 335-4, 336, 337,338-2,339-3, 341-8,344-2,350-7, 350-9, 350-10, 350-13,360-2,364-2,365-1, 366-2,366-4 to 366-7, 366-14, 370-6, 371 -2, 384-10,384-14,388-1,388-2,391-1,392-3, 392-9,392-13,398-1,408-1,413-13,414-14,414-16,415-15,416-1,418-1,418-6,418-8,419-2,419-4,419-7,424-3,424-5,424-16,427-7,430-1,430-13,431-7,436-3,437-1,439,441-3,449-2,452-2,452-5,456-12,456-13,457-2,458-2,459. | 103\. Ammachatram  
99. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6387 to 6389 | 106\. Kolathur  
100. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7409 to 7416.7545, 8594. 8505, 8706,8924 to 8927, 8929 to 8933,9057 to 9061,9073 to 9076,9078 to9080,9082 to 9087,9103,9104,9131, 9132,9414 and S. Nos.90-2,90-3,91-2,91-3,92, 93,95,96-4,97-7 to 97-12,98-3,98-5,98-11, 102-2,102-10,103-12,105-20,106-6 to 106-9, 106-18,106-19,108-1,114-7,114-10,114-11,114-14,114-15, 115-7, 115-8,120-3, 120-4,120-5, 120-7 to 120-11,121-7,123-8,126-20, 128-2,128-4, 129, 131-1, 131-5,131-6,131-8,133-3, 135-1,135-3,135-11,136-1,136-3,136-4, 137-8,138-1, 138-2, 138-5, 139-5.140-16,140-17,142-1, 142-6, 142-18, 143-3, 144-1, 145-1,146,148-1 to 148-6, 149-1 to 149-14. | 107\. Melapuduvayal  
|  |  150-1 to 150-3,150-5 to 150-8, 150-10,150-11 to150-16, 151-1 to 151-7,153-2,153-3,153-5,153-6 to 153-26, 154-2to 154-5,154-7 to 154-9,154-11, 154-12, 154-14 to 154-20, 155-1to 155-17, 156-2 to 156-15, 157-1 to 157-20,158-1 to 158-6, 159-1to 159-11, 160-1 to 160-5,162-1 to 162-17,162-19, 163-1 to163-18,164-1 to 164-5, 164-7 to 164-15, 166-1 to166-12,166-14,168-1,168-4, 169-1 to 169-13,171-2 to 171-5,173-2to 173-8, 173-11,173-16,173-18,173-20,173-22,173-23,173-25,176-5, 177-20, 180-1,180-6,182-1,184-8, 184-24,186-1, 186-2, 187-14, 187-16,189-1,189-2,189-5, 189-9, 189-24,190-9, 190-14,190-17,190-19,190-22,193-14,193-16,194-7, 194-11.196-14, 196-15,196-19,196-23,196-24,196-30, 197-9, 197-21, 198-1 to 198-11, 199-1 to199-12,200-1,200-7,201-1 to 201-21, |   
|  |  202-1 to 202-15, 203-1 to 203-13, 203-15 to203-29, 205-1 to 205-10,205-15,205-16,221-1 to 221-5,223-1,223-4,223-16 to 223-18,223-23 to 223-29,226-7,226-9,226-16,227-13 to 227-16,228-2,228-3,228-18,228-19,229-1,229-17,230-12 to 230-19, 230-26, 231 -1,231-13,231 -19,232-2 to 232-11,234-2 to 234-11,235-2 to 235-11,236-2 to 236-9, 237-3, 238-16,238-17,238-26,238-39,239-5,239-9,239-12, 240-1,240-22 to240-24,240-25,242-2, 242-7, 243-7,244-20, 246-12,246-13,246-15,246-16, 247-2, 247-3,247-4, 247-12,248-10,248-11,248-18,248-24,248-26,248-27,249-12,249-21,250-5,250-1,250-23,250-28,250-33,251-1,252-4,255-9, 256-5,256-6,257-1,258-5,258-10, 258-15, 260-2,260-10,260-13,261-2,262-2,262-3,262-8, 262-10,263-9,263-18,264-1,265-2,265-4,265-6,267,270-6,271 -1,272-2,273-1to 273-6,273-8 to 273-10, 279-2,280-4,280-22,281-9,281-12,281-17,281-22,282-17,282-19,282-30,282-32,283-6,284,286-11,291-5,293-20, 293-21,293-23,294-2, 294-8,295-6,298-12,299-7,299-14.301-1.301-2.301-11. |   
101. | Kolathur | T. D. Nos. 6354 and 6455 | 113\. Vilathupatti  
102. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 6458,6459,6475.6567,6901 to6907,7488,7491,7492 and S.Nos. 13-1,13-3,18, 19-3,192-1, 192-3,194-1,194-3, 196-1, 196-2, 198-1,198-2, 198-7,198-8,198-12,198-13,198-15 to 198-19,199-2,207-2,207-3,208-13,209-9,213-18,214-11,219-1,219-8,219-1 1,221-10,221-11,225-3,247-2. | 117\. Panampatti  
103. | Do. |  T. D. Nos. 7384 to 7390,7394,7890,8496,8497,8873to 8877. | 120.Ayingudi  
104. | Do. | T. D. No. 7392 | 121\. Marayapatti  
105. | Do. | T. D. No. 7980 | 125\. Sundarapatti  
106. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 845 to 860,9683. | 127\. Vayalogam  
107. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 7899,7900,7902. | 128\. Mangudi  
108. | Kolathur |  T. D. Nos. 7581,7897 to 7907, 8129, 8130, 8131and S. Nos. 2-1,2-8, 21-2,23-3,24-3,24-8,24-9, 30-2,30-7,40-5,40-6,42-16,42-21,42-51,24-5,49-5,49-20,51-1,53-9,65-1,65-3,65-4,65-5,65-6,65-10,66-2,70-18,72-1,76-5,76-13,76-14,76-24,87-3,87-7,88-11,90-13,90-16. | 131\. Panangudi  
109. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 5783 to 5785 | 137.Visalur  
110. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 8005 to 8023 and 9447 | 138.Gudalur  
111. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6450 to 6456,7638,7639 and 9447 | 143\. Alathur  
112. | Do. | T. D. No. 97 | 146\. Vannarapatti  
113. | Manaparai | T. D. Nos. 6448 and 6449 | 81\. Usilampatti  
114. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6448,6457, 6539 to 6543 and 7490. | 82\. Keelaiyur  
115. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6463,6464,6465 | 83\. Sampatti  
116. | Do. | T. D. Nos. 6535 to 6538. | 84\. Sooliapatti.  
  
## II

[See sections 33(9) and 72-A(4)] [Substituted for '[See section 33(9)]' by
section 2(4) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of
1975).]Provisions Relating to the Determination Affair Rent

### 1\. For topes, orchards and lands used for non-agricultural purposes, the
fair rent shall be the lease amount as determined by rules made by the
Government in this behalf.

### 2\. In respect of lands, other than those specified in paragraph 1, the
fair rent shall be the aggregate of-

(a)(i)in the case of wet land, 40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(ii)in the case of wet land, the irrigation of which is
supplemented by lifting water, 35 per cent, of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(iii)in the case of land on which crops which do not give any
yield within a period of one year from the time of cultivation are cultivated,
40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its value in money;(iv)in the case
of any other class of land, 331 /2 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money:Provided that in the case of lands referred to in sub-
paragraphs (i) and (ii) for the cultivation of which water is lifted by
pumpset installed at the cost of the service-holder, the fair rent shall
increased to 40 per cent; and(b)the value of one-fifth of the straw or stalk
of all the crops cultivated on the land in an agricultural year.Explanation I.
- In this paragraph, "normal gross produce" -(a)in respect of a land
cultivated with any crop which does not give any yield within a period of one
year from the time of cultivation, means the gross produce for one year if the
land were cultivated with paddy;(b)in respect of a land cultivated with any
other crop means the produce which would be obtained for one year from a land
of the same class as the land in question similarly situated and possessing
similar advantages if the rainfall and the seasons were normal.Explanation II.
- In the case of land on which different crops are cultivated at different
times on different portions of the lands, the fair rent shall be cultivated
with reference to the actual crops ordinarily cultivated according to the
ordinary rotation of crops in the area in which such land is
situated.Explanation III. - In this paragraph "agricultural year" means the
year commencing on the 1st day of April, or, in respect of the whole or any
part of any district, on such other date as the Collector of the district may
specify in that behalf, by notification, in the District Gazette.

### 3\. In the case of land cultivated by the service-holder, the fair rent
shall be the fair rent as cultivated in the manner specified in paragraph 2 in
respect of a land of the same class as the land in question, similarly
situated and possessing similar advantages.

### 4\. If the rent actually payable to the service-holder in respect of the
land during the fasli year immediately before the fasli year in which the
appointed day falls is less than the fair rent ascertained as aforesaid, the
said rent shall be deemed to be the fair rent in respect of the land.

