## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of Operation, Amendment and
Validation) Act, 2019

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of Operation, Amendment and
Validation) Act, 2019

## Act 38 of 2019

  * Published on 1 January 2019 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2019 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2019.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of Operation, Amendment and
Validation) Act, 2019(Act No. 38 of 2019)Last Updated 16th January, 2020An Act
to revive the operation of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Harijan
Welfare Schemes Act, 1978, the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial
Purposes Act, 1997 and the Tamil Nadu Highways Act, 2001.Be it enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Seventieth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of
Operation, Amendment and Validation) Act, 2019.(2)It shall be deemed to have
come into force on the 26th day of September 2013.Part-I 2. Revival of
operation of Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1978.(1)All the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Harijan Welfare Schemes Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 31
of 1978) (hereinafter referred to as the 1978 Act), except the provisions
relating to the determination of compensation, shall stand revived with effect
on and from the 26th day of September 2013.(2)All rules, notifications,
notices, orders,directions issued or any other proceedings initiated under the
1978 Act, except those relating to determination of compensation, which were
in force immediately before the 26th day of September 2013 shall, for all
purposes, be deemed to have been revived on and from the 26th day of September
2013.(3)The provisions relating to the determination of compensation as
specified in the First Schedule, rehabilitation and resettlement as specified
in the Second Schedule and infrastructure amenities as specified in the Third
Schedule to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land
Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of
2013) shall apply to the land acquisition proceedings under the 1978 Act.

### 3. Central Act 30 of 2013 not to apply.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Right to Fair
Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013) shall cease to apply to any
land which is required for the purpose specified in sub-section (1) of section
4 of the 1978 Act and any such land shall be acquired by the Government only
in accordance with the provisions of the 1978 Act.

### 4. Omission of section 20 of 1978 Act.

\- Section 20 of the 1978 Act shall be omitted.

### 5. Validation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any
court, the provisions of the 1978 Act, except the provisions relating to
determination of compensation, shall be deemed to have been in force in all
material times during the period commencing on the 26th day of September 2013
and ending with the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and anything done or any action taken under the 1978 Act,
except those relating to determination of compensation shall be deemed to have
been validly done or taken under the 1978 Act.Part-II 6. Revival of operation
of Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1999.(1)All the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of
1999) (hereinafter referred to as the 1999 Act), except the provisions
relating to the determination of compensation, shall stand revived with effect
on and from the 26th day of September 2013.(2)All rules, notifications,
notices, orders, directions issued or any other proceedings initiated under
the 1999 Act, except those relating to determination of compensation, which
were in force immediately before the 26th day of September 2013 shall, for all
purposes, be deemed to have been revived on and from the 26th day of September
2013.(3)The provisions relating to the determination of compensation as
specified in the First Schedule, rehabilitation and resettlement as specified
in the Second Schedule and infrastructure amenities as specified in the Third
Schedule to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land
Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of
2013) shall apply to the land acquisition proceedings under the 1999 Act.

### 7. Central Act 30 of 2013 not to apply.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Right to Fair
Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013) shall cease to apply to any
land which is required for the purpose specified in sub-section (1) of section
3 of the 1999 Act and any such land shall be acquired by the Government only
in accordance with the provisions of the 1999 Act.

### 8. Omission of section 21 of 1999 Act.

\- Section 21 of the 1999 Act shall be omitted.

### 9. Validation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any
court, the provisions of the 1999 Act, except the provisions relating to
determination of compensation, shall be deemed to have been in force in all
material times during the period commencing on the 26th day of September 2013
and ending with the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and anything done or any action taken under the 1999 Act,
except those relating to determination of compensation shall be deemed to have
been validly done or taken under the 1999 Act.Part-III 10. Revival of
operation of Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2002.(1)All the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Highways Act, 2001 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2002) (hereinafter referred to as the
2002 Act), except the provisions relating to the determination of
compensation, shall stand revived with effect on and from the 26th day of
September 2013.(2)All rules, notifications, notices, orders, directions issued
or any other proceedings initiated under the 2002 Act, except those relating
to determination of compensation, which were in force immediately before the
26th day of September 2013 shall, for all purposes, be deemed to have been
revived on and from the 26th day of September 2013.(3)The provisions relating
to the determination of compensation as specified in the First Schedule,
rehabilitation and resettlement as specified in the Second Schedule and
infrastructure amenities as specified in the Third Schedule to the Right to
Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013) shall apply to the land
acquisition proceedings under the 2002 Act.

### 11. Central Act 30 of 2013 not to apply.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Right to Fair
Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013) shall cease to apply to any
land which is required for the purpose specified in sub-section (1) of section
15 of the 2002 Act and any such land shall be acquired by the Government only
in accordance with the provisions of the 2002 Act.

### 12. Omission of section 68 of 2002 Act.

\- Section 68 of the 2002 Act shall be omitted.

### 13. Validation.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any
court, the provisions of the 2002 Act, except the provisions relating to
determination of compensation, shall be deemed to have been in force in all
material times during the period commencing on the 26th day of September 2013
and ending with the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and anything done or any action taken under the 2002 Act,
except those relating to determination of compensation shall be deemed to have
been validly done or taken under the 2002 Act.

