## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Repayment of Debts) Act, 1955

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Repayment of Debts) Act, 1955

## Act 1 of 1955

  * Published on 27 February 1955 
  * Commenced on 27 February 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 27 February 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Repayment of Debts) Act, 1955(Tamil Nadu
Act 1 of 1955)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Repayment of Debts) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1955). -
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, please see Part IV-A pages 64-65 of the
Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 9th February 1955.Received
the assent of the President on the 27th February 1955 and first published in
the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 1st March 1955.An Act to
give relief to indebted argiculturists in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adapation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].Whereas it is expedient to enable the indebted agriculturists to repay
their debts in easy instalments;Be it enacted in the Sixth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adapation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Indebted Agriculturists
Repayment of Debts) Act, 1955.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)[ It shall come into force at once.] [Substituted for the original
sub-section (3) by section 3 of, and the Second Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu
Repealing and Amending Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1955).]

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"agriculturist"
means a person who has an interest other than interest as a simple mortgagee
in any agricultural or horticultural land not being a land appurtenant to a
residential building, but shall not include-(i)any person liable to pay land
revenue (which shall be deemed to include peshkash and quit-rent) exceeding
one hundred and fifty rupees per annum in any year after 1952-53;(ii)any
person assessed to profession tax on income derived from a profession other
than agriculture under any law governing municipal or local bodies in India on
a half-yearly income of more than nine hundred rupees in any half-year after
1952-53;(iii)any person assessed in any half-year after 1952-53 to property or
house tax on an annual rental value of [not less than] [Inserted by section
3(f) of and Second Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Repealing and Amending Act,
1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1955).] rupees six hundred in respect of
buildings, (other than a building in which he lives) or lands other than
agricultural lands under any law governing municipal or local bodies in
India;(iv)any person assessed to sales tax on a total turnover of not less
than twenty thousand rupees in any year after 1952-53 under the Madras General
Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act IX of 1939), or [under the law of any other
part of India relating to sales tax] [Substituted for the words 'under the law
of any other State relating to Sales Tax' by section 4 of and the Third
Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXV of 1957).];(v)any person assessed to income-tax under the [Indian Income-
tax Act, 1922 (Central Act XI of 1922)] [See now the Income-tax Act, 1961
(Central Act 43 of 1961).], in any year after 1950-51;(vi)a firm registered
under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (Central Act IX of 1932), or a company
as defined in the [the Indian companies Act, 1913 (Central Act VII of 1913)]
[See now the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 4 of 1956).], or a corporation
formed in pursuance of an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or of any
special Indian law.Explanation I. - Where a joint Hindu family or tarwad,
tavazhi, kutumba or kavaru, is an agriculturist, every co-parcener or member
of the tar-wad, tavazhi, kutumba or kavaru, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be an agriculturist; provided that he does not fall under any of the
categories specified in sub-clauses (i) to (v).Explanation II. - The
provisions of this Act shall not apply to any person who though an
agriculturist was not an agriculturist on the 1st October 1953;(b)'debt' means
any liability in cash or kind whether secured or unsecured, due from, an
agriculturist on the 1st October 1953 whether payable under a contract or
decree or order of a Court, civil or revenue, or otherwise, but shall not
include-(i)any sum payable to the State or the Central Government or to any
local authority;(ii)any sum payable to any co-operative society including a
land mortgage bank, registered or deemed to be registered under the [Madras
Co-operative Societies Act, 1932 (Madras Act VI of 1932)] [See now the Tamil
Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).], provided
that the right of the society to recover the sum did not arise by reason of an
assignment made subsequent to the 1st October 1953;(iii)any liability arising
out of a breach of trust;(iv)any liability in respect of maintenance;(v)any
liability in respect of wages or remuneration due as salary or otherwise for
services rendered; or(vi)any liability incurred or arising under any Chit Fund
Scheme.Explanation I. - Where a 'debt has been renewed or included in a fresh
document executed after the 1st October 1953 whether by the same debt or by
his heirs, legal representatives or assigns or by any other person acting on
his behalf or in his interest or as a result of a partition, in favour or the
same creditor or his heirs, legal representatives or assigns or any other
person acting on his behalf or in his interest or as a result of a partition,
the amount outstanding on the 1st October 1953 and included in the document
executed after the 1st October 1953 shall alone be treated as the debt for the
purposes of this Act.Explanation II. - Where a debt has been split up after
the 1st October 1953 among the heirs, legal representatives or assigns of a
debtor or a creditor or as a result of a partition and fresh documents have
been executed in respect of different portions of the debt, each of the
different portions shall be a debt for the purposes of this Act.

### 3. Bar of suits and applications.

(1)No suit for recovery of a debt shall be instituted, and no application for
execution of a decree in respect of a debt shall be made, against any
agriculturist in any civil or revenue Court before the expiry of four months
from the commencement of this Act.Explanation I. - Where a debt is payable by
an agriculturist jointly or jointly and severally with a non-agriculturist, no
suit or application of the nature mentioned in this sub-section shall be
instituted or made either against the non-agriculturist or against the
agriculturist before the expiry of the period mentioned in this sub-
section.Explanation II. - For the purposes of this Act, a suit in which a
decree in respect of a debt is prayed for shall be deemed to be a suit for the
recovery of a debt notwithstanding that other reliefs are prayed for in such
suit and a decree shall be deemed to be a decree in respect of a debt
notwithstanding that other reliefs are granted in such decree:Provided that a
suit for possession of land shall not be deemed to be a suit for recovery of a
debt by reason merely of mesne profits being also prayed for in such
suit:Provided further that nothing contained in this section shall apply to
any portion of a decree other than that relating to a debt.(2)Where a creditor
files a suit for recovery of a debt during the period specified in sub-section
(1) or after the agriculturist has paid or deposited into Court the sums and
instalments specified in sub-section (1) of section 4 and during the period
when he is so entitled to pay, the Court shall in decreeing the suit, direct
the plaintiff to bear his own costs and pay the costs of the defendant who is
an agriculturist:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall be
a bar to the Court passing any order as to costs as between the plaintiff and
other defendants who are not agriculturists.

### 4. Payment of debt in instalments.

(1)Notwithstanding any law, custom, contract, or decree of Court to the
contrary, an agriculturist shall be entitled to pay within four months of the
commencement of this Act the interest due on any debt due by him up to the
commencement of this Act and one-eighth of the principal outstanding or one-
fourth of the total amount outstanding, whichever is less, and the balance of
the debt in three equal annual instalments on or before the 1st July of each
of the succeeding three years with the interest due on such instalment up to
that date.Explanation. - In the case of a decree, the amount decreed shall be
deemed to be the principal.(2)Where in respect of a decree for debt passed
before the commencement of this Act, a debtor fails to make any one of the
payments specified in sub-section (1), the decree holder shall be entitled to
execute the decree in respect of the instalment which is in default.(3)In any
suit filed after the commencement of this Act, the Court in decreeing the suit
shall provide for the immediate payment of such instalment or instalments as
would have become due [under the provisions of] [Substituted for the words
under provision of by section 3 of and the Second Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu
Repealing and Amending Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1955.)] sub-section
(1) and the balance in further instalments as specified therein.(4)Where in
any suit for the recovery of a debt pending at the commencement of this Act,
the debtor claims to be an agriculturist, the Court shall, if the debtor is an
agriculturist, pass a decree for immediate payment of such instalment or
instalments as would have become payable under the provisions of sub-section
(1) and the balance in further instalments as specified therein.(5)Nothing
contained in this Act shall bar the Court from passing a decree or making an
order in an application for execution of the decree under such terms and
conditions as may be more favourable to the debtor than those provided for in
this section either of its own motion upon a consideration of all the
circumstances of the case or upon an agreement between the parties.(6)Where in
any suit to recover a debt or in any application for the execution of a decree
therefor, the debt is payable by an agriculturist jointly or jointly and
severally with a non- agriculturist, the Court shall pass a decree or make an
order for the payment, of the debt found due from the agriculturist as
provided in this section as against the agriculturist and make such provision
in the decree or order against the non-agriculturist as the circumstances of
the case may warrant.(7)The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, for purposes
of execution, be deemed to be a subsequent order of Court within of the
meaning of [clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 48] [Substituted for
'clause (b) of section 48' by section 3 of and the Second Schedule to, the
Tamil Nadu Repealing and Amending Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1955).] of
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).

### 5. Deposit of debt into Court.

(1)An agriculturist may deposit any of the instalments as provided in section
4 into the Court having, jurisdiction to entertain a suit for recovery of the
debt or into the Court which passed the decree, as the case may be, and apply
to the Court to record part-satisfaction of the debt.(2)Where any such
application is made, the Court shall pass an order recording part-satisfaction
of the debt if the amount deposited is the correct amount(3)The Court shall
dismiss the application-(a)If the applicant is not an agriculturist,(b)If the
liability is not a debt, or(c)if the amount deposited is insufficient and the
applicant on being required by the Court to deposit the deficit amount within
a time fixed by the Court, fails to do so.(4)Any agriculturist entitled to
make such deposit may, before the date on which any instalment is due, apply
to the Court having jurisdiction under subsection (1) for an extension of time
for making the deposit of the whole or any portion-of such instalment and the
Court may, after notice to the creditor, extend the time for payment of such
instalment or part thereof for such period as it thinks fit.(5)The procedure
laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), for
the trial of suits shall, as far as may be, apply to the applications under
this section.

### 6. Appeals.

\- An appeal shall lie from an order passed by a Court under section 5, as if
such an order relates to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of a decree
within the meaning of section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908).

### 7. Presumption as to transfer of immovable property of the debtor.

(1)Every transfer of immovable property made by a debtor entitled to the
benefits of this Act after the 1st October 1953 and before the complete
discharge of his debt, shall, in any suit or other proceeding with respect to
such transfer, be presumed, until the contrary is proved to have been made
with intent to defeat or delay the creditors of the transferor.(2)Where a
debtor entitled to the benefits of this Act has allowed, in collusion with
another, his immovable property to be sold after the 1st October 1953 through
Court with a view to defeat or delay his creditors, the sale shall be voidable
at the option of any. creditor so defeated or delayed.

### 8. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation for a suit for recovery of a debt, or
an application for the execution of a decree in respect of a debt, the time
during which the institution of the suit or the making of the application was
barred under section 3 shall be excluded.

### 9. Effect of payment or deposit under section 4 or section 5.

\- Where a debt is payable by an agriculturist either by himself or jointly or
jointly and severally with a non-agriculturist and where the agriculturist
makes payment or deposits amount towards that debt as provided for in section
4 or section 5, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time
when the payment or deposit was made both against the agriculturist and non-
agriculturist.

### 10. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)The rules so made shall be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.] as soon as they are published and shall be subject to such
modification whether by way of repeal or amendment as the Legislature may make
during the session in which they are so laid.

