## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Silkworm Seed (Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Silkworm Seed (Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1956

## Act 23 of 1956

  * Published on 31 October 1956 
  * Commenced on 31 October 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 October 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Silkworm Seed (Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1956(Tamil
Nadu Act No. 23 of 1956)Last Updated 14th March, 2020[Dated 31.10.1956.]These
words wee substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Fort St. George Gazette,
Part IV-A, dated the 14th March 1956, page 26.An Act to provide for the
regulation of the production, supply and distribution of silkworm seed in the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws (Second Amendment) orders 1969.]Whereas it
is expedient to provide for the regulation of the production, supply and
distribution of silkworm seed in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression
was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaption of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws
(Second Amendment) orders 1969.].Be it enacted in the Seventh Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [These words wee substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaption of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Silkworm
Seed (Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 1956.(2)It extends to the
whole of the 3[State of Tamil Nadu].(3)[ It shall come into force on such date
as the Government may, by notification, appoint.] [Deemed to have come into
force on the 1st November 1956.]

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires(a)"cocoon" includes
cocoon produced by mulberry silkworms, tussar silkworms, muga silkworms and
eri silkworms, either green or stifled, live or pierced, dried or in any other
state or conditions;(b)"Director" means the [Director of Industries and
Commerce, Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'Director of Industries and Commerce, Madras' by paragraph 3(1) of the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which was deemed to have come into force
on the 14th January 1969.];(c)"Government" means the State
Government;(d)"licensed buyer" means a person in charge of a charka
establishment or a filature establishment licensed under this Act to purchase
silkworm cocoons for reeling silk.Explanation: - In this clause "charka
establishment" means an establishment where silk is reeled from silkworm
cocoons with the help of any indigenous contrivance utilising manual labour
for turning the reels and direct fire for heating the water for cooking and
reeling cocoons; and "filature establishment" means an establishment where
silk is reeled from silkworm cocoons by utilising power for turning the reels
and steam for cooking and reeling cocoons;(e)"rearer" means a person engaged
in rearing silkworms for the production of silkworm cocoons, whether for
reproduction or reeling;(f)"rearing" includes all operations from the
incubation of silkworm eggs and brushing of silkworms to the harvesting of
cocoons;(g)"silkworm" includes mulberry silkworms, tussar silkworms, muga
silkworms and eri silkworms;(h)"silkworm seed" means silkworm cocoons, moths,
eggs or young silkworms of whatever description intended to be used for the
purposes of reproduction or rearing.(2)If any question arises, whether:-(a)any
contrivance is a charka or not; or(b)any crop is a cocoon crop or not;
or(c)any establishment is a filature or not,the question shall be decided by
the officer in-charge of the Sericultural section of the [Department of
Industries and Commerce, Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'Department of Industries and Commerce, Madras' by paragraph 3(1)
of Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which was deemed to have come
into force on the 14th January 1969.] and his decision thereon shall be final.

### 3. Regulation of manufacture, etc., of silkworm seed.

\- No person shall manufacture, store, transport, sell or otherwise distribute
silkworm seed except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of
a licence issued under this Act.

### 4. Regulation of rearing.

\- No person shall rear silkworms except under and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a licence issued under this Act. or from silkworm seed
other than silkworm seed obtained from a person who holds a licence issued
under this Act.

### 5. Regulation of disposal of silkworm cocoons.

\- No rearer shall dispose of, or agree to dispose of, or in pursuance of an
agreement entered into make delivery of, any silkworm cocoons for reeling
except to a licensed buyer.

### 6. Regulation of sale or purchase of silkworm cocoons for reeling.

\- No rearer shall sell or agree to sell, and no licenced buyer shall purchase
or agree to purchase silkworm cocoons for reeling, except in cocoon markets or
cocoon market yards established under this Act, and at prices other than those
fixed from time to time by notification by the Director.

### 7. Regulation of reeling.

\- No person shall carry on the business of reeling silk from silkworm cocoons
unless he holds a licence issued under this Act.

### 8. Regulation of possession of silkworm seed.

\- The prescribed officer may authorise any person in writing to possess
silkworm seed.

### 9. Application for licence.

\- Every application for the issue of a licence under this Act shall be made
to such authority and in such form as may be prescribed.

### 10. Constitution and powers of market committee.

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish a market committee, with
jurisdiction over such area as may be specified in the notification.(2)The
market committee shall consists of a Chairman, who shall be appointed by the
Government and four members elected on the following electorates as specified
below.-(a)Silkworm rearers ... ... ... ... 2(b)Charka reelers ... ... ... ...
1(c)Filatures ... ... ... ... 2(3)The powers, duties and functions of the
market committee shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 11. Regulation and distribution of silkworm seed.

(1)The Government may, from time to time, by notification -(a)specify the
places at which cocoon markets or cocoon market yards shall be located.(b)Fix
the basic price at which standard quality cocoons for reeling may be sold or
bought:(c)specify, a sliding scale of prices for variations from the standard
quality calculated on the basic price;(d)specify the sericultural areas in the
State, to be served by each cocoon market where silkworm cocoons produced
within such areas shall be sold:(e)assign zones and markets in which any
licensed buyer may carry on his business.(2)After taking into consideration
the quantity of silkworm cocoons available in the State and the scale of
operations and consumption of silkworm cocoons by each licensed buyer, the
Government may from time to time, by order determine the quota of silkworm
cocoons to be sold to licensed buyers.

### 12. Power to obtain information.

\- Any officer authorised in this behalf by the Director may, with a view to
ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act and the rules, orders and
notifications made thereunder are complied with, by order, require any person
to furnish any information in his possession and specified in the order.

### 13. Power of entry and seizure.

(1)The Director or any officer authorised in this behalf by the Director may,
for the purpose of satisfying himself that the provisions of this Act and the
rules, orders and notifications made thereunder are complied with, at any time
during business hours, enter and inspect any premises, godown, land or place
used for rearing silkworms or for storing cocoons or silk; and every owner,
occupier or person in charge of such premises, godown, land or place shall
give every reasonable assistance to the Director or the officer in connection
with such entry and inspection.(2)The Director or the officer referred to in
subsection (1) may, if he is satisfied that any silkworms, cocoons or silk are
reared or stored in any premises, godown, land or place referred to in that
sub-section in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules,
orders or notifications made thereunder, seize such silkworms, cocoons or
silk.

### 14. Penalties.

\- Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with all or any of the
provisions contained in this Act or any rule, order or notification made
thereunder or any of the conditions of a licence issued or renewed under this
Act or the rules made thereunder shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees: and any Court trying any such contravention or
failure may direct that any silkworm seed or any vessel, receptacle,
apparatus, package or covering containing the same in respect of which the
Court is satisfied that such contravention or failure has occurred shall be
forfeited to the Government.

### 15. Composition of offences.

(1)Any offence punishable under this Act may be compounded by the Director on
payment of such amount as may be prescribed.(2)On the composition of an
offence under subsection (1) the person concerned, if in custody, shall be set
at liberty, and if proceedings in any criminal court have been instituted
against such person in respect of the offence, the composition shall be deemed
to amount to an acquittal and no further proceedings shall be taken against
such person in respect of such offence.

### 16. Trial of offences.

(1)No Court inferior to that of [Presidency] [According to clauses (a) and (c)
of sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974) any reference to a Magistrate of the first class shall
be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the first class and
any reference to a Presidency Magistrate shall be construed as a reference to
a Metropolitan Magistrate.] Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class
[shall try] [According to clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (3) of section 3
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) any reference
to a Magistrate of the first class shall be construed as a reference to a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class and any reference to a Presidency
Magistrate shall be construed as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate.]
any offence made punishable by this Act or any rule made thereunder.(2)No
prosecution under this Act or any rule made thereunder shall be instituted
except on a complaint in writing made by the Director.

### 17. Protection for acts done in faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act or any rule, order or notification made thereunder.

### 18. Officers to be deemed public servants.

\- Every officer acting in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or any
rule, order or notification made thereunder, shall be deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act
XLV of 1860).

### 19. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may by notification, make rules to carry out the purposes of
this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for :-(a)the form and manner in which
and the authority to which applications for licences may be made;(b)the terms
and conditions which may be included in any licence and the fees for the grant
of such licence;(c)the grant of duplicate licences and the renewal of licences
and fees for the same;(d)the qualifications of reares and other persons to
whom licences may be issued under this Act;(e)the duties and powers of
officers authorised to enforce the provisions of this Act;(f)the fee payable
by a licenced buyer in respect of cocoons purchased by him in the cocoon
market;(g)the election, appointment and removal of members of market
committees, the manner of election and the powers, duties and functions of
such committees;(h)the procedure to be followed by a market committee in
respect of financial matters generally, including the manner in which and the
restrictions and conditions subject to which, expenditure may be incurred by
it;(i)appeals from any order under this Act, the authority to which such
appeals shall lie, the time within which such appeals shall be made and the
procedure for dealing with such appeals;(j)generally regulating the procedure
to be followed in proceedings under this Act;(k)any matter expressly required
or allowed by this Act to be prescribed.(3)The power to make rules under this
Act is subject to the condition of the rules being made after previous
publication.(4)All rules made under this Act shall be placed on the table of
the Legislative Assembly as soon as possible after they are published and
shall be subject to such modifications, whether by way of repeal or amendment
as the Assembly may make during the session in which they are so laid.

