## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 1991

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 1991

## Act 6 of 1991

  * Published on 8 February 1991 
  * Commenced on 8 February 1991 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 February 1991.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 1991(Tamil Nadu Act
6 of 1991)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
(Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 6 of 1991). - The Tamil
Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1987 seeks to enable the
private-operators to continue to operate their buses on the notified routes
and on the routes covered by the draft schemes published under section 68-C of
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of 1939) by providing special
provisions over-riding the provisions contained in Chapter IV and Chapter IV-A
of the said Central Act IV of 1939. It is considered that such operation of
buses by private operators on the notified routes and on the routes covered by
the draft schemes will amount to contradiction of the nationalisation policy
of the Government. Further, the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of
1939) has since been repealed by the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59
of 1988). The Government have, therefore, decided that it is necessary to
repeal the said Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1987, to
carry out the declared objectives of the State Government to implement the
programme of nationalisation. Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles
(Special Provisions) Repeal Ordinance, 1990 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1990)
was promulgated by the Governor on the 8th October 1990 and the same was
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 8th
October 1990.

### 2. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.

Published in Part IV - Section 1, page 37 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 23rd January 1991.Received the assent of the Governor on
the 8th February 1991 and first published in Part IV - Section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 8th February 1991.An Act to
repeal the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1987.Be it
enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-
first Year of the Republic of India as follows : -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions)
Repeal Act, 1991.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 4th day
of June 1976.

### 2\. Repeal.

\- The Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Act, 1987, is hereby
repealed.

### 3. Repeal of Ordinance.

\- The Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles (Special Provisions) Repeal Ordinance, 1990
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 6 of 1990), is hereby repealed.

