## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955

## Act 3 of 1955

  * Published on 4 March 1955 
  * Commenced on 4 March 1955 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 March 1955.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955(Tamil Nadu
Act 3 of 1955)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy
of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1955). - For
Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Part IV-A pages 64-65 of the Fort St.
George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 9th February 1955.Statement of Objects
and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963). - The Madras Irrigation (Levy
of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955 (Madras Act III of 1955) provides for
the levy and collection of betterment contribution from landholders of lands
benefited by the construction, expansion or alteration by the Government on or
after the 1st January 1947 of any irrigation or drainage work, the cost of
which exceeds Rs. 25,000. The rules under the Act were issued on the 13th
February 1956. It has been found that the preliminary work involved in
determining the betterment contribution in accordance with the procedure laid
down in the Act and the rules made thereunder is considerable and complicated
and that this was responsible for the slow progress of the work connected with
the levy of betterment contribution. The Planning Commission has also
suggested that the procedure laid down in the Act may be simplified and that
the rates of betterment contribution may be specified in the Act itself by
suitably amending the Act. It was, therefore, decided not to proceed further
with the implementation of the Act until it is amended and the procedure for
determining the betterment contribution is revised and simplified.2\.
According to the new procedure proposed, the ayacut benefited by the execution
of a notified irrigation or drainage work will be classified as "new ayacut"
and "improved old ayacut". New ayacut will further be classified into one or
more of the following three zones, namely, wet zone, intermediary zone and
irrigated dry zone, depending on the availability of water for raising crops
in a fasli year. Every zone will be divided into blocks according to the soil
classification, the dry lands being classified according to the corresponding
wet taram rates. As provided in the principal Act, no betterment contribution
is proposed to be levied on lands in any new ayacut, the cost of which does
not exceed Rs. 25,000. A schedule of rates of betterment contribution leviable
per acre in respect of land in any new ayacut is also sought to be included in
the principal Act.3\. Improved old ayacut will comprise of lands which are
significantly benefited by the execution of a notified work. No betterment
contribution is proposed to be levied on lands in any improved old ayacut
under a notified work the cost of which does not exceed Rs. 50,000 and also
where the settlement classification of the irrigation source has been raised
to a higher classification in consideration of the improvement effected as a
result of the execution of such work and the net annual increase of wet
assessment consequent on such raising exceeds four per cent of the cost of
such work.4\. The Bill seeks to amend the principal Act to give effect to the
above proposals.5\. The provisions of the Bill are explained in the Notes on
Clauses.Published in Fort St. Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st July
1963.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of
Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 46 of 2000). -
Sections 4-A and 4-B of tire Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1955) provide for the levy of
betterment contribution from the landholders of lands in any new ayacut and in
any improved old ayacut at the rates specified therein. But, according to the
proviso to the said section 4-A and the proviso to subsection (1) of the said
section 4-B, no betterment contribution shall be levied on any land in any new
ayacut and in any improved old ayacut under a notified work, the cost of which
does not exceed one lakh and fifty thousand rupees. The said cost was fixed
during 1963. The Government have, now, decided to enhance the said cost from
one lakh and fifty thousand rupees to twenty-five lakh rupees.2\. The Bill
seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1,
page 127 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 9th
November 2000.Received the assent of the Governor on the 4th March 1955 and
first published in the Fort. St. George Gazette, dated the 16th March 1955.An
Act to provide for the levy of betterment contribution on certain lands in the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment), Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for
the levy of betterment contribution on certain lands in the [State of Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment), Order, 1969.];Be it enacted in the Sixth Year of the Republic of
India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and extent.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation (Levy of
Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment), Order, 1969.].This Act was extended to the added territories by
section 3 of, and the First Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu (Added Territories)
Extension of Laws Act, 1962 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1962) repealing the
corresponding law in force in those territories.This Act was further extended
to the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli
district by section 28 of the Tamil Nadu (Transferred Territory) Ryotwari
Settlement Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1964) repealing the corresponding
law in force in that territory.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(1)"contribution" means the betterment contribution referred to [in
sections 4-A and 4-B] [These words, figures and letters were substituted for
the words and figure 'in section 3' by section 2(i) of the Tamil Nadu
Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu
Act 32 of 1963).].(2)"drainage work" includes-(a)channels, whether natural or
artificial, for the discharge of waste or surplus water and all works
connected with or auxiliary to such channels;(b)escape channels from an
irrigation work;(c)dams, weirs, embankments, sluices and groynes;(d)all works
for the protection of lands from floods or from erosion, which are owned or
controlled by the Government, or which are maintained by them otherwise than
by an assignment of land or land revenue made, confirmed, recognized by the
Government, or which, having been constructed by the Government or being
maintained by an assignment of land or land revenue as aforesaid, have not
been made over to any person, but does not include works for the removal of
sewage;[(2-A) "execution", in relation to a notified work, means the
construction, expansion or alteration of the notified work;] [Inserted by
section 2(ii) section 2(i) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).](3)"Government"
means the State Government;[(3-A) "improved old ayacut" in relation to any
notified work, means all lands which are significantly benefited by the
execution of the notified work, but does not include the ayacut of any
existing irrigation or drainage work which has been merely repaired or
restored to its original state after decay or [Inserted by section 2(iii)
section 2(i) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).]Explanation I. - For the
purposes of this clause, lands shall be deemed to be significantly benefited
by the execution of a notified work, if such lands-(a)having been under single
crop irrigation or double crop irrigation from a Government source of
irrigation before the execution of the notified work continue to be under such
irrigation and are provided with a more adequate supply or better assured
supply of water for irrigation as a result of the execution of the notified
work, or(b)having been liable to non-beneficial submersion or stagnation of
water before the execution of the notified work, have been substantially
relieved of such submersion or stagnation as a result of the execution of the
notified work:Provided that no lands shall be deemed to be significantly
benefited if the more adequate supply or better assured supply of water for
irrigation referred to in clause (a) of this Explanation or the substantial
relief of submersion or stagnation referred to in clause (b) of this
Explanation is as a result of mere repairs or restoration of the existing
irrigation or drainage work to its original state after decay or
injury.Explanation II. - For the purposes of Explanation I, the question
whether any land-(1)is provided with a more adequate supply or better assured
supply of water for irrigation shall be decided with regard to-(i)the raising
of the irrigation source concerned to a higher settlement
classification;(ii)supply of larger volume of water or supply of water for a
longer duration; and(iii)such other like matters as may be prescribed by rules
made by the Government in this behalf;(2)has been substantially relieved of
the non-beneficial submersion or stagnation of water shall be decided with
regard to-(i)the improvement of the land on account of the protection from
suspension or stagnation or on account of the reduction in the period of
submersion or stagnation; and(ii)such other like matters as may be prescribed
by rules made by the Government in this behalf.Explanation III. - A land shall
be deemed to be significantly benefited notwithstanding that the benefit is
not enjoyed, provided that such non-enjoyment is due solely to action or
inaction on the part of the person or persons interested in such
land;](4)"irrigation work" includes - (a) all canals, channels, tanks, wells,
reservoirs, ponds, spring ponds and madugus used for the supply or storage of
water, and all works, embankments and structures (other than escape channels)
connected therewith or auxiliary thereto, which are owned or controlled by the
Government, or which are maintained by them otherwise than by an assignment of
land or land revenue made, confirmed or recognized by the Government, or
which, having been constructed by the Government or being maintained by an
assignment of land or land revenue as aforesaid, have not been made over to
any person;(b)all such lakes and other natural collections of water or parts
thereof as are situated on lands which are the property of Government;(c)all
rivers and natural streams or parts thereof;(5)"landholder", in relation to
any land, means the person liable to pay the pubic revenue due on the
land:[Provided that in respect of any land comprised in the holding of a
kanamdar or a customary verumpattamadar in the territory to which the Malabar
Tenancy Act, 1929 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted by Madras Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1957.] Act XIV of 1930) extends, the kanamdar or the customary
verumpattamdar, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the landholder in
respect of such land;][(5-A) "new ayacut", in relation to any notified work,
means all lands which are benefited by the execution of the notified work.
[Inserted by section 2(iv) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).]Explanation I.
- For the purposes of this clause, lands shall be deemed to be benefited by
the execution of a notified work, if such lands-(a)having been left waste or
under unirrigated cultivation, before the execution of the notified work have
been brought under irrigation subsequently with water supplied from a
Government source of irrigation as a result of the execution of the notified
work, or(b)having been under single crop irrigation before the execution of
the notified work have been brought under double crop irrigation subsequently
with water supplied from a Government source of irrigation as a result of the
execution of the notified work.Explanation II. - A land shall be deemed to be
benefited notwithstanding that the benefit is not enjoyed, provided that such
non-enjoyment is due solely to action or inaction on the part of the person or
persons interested in such land;](6)"notification" means a notification
published in the [Fort. St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.];[(6-A) "notified work" means any irrigation or drainage work
executed on or after the 1st January 1947, and notified by the Collector of
the district in the District Gazette;] [Inserted by section 2(v) of the Tamil
Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 32 of 1963).](7)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;(8)[ [***] [Omitted by section 2(vi) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1963).]

### 3. [ New ayacut zones. [Sections 3,4,4-A, 4B, 4-C, 4-D and 4-E were
substituted for original sections 3 and 4 by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu
Act 32 of 1963).]

(1)Any new ayacut in every notified work may be classified into one or more of
the following zones, namely:-(i)wet zone;(ii)intermediary zone;
or(iii)irrigated dry zone.(2)A wet zone shall comprise all the lands for which
the water supplied as a result of the execution of a notified work will be
ordinarily sufficient for one wet crop in a fasli year.(3)An intermediary zone
shall comprise all the lands for which the water supplied as a result of the
execution of a notified work will be occasionally sufficient for one wet crop
and will be ordinarily sufficient for one irrigated dry crop in a fasli
year.(4)An irrigated dry zone shall comprise all the lands for which the water
supplied as a result of the execution of a notified work will be ordinarily
sufficient for one irrigated dry crop in a fasli year, but not sufficient for
one wet crop in any fasli year.

### 4. Blocks under ayacut zone.

(1)Every wet zone, every intermediary zone or every irrigated dry zone may
consist of Block A, B, C or D as classified below, namely:-(a)Block A shall
consist of contiguous lands of wet taram 1,2,3, or 4;(b)Block B shall consist
of contiguous lands of wet taram 5;(c)Block C shall consist of contiguous
lands of wet taram 6;(d)Block D shall consist of contiguous lands of wet taram
7 and above. (2) Dry lands shall be classified according to the corresponding
wet taram rates.

### 4A. Levy of betterment contribution on lands in the new ayacut.

\- The Government shall be entitled to levy a betterment contribution from the
landholder on every acre of land in any new ayacut in accordance with the
rates specified in the Schedule:Provided that no betterment contribution shall
be levied on any land in any new ayacut under notified work, the cost of which
does not exceed [twenty-five lakh rupees] [Substituted for 'one lakh and fifty
thousand rupees' by section 2 of Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 46 of 2000).].

### 4B. Levy of betterment contribution on lands in the improved old ayacut.

(1)The Government shall be entitled to levy a betterment contribution from the
landholder on every acre of land in any improved old ayacut in accordance with
the provisions of this section:Provided that no betterment contribution shall
be levied on any land in any improved old ayacut under a notified work, the
cost of which does not exceed [twenty-five lakh rupees] [Substituted for 'one
lakh and fifty thousand rupees' by section 2 of Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of
Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 2000 (Tamil Nadu Act 46 of
2000).].(2)The net expenditure on the notified work shall be ascertained by
deducting from the gross expenditure on such work twenty times the annual
increase in revenue, if any, from all the lands comprised in the improved old
ayacut and in the new ayacut. The net expenditure as so ascertained shall be
apportioned in the prescribed manner on all lands comprised in the improved
old ayacut.Explanation I. - The expression "annual increase in revenue", in
the case of lands other than those specified in Explanation II,-(a)means the
increase in ryotwari assessment and the increase in water-cess ascertained in
the prescribed manner where such increase is as a result of the execution of
the notified work; and(b)includes the additional assessment or additional
water-cess, if any, under the Tamil Nadu Additional Assessment and Additional
Water Cess Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 8 of 1963),
ascertained in the prescribed manner.Explanation II. - The expression "annual
increase in revenue"-(a)means-(i)in the case of estates abolished under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of 1948), the difference between the
land revenue under section 23 of that Act and the rate of assessment imposed
at a ryotwari settlement effected under section 22 of that Act, ascertained in
the prescribed manner;(ii)in the case of an mam estate abolished under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 21 of 1963), the difference between the
land revenue under section 21 of that Act and the rate of assessment imposed
at a ryotwari settlement effected under section 20 of that Act, ascertained in
the prescribed manner;(iii)in the case of a minor inam abolished under the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 21 of 1963), the difference between the
land revenue under section 12 of that Act and the rate of assessment imposed
at a ryotwari settlement effected under section 16 of that Act, ascertained in
the prescribed manner; and(iv)in the case of a lease-hold village abolished
under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
(Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Lease-holds (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 21 of 1963), the
difference between the land revenue under section 15 of that Act and the rate
of assessment imposed at a ryotwari settlement effected under section 14 of
that Act, ascertained in the prescribed manner:Provided that-(i)the land
revenue referred to in clauses (i) to (iv) is less than the rate of ryotwari
assessment referred to in those clauses and has been determined before the
execution of the notified work;(ii)the notified work was executed after the
abolition of the estate, inam estate, minor inam or a lease-hold village, as
the case may be, and before effecting the ryotwari settlement referred to in
clauses (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv), as the case may be; and(b)includes the
additional assessment or additional water-cess, if any, under the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Additional Assessment and Additional Water-Cess Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Act 8 of 1963), ascertained in the prescribed manner.(3)The betterment
contribution shall be, subject to a maximum of fifty rupees per acre, or be
one-third of the net expenditure per acre of land apportioned under sub-
section (2).

### 4C. Exclusion of certain lands from ayacut in certain cases.

(1)Any Officer of the Revenue Department not lower in rank than a Revenue
Divisional Officer specially authorised by the Government in this behalf
(hereinafter referred to as the authorized officer) may, from time to time,
postpone the inclusion of any land in the ayacut of a notified work for such
period as he may, by order in writing, specify, on the ground that such land
requires expensive lowering of the level or on such other ground as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, "expensive
lowering of the level" means any reclamation involving expenditure exceeding
one hundred rupees per acre.(2)Where the period specified in any order under
sub-section (1) expires, the land referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
deemed to be included in the ayacut aforesaid and the Government shall be
entitled to levy contribution under this Act on such land with effect from the
fasli in which such land shall be deemed to be included in the ayacut under
this sub-section.(3)Where any land included in the ayacut of a notified work
is not fit for irrigation on the date of such inclusion for such reasons as
may be prescribed and is subsequently brought under irrigation, the Government
shall be entitled to levy contribution under this Act on such land with effect
from the fasli in which the land is so brought under irrigation.

### 4D. Authorized officer to levy betterment contribution.

\- Every authorized officer shall levy betterment contribution under this Act
in respect of any land situated within his jurisdiction:Provided that where
the ayacut of a notified work lies within the jurisdiction of more than one
authorised officer, the Government may, by general or special order, specify
the officer who should levy betterment contribution in respect of lands in
such ayacut.

### 4E. Appeal.

(1)Against any decision of the authorised officer with respect to the levy of
betterment contribution under this Act, an appeal shall lie to the prescribed
authority and such authority may make such order in the case as it may think
fit.(2)Any decision of the authorized officer with respect to the levy of
contribution under this Act shall, subject to the right of appeal provided in
sub-section (1), be final, shall be binding on a 11 persons having interest in
the land and shall not be liable to be questioned in a Court of law.]

### 5. Contribution recoverable as arrear of land revenue.

\- Contribution payable under this Act in respect of any land shall be deemed
to be public revenue due upon the said land; and the land, its products and
the buildings (owned and occupied by the landholder) standing upon the land
shall be regarded as the security of the contribution. When the whole or
portion of an instalment of the contribution payable in any year is not paid
on the due date, the amount of the instalment or its unpaid portion shall be
deemed to be an arrear of land revenue and the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act II of 1864), and of
the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration
of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Land Revenue Act, 1851
(Central Act XII of 1851), as amended by the [Chennai] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1996).] City Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1867 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969 as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] Act VI of 1867), shall apply to the recovery of the said arrear as they
apply to the recovery of the revenue due on the land.

### 6. When contribution becomes payable.

(1)Contribution shall become payable under this Act on a written notice of
demand therefor [issued by the authorized officer] [Substituted for the words
'issued by an officer authorised by the Government in this behalf by section
4(i)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963).] being served on the
landholder:Provided that no such notice shall be served until the expiry of
two years after the date of completion of the [execution of the notified work]
[Substituted for the words 'constriction, expansion or alteration of the work'
by section 4(i)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963).]:Provided
further that where [before the commencement of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the words, brackets and figures 'before the commencement of this Act' by
section 4(1) (c)(i) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963).]] Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1964) two years or more have elapsed from the date of completion of the
[execution of the notified work] [Substituted for the words 'issued by an
officer authorised by the Government in this behalf by section 4(i)(a) of the
Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963).], such notice may be served at any time after
such commencement.(2)For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that it
shall not be necessary to serve notice on any person other than the
landholder, who has an interest in the land or on a successor-in-interest of
the landholder or in respect of any instalment of the contribution.(3)[ (a)
For the purposes of this section, the execution of a notified work shall be
deemed to be completed on the date of cessation of all work connected with its
execution or on the date when the.notified work is ready to be put in actual
operation, which ever is later,(b)The dates referred to in clause (a) shall be
notified by such authority or officer and in such manner, as may be
prescribed.]

### 7. Mode of payment of contribution.

\- [(1) The contribution payable by a landholder shall be paid-by him in
annual instalments. The annual instalment per acre shall be five rupees or one
twentieth of the total amount of the contribution payable by him, whichever is
higher:Provided that a landholder shall be entitled to pay within a period of
two years from the date on which he becomes liable to pay the contribution,
the entire amount of contribution with a rebate at such rate as may be
prescribed.(2)Arrears of instalments of the contribution shall bear interest
at the rate of six per cent, per annum and such interest shall be recoverable
as arrears of land revenue.] [Substituted for original sub-section (1) by
section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963).]

### 8. Rebate in certain cases.

\- If the Government accept any money from any person for the [execution of
any notified work] [Substituted for the words 'construction, expansion or
alteration of the work' by section 4(i)(c)(2) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1963).] and such person becomes liable to pay contribution in respect of any
land benefited by such [execution] [Substituted for the words 'construction,
expansion or alteration' by section 6(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy
of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).],
the sum accepted from him shall be credited towards the contribution payable
by him.

### 9. Payment of contribution by person having interest in land.

\- Any person having interest in a land may, notwithstanding that he is not
the landholder of such land, pay the contribution payable by the landholder in
respect of such land and shall, if such person pays the entire contribution
within a period of two years from the date on which the landholder becomes
liable to pay the contribution, be entitled to a [rebate at such rate as may
be prescribed] [Substituted for the words 'rebate of twenty per cent' by
section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).].

### 10. Right of reimbursement in respect of contribution.

\- Where the landholder not being in the territory to which the Malabar
Tenancy Act, 1929 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XIV of 1930), extends,
a kanamdar or a customary verumpattamdar [xxx] [The words 'or in the South
Kanara district, a Walawargadar Kayemgenidar, a permanent tenant or a mulgeni
tenant' were omitted by clause 3 of, and the Schedule, the Madras Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1957.] liable to pay contribution under this Act is not the
owner of the land or is a co-owner of the land, nothing in this Act shall be
deemed to affect his right to reimbursement from the owner or to recover
proportionate part from the co-owner, as the case may be.

### 11. Apportionment of contribution.

\- Where a landholder whose case is not covered by section 10 and who has paid
an instalment of contribution under this Act is not the occupier of the land,
he shall, in the absence of a contract to the contrary, be entitled to recover
the amount of such instalment from the person who is in actual occupation of
the land during the year in which the said instalment is payable:Provided that
where such person is a tenant, the landholder shall be entitled to recover
from the tenant the instalment of contribution referred to in this section
only if the tenant is liable under any law or custom of the locality to
deliver to the landholder a share of the produce and such share has not been
altered subsequent to the completion of the work by agreement between the
parties, and the amount that can be recovered from such a tenant shall bear to
the total amount of the instalment the same proportion as the tenant's share
of the produce bears to the total produce of the land:Provided further that,
where the landholder has paid the entire contribution with a rebate under the
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 7, a twentieth part of the sum actually
paid shall be deemed to be the instalment of the contribution payable during
every year during which an instalment of the contribution would have been
payable had the entire contribution not been so paid.

### 12. Exemption.

\- If, in the opinion of the Government, the enforcement or strict enforcement
of all or any of the provisions of this Act will cause hardship in any case or
cases, the Government may, by notification, setting out the ground therefor,
exempt either permanently or for a specified period such case or cases from
all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject to such conditions, if any,
as the Government may deem fit to impose.

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may [xxx] [The words 'by notification' were omitted by
section 8(i)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution)
Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).] make rules to carry out the
purposes of this Act and in particular-(a)for the delegation of their powers
to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil
Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980. Now,
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.], [Collectors of the districts] [Substituted for
'Collectors' by section 8(i)(b) the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act,
1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980. Now, Commissioner of Land Administration,
vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] or other
authorities;(b)for the provision of such appeals and revision as may be found
necessary in respect of the orders passed by any authority to whom powers may
be so delegated;(c)[ for the manner of classification of, and the publication
of specified particulars of, any zone under section 3;] [Substituted for
original clause (c) by section 8(i)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of
Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1963).](cc)[ the procedure to be followed by the authorised officer before the
levy of betterment contribution under this Act;] [Substituted for original
clause (c) by section 8(i)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment
Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1963).](d)for all
matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be prescribed.(2)All
rules made under this Act shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and, unless they are expressed to
come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which
they are so published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as
possible after it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of
the session, in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any
such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses
agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 14. Saving.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the levy, determination,
payment or recovery of betterment contribution from the landholders of lands
which are benefited, or are capable of being benefited, by the construction,
expansion or [alteration of any irrigation or drainage work] [Substituted for
the words 'alteration of any work' by section 9 of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1963).] if provision in that behalf is contained in any other law relating
thereto and for the time being in force.

### 15. [ Act deemed not to affect recovery in certain cases. [Sections 15 and
16 and the Schedule were added by section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963, (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1963).]

\- Subject to the provisions of section 8, nothing contained in this Act shall
be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the power of the Government to recover
any money which any landholder of any land in the ayacut of any notified work
may have agreed before the date of the commencement of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the original sub-section (3) by section 4(iv) of the Tamil
Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 1963).] Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment
Act, 1963 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 32 of 1963), or may agree after that
date, to pay to the Government as a condition precedent to the execution of
any such work.]

### 16. Works notified under certain rules.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 32 of 1963), any work specified in the list of
works published by the Collector of the district in the District Gazette
before the date of the commencement of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Irrigation
(Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963, imder rule 7 of the
Tamil Nadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Rules, 1956, shall be
deemed 1 to be a notified work under this Act as amended by the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Amendment Act, 1963
([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 32 of 1963), and the provisions of this Act, as
amended by the said Act, shall have effect accordingly.

## Schedule

(See section 4-A)

## of Rates Per Acre

New Ayacut

| Wet zone | Intermediary zone | Irrigated dry zone  
---|---|---|---  
| (1) | (2) | (3)  
| Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P.  
Block A | 200.00 | 170.00 | 140.00  
Block B | 180.00 | 150.00 | 120.00  
Block C | 160.00 | 130.00 | 100.00  
Block D | 140.00 | 110.00 | 80.00  
  
Provided that landholders of lands which were unirrigated immediately before
the execution of the notified work and which are newly assured with the supply
of water for two wet crops as a result of the execution of the said notified
work shall pay betterment contribution at the rate of fifty rupees per acre in
addition to the rates specified in this Schedule.

