## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial
Establishments) Act, 1997

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial
Establishments) Act, 1997

## Act 44 of 1997

  * Published on 31 October 2018 
  * Commenced on 31 October 2018 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 October 2018.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments)
Act, 1997(Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 1997)Last Updated 29th November, 2019(As
modified upto 31st October 2018)CHAPTER -1

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This act may be called the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors
(in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997.(2)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-(1)"Competent
authority" means the authority appointed under section 4;(2)"deposit" means
the deposit of money either in one lump sum or by instalments made with the
Financial Establishment for a fixed period, for interest or for return in any
kind or for any service;(3)"Financial Establishment" means an individual, an
association of individuals, a firm or a company registered under the companies
Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) carrying on the business of receiving
deposits under any scheme or arrangement or in any other manner but does not
include a corporation or a co-operative society owned or controlled by any
State Government: or the Central Government, or a banking company as defined
in section 5(c) of the Banking Regulation Act 1949 (Central Act X of
1949).(4)"Government" means the State Government.CHAPTER - II

### 3. Attachment of properties on default of return of deposits.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force,-(i)where upon complaints received from a number of depositors, that any
Financial Establishment defaults the return of deposits after maturity, or
fails to pay interest on deposit or fails to provide the service for which
deposit has been made, or(ii)where the Government have reason to believe that
any financial establishment is acting in a calculated manner with an intention
to defraud the depositors,and if the Government are satisfied that such
Financial Establishment is not likely to return the deposits or to make
payment of interest or to provide the service, the Government may, in order to
protect the interest of the depositors of such Financial Establishment, pass
an ad-interim order attaching the money or other property alleged to have been
procured either in the name of the Financial Establishment or in the name of
any other person from and out of the deposits collected by the Financial
Establishment, or if it transpires that such money or other property is not
available for attachment or not sufficient for repayment of the deposits, such
other property of the said Financial Establishment or the promoter, partner,
director, manager or member of the said Financial Establishment or a person
who has borrowed money from the Financial Establishment to the extent of his
default or, such other properties of that person in whose name properties were
purchased from and out of the deposits collected by the Financial
Establishment, as the Government may think fit, and transfer the control over
the said money or property to the Competent Authority."

### 4. Competent authority.

(1)The Government may, by notification, appoint one or more authorities for
such area or areas or such case or cases as may be specified in the
notification hereinafter called "the Competent authority" to exercise control
over the properties attached by the Government under section 3.(2)The
Competent authority shall have such other powers as may be necessary for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.(3)Upon receipt of the order of the
Government under section 3, the Competent authority shall apply within thirty
days to the Special Court constituted under this Act for making the ad-interim
order of attachment absolute and for a direction to sell the property so
attached by public auction, and realise the sale proceeds.(4)An application
under sub section (3) shall be accompanied by one or more affidavits, stating
the grounds on which the belief that the Financial Establishment has committed
any default or is likely to defraud, is founded, the amount of money or value
of other property believed to have been procured by means of the deposit, and
the details, if any, of persons in whose name such property is believed to
have been invested or purchased out of the deposits or any other property
attached under section 3.(5)The Competent authority shall make an application
to any court having jurisdiction to try similar cases or deal with the subject
matter pertaining to money or property belonging to a Financial Establishment
or any person specified in section 3 situated within the territorial
jurisdiction of that court for appropriate orders.(6)For the purpose of
crediting the dealing with the money realised by the Competent authority, he
shall open an account in any Scheduled commercial bank.CHAPTER -III

### 5. Default in repayment of deposits and interest honouring the commitment.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter II, where any Financial
Establishment defaults the return of the deposit or defaults the payment of
interest on the deposit, or fails to return in any kind, or fails to render
service for which the deposit has been made, every person responsible for the
management of the affairs of the Financial Establishment shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years and with fine which
may extend to one lakh of rupees and such Financial Establishment is also
liable for a fine which may extend to one lakh of rupees.

### 5A.

Compounding of offence.(1)An offence punishable under section 5 may, before
the institution of the prosecution, be compounded by the Competent authority
or after the institution of the prosecution, be compounded by the Competent
authority with the permission of the Special Court, on payment of the entire
amount due to the depositors with or without interest.(2)Where an offence has
been compounded under sub-section (1), no proceeding or further proceeding, as
the case may be, shall be taken or continued against the offender, in respect
of the offence so compounded and the offender, if in custody shall be
discharged forthwith.CHAPTER -IV

### 6. Special Court.

(1)For the purposes of this Act, the Government may, with the concurrence of
the Chief Justice of the High Court, by notification, constitute one or more
Special Courts for such area or areas or such cases as may be specified in the
notification in the cadre of a District and Sessions Judge.(2)No Court
including the Court constituted under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act,
1909 and the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, other than the Special Court
shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter to which the provision of
this Act apply.(3)Any pending case in any other court to which the provisions
of this Act apply shall stand transferred to the Special Court.(4)When trying
any case, the Special Court may also try any offence, other than an offence
specified in section 5, with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) be charged, at the same trial.

### 7. Powers of Special Court regarding attachment, sale, realisation and
distribution.

(1)Upon receipt of an application under section 4, the Special Court shall
issue to the Financial Establishment or to any other person whose property is
attached by the Government under section 3, a notice accompanied by the
application and affidavits and of the evidence, if any, recorded, calling upon
him to show cause on a date to be specified in the notice why the order of
attachment should not be made absolute and property so attached be sold in
public auction.(2)The Special Court shall also issue such notice, to all
other, persons represented to it as having or being likely to claim, any
interest or title in the property of the Financial Establishment or the person
to whom the notices is issued calling upon such person to appear on the same
date as that specified in the notice and make objection if he so desires to
the attachment of the property or any portion thereof on the ground that he
has an interest in such property or portion thereof.(3)Any person claiming an
interest in the property attached or any portion thereof may, notwithstanding
that no notice has been served upon him under this section, make an objection
as aforesaid to the Special Court at any time before an order is passed under
sub-section (4) or subjection (6).(4)If no cause is shown and no objections
are made on or before the specified date, the Special Court shall forthwith
pass an order making the ad-interim order of attachment absolute and direct
the Competent authority to sell the property so attached by public auction and
realise the sale proceeds.(5)If cause is shown or any objection is made as
aforesaid the Special Court shall proceed to investigate the same, and in so
doing, as regards the examinations of the parties and in all other respects,
the Special Court shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, follow the
procedure and exercise all the powers of a Court in hearing a suit under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and any person making an objection shall be
required to adduce evidence to show that at the date of the attachment he had
some interest in the property attached.(6)After investigation under sub-
section (5), the Special Court shall pass an order, within a period of one
hundred and eighty days from the date of receipt of an application under sub-
section 3 of Section 4, either making the ad-interim order of attachment
absolute or varying it by releasing a portion of the property from attachment
or cancelling the ad-interim order of attachment and then direct the Competent
Authority to sell the property so attached by public auction and realise the
sale proceeds:Provided that the Special Court shall not release from
attachment any interest which it is satisfied that the Financial Establishment
or the person referred to in sub-section (1) has in the property unless it is
also satisfied that there will remain under attachment an amount of property
of value not less than the value that is required for re-payment to the
depositors of such Financial Establishment.(9)*** Omitted.(10)The special
court shall on an application by the Competent authority, pass such order or
issue such direction as may be necessary for the equitable distribution among
the depositors of the money attached or realised out of the sale.

### 8. Attachment of property of mala fide transferees.

(1)Where the assets available for attachment of a Financial Establishment or
other person referred to in section 3 are found to be less than the amount or
value which such Financial Establishment is required to repay to the
depositors and where the Special Court is satisfied by affidavit or otherwise,
that there is reasonable cause for believing that the said Financial
Establishment has transferred, (whether after the commencement of this Act or
not), any of the property otherwise than in good faith and for consideration
the Special Court may, by notice, require any transferee of such property
(whether or not he received the property directly from the said Financial
Establishment) to appear on a date to be specified in the notice and show
cause why so much of the transferee's property as is equivalent to the proper
value of the property transferred should not be attached.(2)Where the said
transferee does not appear and show cause on the specified date or where after
investigation in the manner provided in sub-section (5) of section 7, the
Special Court is satisfied that the transfer of the property to the said
transferee was not in good faith and for consideration the Special Court shall
or order the attachment of so much of the said transferee's property as is in
the opinion of the Special Court is equivalent to the proper value of the
property transferred.

### 9. Security in lieu of attachment.

\- Any Financial Establishment or person whose property has been or is about
to be attached under this Act may, at anytime, apply to the Special Court for
permission to give security in lieu of such attachment and where the security
offered and given is in the opinion of the Special Court, satisfactory, and
sufficient it may cancel, the ad-interim order of attachment or, as the case
may be refrain from passing the order under sub-section (6) of section 7.

### 10. Administration of property attached.

\- The Special Court may, on the application of any person interested in any
property attached under this Act, and after giving the Competent authority an
opportunity of being heard, make such orders as the Special Court considers
just and reasonable for-(a)providing from such of the property attached as the
applicant claims an interest in such sums as may be reasonably necessary for
the maintenance of the applicant and of his family, and for expenses connected
with the defence of the applicant where criminal proceedings have been
instituted against him in the Special Court under section 5:(b)safeguarding so
far as may be practicable the interest of any business affected by the
attachment and in particular in the interest of any partners in such business

### 11. Appeal.

\- Any person including the Competent authority, if aggrieved by an order of
the Special Court may appeal to the High Court within thirty days from the
date of order.

### 12. Special Public Prosecutor.

\- The Government shall, by notification appoint one or more Advocates of not
less than ten years standing as a Special Public Prosecutor for each of the
Special Court for the purpose of conducting the cases in the Special Court.

### 13. Procedure and powers of Special Court regarding Offences.

(1)The Special Court may take cognizance of the offence without the accused
being committed to it for trial and in trying the accused person, shall,
follow the procedure prescribed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for
the trial of warrant cases by Magistrates.(2)The provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall, so far as may be, apply to the proceedings
before a Special Court and for the purpose of the said provisions a Special
Court shall be deemed to be a Magistrate.CHAPTER -V

### 14. Act to override other laws.

\- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act shall
have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
other law for the time being in force or any custom or usage or any instrument
having effect by virtue of any such law.

### 15. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on which they are published.(3)Every rule made or notification issued
under this Act, shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly, and if before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Legislative
Assembly agrees in making any modification in any such rule or notification or
the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule or notification should not be
made or issued the rule or notification shall, thereafter have effect only in
such notified form or be of no effect as the case may be so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

