## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Amendment Act, 1958

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Amendment Act, 1958

## Act 3 of 1958

  * Published on 20 March 1958 
  * Commenced on 20 March 1958 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 March 1958.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Amendment Act, 1958(Tamil Nadu Act 3 of 1958)Statement of Objects and Reasons
- Madras Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Amendment Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1958). - The Madras Essential
Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 (Madras Act
XXIX of 1949), as re-enacted by Madras Act VI of 1956 was due to expire on the
25th January 1958. As the Legislature was not in session, the Madras Essential
Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Amendment Ordinance,
1958 (Madras Ordinance II of 1958), was promulgated to extend the life of the
Act for a further period of five years, that is, up to and inclusive of the
25th January 1963. The Bill is intended to replace the above Ordinance.2\. The
Government have also decided to extend Madras Act XXIX of 1949 to the
Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district and
to repeal the corresponding law including the Travancore-Cochin Electricity
Supply Surcharge Act, 1955 (Travancore-Cochin Act XIV of 1955), in force in
those areas. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision
also.Published in Part IV-A of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 10th March 1958.[Received the assent of the President on the 20th
March 1958 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary
dated the 22nd March 1958.]An Act further to amend the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Act, 1949 and to extend that Act to the transferred territory in the [State of
Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, at amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient further to
amend the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and
Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of
1949), for the purpose hereinafter appearing and to extend that Act to the
transferred territory in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.];Be it enacted in the Ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title.

\- This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control
and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Amendment Act, 1958.

### 2. Amendment of section 1, [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of 1949.

\- In section 1, subsection (3) of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential
Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of 1949), for the words, figures and letters "the 25th
January 1958", the words, figures and letters "the 25th January 1963" shall be
substituted.

### 3. Extension of [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of 1949 to the
transferred territory, repeals and savings.

(1)The [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Essential Articles Control and
Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIX of
1949), as in force immediately before the commencement of this Act and as
amended by this Act (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said Act),
hereby extended to, and shall be in force, in the transferred territory.(2)Any
law corresponding to the said Act in force in the transferred territory
immediately before the commencement of this Act including the Travancore-
Cochin Electricity Supply Surcharge Act, 1955 (Travancore-Cochin Act XIV of
1955) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the corresponding law) shall
stand repealed, on such commencement.(3)The repeal by sub-section (2) of the
corresponding law shall not affect -(a)the previous operation of the
corresponding law or anything done or duly suffered thereunder; or(b)any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
against the corresponding law; or(c)any investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy in respect of any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment as
aforesaid;and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be
instituted, continued or, enforced and any such, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.(4)Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), anything done or any action taken, including
any appointment or delegation made, notification, order, instruction or
direction issued, rule, regulation or form framed, certificate granted or
registration effected under the corresponding law shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under the said Act and shall continue in force accordingly,
unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the
said Act.(5)Unless the context otherwise requires, the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] General Clauses Act, 1891 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of
1891) shall apply for the interpretation of the said Act as extended to, and
in force in, the transferred territory.(6)For the purpose of facilitating the
application of the said Act in the transferred territory, any Court or other
authority may construe the said Act with such alterations not affecting the
substance as may be necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before the
Court or other authority.(7)Any reference in the said Act to a law which is
not in force in the transferred territory shall, in relation to that
territory, be construed as a reference to the law, if any, in force in that
territory corresponding to the law referred to in the said Act.(8)Any
reference in any law which continues to be in force in the transferred
territory after the commencement of this Act to the corresponding law shall,
in relation to that territory, be construed as a reference to the said Act or,
as the case may be, to an order duly made under the said Act.Explanation. -
For the purpose of this section, the expression "transferred territory" shall
mean the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah Taluk of the Tirunelveli
district.

### 4. Repeal.

\- The Madras Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers)
Amendment Ordinance, 1958 (Madras Ordinance II of 1958) is hereby repealed.

