## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act, 2012

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act, 2012

## Act 22 of 2012

  * Published on 31 May 2012 
  * Commenced on 31 May 2012 
  * [This is the version of this document from 31 May 2012.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act, 2012(Act No. 22 of 2012)Statement
of Objects and Reasons. - On the 3rd June 2011, His Excellency, the Governor
has announced on the floor of the Legislative Assembly that the State will
prepare a "Vision 2025 Document for Tamil Nadu" (subsequently titled as
"Vision 2023 Document for Tamil Nadu") to identify and remove the bottlenecks
in development, prioritise critical infrastructure projects and work
assiduously to place the State of Tamil Nadu at the forefront of
development.2\. Further, during the budget speech 2011-12, Hon'ble Minister
for Finance has announced that this Government will also constitute a Tamil
Nadu Infrastructure Development Board under the Chairmanship of the Hon'ble
Chief Minister which will continuously identify project concepts, facilitate
their execution after due evaluation and achieve financial closure either
directly through Government agencies or through the Public Private Partnership
mode depending on suitability.3\. Further, on the 30th January 2012, His
Excellency, the Governor has announced on the floor of the Legislative
Assembly that a Bill will be introduced during the coming Budget Session for
the formation of the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board, which will
serve as an institutional framework for conceptualisation, prioritisation,
sanction and speedy implementation of critical Infrastructure projects.
Accordingly, the Government have decided to undertake legislation for the
above purpose.4\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
Amendment Development Act, 2014. - In the first meeting of the Tamil Nadu
Infrastructure Development Board held on 04th February, 2013 chaired by
Hon'ble Chief Minister, it has been resolved by the Board that it would be
appropriate to include the Secretary to Government, Agriculture Department as
a member of the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board and accordingly,
the Board requested the Government to issue suitable amendment to the Tamil
Nadu Infrastructure Development Act, 2012 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2012).2\. The
Government, on consideration of the said request, have decided to include the
Secretary to Government, Agriculture Department as ex-officio member of the
said Board and also as ex-officio member of the Executive Committee of that
Board and to amend the said Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 2012 suitably for the said
purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.[Dated
31.5.2012]An Act to provide for an enabling and facilitative environment in
the State for financing, design, construction, maintenance and operation of
Infrastructure projects also through private sector participation, and to
provide for an institutional framework for identification, prioritisation and
implementation of such projects and for matters connected therewith and
incidental thereto.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows :-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act,
2012.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall apply
to all Projects of a value exceeding rupees five hundred crore implemented by
a public agency:Provided that the Government may, by general or special order,
apply the provisions of this Act, to any public-private partnership project,
the project value of which is less than rupees five hundred crore:Provided
further that it shall not apply to any Project undertaken by the Central
Government or a public sector undertaking of the Central Government, either
independently or as a joint venture with the State Government.Explanation. -
For the purpose of this sub-section, in the case of a public-private
partnership project, "project value" means, where the private sector
participant is, -(a)required to make capital investment, the value of the
asset or facility to be created including the cost of land, if the cost of the
land is to be borne by the private sector participant; or(b)not required to
make capital investment, the current replacement value of the asset or
facility, whose operation and maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
private sector participant.(4)It shall come into force on such date as the
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"administrative
department" means the department of the Secretariat which is administratively
concerned with a Project as per the Tamil Nadu Government Business Rules,
1978, and more than one department may also be administratively concerned with
a Project;(b)"Board" means the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board
established under section 3 of this Act;(c)"concessionaire" means the private
sector participant which has entered into a public-private
partnership;(d)"concession agreement" means an agreement entered into between
a public agency and a private sector participant for and in respect of a
public-private partnership;(e)"detailed Project study" means a detailed study
of the Project made after the preliminary investment decision, in order to
ascertain the capital cost, technological parameters, description of the
technology to be used, technical specifications, plan schedule to assist the
financial investment and the plan for implementation of the Project and such
other information as may be prescribed in the regulations;(f)"feasibility
study" means a preliminary study made for investment decision-making, to
assess the technical, social, economic and financial viability and the social
and environmental impact of a Project including the demand for the services,
appropriate technology to be adopted, capital cost, time required for
implementation, and such other information as may be prescribed in the
regulations;(g)"Government" means the State Government;(h)"Government company"
means any company in which not less than fifty-one per cent of the paid-up
share capital is held by the State Government or Governments and includes a
company which is a subsidiary of a Government company as thus
defined;(i)"Infrastructure" means provision of assets or services in any one
or more of the sectors specified in Schedule-I;(j)"Local authority" means any
municipal corporation or municipal council or panchayat union council or
village panchayat constituted under the relevant law for the time being in
force;(k)"private sector participant" means any person other than a public
agency or the Central Government or a public sector undertaking of the Central
Government;(l)"Project" means an Infrastructure Project;(m)"public-private
partnership" means an arrangement between a public agency and a private sector
participant for the provision of infrastructure through investment made or
through design, development, construction, maintenance or operation undertaken
by the private sector participant, where risks are allocated between them such
that the private sector participant takes on the risk beyond the stage of
design and construction and the payment for the services are performance
linked, in the form of user charges, annuities or unitary payment;(n)"public-
private partnership project" means a Project implemented through public-
private partnership;(o)"public agency" means any department of the Government
or any public sector undertaking of the Government, a Government Company,
Statutory Board formed by the Government, Local authority, Co-operative
Institution, State University, any Society or Trust formed, owned or
controlled by the Government;(p)"public financial support" means financial
support from the Central Government or the State support or both;(q)"public
sector mode" means implementation of a Project directly by a public agency by
it's own resources or through the State Budgetary resources;(r)"regulations"
mean the regulations made by the Board under this Act;(s)"rules" mean the
rules made by the Government under this Act;(t)"Schedule" means a Schedule,
appended to this Act;(u)"sponsoring agency" means the public agency designated
by the Board to implement a Project through public-private
partnership;(v)"State support" means the support extended by the Government to
a concessionaire, which may include the following :-(i)subsidy or capital
grant not exceeding such proportion of the cost of the Project, as may be
prescribed in the rules;(ii)equity;(iii)loans;(iv)guarantee by the
Government;(v)opening and operation of escrow account;(vi)conferment of right
to develop any land;(vii)incentives in the form of exemption from the payment
of, or deferred payment of, any tax or fees levied under any law or such other
incentives, as may be prescribed in the rules.(w)"Tender Act" means the Tamil
Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998 (Tamil Nadu Act 43 of 1998);(x)"user
levy" means user charge or fee or any other amount, by whatever name called,
payable by the user of an infrastructure facility.

## Chapter II  
The Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board

### 3. Establishment of the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board.

(1)As soon as may be, after the commencement of this Act, the Government may,
by notification, establish a Board to be called the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
Development Board with effect from such date as may be specified in the
notification.(2)The head quarters of the Board shall be at Chennai.(3)The
Board shall consist of the following members, namely :-(a)the Chief Minister,
who shall be the Chairperson, ex-officio;(b)the Minister in-charge of Finance,
who shall be the Vice-Chairperson, ex-officio;(c)the Chief Secretary to
Government, who shall be the Member-Secretary, ex-officio;(d)the Secretary to
Government, Finance Department, ex-officio;(e)the Secretary to Government,
Public Works Department, ex-officio;(f)the Secretary to Government, Industries
Department, ex-officio;(g)the Secretary to Government, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply Department, ex-officio;(h)the Secretary to
Government, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, ex-officio;(i)the
Secretary to Government, Housing and Urban Development Department, ex-
officio;(j)the Secretary to Government, Law Department, ex-officio;(k)the
Secretary to Government, Revenue Department, ex-officio;(kk)[ the Secretary to
Government, Agriculture Department, ex-officio;] [Inserted by Act No. I of
2014. dt. 26.02.2014.](l)the Secretary to Government, Environment and Forests
Department, ex-officio; and(m)the Chief Executive Officer of the Board, ex-
officio.

### 4. Meeting of the Board.

(1)The Board shall meet at such time and place and shall observe such rules of
procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings, including the
quorum at such meetings as may be provided in the regulations.(2)When the
Chairperson of the Board, or in his absence the Vice-Chairperson, and in the
absence of both the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson, any other member
chosen by the members present from amongst themselves shall preside over the
meeting of the Board.(3)All questions at a meeting of the Board shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting and, in
the case of any equality of votes, the person presiding shall have a second or
casting vote.(4)The Minister-in-charge of the administrative department and
the Secretary to Government of the administrative department shall be the
special invitees at the meetings of the Board:Provided that the Chairperson
may allow any person as he deems necessary to be a special invitee.

### 5. Proceedings of the Board not to be invalidated.

\- No act or proceedings of the Board shall be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy amongst its members or any defect in the constitution
thereof.

### 6. Appointment of Chief Executive Officer, officers and staff of the
Board.

(1)There shall be a Chief Executive Officer for the Board, in the rank of
Secretary to Government in Finance department, appointed by the
Government.(2)The Board may, with the approval of the Government, create such
posts and appoint such number of persons as it may require, to carry out its
functions and duties under this Act.(3)The salary, allowances and the
conditions of service of the persons appointed under sub-section (2), shall be
such as may be prescribed in the regulations.(4)The Chief Executive Officer of
the Board shall exercise the power of supervision and control over all the
officers and staff of the Board.

### 7. Functions of the Board.

\- The Board shall, -(1)act as a nodal agency to co-ordinate the efforts of
the Government in regard to the development of the Infrastructure sectors in
the State;(2)identify or conceptualize, prioritize and determine the sequence
of Projects and recommend to the Government a shelf of Projects for
implementation in the State;(3)identify bottlenecks in the Projects and
recommend policy initiatives to rectify the same;(4)formulate polices related
to the sectors specified in Schedule I, so as to ensure that Project risks are
identified and allocated between the stakeholders;(5)co-ordinate with the
departments concerned and the implementing agencies;(6)prepare documents
including feasibility study reports and detailed Project study reports,
internally or through external consultants or experts;(7)scrutinize, evaluate
and prioritize the Projects proposed by a public agency and recommend to the
Government for its implementation;(8)prescribe the form of tender documents
for all Projects;(9)designate the public agency, which shall implement a
Project through public sector mode or through a public-private
partnership;(10)approve concession agreements in respect of the Projects
identified by the Board;(11)evaluate and recommend financial support from the
Government under the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund or from the
Central Government;(12)co-ordinate with the Government, any Government agency
and the sponsoring agency in the execution of public-private partnership
projects;(13)manage and utilise the Project Preparation Fund;(14)promote and
oversee, capacity building for project appraisal, project management,
procurement, and related areas in Government departments and public agencies;
and(15)perform such other functions as may be entrusted to it by the
Government.

### 8. Powers of the Board.

\- The Board shall, for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this
Act, have the following powers, namely :-(a)to call upon any public agency or
concessionaire or any person to furnish any information in regard to any
Project;(b)to inspect, visit and monitor any Project and its execution,
operation and management; and(c)to regulate its own procedures.

### 9. Executive Committee.

(1)There shall be an Executive Committee of the Board. It shall exercise such
of the powers and perform such of the functions as may be delegated to it by
the Board.(2)The Executive Committee shall consist of the following members,
namely :-(a)the Chief Secretary to Government, who shall be the Chairperson,
ex-officio;(b)the Secretary to Government, Finance Department, ex-
officio;(c)the Secretary to Government, Public Works Department, ex-
officio;(d)the Secretary to Government, Industries Department, ex-
officio;(e)the Secretary to Government, Municipal Administration and Water
Supply Department, ex-officio;(f)the Secretary to Government, Rural
Development and Panchayat Raj Department, ex-officio;(g)the Secretary to
Government, Housing and Urban Development Department, ex-officio;(h)the
Secretary to Government, Law Department, ex-officio;(i)the Secretary to
Government, Revenue Department, ex-officio;(j)the Secretary to Government,
Environment and Forests Department, ex-officio;(jj)[ the Secretary to
Government, Agriculture Department, ex-officio;] [Inserted by Act No. I of
2014, dated 26.02.2014.](k)the Chief Executive Officer of the Board, who shall
be the Member-Secretary, ex-officio; and(l)experts in the fields of banking,
finance, economics, commerce, industry, environment, law, technology and the
like not exceeding five, as may be nominated by the Chairperson of the
Board.(3)The tenure and the terms and conditions of appointment of the experts
shall be as prescribed in the regulations.

### 10. Meeting of the Executive Committee.

(1)The Executive Committee shall meet at such time and place and shall observe
such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings,
including the quorum at such meetings as may be provided in the
regulations.(2)When the Chairperson of the Executive Committee is absent, any
other member chosen by the members present from amongst themselves shall
preside over the meeting of the Executive Committee.(3)All questions at a
meeting of the Executive Committee shall be decided by a majority of the votes
of the members present and voting and, in the case of any equality of votes,
the person presiding shall have a second or casting vote.(4)The Secretary to
Government of the administrative department shall be the special invitee at
the meetings of the Executive Committee.(5)The Chairperson of the Executive
Committee may invite any other person as he may consider necessary to attend a
meeting of the Executive Committee.

### 11. Proceedings of the Executive Committee not to be invalidated.

\- No act or proceedings of the Executive Committee shall be invalid by reason
only of the existence of any vacancy amongst its members or any defect in the
constitution thereof.

### 12. Constitution of Other Committees.

\- The Board shall have the power to constitute such other committees as it
considers necessary and to delegate to them such of their powers as it deems
fit. Such Committees shall consist of members of the Board and of such other
persons if any, as the Board in each case deems fit.

### 13. Fees and allowances to non-official members and invitees.

\- The non-official members of the Board or of any of its committees and the
invitees to the meetings of the Board or of any of its committees shall be
paid such fees and allowances, as may be prescribed in the rules.

## Chapter III  
Project Identification, Prioritization and Implementation

### 14. Project Identification and Prioritization.

(1)The Board, on its own accord or on a study or survey caused to be conducted
or based on inputs received from a third party, on identifying or
conceptualizing a Project to be developed, managed and operated in this State,
shall seek the views of the public agency concerned thereon:Provided that if
the public agency does not furnish its views within thirty days from the date
of receipt of the said communication from the Board, it shall be deemed that
the public agency has no views to offer.(2)Any public agency may also identify
or conceptualize a Project to be developed, managed and operated in this State
and send proposal therefor to the Board for its recommendation. The Board
shall scrutinize, evaluate and where more than one such proposal is received,
prioritize the same.(3)The Board, on receipt of the views of the public agency
under sub-section (1) or proposal from any public agency under sub-section
(2), shall examine the same with reference to the following factors, namely
:-(i)the cost-benefit analysis of the Project including the socio-economic
cost-benefit;(ii)the cost effectiveness of implementation through public-
private partnership with a value for money test, as may be prescribed in the
regulations;(iii)the possibility of specifying Project performance parameters
and measuring their outcomes;(iv)the risk sharing possibilities with the
private sector participant;(v)the technological and managerial advantages that
may accrue due to private sector participation; and(vi)the socio-economic
factors which may affect investment by the private sector participant.(4)The
Board, shall cause the feasibility study and after satisfying itself as to the
feasibility of the proposed Project, recommend the same to the Government,
indicating specifically as to whether it may be implemented through public
sector mode or through public - private partnership.(5)The Board shall cause
the details of projects recommended under sub section (4), to be published on
its website and on such other websites, as may be prescribed in the
rules:Provided that the Board may, for reason to be recorded in writing,
choose not to publish the details of a Project.(6)On receipt of proposal for
implementation of the Project under sub-section (4), the Government shall
consider the same and communicate its decision on the implementation of the
Project including the mode of its implementation, to the Board ordinarily
within thirty days.

### 15. Project Implementation through public sector mode.

(1)In respect of a Project decided by the Government to be implemented through
public sector mode, the Board shall designate the public agency which shall
implement that Project, give direction for its implementation and monitor the
progress of implementation.(2)If the public agency does not commence the
Project within three months from the date of receipt of such direction or
expresses its inability to implement the Project, for any reason recorded in
writing, the Board with the approval of the Government shall re-examine the
Project as in sub-section (3) of section 14 and make a fresh recommendation to
the Government.

### 16. Project implementation through public-private partnership.

\- In respect of Projects decided by the Government to be implemented through
public-private partnership, the Board shall cause the sponsoring agency to
publish the details of the proposed project in such form and in such manner,
as may be prescribed in the regulations, inviting objections and suggestions.
The sponsoring agency shall, based on the objections and suggestions, if any,
received, prepare and submit a report to the Board within such period, as may
be prescribed in the regulations.

### 17. Detailed Project study and Project structuring.

\- The Board, on receipt of the report from the sponsoring agency under
section 16, shall consider in consultation with the administrative department
and after causing the detailed Project study, if it considers necessary,
finalise the scope and structure of the Project, either in its original form
or with such modification, as it deems fit, also taking into account, the
following aspects, namely : -(a)whether the Project needs any public financial
support, and if so, the appropriate form of such support;(b)the tender
criteria or variables relevant for evaluation of the tender; and(c)the
appropriate concession agreement or a combination thereof, from out of those
listed in Schedule II.

### 18. Procuring entity for Projects.

(1)Every public agency designated by the Board to implement a Project shall be
a procuring entity under the Tender Act:Provided that the Board may, for any
class of Project as may be prescribed in the rules, be the procuring entity
under the Tender Act.(2)No procurement under this Act shall be made by the
procuring entity except by tender, following the provisions contained in the
Tender Act.(3)The tender documents shall be in the form and manner as may be
prescribed in the regulations:Provided that for any class of Project as may be
prescribed in the regulations, the procuring entity shall submit the tender
documents for prior approval of the Board.(4)The procuring entity shall, in
respect of Projects identified by the Board, intimate the name and address of
the tenderer whose tender has been accepted, to the Board and shall also
obtain its approval on the concession agreement to be entered into with such
tenderer.

### 19. Appointment of Project Manager and Experts.

(1)The Board may, if it considers necessary, shall direct the sponsoring
agency to appoint a person, who has knowledge and experience in the working of
public-private partnership modes and processes, for such period as may be
prescribed in the regulations, as Project Manager for a public-private
partnership Project. The Project Manager, so appointed shall be responsible
for the management and tendering of the Project.(2)A public-private
partnership project for which a Project Manager is appointed, the sponsoring
agency shall, make available the services of the officers serving in that
agency who possess expertise in the fields of risk management, contingency
planning, quality assurance and performance management, public sector
accounting and financial management, to assist the Project Manager:Provided
that, if expert in a field is not available within the sponsoring agency, the
agency may engage the services of a practicing consultant.

### 20. Project Management Facility.

\- The Government may, by notification, constitute an agency with such number
of members, with such qualification, as may be prescribed in the regulations
to be called the Project Management Facility for the management and
supervision of any Project. The Project Management Facility shall exercise
such powers and perform such functions, as may be prescribed in the
regulations.

### 21. Monitoring of Project Implementation.

(1)The Board shall monitor the implementation of all Projects including the
enforcement of concession agreements.(2)The Board may, for the said purpose,
-(a)require the submission of periodical or special reports from the
sponsoring agency, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed in the
regulations;(b)give directions to the sponsoring agency to maintain project
documentation in such form and manner, as may be prescribed in the
regulations; and(c)give such other directions to the sponsoring agency as it
deems fit.(3)The Board may make recommendations to the Government for
corrective actions where projects appear to be failing to achieve their
objectives.

### 22. Infrastructure cess, user charges and fees.

(1)The Government may levy infrastructure cess at such rates and for such
period, as may be prescribed in the rules.(2)The Board may levy user charges
on the users of the infrastructure facility and fees for the services
rendered, at such rates, as may be prescribed in the rules.

### 23. Abuser charge.

\- The Board may levy abuser charge at such rate, as may be prescribed in the
rules, on any concessionaire for abuse of any right accorded in the concession
agreement:Provided that no such abuser charge shall be levied unless the
concessionaire is given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such
levy.

## Chapter IV  
Finance, Accounts and Audit

### 24. Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a Fund to be called the
Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund with an initial corpus of such
amount, as may be specified in that notification.(2)The Fund may be credited
with the grants made by the Government from time to time for the purpose and
the amount collected as infrastructure cess.(3)The Fund may also be credited
with the contributions received from public bodies, multilateral lending
agencies or other financial institutions.(4)The Fund may, with the
recommendation of the Board, be utilised for providing financial support to
facilitate design, development, working, administration, management of
Projects. The Fund may also be utilised for such other purposes, as may be
prescribed in the rules.(5)The Fund shall be managed and utilised by the
Government in such manner, as may be prescribed in the rules.

### 25. Project Preparation Fund.

(1)The Government shall, by notification, constitute a Fund to be called the
Project Preparation Fund with an initial corpus of such amount, as may be
specified in that notification.(2)The Fund may be credited with the grants
made by the Government from time to time for the purpose and the amount
collected as fees, user charges and abuser charges.(3)The Fund may, with the
prior concurrence of the Government, also be credited with the contributions
received from public bodies, multilateral lending agencies or other financial
institutions.(4)The Fund may be utilised to provide financial support for
conducting studies, hiring the services of experts and consultants, preparing
feasibility studies, detailed project studies, capacity building, research and
for such other purposes, as may be prescribed in the rules.(5)The Fund shall
be managed and utilised by the Board in such manner, as may be prescribed in
the rules.

### 26. Accounts and audit.

(1)The accounts of the Board shall be maintained in such manner and in such
form, as may be prescribed in the rules.(2)The Board shall prepare an annual
statement of accounts in such form, as may be prescribed in the rules.(3)The
accounts of the Board shall be audited once in a year by a person duly
qualified to act as an auditor of a company under section 226 of the Companies
Act, 1956.(4)The accounts of the Board as certified by the auditor together
with audit report along with the remarks of the Board thereon shall be
forwarded to the Government within such time, as may be prescribed in the
rules.(5)The Government may, by order, direct the Board to take such action as
may be specified in the order to remedy, within such time as may be specified
therein, the defects, if any, disclosed in the audit report, and the Board
shall comply with such direction.

### 27. Annual report.

(1)The Board shall, as soon as may be, after the end of each financial year,
prepare and submit to the Government, before such date and in such form, as
may be prescribed in the rules, a report giving an account of its activities
during the previous year and the report shall also give an account of the
activities, if any, which are likely to be undertaken by the Board in the
current financial year.(2)The Government shall cause every such report to be
laid before the Legislative Assembly, as soon as may be, after its receipt
under sub-section (1).

## Chapter V  
Miscellaneous

### 28. Members, officers and employees of the Board to be public servants.

\- The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Members, Member - Secretary and officers
and employees of the Board shall be deemed, when acting or purporting to act
in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act, or any rule or regulation
or order or direction made or issued under this Act, to be public servants
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.

### 29. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Government, the
Board or any member thereof or any officer or employee or person acting under
the direction of the Government or the Board in respect of anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule
or regulation or order or direction made or issued under this Act.

### 30. Power to make Rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely
:-(a)the websites in which the list of Projects recommended by the Board for
implementation under section 14 shall be published;(b)the proportion of the
cost of Project that may be provided as subsidy by the
Government;(c)incentives that may be provided to a concessionaire as State
support;(d)the tenure of experts in the Executive Committee and the terms and
conditions of their appointment;(e)the fees and allowances payable to the non-
official members of the Board or of any of its committees and to the special
invitees to the meetings of the Board or of any of its committees;(f)the class
of Projects for which the Board shall be the procuring entity under the Tender
Act;(g)the rate and period for which Infrastructure cess may be levied;(h)the
rates at which the Board may levy fees, user charges and abuser charge;(i)the
purposes for which the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund and the
Project Preparation Fund shall be utilised;(j)the manner in which the Tamil
Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund and the Project Preparation Fund shall be
managed and utilised;(k)the manner and form in which accounts shall be
maintained by the Board;(l)the form in which the annual statement of accounts
of the Board shall be prepared;(m)the time limit within which the accounts and
the audit report shall be forwarded by the Board to the Government;(n)the form
of the Annual report and the time limit within which it shall be submitted by
the Board to the Government;(o)any other matter which is to be, or may be,
provided for in the rules.

### 31. Power to make regulations.

(1)The Board may make regulations consistent with the provisions of this Act
and the rules made thereunder.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any
of the following matters, namely :-(a)the information that may be assessed or
ascertained through feasibility study and detailed Project study;(b)the posts,
that may be created for appointment of officers and staff of the Board, their
salary, allowances and conditions of service;(c)the form and manner of tender
documents and the class of Projects in respect of which, the tender documents
require prior approval of the Board;(d)the time and place of meetings of the
Board and of the Executive Committee, the procedure to be followed in regard
to the transaction of business at such meetings and the quorum at such
meetings;(e)the "value for money test" to ascertain the cost of implementation
of a Project through public sector mode and through public-private
partnership, in order to compare and adopt the mode of implementation, which
is cost effective;(f)the form and manner in which the details of the proposed
Project shall be published by the sponsoring agency under section 16;(g)the
period within which the sponsoring agency shall submit a report to the Board
under section 16;(h)period of experience for appointment as Project
Manager;(i)the number of members of the Project Management Facility, their
qualifications, powers and functions;(j)the form and manner of submission of
periodical and special reports by the sponsoring agency to the Board under
section 21;(k)any other matter which is to be, or may be provided for in the
regulations.

### 32. Power to amend Schedules.

\- The Government may, by notification, in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
amend any of the Schedules to this Act.

### 33. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by notification, make such provision not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act as may appear to them to be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such notification
shall be issued after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of
this Act.

### 34. Power to exempt.

\- The Government may, by notification, exempt any Project from all or any of
the provisions of this Act, for reasons to be recorded.

### 35. Publication of rules, regulations and notifications and placing them
before the Legislature.

(1)(a)All rules or regulations made or notifications issued under this Act
shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular date, shall come into force on
the date on which they are so published.(2)Every rule or regulation made or
notification issued under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made
or issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before
the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the
Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in any such rule or
regulation or notification or the Legislative Assembly agrees that the rule or
regulation or notification should not be made or issued, the rule or
regulation or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation or notification.

### 36. Act to override other State laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other State law for the time being in
force.

## I

[See section 2(i)]Sectors(1)Agriculture Infrastructure including Marketing and
Post harvest infrastructure.(2)Development of Minor Minerals.(3)Drinking and
Industrial Water supply systems, Desalination Plants.(4)Education related
Infrastructure.(5)Fisheries.(6)Gas and Gas Works.(7)Health
Infrastructure.(8)Housing including Slum Development and Development of
Satellite towns.(9)Industrial Estates including Industrial Parks and Special
Economic Zones.(10)Information and Communication Technology related
Projects.(11)Inland Waterways other than National Waterways.(12)Irrigation
including Dams, Irrigation Structures, Canals.(13)Land Reclamation
Projects.(14)Ports (other than major ports) and Harbours thereof.(15)Power
Generation, Transmission and Distribution Systems.(16)Roads, Bridges,
including Rail over and under Bridges and By-passes.(17)Solid Waste
Management.(18)Sports and Recreation Infrastructure.(19)Tourism and
Hospitality Projects.(20)Urban Transportation System, Bus terminals,
multilevel parking facilities.(21)Waste Water, Sewerage treatment systems

## II

[See section 17]Nature of Concession Agreements

### 1\. Investment or Financing related Agreements.

(i)Build-Operate-and-Transfer (BOT). - A contractual arrangement whereby the
concessionaire undertakes the construction, including financing, of a given
infrastructure facility, and the operation and maintenance thereof. The
concessionaire operates the facility over a fixed term during which they are
allowed to charge the users appropriate tolls, fees, rentals and charges as
incorporated in the contract to enable the recovery of investment in the
Project. The concessionaire transfers the facility to the Government at the
end of the fixed term that shall be specified in the Concession
agreement.(ii)Build-Own-and-Operate (BOO). - A contractual arrangement whereby
the concessionaire is authorized to finance, construct, own, operate and
maintain an infrastructure or development facility from which the
concessionaire is allowed to recover the total investment by collecting user
levies from facility users. The ownership of the land will be vested with the
Government. Under this mode, the concessionaire owns the assets of the
facility and may choose to assign its operation and maintenance to a facility
operator. The transfer of the facility to the Government is not envisaged in
this structure; however, the Government may terminate its obligations after
the specified time period.(iii)Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT). - A
contractual arrangement whereby the concessionaire is authorised to finance,
construct, maintain and operate a Project and whereby such Project is to vest
in the concessionaire for a specified period. During the operation period, the
concessionaire will be permitted to charge user levies specified in the
Concession agreement, to recover the investment made in the Project. The
concessionaire is liable to transfer the Project to the Government after the
expiry of the specified period of operation.(iv)Build-Transfer-and-Operate
(BTO). - A contractual arrangement whereby the Government contracts out an
infrastructure facility to the concessionaire to construct the facility on a
turn-key basis, assuming cost overruns, delays and specified performance
risks. Once the facility is commissioned satisfactorily, the concessionaire is
given the right to operate the facility and collect user levies specified in
the Concession agreement. The title of the facilities always vests with the
Government in this arrangement.(v)Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer
(DBFOT). - A contractual arrangement whereby the concessionaire is bestowed
with the responsibility of designing, building, financing and operating the
facility before transferring the Project to the Government after the expiry of
the specified period. The concessionaire operates the facility over a fixed
term during which they are allowed to charge the users appropriate tolls,
fees, rentals and charges as incorporated in the contract to enable the
recovery of investment in the Project.

### 2\. Operations and Maintenance related Agreements.

(i)Management Agreement. - A contractual arrangement whereby the Government
entrusts the operation and management of a Project to the concessionaire for
the period specified in the agreement on payment of specified consideration.
In such agreement, the Government may charge the user levies and collect the
same either by itself or entrust the collection for consideration to any
concessionaire who shall after collecting the user levies, pay the same to the
Government.(ii)Lease Management Agreement. - A contractual arrangement whereby
the Government leases a Project owned by it to the concessionaire which is
permitted to operate and maintain the Project for the period specified in the
contract. The concessionaire is allowed to charge the users appropriate fees,
rentals and charges as specified in the agreement to enable the recovery of
investment in the Project.(iii)Build-Lease-and-Transfer (BLT). - A contractual
arrangement whereby the concessionaire undertakes to finance and construct the
Project and on its completion hands it over to the Government. The Government
then gives the facility to the same operator on a lease arrangement for a
fixed period, after which ownership of the facility is automatically
transferred to the Government.(iv)Rehabilitate-Operate-and-Transfer (ROT). - A
contractual arrangement whereby an existing facility is handed over to the
concessionaire to invest, refurbish, operate and maintain for a period, at the
expiry of which the facility is returned to the Government. The concessionaire
operates the facility over a fixed term during which they are allowed to
charge the users appropriate fees, rentals and charges as specified in the
contract to enable the recovery of investment in the Project.(v)Rehabilitate-
Own-and-Operate (ROO). - A contractual arrangement whereby an existing
facility is handed over to the concessionaire to invest, refurbish, operate
and maintain the development facility from which the concessionaire is allowed
to recover the total investment by collecting user levies from facility users.
The ownership of the land shall be vested with the Government. The transfer of
the facility to the Government is not envisaged in this arrangement; however,
the Government may terminate its obligations after a specified time period.

