## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956

## Act 30 of 1956

  * Published on 10 December 1956 
  * Commenced on 10 December 1956 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 December 1956.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of
1956)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary)
Act; 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XXX of l956). - The following is the statement of
objects and reasons appended to the Bill. In proceedings under the Madras
Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947, and the Madras Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 the question whether the area to which
the Act is applied is or is not an estate as defined in the Madras Estates
Land Act, 1908, is often raised. The Madras Estates Land Act does not contain
any provision for the determination of this question. Though, in the enquiry
under section 9 of the Abolition Act, the Settlement Officer in the first
instance, and the Tribunal in appeal, give a finding on the question whether a
particular inam village is or is not an estate, the High Court has held that
such a finding is not binding on any one and that an ordinary civil suit can
be filed for the determination of the question. This has led to a multiplicity
of suits with the result that the Government have to contest these suits and
go through all the normal process of litigation by way of proceeding in the
trial courts, appeals, revision petitions, etc., The Government have,
therefore, decided that legislation should be undertaken to provide for a
machinery for the expeditious determination of the question. The draft Bill
gives effect to this decision.Published in Part IV-A (page 190) of the Fort
St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 26th September 1956.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Madras Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961). - Section 11(1) of the Madras Estates
(Supplementary) Act, 1956 (Madras Act XXX of 1956) lays down that all suits,
appeals or other proceedings (other than those pending before the High Court)
pending at the commencement of that Act before any Court or Tribunal or
Settlement Officer in which any question is in issue whether a particular area
is or was an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of the Madras Estates
Land Act, or is or was an inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7) of
the Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act), shall stand
transferred to the appropriate Tribunal constituted under the first mentioned
Act for the determination of that question. Section 12 of that Act lays down
that if, on remand by the High Court in respect of a case pending before it on
or after the commencement of that Act, a Court subordinate to the High Court
is seized of the question whether a particular non-ryotwari area is or is not
an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2) of the Madras Estates Land Act
or is or is not an inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7) of the
Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, that case shall
stand transferred to the appropriate Tribunal constituted under the 1956 Act
referred to above for the determination of that question and be disposed of by
it in accordance with the provisions of that Act. In some of the suits,
appeals, etc., referred to above, a number of questions may have to be
adjudicated upon and the Tribunal cannot decide all these questions, its
jurisdiction being limited to the determination of the question whether a
particular non-ryotwari area is or is not an estate or is or is not an inam
estate. The High Court, Madras, considers that under the Act as it now stands,
the Tribunal does not have the power to pass interim order to safeguard the
rights of the parties before it, pending the determination, of the said
question under section 11(1) or section 12 and that this cannot also be
achieved by the exercise of the rule making power under section 14, but only
by an appropriate amendment to the Act. The High Court has further stated that
similarly, Civil Courts (including the District Court which has now been
constituted as the Tribunal under the Act) cannot grant such interim relief
either which it would be necessary to grant' to avoid hardship and irreparable
damage even in eases where the issues raised in the proceedings which stand
transferred to the Tribunal, cover matters other than those with which the
Tribunal has jurisdiction to deal and that this again cannot be accomplished
by framing rules under the Act, but only by an amendment to the Act itself. It
is accordingly proposed to amend the Madras Estates (Supplementary) Act, 1956
so as to provide -(1) that in the case of any suit appeal and other proceeding
in which the question whether a particular non-ryotwari area is or is not an
estate or is not an inam estate, is in issue, either solely or along with
certain other issues, only the issue relating to the said question should be
referred to the appropriate Tribunal;(2) that the Court, Tribunal or
Settlement Officer concerned should keep the suit, appeal or other proceeding
pending till the finding of the Tribunal on the question is received and then
dispose of the suit, appeal or other proceeding; and(3) that the Court,
Tribunal or Settlement Officer concerned may in the meantime deal with the
suit appeal or other proceeding in respect of matters other than that referred
or transferred to the Tribunal.The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
proposals.Published in Part IV-A of the Fort George Gazette Extraordinary,
dated the 13th March 1961.Received the assent of the President on the 10th
December 1956 and first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 19th
December 1956.An Act to provide for the determination of questions whether any
non-ryotwari area in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] is or is
not an estate.Whereas it is expedient to provide for the determination of
questions whether any non-ryotwari area in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] is or is not an estate;Be it enacted in the Seventh
Year of the Republic of India as follows: -

### 1. Short title, commencement and application.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Supplementary)
Act, 1956.(2)It shall come into force on such date as the State Government
may, by notification, appoint.(3)It applies to all non-ryotwari areas in the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.], including any area in
respect of which an order under section 3, sub-section (2), of the Rent
Reduction Act or a notification under section 1, sub-section (4), of the
Abolition Act, or both an order and a notification as aforesaid has or have
been published.Notes. - This Act came into force on the 3rd August 1957.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-(a)"Abolition Act" means
the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948;(b)"Estates Land Act" means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908);(c)["Rent
Reduction Act"] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
Land (Reduction of Rent) Act, 1947 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXX of
1947);(d)"Tribunal" means a Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area and
constituted under section 5.

### 3. Determination of questions whether any non-ryotwari area is or is not
an estate.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Estates Land Act or in any other
law for the time being in force, any person interested may make an application
to the Tribunal for a declaration that the area specified in the application
is or is not an estate or part of an estate as defined in section 3, clause
(2), of the Estates Land Act, or that it is or is not an inam estate as
defined in section 2, clause (7) of the Abolition Act.(2)Any such application
shall be filed within three months from the date on which this Act comes into
force or within three months from the date of publication of the order under
section 3, sub-section (2), of the Rent Reduction Act, or of the notification
under section 1, sub-section (4) of the Abolition Act, whichever of the dates
aforesaid is the latest.(3)The Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further
time not exceeding three months for the making of any application under this
section.

### 4. Applications by Government.

(1)Against the decision of any Court or of a Settlement Officer or Tribunal
(constituted under the Abolition Act), an application may, within one year
from the date on which this Act comes into force, be filed under this Act on
behalf of the State Government by such officer as they may, from time to time,
authorize in this behalf, for a declaration that any non-ryotwari area is an
estate under section 3, clause (2), of the Estates Land Act, or that it is an
inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7), of the Abolition Act.(2)Such
application -(a)against the decision of a Settlement Officer shall lie to the
appropriate Tribunal and be dealt with under section 6;(b)in other cases,
shall lie to the Special Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 7 and be
dealt with as an appeal under the said section.

### 4A. [ Tribunal to give decision in certain cases referred to it. [Inserted
by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961).]

(1)Where, in any suit or appeal or other proceeding pending before any Court
(other than the High Court) or Tribunal or Settlement Officer as defined in
section 2, clause (13), of the Abolition Act, any question is in issue whether
a particular area is or was an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2), of
the Estates Land Act, or is or was an inam estate as defined in section 2,
clause (7), of the Abolition Act, such question shall be referred to the
appropriate Tribunal constituted under this Act for
determination.(2)Notwithstanding any reference made to the Tribunal under sub-
section (1), or any appeal preferred before the Special Appellate Tribunal
under sub-section (1) of section 7, the Court or Tribunal or Settlement
Officer, as the case may be, may pass such interim orders in respect of the
suit or appeal or other proceeding as are allowed by law.]

### 5. Constitution of Tribunals.

(1)The State Government shall constitute as many [Tribunals as may be
necessary for the purposes of this Act.] [The finding under this Act of a
Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal constituted under this Act that a
particular area is an inam village which became an estate by virtue of the
Tamil Nadu Estates Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936 (Tamil Nadu Act XVIII of
1936) shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Tamil Nadu Inams
(Supplementary) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1963). Please see section 12
of the latter Act.](2)[Each Tribunal shall consist of one person only who
shall be a Judicial Officer not below the rank of District Judge or Additional
District Judge.] [This sub-section was substituted for the original sub-
section (2) by section 14(i) of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari), Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) and Estates
(Supplementary) (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIV of 1958).](3)Each
Tribunal shall have such jurisdiction and over such areas as the State
Government may, by notification, from time to time, determine.(4)[Every
Tribunal shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), when trying a suit or
when hearing an appeal.] [This sub-section was substituted for the original
sub-section (4) by of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari), Estates Land (Reduction of Rent) and Estates (Supplementary)
(Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXIV of 1958).]

### 6. Procedure to be followed by the Tribunal.

\- [(1) On receipt of an application under section 3] [Original section 6 was
re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section and these words were inserted
by section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961).] or under section 4 [or a reference under section
4-A or section 12] [Original section 6 was re-numbered as sub-section (1) of
that section and these words were inserted by section 3(V of the Tamil Nadu
Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Art 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961.], the
Tribunal shall, after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the applicant,
to the State Government if the State Government is not the applicant, to the
landholder and if the applicant is the landholder to the person in occupation
of the land in the area concerned, and after publishing the notice in the
prescribed manner in the village, and after giving the parties who appear
before it an opportunity to be heard and to adduce their evidence, give its
decision on the question whether the area concerning which the application is
filed is or is not an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2), of the
Estates Land Act and if it is an estate, the sub-clause of the above clause
under which it falls, and if it falls under sub-clause (d) of the above clause
whether it is an inam village which became an estate by virtue of the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XVIII of 1936).(2)[ The decision of the Tribunal
on the reference made to it under section 4-A or section 12 shall be
communicated to the Court or Tribunal or Settlement Officer who made the
reference.] [Inserted by section 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Estates
(Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961).]

### 7. Appeals to the Special Appellate Tribunal.

(1)Against any such decision of the Tribunal, the State Government, within six
months from the date of decision, and any person aggrieved by such decision,
within two months from the said date, may, appeal to a Special Appellate
Tribunal, consisting of two Judges of the High Court nominated, from time to
time, by the Chief Justice in that behalf, provided that the Special Appellate
Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding three months
for the filing of such appeal.(2)The members of the Special Appellate Tribunal
shall hear the appeal and on all points, whether of law or of fact, on which
they arc agreed in their opinion, their decision shall be final. Where on any
such point or points, the members are divided in their opinion, they shall
state the point or points on which they are so divided, and such point or
points together with their opinions thereon, shall then, be laid before one or
more Judges nominated for the purpose by the Chief Justice, and such judge or
judges shall hear the appeal in so far as it relates to such point or points,
and on each such point, the decision of the majority of the judges who have
heard the appeal, including those who first heard it, shall be
final.(3)Subject to the decision on such appeal, the decision of the Tribunal
shall be final and shall not be liable to be questioned in any Court of
law.(4)Every decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal and, subject to such
decision, every decision of the Tribunal shall be binding on all persons
claiming an interest in any land in the non-ryotwari area concerned
notwithstanding that any such person has not preferred any application or
filed any statement or adduced any evidence or appeared or participated in the
proceedings before the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case
may be.(5)[ The decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal] [Inserted by
section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil
Nadu Act 35 of 1961).] on the decision of the Tribunal on a reference under
section 4-A or section 12 shall be communicated to the Court or Settlement
Officer or Tribunal constituted under the Abolition Act who made the
reference.

### 7A. [ Power of Court, Tribunal or Settlement Officer to dispose of suit,
appeal or other proceedings. [Inserted by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Estates
(Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961).]

\- On receipt of the decision of the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal on the reference made under section 4-A or section 12, the Court or
Settlement Officer or Tribunal constituted, under the Abolition Act shall
proceed to dispose of the appeal, suit or other proceeding in which the
reference was made:Provided that on receipt of the decision of the Tribunal,
such appeal, suit or other proceeding shall not be disposed of -(i)until after
the expiry of the appeal time provided for in sub -section (1) of section 7;
or(ii)where, an appeal has been preferred under sub-section (1) of section 7.
until after the receipt of the decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal on
such appeal.]

### 8. Presumption as to inam villages or part thereof.

\- In deciding the question whether any inam village or a separated part of,
an inam village was not an estate within the meaning of the Estates Land Act
as it stood before the commencement of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969 as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates
Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936 (Tamil Nadu Act XVHI of 1936), it shall be
presumed, until, the contrary is proved, that such area or part was such an
estate.

### 9. Defect not to invalidate decision of Tribunal or Special Appellate
Tribunal.

\- No decision of the Tribunal or of the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be
invalid by reason of any defect in the form of any notice issued by it or in
the manner of publication of such notice.

### 10. Jurisdiction of civil and revenue courts barred in certain matters.

\- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil or revenue court
and no Tribunal constituted under any other law shall have jurisdiction
-(a)[to adjudicate upon any question] [Substituted or the words 'to entertain
or adjudicate upon any question' by section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Estates
(Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1961).], whether any
non-ryotwari area is or is not an estate or part of an estate as defined in
section 3, clause (2), of the Estates Land Act, or whether it is or is not an
inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7), of the Abolition Act; or(b)in
respect of any matter which the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal is
empowered by or under this Act to determine.

### 11. Transitory provisions.

(1)All suits, appeals or other proceedings (other than those pending before
the High Court) pending at the commencement of this Act before any Court or
Tribunal or Settlement Officer as defined in section 2, clause (13), of the
Abolition Act, in which any question is in issue whether a particular area is
or was an estate as defined in section 3, clause (2), of the Estates Land Act,
or is or was an inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7), of the
Abolition Act, shall stand transferred to the appropriate Tribunal constituted
under this Act for the determination of that question.[(1-A) Notwithstanding
the transfer of any suit, appeal or other proceeding under sub-section (1),
the Court or Settlement Officer or Tribunal constituted under the Abolition
Act who made the transfer shall be deemed to be seized of such suit, appeal or
other proceeding and may pass such interim orders in respect of such suit,
appeal or other proceeding as are allowed by law.] [This sub-section was
inserted by section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act,
1961 (Tamil Nadu Act of 35 of 1961).](2)(a)In cases in which, at the
commencement of this Act, a Tribunal constituted under the Abolition Act has
given a finding under section 9 of that Act that a particular area is an inam
estate as defined in section 2, clause (7), of that Act, that finding shall be
final, subject to the decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal constituted
under this Act on any appeal preferred to that Tribunal.(b)Any such finding
shall be deemed to be a decision given by a Tribunal constituted under this
Act and the provisions of section 7, sub-section (1), shall apply to appeals
against such finding.

### 12. [ Tribunal to give decision in certain cases remanded by the High
Court. [This section was substituted for the original section 12 by section 8
of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Supplementary) Amendment Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act
35 of 1961).]

(1)If on remand by the High Court in respect of a case pending before it on or
after the commencement of this Act, a Court subordinate to the High Court is
seized of the question whether a particular non-ryotwari area is or is not an
estate as defined in section 3, clause (2), of the Estates Land Act, or is or
is not an inam estate as defined in section 2, clause (7), of the Abolition
Act, such question shall be referred to the appropriate Tribunal constituted
under this Act for determination.(2)Notwithstanding any reference made to the
Tribunal under sub-section (1) or any appeal preferred before the Special
Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section 7, the Court may pass-
such interim orders in respect of the case as are allowed by law].

### 13.

\- [The amendment made by section 13 has been incorporated in Tamil Nadu Act
XXVI of 1948].

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provision, such rules may provide for -(a)all matters expressly required or
allowed by this Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by
Tribunals and Special Appellate Tribunals appointed under this Act;(c)the
application of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908);(d)the fees to be paid in respect of applications and appeals
under this Act;(e)the filling up of vacancies in Tribunals; and(f)the transfer
of proceedings from one Tribunal to another.(3)All rules made and all
notifications issued under this Act shall, as soon-as possible after they are
made or issued, be placed on the table of Legislative Assembly and shall be
subject to such modifications by way of amendment or repeal as the Legislative
Assembly may make within fourteen days on which the House actually sits either
in the same session or in more than one session.

