## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1961

## Act 38 of 1961

  * Published on 10 November 1961 
  * Commenced on 10 November 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 November 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection From Eviction) Act, 1961(Tamil
Nadu Act 38 of 1961)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Occupants of
Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Act, 1961(Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1961). -
It was brought to the notice of the Government that, in anticipation of
legislation for the imposition of ceiling on agricultural land holdings, land
owners were disposing of their lands, on a large scale, and that, in order to
facilitate such disposal, they were also evicting from their kudiyiruppus, the
agriculturists and agricultural labourers occupying them. The Government
considered that such large scale eviction would lead to agrarian unrest and
should be put an end to. They, accordingly, included provisions in the Madras
Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Bill, 1960 (L.A. Bill No. 8 of
1960), for giving temporary protection from eviction to occupants of
kudiyiruppu. The Joint Select Committee, to which the said Bill was referred,
however, considered that the provisions relating to kudiyiruppus should be
omitted from the said Bill, that a separate Bill giving protection from
eviction to occupants of kudiyiruppu for a period of three years should be
brought forward immediately and that a comprehensive legislation in regard to
occupants of kudiyiruppus should be undertaken later, after a detailed
examination as to what permanent rights should be conferred on them. The
provisions relating to kudiyiruppu have, accordingly, been omitted from the
Madras Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Bill, 1960 (L.A. Bill No. 8
of 1960). Pending the comprehensive legislation aforesaid, it is proposed to
give temporary protection from eviction to persons who were occupying
kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959. In cases, where such persons have already
been evicted or are evicted hereafter, the Bill seeks to give them a right to
restoration of possession of the kudiyiruppu.This Bill does not affect the
application of the Travancore-Cochin Prevention of Eviction of Kudikidappukars
Act, 1955 (Travancore-Cochin Act XIII of 1955), as in force in the Kanyakumari
district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district to a
kudikidappukaran as defined in section 2 (c) of that Act.The proposed Act will
be in force for a period of three years only.Received the assent of the
President on the 10th November 1961 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette, dated the 29th November 1961.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil
Nadu Kudiyiruppu (Conferment of Ownership) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of
1971). - According to section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu
(Conferment of Ownership) Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1971), any
agriculturist or agricultural labourer who was occupying any kudiyiruppu on
the 19th June 1971 either as tenant or as licensee shall, with effect from the
date of the commencement of the said Act, be the owner of such kudiyiruppu and
such kudiyiruppu shall vest in him absolutely free from all encumbrances.2\.
According to section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Rural Artisans (Conferment of
Ownership of Kudiyiruppu) Act, 1976 (Presidents Act 38 of 1976), any rural
artisan who was occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 1st day of July 1975, either
as tenant or as licensee, shall, with effect from the commencement of the said
Act, be the owner of such kudiyiruppu and such kudiyiruppu shall vest in him
absolutely free from all encumbrances.3\. It has been brought to the notice of
the Government that a number of agriculturists, agricultural labourers and
rural artisans have applied for extension of the benefit conferred under the
said Acts. The Government have, therefore, decided to amend the aforesaid Acts
to the effect that in addition to the agriculturists and agricultural
labourers and rural artisans, who were occupying any kudiyiruppu of the
respective dates referred to above, the agriculturists and agricultural
labourers and rural artisans, who were occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 1st
day of April 1990 are eligible for the benefit under the said Acts.4\. The
Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV - Section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th November
1970.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu
(Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971). -
Under section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from
Eviction) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1961), no person occupying any
kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959, can be evicted from such Kudiyiruppu
except in accordance with the provisions of that Act. The said Act came into
force on the 29th November 1961. Section 4 of the said Act gives a right of
restoration to persons who were occupying the kudiyiruppu on the 31st March
1959 and who were evicted from such kudiyiruppu after that date, but before
the 29th November 1961 and also to persons who were in occupation of the
kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 and who were evicted after the 29th
November 1961. The Government, after careful consideration, have decided that
the right to protection from eviction should be given to all persons who were
occupying the kudiyiruppu irrespective of the date of such occupation. It has
also been decided that the right of restoration should be given to any person
who was evicted from such kudiyiruppu on or after the 1st February 1969, but
before the date of the publication of the proposed legislation in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette or who is evicted from such kudiyiruppu after the date
of such publication. The existing right of restoration given to persons who
were occupying the kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 and who were evicted
subsequently is also retained. Provision has also been made in the Bill
empowering the Government to make rules for the preparation of the record of
persons occupying kudiyiruppu and also for appeal and revision.2\. Section 13
of the Act gives power to the Government to remove any difficulty which arises
in giving effect to the provisions of the Act by issuing orders thereunder.
The Supreme Court in Messrs. Jalan Trading Company v. Mill Mazdoor Sabha
([1967] 1 SCJ 189) has observed that the power to remove any doubt or
difficulty by altering the provisions of the Act would, in substance, amount
to exercise of legislative authority and that it cannot be delegated to an
executive authority. It is, therefore, proposed to avail of this opportunity
to omit section 13 and to make consequential amendments in section 14 of the
Act.3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.Published in Part IV -
Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 25th
June 1971.Received the assent of the President on the 10th November 1961 and
first published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 29th November 1961.An
Act to provide for the protection from eviction of persons occupying
kudiyiruppu in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas
it is necessary to provide for the protection from eviction of persons
occupying kudiyiruppu in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.];Be it enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows :
-

### 1. [Short title and extent] [This marginal heading was substituted for the
heading 'Short title, extent and duration' by section 2(1 )(a) of the Tamil
Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1975), which was deemed to have come into force on the
29th November 1973.].

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Occupants of Kudiyiruppu
(Protection from Eviction) Act, 1961.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State
of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)[Omitted by the Tamil Nadu
Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1975)]

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"agricultural
labourer" means a person whose principal means of livelihood is the income he
gets as wages for his manual labour on agricultural land;(2)"agricultural
land" means any land used for any of the following purposes, namely :
-(a)horticulture;(b)the raising of crops, grass or garden
produce;(c)grazing;(d)the raising of manure crops;(e)dairy farming;(f)poultry
farming;(g)livestock breeding;(h)growing of trees; and(i)includes any land
used for any purpose subservient to the above purposes, any forest land,
pasture land, plantation, orchard and tope; but(ii)does not include house-site
or land used exclusively for non-agricultural purposes;(3)"agriculturist"
means a person who cultivates agricultural land by the contribution of his own
manual labour or of the manual labour of any member of his
family;(4)"authorised officer" means any Gazetted Officer authorised by the
Government by notification to exercise the powers conferred on, and to
discharge the duties imposed upon, the authorised officer under this Act for
such area as may be specified in the notification;(5)"Government" means the
State Government;(6)"Kudiyiruppu" means the site of any dwelling house or hut
occupied, either as tenant or as licensee, by any agriculturist or
agricultural labourer and includes such other area adjacent to the dwelling
house or hut as may be necessary for the convenient enjoyment of such dwelling
house or hut.Explanation. - It shall be presumed that any person occupying the
kudiyiruppu is an agricultural labourer or an agriculturist, until the
contrary is proved;(7)"tenant" means any person who has paid or has agreed to
pay rent or other consideration for his being allowed by another to enjoy the
land of the latter under a tenancy agreement, express or implied, and includes
his heirs and legal representatives.

### 3. Persons occupying kudiyiruppu not to be evicted.

\- [(1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no person occupying any
kudiyiruppu shall be evicted from such kudiyiruppu.] [[Substituted '(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), no person occupying any
kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 shall be evicted from such
kudiyiruppu.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), any person
occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 shall be entitled to continue
to occupy the kudiyiruppu on the same terms and conditions as were applicable
to him on such date.' for the following sub-sections (1)and(2) by section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971).]](2)[ Save as otherwise provided in
this Act, any person occupying any kudiyiruppu shall be entitled to continue
to occupy the kudiyiruppu on terms and conditions not less favourable than
those applicable to him on the date on which he occupied such kudiyiruppu.]
[[Substituted '(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), no person
occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 shall be evicted from such
kudiyiruppu.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), any person
occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959 shall be entitled to continue
to occupy the kudiyiruppu on the same terms and conditions as were applicable
to him on such date.' for the following sub-sections (1) and (2) by section 2
of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction)
Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971).]](3)[ Sub-sections (1) and
(2) shall not apply to any person occupying any kudiyiruppu -(a)if he has done
any act or has been guilty of any negligence which is destructive of, or
injurious to, the property belonging to the owner of the kudiyiruppu; or(b)if
he has willfully denied the title of the owner of the kudiyiruppu.Explanation.
- A denial of the owner's title under a bona fide mistake of fact is not
willful within the meaning of this clause.] [[Substituted '(1) Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), no person occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st
March 1959 shall be evicted from such kudiyiruppu.(2)Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (3), any person occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st March
1959 shall be entitled to continue to occupy the kudiyiruppu on the same terms
and conditions as were applicable to him on such date.Explanation. - A decree
or order shall be deemed to be a decree or order for the eviction of a person
occupying any kudiyiruppu notwithstanding that any other relief is also
granted by such decree or order.' for the following sub-sections (1)and (2) by
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from
Eviction) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971).]](4)In computing
the period of limitation prescribed for an application for the execution of a
decree or order for the eviction of a person occupying any kudiyiruppu, the
time during which he was protected by sub-section (1) from eviction shall be
excluded.

### 4. Right to restoration of possession of kudiyiruppu.

\- [(1) If any person who was occupying any kudiyiruppu on the 31st March 1959
has been evicted from such kudiyiruppu after such date, but before the date of
the publication of this Act in the Fort. St. George Gazette or is evicted from
such kudiyiruppu after the date of such publication, he may, within a period
of six months after the date of publication of this Act in the [Fort. St.
George Gazette] [Section 4 was re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section
and sub-section (2) was added to the section 4 by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 20 of 1971).] or after the date of eviction, as the case may be,
apply to authorised officer within whose jurisdiction the kudiyiruppu is
situated in such form as may be prescribed for restoration to him of the
possession of the kudiyiruppu from which he was evicted, and to occupy it
subject to the same terms and conditions, as far as may be, as were applicable
to him on the 31st March 1959.](2)[ If any person occupying any kudiyiruppu,
to whom sub-section (1) does not apply, has been evicted from such kudiyiruppu
on or after the 1st February 1969, but before the date of the publication of
the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971), in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette,
or is evicted from such kudiyiruppu after the date of such publication, he may
within a period of six months after the date of such publication or after the
date of eviction, as the case may be, apply to the authorised officer within
whose jurisdiction the kudiyiruppu is situated in such form as may be
prescribed for restoration to him of the possession of the kudiyiruppu from
which he was evicted, and to occupy it subject to the same terms and
conditions, as far as may be as were applicable to him on the date on which he
was evicted.] [Section 4 was re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section
and sub-section (2) was added to the section 4 by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 20 of 1971).](3)[ If any person who was occupying any kudiyiruppu on
the 28th November 1973 has been evicted from such kudiyiruppu after such date,
but before the date of the publication of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of
Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act
23 of 1975), in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, he may, within a period of
six months after the date of such publication, apply to the authorised officer
within whose jurisdiction the kudiyiruppu is situated in such form as may be
prescribed for restoration to him of the possession of the kudiyiruppu from
which he was evicted, and to occupy it subject to the same terms and
conditions, as far as may be, as were applicable to him on the 28th November
1973.] [This sub-section was added by section 2(2) of the Tamil Nadu Occupants
of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Re-enacting Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 23 of 1975), which was deemed to have come into force on the 29th November
1973.]

### 5. Owner's right to apply to the authorised officer.

\- Any owner of kudiyiruppu seeking to evict for any of the reasons mentioned
in sub-section (3) of section 3 any person occupying any kudiyiruppu may,
whether or not there is an order or decree of Court for the eviction of such
person, make an application for such eviction to the authorised officer within
whose jurisdiction the kudiyiruppu is situated in such form and within such
time as may be prescribed.

### 6. Authorised officer to hold summary enquiry.

\- On receipt of the application under section 4 or section 5, the authorised
officer shall, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the parties concerned
to make their representations, hold a summary enquiry into the matter and pass
an order either allowing the application or dismissing it and shall
communicate a copy of such order to the party concerned.

### 7. Appeals.

(1)Against any order passed by the authorised officer under section 6, any
person aggrieved by such order may, within sixty days from the date of the
order, appeal to the District Collector:Provided that the District Collector
may admit an appeal presented after the expiry of the said period if he is
satisfied that the party concerned had sufficient cause for not presenting it
within the said period.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section,
"date of the order" means the date on which the order is communicated to the
party concerned.(2)[ The provisions of section 4 and of sub-sections (1) and
(2) of section 12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963) shall,
as far as may be, apply to any appeal under sub-section (1).] [[This sub-
section was substituted for the following sub-section by section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1964):-(2)The provisions of section 4 and of sub-
sections (1) and (2) of section 12 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Central
Act IX of 1908) shall, as far as may be, apply to any appeal under sub-section
(1).]](3)An appeal to the District Collector under sub-section (1) shall be in
such form and shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed.(4)The
District Collector may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity
of being heard, pass such order thereon as he thinks fit and shall communicate
a copy of such order to the party concerned.(5)The District Collector may stay
the execution of any order passed by the authorised officer pending the
exercise of his powers of appeal under this section.

### 8. Saving.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to affect the application of
the Travancore-Cochin Prevention of Eviction of Kudikidappukars Act, 1955
(Travancore-Cochin Act XIII of 1955), as in force in the Kanyakumari district
and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district, to a kudikidappukaran as
defined in section 2(c) of that Act.

### 9. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 8, the provisions this Act shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
law for the time being in force, or any custom, usage or contract or decree or
order of a Court or other authority.

### 10. Costs.

\- The costs of, and incidental to, all proceedings before the authorised
officer or the District Collector shall be in his discretion.

### 11. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter in which
the authorised officer or the District Collector is empowered by or under this
Act to decide and no injunction shall be granted by any Court in respect of
any action taken or to be taken in exercise of any power conferred by or under
this Act.

### 12. Indemnity.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
authorised officer or the District Collector for anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be made done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or
order made thereunder.

### 13.

[Section 13 was omitted by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of
Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20
of 1971)].

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for -(a)the form of application to be made to the
authorised officer under section 4 or section 5;(b)the manner of holding
summary enquiry under section 6;(c)the manner of communicating to the parties
the order under section 6 or under sub-section (4) of section 7;(d)the form of
appeal, and the fee payable, under sub-section (3) of section 7.[(2-A) The
Government may make rules providing for the preparation of record of persons
occupying kudiyiruppu. Such rules may also provide for appeal and revision.]
[Inserted by section 5(i) of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu
(Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of
1964).](3)All rules made under this Act [***] [The words and figures 'and all
orders made under section 13' were omitted by section 5(ii) of the Tamil Nadu
Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil
Nadu Act 24 of 1964).] shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and, unless they are expressed to
come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which
they are so published.(4)Every rule made under this Act [***][The words and
figures 'and every order made under section 13' were omitted by section 5(iii)
of the Tamil Nadu Occupants of Kudiyiruppu (Protection from Eviction)
Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1971).] shall, as soon as possible
after it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2)
of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.], and if, before the expiry
of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative
Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making
any modification in any such rule [***] [The words 'or order' were omitted by
section 5( iii) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] or [the
Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses
agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
that the rule [***][The words 'or order' were omitted by section 5(iii) of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] should not be made, the rule [***]
[The words 'or order' were omitted by section 5(iii) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule [***] [The words 'or order' were
omitted by section 5(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.].

