## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959

## Act 1 of 1959

  * Published on 1 January 1959 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1959 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1959.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959)Repeal

### 88. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959) and
the Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1970)
(hereafter in this section referred to "the said Act or 1970 Act") are hereby
repealed:Provided that such repeal shall not affect the previous operation of
the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, or any right, privilege,
obligation or liability already acquired, accrued or incurred thereunder and
subject thereto, anything done or any action taken including any appointment
made, any notification, notice or order issued, any rule or regulation framed
or forms prescribed and any certificate, licence or permit granted in exercise
of any power conferred by or under the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may
be, shall be valid and always as deemed to have been valid, during the period
the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, was in force notwithstanding the
repeal of the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be.(2)A registered dealer,
who would have continued to be so under the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case
may be, had this Act not come into force, shall be a registered dealer till a
fresh certificate of registration is granted to him under this
Act.(3)Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may
be -(a)any action or proceedings already initiated under the said Act or 1970
Act, as the case may be, shall validly be continued under the provisions of
the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, which relates to the period
prior to the coming into force of this Act;(b)any person liable to pay any
tax, fee, penalty, interest or other amount under the said Act or 1970 Act, as
the case may be, for any period before coming into force of this Act, shall be
levied, assessed and collected under the provisions of this Act, as if this
Act were in force during the said period;(c)any fee paid for registration or
renewal of such registration under the said Act shall be deemed to have been
paid for the registration or renewal of such registration under this
Act;(d)any person appointed by the Government as the Commissioner, Joint
Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner and Commercial Tax
Officer under section 28 of the said Act and continuing in office as such
immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, on and from the date
of commencement of this Act, be deemed to have been appointed under this Act
and shall continue in office as such till such person ceases to be the
Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner
and Commercial Tax Officer;(e)the Chairman or any members of the Appellate
Tribunal appointed under section 30 of the said Act and continuing in office
as such immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, on and from
the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed to have been appointed as the
Chairman and members of the Appellate Tribunal under this Act and shall
continue in office as such till he ceases to be such Chairman or member;(f)the
officers of the enforcement wing who had jurisdiction and powers under the
said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, immediately before the commencement
of this Act shall, on and from the commencement of this Act, be deemed to have
been continued, and shall have jurisdiction and powers, under this Act;(g)any
accounts, registers or documents of any dealer retained before the
commencement of this Act under any of the provisions of the said Act or 1970
Act, as the case may be, shall, on the day immediately before the commencement
of this Act, continued to be retained in accordance with the provisions of
this Act;(h)any goods including goods detained before the commencement of this
Act under any of the provisions of the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may
be, and not released before the commencement of this Act, shall continue to
remain detained until such goods are released in accordance with the
provisions of this Act;(i)all rules, regulations, notifications,
clarifications or orders made or issued under any of the provisions of the
said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, and continuing in force on the date
immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall continue in force on or
after such date in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or the rules made thereunder until they are repealed or
amended.(4)All arrears of tax, interest, penalty, fee or other amount due
under the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, on the date of
commencement of this Act, whether assessed or levied before such commencement,
or assessed or levied after such commencement, may be recovered as if such
tax, penalty, interest, fee or other amount is assessed or levied under the
provisions of this Act and all methods of recovery including levy of penalty,
interest or prosecution provided under this Act, shall apply to such arrears,
as if such amounts are assessed, levied and demanded under this
Act.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), any application,
appeal, revision or other proceeding made or preferred to any authority under
the said Act or 1970 Act, as the case may be, and pending at the commencement
of this Act, shall, after such commencement, be transferred to, and disposed
of, by the officer or authority who would have had jurisdiction to entertain
such application, appeal, revision or other proceedings under this Act, as if
it had been in force on the date on which such application, appeal, revision
or other proceeding was made or preferred.(6)(a)Every registered dealer shall
be entitled to claim input tax credit for the sales tax paid under the said
Act on the goods held in stock on the date of commencement of this Act,
subject to the conditions and in the manner as may be prescribed:Provided that
such goods should have been purchased not more than one year prior to the date
of commencement of this Act and are eligible for input tax credit.(b)The
registered dealer, who claims input tax credit on stock shall furnish to the
assessing authority, stock inventory with the details of purchases within
[fifty-nine days] [Substituted for 'thirty days' by the Tamil Nadu Value Added
Tax (Amendment) Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 2007)] from the date of
commencement of this Act.Section 88 repeals the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax
Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959) and the Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax
Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1970).This section derived its base from
section 8 and the latter part of section 18 of the Tamil nadu General Clauses
Act, 1891 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1891). This section provides for the
transitional arrangements for the proceedings pending before 31.12.2006
relating to the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 and the Tamil Nadu
Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 which were repealed by this Act on 1.1.2007.
This section enables to allow the proceedings under the above said repealed
enactments to be continued if this Act had not come into force.The Tamil Nadu
Value Added Tax Act, 2006 did not adversely affect in any manner the right of
appeal an assessee had under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 or the
Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 that no assessee had any vested
right in the procedure prescribed under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act,
1959 or the Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970 and that so long as the
new procedure laid down in the Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006 does not
interfere with any of his vested rights, an assessee had no right to claim
that his case must be dealt with under the provisions of the repealed Acts and
that it was well settled that the new procedure prescribed by law governed all
pending cases. What was of essence was that a right of appeal by an assessee
under the Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006 did not take away in any manner
any of his vested rights under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Act, 1959 or the
Tamil Nadu Additional Sales Tax Act, 1970.

