## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1954

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1954

## Act 5 of 1954

  * Published on 5 February 1954 
  * Commenced on 5 February 1954 
  * [This is the version of this document from 5 February 1954.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1954(Tamil Nadu Act
5 of 1954)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1954). - for
Statement of Objects and Reasons, Please See Part IV-A, Page 9 of The Fort St.
George Gazette Extraordinary, Dated The 6th January 1954.Received the assent
of the President on the 5th February 1954 and first published in the Fort St.
George Gazette dated the 6th February 1954.An Act to provide temporary relief
to indebted agriculturists.Whereas, after successive years of drought, by the
bounty of nature, there has been adequate rainfall this year and
agriculturists are applying themselves with assiduity to the cultivation of
crops;And Whereas, agriculturists have borrowed or added to their debts during
the years of drought and may, if freed for a time from the pressure of
creditors, be enabled to rehabilitate themselves:And Whereas, it is in the
interests of the general public that, at the present time, agriculturists be
spared the distractions and expenditure involved in litigation launched by
their creditors, in order that the maximum possible advantage may result to
the State in the matter of production of food crops; It is hereby enacted as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Indebted Agriculturists
(Temporary Relief) Act, 1954.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil
Nadu.] [Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Law (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969](3)It shall come into force at once.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"agriculturist"
means a person who owns an interest in land, and who, by reason of such
interest, is in possession of such land or is in receipt of the rents or
profits thereof and shall include a lessee, but shall not include-(i)a firm
registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (Central Act IX of 1932), or
a company as defined in the [Indian Companies Act, 1913 (Central Act VII of
1913)] [See now the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956).], or a
corporation formed in pursuance of an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom
or of any special Indian law; or(ii)any person who was assessed to income-tax
under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (Central Act XI of 1922) in any of the
years 1951-52,1952-53,1953-54.Explanation. - Where a joint Hindu family or a
tarward, tavazhi, kutumba or kavaru is an agriculturist, every coparcener or
member of the tar-ward, tavazhi, kutumba or kavaru, as the case may be, shall
be deemed to be an agriculturist, provided that he has not been assessed to
income-tax in any of the years 1951-1952,1952-53,1953-54;(b)"debt" means any
sum of money which a person is liable to pay under a contract (express or
implied) for consideration received and includes rent in cash or kind which a
person is liable to pay or deliver in respect of the lawful use and occupation
of land.Explanation. - It is immaterial that the sum or produce is recoverable
only by sale of property in enforcement of a mortgage or charge or that the
contract was entered into by the person's predecessor-in-title or by the
manager of the joint Hiridti family or the kamavan of the tarwad or tavazhi or
the yajaman of the kutumba or kavaru of which such person was-or is a member.
Exception.-"Debt" does not include-(i)rent or compensation for the use and
occupation of house property;(ii)rent or compensation for the use and
occupation of immovable property not being house property, accrued due after
the 31st March 1953;(iii)any liability arising out of a breach of
trust;(iv)any liability in respect of maintenance;(v)any sum payable to the
State or the Central Government or to any local authority, whether by way of
revenue, tax, cess, or loan or otherwise;(vi)any sum payable to any co-
operative society, including a land mortgage bank, registered or deemed to be
registered under the [Madras Cooperative Societies Act, 1932 (Madras Act VI of
1932)] [See now the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu
Act 30 of 1983).], provided that the right of the society to recover the sum
did not arise by reason of an assignment made subsequent to the 1st October
1953;(vii)wages or remuneration due as salary, or otherwise for services
rendered;(c)"land" means land used for agriculture or horticulture, not being
land appurtenant to a residential building;(d)"Ordinance" means the Madras
Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Ordinance, 1953 (Madras Ordinance V
of 1953);(e)"pay" with its grammatical variations, inducts deliver;(f)"suit"
or "application" does not include an appeal from a decree or order passed in a
suit or application, or an application for revision or review.

### 3. Bar of suits and applications.

\- No suit for the recovery of a debt shall be instituted, no application for
the execution of a decree for payment of any money passed in a suit for the
recovery of a debt shall be made, and no suit or application for the eviction
of a tenant on the ground of non-payment of a debt shall be instituted or
made, against any agriculturist in any civil or revenue court [before the 1st
March 1955] [Substituted for the words 'before the expiry of a year from the
date of commencement of this Act', by section 2(i) of the Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Amendment Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVII
of 1954).].Explanation I. - "Suit" does not include a claim to a set-off made
in a suit instituted by an agriculturist.Explanation II. - Where a debt is
payable by an agriculturist jointly or jointly and severally with a non-
agriculturist, no suit or application of the nature mentioned in this section
shall be instituted or made either against the non-agriculturist or against
the agriculturist [before the date] [Substituted for the words 'before the
expiry of the period' by section 2(ii), of the Tamil Nadu Indebted
Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Amendment Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVII
of 1954).] mentioned in this section.Explanation III. - A suit shall be deemed
to be a suit for the recovery of a debt notwithstanding that other reliefs are
prayed for in such suit, and a decree shall be deemed to be a decree for
payment of money passed in such suit notwithstanding that other reliefs are
granted by such decree:Provided that a suit for possession of land shall not
be deemed to be a suit for recovery of a debt by reason merely of mesne
profits being also prayed for in such suit.

### 4. Stay of proceeding.

(1)All further proceedings in suits and applications of the nature mentioned
in section 3 in which relief is claimed against an agriculturist, not being
proceedings for the amendment of pleadings or for the addition, substitution,
or the striking off of parties, but otherwise inclusive of proceedings
consequent on orders or decrees made in appeals, revision petitions, or
applications for review, shall, subject to the next succeeding sub-section,
stand stayed [until the 1st March 1955] [Substituted for the words 'until the
expiry of a year from the date of commencement of this Act' by section 3 of
the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturist (Temporary Relief) Amendment Act, 1954
(Tamil Nadu Act XXXVII of 1954).]:Provided that, in regard to property under
attachment, the Court may pass such orders as it deems necessary for the
custody or preservation of the property or for the sale of such property if it
is subject to speedy or natural decay, or, if in respect of it, the expenses
of custody or preservation are considered excessive.(2)On application made by
the defendant or the respondent or by all the defendants or all the
respondents, as the case may be, the stay effected by subsection (1) in a suit
or application shall be dissolved and the suit or application shall be
proceeded with from the stage which had been reached when further proceedings
in the suit or the application were stayed.(3)In the case of suits or
applications of the nature mentioned in section 3, instituted or made against
an agriculturist, the provisions of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
',Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Tenants and
Ryots Protection Act, 1949 ([Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of 1949) or of
section 54 or section 55 of the Malabar Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1951 ([Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXXIII of 1951) shall not have effect in so far
as the said provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of sub-section
(1).

### 5. Exclusion of time for limitation.

(1)In computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for a
suit for the recovery of a debt or an application for the execution of a
decree passed in such suit, the time during which the institution of the suit
or the making of the application was barred by section 3 of the Ordinance or
section 3 of this Act, or during which the plaintiff or his predecessor in
title, believing in good faith that section 3 of the Ordinance or section 3 of
this Act applied to such suit or such application, refrained from instituting
the suit or, making the application, shall be excluded.Explanation. -
"Goodfaith" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 3(22) of the
General Clauses Act, 1897 (Central Act X of 1897).(2)Where in a suit or an
application in which the question of the exclusion of time under sub-section
(1) arises, the defendant or the respondent, or one of the defendants or
respondents, with respect to whom the question is raised, would have been an
agriculturist, but for the fact that in the year ending 1951-52, 1952-53, or
1953-54 he had been assessed to income-tax under the [Indian Income-tax Act,
1922 (Central Act XI of 1922)] [See now Income-tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43
of 1961).], it shall be conclusively presumed that, in refraining from
instituting the suit or making the application, the creditor believed in good
faith that such defendant or respondent was an agriculturist.

### 6. Effect of transfer of immovable property by the debtor.

\- Every transfer of immovable property by a debtor entitled to the benefit of
section 3 or section 4, made after the commencement of the Ordinance and
[before the 1st March 1955] [These words, figures and letters were substituted
for the words 'before the expiry of a year from the commencement of this Act',
by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief)
Amendment Act, 1954 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVII of 1954).], shall, in any suit or
other proceeding, with respect to such transfer, be presumed until the
contrary is proved, to have been made with intent to defeat or delay the
creditors of the transferor.

### 7. Power to make rules.

\- The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.

### 8. Repeal of Madras Ordinance V of 1953.

\- The Madras Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Ordinance, 1953
(Madras Ordinance V of 1953) is hereby repealed.

