## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1975

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1975

## Act 48 of 1975

  * Published on 29 November 1975 
  * Commenced on 29 November 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 29 November 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Act, 1975(Tamil Nadu Act 48 of
1975)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 48 of 1975). - For Statement of Objects and
Reasons, please see in Part IV-Section 1, pages 201-202 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 20th October 1975.[Dated
29.11.1975, Published Dated 03.12.1975]An Act to provide temporary relief to
certain indebted persons in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-sixth Year of the
Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief)
Act, 1975.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 22nd July 1975 and shall remain in force
up to and inclusive of the 15th January 1976.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"Debt" means any
liability in cash or kind, whether secured or unsecured, due from an indebted
person whether payable under a decree or order of a civil or revenue Court or
otherwise, but does not include-(i)rent as defined in clause (6);(ii)any debt
to which the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary Relief) Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1975), is applicable;(2)"indebted person" means any
person from whom any debt is due:Provided that a person shall not be deemed to
be an indebted person, if he -(i)has, in both the financial years ending on
the 31st March 1974 and the 31st March 1975, been assessed to income-tax under
the Income-tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1961) or under the income-tax law
in force in any foreign country; or(ii)has, in both the financial years ending
on the 31st March 1974 and the 31st March 1975, been assessed to sales tax
under the [Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959)]
[This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act,
2006.] or under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956);
or(iii)has, in all the four half-years immediately preceding the 1st April
1975, been assessed to property or house lax in respect of buildings or lands
other than agricultural lands, under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities
Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the [Chennai] [Substituted for the words
'Madras' by City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28
of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1919),
the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971),
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958), the
Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924) or any law governing municipal
or local bodies in this State or in any other State or Union territory in
India, provided that the aggregate annual rental value of such buildings and
lands whether let out or in the occupation of the owner, is not less than two
thousand and four hundred rupees.Explanation. - The annual rental value of any
building or land for the purposes of proviso (iii) shall-(1)where the
assessment is based on the annual rental value, be deemed to be such
value;(2)where the assessment is based on the capital value, be deemed to be
five per cent of the capital value; and(3)in any other case, be deemed to be
the value ascertained in the prescribed manner:Provided further that a person
shall not be deemed to be an indebted person if he is an agriculturist as
defined in the Tamil Nadu Agriculturist Relief Act, 1938 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of
1938) and entitled to the benefits of that Act;(3)"interest" means any amount
or other thing paid or payable in excess of the principal sum borrowed or
pecuniary obligation incurred or where anything has been borrowed in kind in
excess of what has been so borrowed by whatsoever name such amount or thing
may be called, and whether the same is paid or payable entirely in cash or
entirely in kind or partly in cash and partly in kind and whether the same is
expressly mentioned or not in the document or contract, if any;(4)"pay", with
its grammatical variations, includes deliver;(5)"person" means an individual
and includes an undivided Hindu family, a marumakkattayam or aliyasantana
tarward or tavazhi, but does not include a body corporate, a charitable or
religious institution or an unincorporated company or association or any firm
as defined in the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (Central Act IX of
1932);(6)"rent" means the rent payable by any tenant to the owner of any
building in respect of such building or portion thereof occupied by such
tenant.Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the expression
"building" shall have the same meaning as in clause (2) of section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of
1960);(7)"suit" or "application" does not include an appeal from a decree or
order passed in a suit or application or an application for revision or
review.

### 3. Certain debts and liabilities not to be affected.

\- Nothing in this Act shall affect debts and liabilities of any indebted
person falling under the following heads:-(a)any revenue, tax or cess payable
to the State Government or any other sum due to them by way of loan or
otherwise;(b)any revenue, tax or cess payable to the Central Government or any
other sum due to them, by way of loan or otherwise;(c)any tax or cess payable
to any local authority or any other sum due to it, by way of loan or
otherwise;(d)any liability in respect of any sum due to any co-operative
society including a land development bank registered or deemed to be
registered under the [Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu
Act 53 of 1961)] [See now the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Societies Act, 1983
(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1983).]:Provided that where the liability mentioned in
this clause arises by reasons of an assignment to any such co-operative
society either such assignment has taken place before the 15th March 1975, or
is an assignment to any such cooperative society of loan granted by another
such co-operative society;(e)any liability arising out of breach of
trust;(f)any liability in respect of maintenance whether under a decree of
Court or otherwise;(g)any liability in respect of wages or remuneration due as
salary or otherwise for services rendered;(h)any liability in respect of any
sum due to-(A)any public company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956
(Central Act 1 of 1956);(B)any banking company to which the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 (Central Act X of 1949) applies;(C)the State Bank of India
constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Central Act XXIII of
1955);(D)any subsidiary bank as defined in clause (k) of section 2 of the
State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (Central Act 38 of
1959);(E)any corresponding new bank as defined in clause (d) of section 2 of
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970
(Central Act 5 of 1970);(F)any company or corporation owned or controlled by
the Central Government or any State Government;(G)the Committee for the
Administration of the amalgamated Tamil Nadu Shares of the Post War Services
Reconstruction Fund and Special Fund for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of
Ex-servicemen;(H)any other financial institution notified by the State
Government in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.

### 4. Bar of suits and application.

\- No suit for the recovery of a debt shall be instituted and no application
for the execution of a decree for payment of money passed in a suit for the
recovery of a debt shall be made, against any indebted person in any civil or
revenue Court on and from the commencement of this Act and before the 16th
January 1976.Explanation I. - "Suit" does not include a claim to a set-off
made in a suit instituted by an indebted person.Explanation II. - A suit shall
be deemed to be a suit for the recovery of a debt notwithstanding that other
reliefs are prayed for in such suit, and a decree shall be deemed to be a
decree for payment of money passed in such suit notwithstanding that other
reliefs are granted by such decree:Provided that a suit for possession of land
shall not be deemed to be a suit for recovery of a debt by reason merely of
mesne profits being also prayed for in such suit.

### 5. Stay of proceedings.

(1)All further proceedings in suits and applications of the nature mentioned
in section 4 in which relief is claimed against on indebted person, not being
proceedings for the amendment of pleadings or for the addition, substitution,
or the striking off parties, but otherwise inclusive of proceedings consequent
on orders or decrees made in appeals, revision petitions or applications for
review, shall, subject to he next succeeding sub-section, stand stayed until
the 16th January 1976:Provided that in regard to property under attachment,
the Court may pass such orders as it deems necessary for the custody or
preservation of the property or for the sale of such property if it is subject
to speedy or natural decay, or if in respect of it, the expenses of custody or
preservation are considered excessive.(2)On application made by the defendant
or the respondent or by all the defendants or all the respondents, as the case
may be, the stay effected by subsection (1) in a suit or application shall be
dissolved and the suit or application shall be proceeded with from the stage
which had been reached when further proceeding in the suit or the application
were stayed.

### 6. Exclusion of time for limitation.

\- In computing the period of limitation or limit of time prescribed for a
suit for the recovery of a debt or an application for the execution of a
decree passed in such suit, the time during which the institution of the suit
or the making of the application was barred by section 4, or during which the
plaintiff or his predecessor-in-title, believing in good faith that section 4
applied to such suit or such application, refrained from instituting the suit
or making the application, shall be excluded.Explanation. - "Good faith" shall
have the meaning assigned to it in section 3(22) of the General Clauses Act,
1897 (Central Act X of 1897).

### 7. Effect of transfer of immovable property by an indebted person.

\- Every transfer of immovable property by an indebted person entitled to the
benefit of section 4 or section 5, made after the date of the commencement of
this Act and before the 16th January 1976, shall, in any suit or other
proceeding, with respect to such transfer, be presumed until the contrary is
proved, to have been made with intent to defeat or delay the creditors of the
transferor.

### 8. Interest not to accrue in respect of certain debts.

\- No interest shall accrue during the period of operation of this Act in
respect of a debt due from an indebted person on the 22nd July 1975, but
interest shall accrue in respect of any debt contained by an indebted person
after the said date.

### 9. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act V of 1908) or in any other law for the time being in force, or any custom,
usage or contract, or decree or order of Court or other authority.

### 10. Power to make rules.

(1)The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Act.(2)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible, after
it is made, be placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted
for 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or [Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for 'both Houses agree' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the
rule should not be made the rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.

### 11.

[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers Act, 1943 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXIII of 1943).]

### 12.

[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the
principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu Indebted Agriculturists (Temporary
Relief) Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 10 of 1915).]

### 13. Repeal.

\- The Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary Relief) Ordinance, 1975 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance 8 of 1975), and the Tamil Nadu Indebted Persons (Temporary
Relief) Amendment Ordinance, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 9 of 1975), are hereby
repealed.

