## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural
Lands) Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural
Lands) Act, 1961

## Act 57 of 1961

  * Published on 25 April 1962 
  * Commenced on 25 April 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 25 April 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands)
Act, 1961(Tamil Nadu Act No. 57 of 1961)Last Updated 21st January, 2020[Dated
25.04.1962]These words were substituted for the word "Madras" by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Law (Second Amendment) Orders 1569.For Statement of Objects and Reasons,
see Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated 29th September, 1961, Part
IV-Section 3, page 457.Received the assent of the President on the 12th April,
1962, first published in the Fort St. George Gazette on the 25th April, 1962
(Vaishaka 5, 1884)An Act to provide for regulating the administration, either
by personal cultivation or by lease, of agricultural lands held by public
trusts and for regulating the relation of public trusts and their cultivating
tenants in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for regulating the administration,
either by personal cultivation or by lease, of agricultural lands held by
public trusts and for regulating relation of public trusts and their
cultivating tenants in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].And whereas such regulation will best subserve the
common good and increase agricultural production;Be it enacted in the Twelfth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Law (Second Amendment) Orders 1569.] Public
Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Act, 1961.(2)It
extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].(3)It shall come into force on such date as the 43
State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"agriculture"
includes-(i)horticulture;(ii)the raising of crops, grass or garden
produce;(iii)the use by an agriculturist of land held by him or part thereof
for grazing;(iv)the use of any land for the purpose of raising manure
crops;(v)dairy farming;(vi)poultry farming;(vii)livestock
breeding;(viii)growing of trees;and "agricultural" shall be construed
accordingly.(2)"authorized officer" means any [Revenue Officer not below the
rank of Deputy Collector or Revenue Divisional Officer] [These words were
substituted for the words 'Gazetted Officer' by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Second
Amendment Act, 1980 Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1980).] authorized by the Government
by notification to exercise the powers conferred on, and discharge the duties
imposed upon, the authorized officer under this Act for such area as may be
specified in the notification;(3)"co-operative farming society" means a
society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act and consisting only of
persons who have become members of that society with a view to cultivate land
belonging to a public trust in accordance with the provisions of this
Act;(4)"Co-operative Societies Act" means the Act or Acts relating to co-
operative societies for the time being in force in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.];(5)"cultivating tenant"
-(i)means a person who contributes his own physical labour or that of any
member of his family in the cultivation of any land belonging to another,
under a tenancy agreement, express or implied; and(ii)includes -(a)any such
person who continues in possession if the land after the determination of the
tenancy agreement; or(b)the heir of such person, if the heir contributes his
own physical labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of
such land; or(c)a sub-tenant if he contributes his own physical labour or that
of any member of his family in the cultivation of such land; but(iii)dots not
include a mere intermediary or his heir.Explanation, [I] [The Explanation to
clause (5) was numbered as Explanation of that clause and this Explanation was
added by section 5(i)(a) of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1965
(Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).]. - For the purposes of Chapters III and IV, a co-
operative farming society shall be deemed to be a cultivating
tenant;[Explanation II. [The Explanation to clause (5) was numbered as
Explanation of that clause and this Explanation was added by section 5(i)(a)
of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).]
\- A member of the Armed Forces in service shall be deemed to be a cultivating
tenant in respect of a land if such land is cultivated by the members of his
family or by his own servants or by hired labour, with his own or hired
stock;](6)"cultivating tenant's ceiling area" means five standard acres held
by any person -(a)(i)partly as cultivating tenant; and(ii)partly as owner or
possessory mortgagee; or(b)wholly as cultivating tenant;(7)"date of the
commencement of this Act" means the date appointed by the Government under
sub-section (3) of section 1;(8)"fair rent" means the rent payable under
Chapter IV;(9)"forest" includes any waste land containing trees or
shrubs;(10)"garden land" means dry land irrigated by lifting water from wells
or other sources;(11)"Government" means the State Government;(12)"to hold
land" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means to own
land as owner or to possess or enjoy land as possessory mortgagee or as
cultivating tenant or as intermediary or in one or more of those
capacities;(13)"mam land" in any area in the State except the transferred
territory-(a)means any land the grant of which in inam has been made,
confirmed or recognised by the Government, and(b)includes-(i)any land in any
village specified in Schedule I [or in such other village or part thereof as
the Government may, by, notification, from time to time specify] [These words
were added by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of
Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 22
of 1964).];(ii)any land which is exempt either in whole or in part, from
payment of land revenue;(iii)any land of which the land revenue alone or
portion thereof has been granted in inam to any person, provided that such
grant has been made, confirmed or recognized by the Government; and(iv)any
inam constituting an estate under the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Estate Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908); but does not include any inam land on which full
assessment of revenue has been levied under the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956; [Tamil Nadu] [These words were
substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956);(14)"Intermediary" means any person who, not
being an owner or a possessory mortgagee, has an interest in land, and is
entitled, by reason of such interest, to possession thereof but has
transferred such possession to others;(15)"land" means agricultural land; that
is to say, land which is used or capable of being used for agricultural
purposes or purposes subservient thereto and includes forest, pasture land,
plantation, orchard and tope, but does not include house site or land used
exclusively for non-agricultural purposes;(15A)[ "member of the Armed Forces"
shall have the same meaning as in clause 29 of section of the [Tamil Nadu]
[This clause was inserted by section 5(i)(b) of this Tamil Nadu Tenancy
(Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).] Land Reforms (Fixation of
Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 58 of
1961)];(16)"normal gross produce" in respect of any land means the produce
which would be obtained, if the rainfall and the seasons were of a normal
character, from lands of the same class as the land in question, similarly
situated and possessing similar advantages;(17)"notified date" means the date
specified in the notification issued by the Government under section
6;(18)"orchard" means an enclosure or assemblage of fruit or nut-bearing
trees, constituting the main crop therein, whether of spontaneous or
artificial growth and includes nandavanams, but does not include trees on such
bunds as are not within or adjunct to such enclosure or
assemblage;[Explanation. [This Explanation was added by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands,
Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).] \- The expression "fruit or
nut-bearing trees" shall not include plantain trees."](19)"owner" means-(i)any
person holding land in severalty or jointly or in common under a ryotwari
settlement or in any way subject to the payment of revenue direct to the
Government, or(ii)a landholder as defined in the [Tamil Nadu] [These words
were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words
were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908) or a ryot as defined to that Act,
or(iii)an inamdar not being a landholder defined as aforesaid;(20)"paid"
includes "delivered";(21)"person" includes any public trust, company, firm,
any farming society or association of individuals, whether incorporated or
not;(22)"personal cultivation" with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, in relation to a public trust, includes cultivation by hired
labour or with hired stock or by servants on wages payable in cash or kind but
not as a share of produce;(23)"plantation" means any land used for growing all
or any of the following, namely, cardamom, cinchona, coffee, rubber or
tea;(24)"possessory mortgagee" means a mortgagee entitled to the possession of
the whole or part of the mortgaged property and to receive the rents and
profits accruing from such property or any part of such rents and profits and
to appropriate the same in lieu of interest or in payment of the mortgage
money or partly in lieu of interest or partly in payment of the mortgage
money;(24A)[ "Proclamation of Emergency" means the Proclamation issued under
clause (1) of Article 352 of the Constitution on the 26th day of October,
1962;] [This clause was inserted by section 5(i)(c) of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy
(Amendment) Act, 1965) (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).](25)"public trust" means a
trust for a public purpose of a religious or charitable, or of an educational,
nature, and includes-(i)any temple, math, mosque, church or other place by
whatever name known, which is dedicated to, or for the benefit of, or used as
of right by, any community or section thereof as a place of public religious
worship;(ii)any charitable or educational institution of a public
nature;(26)"Registrar" shall have the same meaning as in the Co-operative
Societies Act;(27)"Rent Court" and "Rent Tribunal" in relation to any area
means the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal respectively constituted under this
Act for such area;(28)"standard acre" means-(1)in any area in the State,
except the transferred territory-(a)0.08 acre of wet land assessed to land
revenue at any rate above Rs. 15 per acre; or(b)1 acre of wet land assessed to
land revenue at the rate of Rs. 10 and above but not exceeding Rs. 15 per
acre; or(c)1.2 acres of wet land assessed to land revenue at the rate of Rs. 8
and above but below Rs. 10 per acre; or(d)1.6 acres of wet land assessed to
land revenue at the rate of Rs. 6 and above but below Rs. 8 per acre;
or(e)1.75 acres of wet land assessed to land revenue at the rate of Rs. 4 and
above but below Rs. 6 per acre; or(f)2 acres of wet land assessed to land
revenue at any rate below Rs. 4 per acre; or(g)2.5 acres of dry land assessed
to land revenue at the rate of Rs. 2 and above per acre; or(h)3 acres of dry
land assessed to land revenue at the rate of Rs. 1.25 and above but below Rs.
2 per acre; or(i)4 acres of dry land assessed to land revenue at any rate
below Rs. 1.25 per acre;(2)in the Kanyakumari district-(a)1 acre of registered
wet land irrigated by any source forming part of, or benefited by, any
project; or(b)1.2 acres of registered dry land irrigated by any source
mentioned in item (a); or(bb)[ 1.6 acres of wet land irrigated by any
Government source other than a source mentioned in item (a); or] [This item
was inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands)
Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1968).](c)1.6 acres of dry land
irrigated by any Government source other than a source mentioned in item
(a);(d)4 acres of dry land unirrigated by any source mentioned in item (a) or
by any other Government source of irrigation;(3)in the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli district-(a)1.2 acres of wet land irrigated by any river or stream
or by tanks fed by any river or stream; or(b)1.6 acres of wet land irrigated
by any Government source other than a source mentioned in item (a); or(c)2
acres of dry land irrigated by any Government source; or(d)4 acres of dry land
unirrigated by any source mentioned in item (a) or by any other Government
source of irrigation;Explanation I. - For the purpose of sub-clause (1) of
clause (28), "land revenue" shall mean-(i)in the case of any land in respect
of which a ryotwari settlement is in force on the date of the commencement of
this Act, the ryotwari assessment payable on that date;(ii)in the case of any
inam land on which full assessment of revenue has been levied under the [Tamil
Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] In ms (Assessment) Act, 1956 ([Tamil
Nadu Act XL of 1956] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]), such assessment;(iii)in
the case of any land [other than an inam land referred to in clause (ii)] in
respect of which a ryotwari settlement is not in force on the date of the
commencement of this Act, but is brought into force after that date but before
the notified date, the ryotwari assessment payable under such settlement after
it is brought into force;(iv)the case of any land in respect of which a
ryotwari settlement effected in pursuance of section 22 of the of [Tamil Nadu]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of
1948), has not been brought into force before the notified date, or in the
case of any inam land, the land revenue notified by the Government in this
behalf with due regard to the highest rate of ryotwari assessment payable for
any land of a similar description and with similar advantages in the nearest
ryotwaii village:Provided that no notification shall be issued under this
clause, unless the persons likely to be affected by such notification are
given a reasonable opportunity to make representation and adduce evidence in
respect of the rates proposed to be specified in the notification:Provided
further that the land revenue notified by the Government under this clause
shall not be modified, notwithstanding that a different rate of assessment is
fixed under-(i)any settlement that may be brought into force; or(ii)the [Tamil
Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams (Assessment) Act, 1956 ([Tamil
Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956); after the date of the
publication of the said notification.Explanation II. - In sub-clauses (2) and
(3) of clause (28) "wet land" and "dry land" shall include inam wet land and
inam dry land respectively.Explanation III. - For the purposes of sub-clause
(2) of clause (28), "project" means any of the following irrigation systems,
namely:-(i)Kodayar project system proper;(ii)(a)Pazhayar system;(b)Valliai
system;(c)Thirparappu Right Bank Channel and Left Bank Channel
system;(d)Champakulam system;(iii)Alathuraiyar system.Explanation IV. - In any
area in the State, except the transferred territory, one acre of dry
land-(a)irrigated by direct flow of water from any Government source of
irrigation supplying water-(i)for two crops and above, shall be deemed to be
equivalent to one acre of wet land assessed to land revenue at the rate of Rs.
8 and above but below Rs. 10 per acre;(ii)for only one crop, shall be deemed
to be equivalent to one acre of wet land assessed to land revenue at the rate
of Rs. 4 and above but below Rs. 6 per acre;(b)irrigated by lifting water from
any Government source of irrigation shall be deemed to be equivalent to one
acre of wet land assessed to land revenue at the rate of Rs. 4 and above but
below Rs. 6 per acre:Provided that the Government may, in respect of any
particular area, by notification, direct that 1 acre of dry land irrigated
from any Government source of irrigation shall be deemed to be equivalent to
any specified extent of any of the categories of land specified in sub-clause
(1) of clause (28) on the ground of quality of the soil or on any other
ground:Provided further that such notification shall not come into force
unless it is approved by the Legislature.Explanation V. - Where the land held
by a person consist of more than one of the kinds of the land specified in
clause (28), the extent of the land held by him shall, for the purposes of
this Act, be reduced to standard acres calculated according to the proportions
specified in clause (28);(29)"tope" means any land containing groups of fruit
or nut-bearing trees including palmyrah trees, constituting the main crop in
such land, whether of Spontaneous or artificial growth and includes orchards,
but does not include trees on such bunds as are not within or adjunct to such
groups of trees;[Explanation. [This expiation was added by section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Public Trust (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands
Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).] \- The expression "fruit or
nut-bearing trees "shall not Include plantain trees."].(30)"transferred
territory" means the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli district;(31)"trustee" means a person in whom either alone or in
association with other persons the trust property of any public trust is
vested or any person who for the time being, cither alone or in association
with some other person or persons, administers the trust property of any
public trust and includes-(i)in the case of a math, the head of such
math;(ii)in the case of a wakf, a mutawalli of such wakf;(iii)in the case of a
society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Central Act XXI
of 1860), its governing body;(iv)in the case of any other public trust, the
person legally competent to act for such public trust.

### 3. Act to override other laws, contracts, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force,
or any custom, usage or contract or decree or order of a Court or other
authority.

## Chapter II  
Regulation of cultivation of lands held by Public Trusts

### 4. Regulation of cultivation of land held by public trusts.

\- On and after the date of the commencement of this Act, no public trust
shall personally cultivate, or lease out, land held by such trust except in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

### 5. Ceiling on personal cultivation by public trusts.

(1)Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no public trust shall personally
cultivate land in excess of twenty standard acres.(2)Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to authorize any public trust to evict any person holding land
as cultivating tenant under such public trust on the date of the commencement
of this Act, except in accordance with the provisions of sections 7, 15(2) and
19.

### 6. Land under personal cultivation of public trust in excess of twenty
standard acres to be leased out.

\- Where on the date of the commencement of this Act, any public trust
personally cultivates land in excess of twenty standard acres and continues to
so cultivate that land on such date as may be specified in the notification
issued by the Government in this behalf, the trustee of the public trust
shall, within such period as may be prescribed, from the date specified in
such notification, lease out the lands in such excess to-(i)a co-operative
farming society; or(ii)any person who is already a cultivating tenant;
or(iii)any person who not being already a cultivating tenant executes an
agreement with the public trust that he will contribute his own physical
labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of the land so
leased out to him:Provided that the extent of land so leased out to any person
other than a co-operative farming society, together with the other land, if
any, already held by such person, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
cultivating tenant's ceiling area.

### 6A. [ Cultivating tenant's ceiling area of a person to include his
spouse's, minor son's or unmarried daughter's holding. [This section was
inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of
Administration of Agricultural Lands Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1973.)]

\- In calculating the extent of the cultivating tenant's ceiling area of a
person for the purposes of this Act, the extent of land held as cultivating
tenant or as owner or as possessory mortgagee by such person, his spouse,
minor son and unmarried daughter shall be taken into account and accordingly
the aggregate, of the extent of land so held by such person, his spouse, minor
son and unmarried daughter shall not exceed five standard acres.]

### 7. Possession of land held by cultivating tenant to revert to public
trust.

(1)Where on the notified date, any cultivating tenant under any public trust
is in possession of land in excess of the cultivating tenant's ceiling area,
the possession of the land which is held by the public trust and which is in
excess of the cultivating tenant's ceiling area shall, with effect from the
date aforesaid, revert to the public trust subject to such rules as may be
made in this bi half.(2)Where, on or after the notified date, any cultivating
tenant under any public trust acquires by sale lease, gift, exchange,
surrender, agreement, settlement or otherwise, any land which, together with
the other land, if any, already held by him, exceeds in the aggregate the
cultivating tenant's ceiling area, the possession of the land which is held by
the public trust and which is in excess of the cultivating tenant's ceiling
area shall, with effect from the date of such acquisition, revert to the
public trust, subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf.(3)The
cultivating tenant concerned shall have the option to select the land, the
possession of which shall revert to the public trust under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2), as the case may be;Provided that such option shall be subject
to such conditions as may be prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section and sections 10 and 11, cultivating tenant shall include any
tenant who is in actual possession of the land but does not contribute his own
physical labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of such
land.

### 8. Public trust to lease out land reverted under section 7 etc.

\- Where any land reverts to the public trust under section 7 or is resumed
under section 19, or where any land is acquired by sale, gift, exchange,
surrender, agreement, settlement or otherwise, the trustee of the public trust
shall, [within such period as may be prescribed] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'within ninety days from the date of reversion,
resumption or acquisition, as the case may be' by section 4 of the Tamil Nadu
Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment
Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).], lease out such land to-(i)a co-
operative farming society; or(ii)any person who is already a cultivating
tenant; or(iii)any person who not being already a cultivating tenant executes
an agreement with the public trust that he will contribute his own physical
labour or that of any member of his family in the cultivation of the land so
leased out to him:Provided that the extent of land so leased out to any person
other than a co-operative farming society, together with the other land, if
any, already held by such person, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
cultivating tenant's ceiling area.

### 9. Furnishing of returns by public trust.

(1)The trustee of every public trust shall, within ninety days from the date
of the expiry of the period prescribed under section 6, furnish to the
authorized officer a return containing such particulars as may be
prescribed.(2)If, on or after the notified date, any land-(i)reverts to any
public trust under section 7 or sub-section (2) of section 15; or(ii)is
resumed by arty public trust under section 19; or(iii)is acquired by any
public trust by sale, gift exchange, surrender, agreement, settlement or
otherwise then, the trustee of the public trust shall, within nine days from
the date of the expiry of the period specific in section 8, furnish to the
authorized officer a return containing such particulars as may be prescribed.

### 10. Furnishing of returns by cultivating tenant.

(1)Every cultivating tenant under any public trust who, immediately before the
notified date, is possession of land in excess of the cultivating ceiling
area, shall, within ninety days from the notify date, furnish to the
authorized officer a return contain such particulars as may be
prescribed.[Explanation. [This explanation was added by section 5(ii)(a) of
Tamil Nadu Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu 9 of 1965). 1 This
explanation was added by section 5(ii)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy
(Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).] \- In the case of a member
of the Armed Forces, the return under sub-section (1) shall furnished within
six months after the Proclamation Emergency has ceased to operate.](2)If, on
or after the notified date, any cultivating tenant under any public trust
acquires by sale, lease, gift, exchange, surrender, agreement, settlement, or
otherwise, any land which, together with the other land, if any, already held
by him exceeds in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area, then,
he shall, within ninety days from the date of such acquisition, furnish, to
the authorized officer a return containing such particulars as may be
prescribed.[Explanation. [This explanation was added by section 5(ii)(a) of
Tamil Nadu Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu 9 of 1965). 1 This
explanation was added by section 5(ii)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy
(Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).] \- In the case of a member
of the Armed Forces, the return under sub-section (2) shall be furnished
within six months after the Proclamation of Emergency has ceased to operate,
or within ninety days from the date of the acquisition, whichever is later.]

### 11. Collection of information.

(1)If the trustee of any public trust or any cultivating tenant under a public
trust fails to furnish the return under section 9 or section 10, as the case
may be, or furnishes an incorrect or incomplete return under that section, the
authorized officer may, by notice, require such trustee or cultivating tenant,
as the case may be, to furnish the return or the additional particulars, as
the case may be, within the time specified in the notice or within such
further time not exceeding thirty days as the authorized officer may, in his
discretion, allow.(2)(a)Where the trustee of any public trust or any
cultivating tenant to whom notice under sub-section (1) has been served, fails
to furnish the return or the additional particulars, as the case may be,
within the time specified in that notice, or within the further lime, if any,
allowed by the authorized officer under sub-section (1), the authorized
officer may obtain, in such manner as may be prescribed, the necessary
information either by himself or through such agency as he thinks fit.(b)The
authorized officer shall, as soon as may be, after obtaining the information
under clause (a), give to the trustee of the public trust or the cultivating
tenant concerned a reasonable opportunity of making his representation and of
adducing evidence, if any, in respect of such information and consider any
such representation and evidence and pass such orders as the said officer
deems fit.

### 12. Authorized officer to take action in certain cases.

\- Where, on the basis of the return furnished under section 9 or section 10
or under sub-section (1) of section 11 or the additional particulars, if any,
furnished under that sub-section, or on the basis of the information obtained
by the authorized officer under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 11
and the orders passed on the representation and evidence, if any, under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 11, the authorized officer is satisfied that
any land of the public trust has not been leased out in accordance with the
provisions of sections 6, 8 and 15(3), he shall-(a)in any case, where it
appears that the failure to lease out the land is due to the non-availability
of persons to take on lease the land concerned, make an enquiry into the
matter and submit a report containing such particulars and to such authority
as may be prescribed; and(b)in any case where he is satisfied that the failure
to lease out the land is not due to the non-availability of persons to take on
lease the land concerned, choose, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, one or more persons willing to cultivate such land and direct the
trustee of the public trust concerned to lease out such land to the person or
persons aforesaid within the prescribed period:Provided that the extent of the
land so leased out to any one person together with the other land, if any,
already held by him shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's
ceiling area.

### 13. Permission to public trust for personal cultivation in certain cases.

(1)The authority prescribed under clause (a) of section 12 may, after
receiving the report referred to in that clause and after making such enquiry
as it may consider necessary, submit the report together with its
recommendation to the [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the
Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980)
any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be, a reference to
the State Government.].(2)The [Board of Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1)
of the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980) any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be, a reference
to the State Government.] may, after receiving the report and the
recommendation referred to in sub-section (1) and after making such further
enquiry as it may consider necessary-(a)in any case where it is satisfied that
the failure to lease out the land is due to non-availability of persons to
take on lease the land concerned, permit the public trust to personally
cultivate the land; and(b)in any case where it is satisfied that the failure
to lease out the laud is not due to the non-availability of persons to take on
lease the land concerned, instruct the authorized officer to choose one or
more persons willing to cultivate such land and to direct the trustee of the
public trust concerned to lease out such land to the person or persons
aforesaid within the prescribed period; and the authorized officer shall give
effect to such instruction:Provided that the extent of the land so leased out
to any one person together with the other land, if any, already held by him
shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area.

### 14. Authorized officer to choose persons to cultivate land mismanaged by
public trusts.

(1)If it appears to the authorized officer that any land which is intended to
be personally cultivated by any public trust-(i)has remained uncultivated for
any two consecutive years; or(ii)has not been used fully and efficiently for
the purpose of agriculture through the default of the public trust; or(iii)has
been neglected or mismanaged, by the public trust as a result of which, the
cultivation of such land has seriously suffered, the authorized officer shall,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, choose one or more persons
willing to cultivate such land and direct the trustee of the public trust
concerned to lease out such land to the person or persons aforesaid within the
prescribed period:Provided that the extent of the land so leased out to any
one person together with the other land, if any, already held by him shall not
exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area.(2)If any person
to whom any land held by the public trust has been leased out in pursuance of
an agreement executed by him under sections 6(iii), 8(iii) or 15(3)(iii) does
not contribute his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in
the cultivation of the land so leased out or if such person contravenes any of
the provisions of such agreement, the authorized officer shall, subject to
such conditions as may be prescribed, choose one or more officer persons
willing to cultivate such land and direct the trustee of the public trust
concerned to lease out such land to the other person or persons aforesaid
within the prescribed period:Provided that the extent of the land so leased
out to any one person together with the other land, any already held by him
shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area.[14-A.
Special powers of the Authorized officer. [This Section was inserted by
section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of
Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1973).](1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the authorized
officer may, either suo motu or on application, call for and examine for the
purpose of this Chapter any record of the public trust and if, such
examination, the authorized officer is satisfied the in respect of any land
held by the public trust-(1)the public trust has failed to lease out the lat
in accordance with the provisions of sections 6, 8 and 15(1); or(ii)any lease
by the public trust under this Chapter is not bona fide, or(iii)any direction
given by him under clause (b) of section 12 or clause (b) of sub-section (2)
of section 13, or sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 14, has not
been complied with, [or](iv)[ the public trust has failed to evict any person,
not being a cultivating tenant, in occupation of the land without proper
authority from such public trust] [This clause was inserted by section 3(b),
Second Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 38 of 1980).],he may, after giving
notice to the trustee of the public trust and the other persons likely to be
affected, pass an order directing the trustee to lease out the land within the
prescribed period to any one of the persons from the list furnished by him to
the trustee concerned:Provided that the extent of land so leased out to any
such person, together with the other land, if any, already held by such
person, shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling
area.(2)The list mentioned in sub-section (1) shall contain only persons
who-(a)are already cultivating tenants; or(b)if they are not already
cultivating tenants, shall execute agreements with the public trust that they
will contribute their own physical labour or that of any member of their
family in the cultivation of the land so leased out.(3)If the authorized
officer is satisfied either suo motu or on application that in respect of any
land held by the public trust-(a)the trustee of the public trust has not
complied with any direction issued under sub-section (1); or(b)the person to
whom the land has been leased in pursuance of such direction does not
contribute his own physical labour or that of any member of his family in the
cultivation of the land so leased out to him; or(c)if such person contravenes
any of the provisions of the tenancy agreement, the authorized officer shall,
after giving notice to the said trustee and person, cancel the existing lease,
if any, and lease out the land himself on behalf of the public trust to-(i)any
person who is already a cultivating tenant; or(ii)any person who, not being
already a cultivating tenant, executes an agreement with the public trust that
he will contribute his own physical labour or that of any member of his family
in the cultivation of the land so leased out to him:Provided that the extent
of land so leased out to any person, together with the other land, if any,
already held by such person, shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating
tenant's ceiling area.(4)Where any order has been passed by the authorized
officer leasing out the land under sub-section (3) on behalf of the public
trust, any person in possession of the land on the date of such order, shall
be deemed to have been evicted and the trustee of the public trust shall take
possession of the land immediately and deliver possession of such land to the
person to whom the land has been leased out under sub-section (3).(5)(i)If the
person who is deemed to have been evicted under sub-section (4), fail to
deliver possession of the land to the trustee or obstructs the trustee from
taking possession of such land; or(ii)if the trustee fails to take possession
of the land under sub-section (4),the authorized officer may, after using such
force as may be necessary for the purpose, take possession of the land himself
on behalf of the public trust and deliver possession of such land to the
person to whom the land has been leased out under sub-section (3).(6)A lease
by the authorized officer under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be a lease
by the public trust and the public trust shall enter into a tenancy agreement
with the person to whom the land has been leased out under sub-section (3) and
the provisions of section 21 and the other provisions of this Act shall
accordingly apply.]

### 15. Special provision in respect of lands already held by co-operative
societies.

(1)If on the notified date any society registered under the Co-operative
Societies Act (including a society specified in Schedule II) holds on lease
any land held by any public trust and any member of such society cultivates
such land, which together with the other land already held by him, exceeds in
the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area, the society shall within
such period as may be prescribed distribute the tender in such excess to any
other member:Provided that the extent of land so distributed together with the
ether land already held by such other member shall not exceed in the aggregate
the cultivating tenant's ceiling area.(2)The extent of the land which could
not be distributed in accordance with the provision of sub-section (1) shall
revert to the public trust on the expiry of the period prescribed under that
sub-section.(3)The public trust shall within the prescribed period lease out
the lands reverted under sub-section (2) to-(i)a co-operative farming society;
or(ii)any person who is already a cultivating tenant; or(iii)any person who
not being already a cultivating tenant executes an agreement with the public
trust that he will contribute his own physical labour or that of any member of
his family in the cultivation of the land so leased out to him:Provided that
the extent of land so leased out to any person other than a co-operative
farming society, together with the other land, if any, already held by such
person, shall not exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling
area.

### 15A. [ Trustee or authorized officer to take possession of land reverting
to public trust. [This section was inserted by section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment
Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).]

(1)Any person in possession of the land reverting to the public trust under
section 7 or sub-section (2) of section 15, shall be deemed to have been
evicted and the trustee of the public trust shall take possession of the land
immediately.(2)(i)If the person who is deemed to have been evicted under sub-
section (1) fails to deliver possession of the land to the trustee or
obstructs the trustee from taking possession of such land, or(ii)if the
trustee fails to take possession of the land under sub-section (1), the
authorized officer may, after using such force as may be necessary for the
purpose, take possession of the land himself on behalf of the public trust and
deliver possession of such land to the public trust.]

### 16. Restriction on the extent of land to be leased out to co-operative
farming society.

(1)The extent of land leased out to any co-operative farming society by any
public trust under this Chapter shall not exceed the difference between-(i)the
extent of land in standard acres equal to five tinier the number of members of
such society; and(ii)the total extent of land in standard acres already held
by such members.(2)In respect of any land leased out to any co-operative
farming society under this Chapter, the distribution of such land by the co-
operative farming society among its members shall be in accordance with such
rules as may be prescribed:Provided that the extent of land so distributed
together with the extent of the other land already held by any one member
shall in no case exceed in the aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling
area.

### 17. Appeal.

(1)Any trustee of a public trust or any other person aggrieved by an order or
decision of the authorized officer under this Chapter may, within such period
as may be prescribed, appeal to such authority as may be prescribed.(2)The
authority prescribed under sub-section (1) may after giving the parties to the
appeal an opportunity of being beard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks
fit and shall communicate any such orders to the parties concerned.(3)The
order passed by the authority prescribed under sub-section (1) on the appeal
shall be final.

## Chapter III  
Provisions Relating to Tenancies

### 18. Cultivating tenants not to be evicted.

\- Subject to the provisions of section 7, 15(2) and 19 no cultivating tenant
under any public trust shall be evicted from his holding or any part thereof
by or at the instance of the public trust.Explanation. - In this section,
"holding" means the parcel or parcels of land held by any person as a
cultivating tenant.

### 19. Public trust may evict cultivating tenant in certain cases.

(1)Any public trust may evict any cultivating tenant-(a)who, if in arrear on
the date of the commencement of this Act with respect to the rent payable to
the public trust, does not pay such rent within a month after such dat, or who
in respect of the rent payable to the public trust after the date of the
commencement of this Act, does not pay such rent within a month after such
rent becomes due; or(b)(i)who has done any act or has been guilty of any
negligence which is destructive of, or injurious to, the land or any crop
thereon; or(ii)who [not being a member of the Armed Forces in Service] [These
words were inserted by section 5(iii) of the Tamil Nadu Tenancy (Amendment)
Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1965).] has altogether ceased to cultivate the
land; or.(c)who has used the land for any purpose not being an agricultural
purpose; or(d)who has contravened consecutively for two crops the provisions
of sub-section (1) or (2) of section 27; or(e)who has wilfully denied the
title of the public trust to the land.Explanation. - A denial of the public
trust's title under a bona fide mistake of fact is not wilful within the
meaning of this clause.(2)(a)A cultivating tenant under any public trust may
deposit before the authorized officer the rent, or if the rent be payable in
kind, its market value on the date of deposit, to the account of the public
trust-(i)in the case of rent in arrear on the date of the commencement of this
Act, within a month after such date;(ii)in the case of rent accrued due after
the date of the commencement of this Act, within a month after the date on
which rent accrued due.(b)The authorized officer shall cause notice of the
deposit to be issued to the trustee of the public trust and determine, after a
summary enquiry, whether the amount deposited represents the correct amount of
rent due from the cultivating tenant. If the authorized officer finds the any
further sum is due, he shall allow the cultivating tenant such time as he may
consider just and reasonable having regard to the relative circumstances of
the public trust an the cultivating tenant for depositing such further suit
inclusive of such costs as the authorized officer may allow if the authorized
officer adjudges that no further sum is due or if the cultivating tenant
deposits within the time allowed such further sum as is ordered by the
authorized officer, the cultivating tenant shall be deemed to have paid the
rent within the period specified in clause (a) of sub-section (1). If having
to deposit a further sum, the cultivating tenant fails to do so within the
time allowed by the authorized officer, the trustee of the public trust may
evict the cultivating tenant as provided in sub-section (3).(3)(a)The trustee
of every public trust seeking to evict a cultivating tenant falling under sub-
section (1) shall, whether or not there is an order or decree of a court for
the eviction of such cultivating tenant, make an application to the authorized
officer.(b)On receipt of such application, the authorized officer shall, after
giving a reasonable opportunity to the trustee of the public trust and the
cultivating to make their representations, hold a summary enquiry into the
matter and pass an order either allowing the application or dismissing it and
in a case falling under clause (a) of sub-section (1) in which the cultivating
tenant had not availed of the provisions contained in sub-section (2), the
authorized officer may allow the cultivating tenant such time as he considers
just and reasonable having regard to the relative circumstances of the public
trust and the cultivating tenant for depositing the arrears of rent payable
under this Act inclusive of such costs as he may direct. If the cultivating
tenant deposits the sum as directed, he shall be deemed to have paid the rent
under clause (b) of sub-section (2). If the cultivating tenant fails to
deposit the sum as directed, the authorized officer shall pass an order for
eviction.[Provided that the authorized officer shall not direct the
cultivating tenant to deposit such arrears of rent as have become time barred
under any law of limitation for the time being in force.] [This proviso was
added by section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Arrears of Rent
(Relief) Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1972).]

### 20. Right to restoration of possession.

(1)Any cultivating tenant under any public trust, who has been evicted except
in accordance with the provisions of sections 7, 15(2) and 19 may make an
application to the authorized officer within whose jurisdiction the land from
which he was evicted is situated, within a period of six months from the date
of such eviction which he was evicted and to hold it with all subject to all
the liabilities of a cultivating tenant:Provided that the application may be
the period of six months aforesaid if the authorized for reasons to be
recorded in writing, is satisfied applicant had sufficient cause for not
applying with period.(2)(a)On receipt of an application under section (1), the
authorized officer shall, after reasonable opportunity to the trustee of the
public the person, if any, in possession of the land, to representations, hold
a summary enquiry into the and pass an order either allowing the applicant
dismissing it.(b)In passing an order under clause (a) also application, the
authorized officer may impose suctions as he may consider just and equitable
including conditions in regard to the reimbursement by the applicant public
trust or any other person in possession of the respect of the expenses
incurred or the labour contr him during the period when the applicant was
possession, in respect of any crop which has harvested, if an agreement is not
reached between parties as regards the amount and manner
reimbursement.Explanation. - In lieu of imposing any relating to reimbursement
as provided in clause authorized officer may, in his discretion, post
restoration of the possession of the land to the until the harvest of any crop
standing at the time order is passed.

### 20A. [ Special privileges for members of the Armed Forces. [This section
was inserted by section 5(iv) of the Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Tamil Nadu
Act 9 of 1965.).]

(1)A cultivating tenant who is a member of the Armed Forces, on discharge or
from service or on being sent to Reserve, shall, cation for resumption made
within the prescribed to the authorized officer, be entitled to resume from
his sub-tenant, of the land by him.(2)The provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 20 shall, as far as may be, apply to an application under sub-section
(1) as they apply to an application by a cultivating tenant under sub-section
(1) of section 20.(3)Where a member of the Armed Forces dies while in service,
the special privileges conferred by this Act on such member shall be available
to the widow of such member, or any person dependent upon such member
immediately before his death.]

### 21. Execution of lease.

(1)In the case of every tenancy agreement entered into after the date of the
commencement of this Act bi tween a cultivating tenant and a public trust, a
lease deed shall be executed in triplicate in the prescribed form, within a
reasonable time after the commencement of such tenancy, specifying the name
and description of the cultivating tenant, the name (if any), survey number,
description and extent of the land leased out, and the terms of the tenancy;
and shall be signed both by the trustee of the public trust and by the
cultivating tenant. One of the three copies shall be kept by the trustee of
the public trust, one shall be kept by the cultivating tenant and the third
shall be caused to be lodged in the Taluk Office by the trustee of the public
trust within a fortnight of the date on which the cultivating tenant signs
it:Provided that if the trustee of the public trust or the cultivating tenant
refuses or delays unreasonably to execute the lease deed, it shall be open to
the cultivating tenant or the trustee of the public trust, as the case may be,
to lodge the deed in the Taluk Office with a declaration that the other party
has refused or delayed unreasonably to execute it.(2)No stamp need be affixed
to the lease deed.(3)In the case of any tenancy, if the trustee of the public
trust or the cultivating tenant refuses to sign or fails to lodge the lease
deed in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1), the authorized
officer may, after holding such enquiry as may be prescribed, impose on the
trustee of the public trust or the cultivating tenant, as the case may be, a
penalty which may extend to fifty rupees; and any penalty so imposed may be
recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 22. Revision by the District Court.

\- The District Court may call for and, examine the record of any authorized
officer in respect of any proceeding under this Chapter to satisfy itself as
to the regularity of such proceeding or the correctness, legality or propriety
of any decision, or order passed thereon; and if, in any case, it appears to
the District Court that any such proceeding, decision or order should be
modified, annulled or reversed or remitted for reconsideration, it may pass
orders accordingly:Provided that the District Court shall not pass any order
prejudicial to any party unless he has been giver a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section "District Court"
shall mean-(i)in the City of Madras, the City Civil Court; and(ii)in any other
area, the principal civil court of original jurisdiction.

## Chapter IV  
Fair Rent

### 23. Rights and liabilities of cultivating tenant and public trust.

(1)Every cultivating tenant under any public trust shall be bound to pay to
the public trust and every public trust, shall be entitled to collect from the
cultivating tenant fair rent payable under this Chapter I.(2)Where the
irrigation of any land is irregular, the public trust may, at it option,
titter take its there of produce and bear the excess water-cess in respect of
the irregular irrigation proportionate to its share or take the share of the
produce which would have been obtained but for the irregular irrigation in
which case the entire excess water-cess shall be borne by the cultivating
tenant.(3)Notwithstanding any neglect or failure on the part of the
cultivating tenant under any public trust to raise any crop, the public trust
shall be entitled to collect fair rent.(4)[All the cultivation expenses] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'Subject to the proviso to sub-
section. (2) of section 24, all the cultivation expenses' by section 3 of the
Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands)
Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1980).] inclusive of cost of seed,
ploughing, manuring, harvesting and threshing shall be borne by the
cultivating tenant under the public trust.(5)The public trust shall be
responsible for the payment of all due payable to the Government and local
authorities in respect of the land subject to its right to recover from the
cultivating tenant the public charges, which are expressly made payable by the
cultivating tenant by this Chapter.(6)The public trust shall bear all capital
expenditure necessary to maintain the land and wells in a state of proper
repair.(7)Subject to the provisions of Chapter III, no public trust shall,
after the date of the commencement of this Act, claim or stipulate
for-(i)payment of any amount by the cultivating tenant in excess of the fair
rent or in excess of the public charges which are expressly made payable by
the cultivating tenant by this Chapter; or(ii)the delivery by the cultivating
tenant of any article or thing in addition to fair rent.(8)A public trust may
advance to its cultivating tenant who is not a member of any tenant farming
society such loan as may be necessary for manuring its land. The loan so
advanced shall be a first charge on the share of the produce to which the
cultivating tenant is entitled under this Chapter.(9)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-sections (4) and (8), the trustee of a public trust may with
the consent of the cultivating tenant concerned in the case of any wet land or
garden land attend to the manuring of the land by chemical manures and oil-
cakes upto a sum equivalent to ten per cent of the normal gross produce and
recover the same from the cultivating tenant. The amount payable by the
cultivating tenant under this sub-section shall be a first charge on the share
of the produce to which the cultivating tenant is entitled under this Chapter.
Such amount shall be paid in addition to the fair lent payable under this
Chapter.(10)Nothing contained in this section shall the right of the public
trust to claim from the tenant compensation for damages to land or to anything
that stood on the land at the time of lease.

### 24. What is fair rant.

\- [(1) Fair rent shall be 25 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money.] [Substituted by section 4(1) of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts
(Regulation Of Administration of Agricultural Lands), Amendment Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1980)](2)[ * * *] [omitted by section 4(2) of the Tamil
Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands)
Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1980)].(3)Where the contract of
tenancy provides for payment of a rent lower than the fair rent payable under
the above provisions, the contract rent alone shall be payable during the
contract period.

### 25. Fair rent may be paid in cash or in kind.

(1)The fair rent in respect of any land may be paid either in cash or in kind
or partly in cash and partly in kind, in accordance with the terms of the
contract between the public trust and the cultivating tenant; and in the
absence of such a contract, the fair rent may be paid at the option of the
cultivating tenant in any one of the above ways:Provided that the option shall
be exercised within three months from the date on which the tenancy agreement
takes effect and if the cultivating tenant does not exercise the option within
the period aforesaid, the trustee of the public trust shall, by notice given
to the cultivating tenant, specify the way in which the fair rent shall be
paid, by the cultivating tenant:Provided further that the option once
exercised or the way once specified shall not be changed except by mutual
agreement:Provided also that where the crop raised is paddy, the public trust
shall have the right to insist that the rent shall be paid in kind.(2)Whenever
adverse seasonal conditions result in the reduction of the gross produce from
any particular crop to the extent of more than 25 per cent, the public trust
shall be bound to remit a proportionate part of the fair rent due to it from
its cultivating tenant in respect of that land for that period:Provided that
before admitting or inquiring into an application made by a cultivating tenant
for remission of fair rent under this section, the Rent Court may impose such
conditions as it considers reasonable in the circumstances of the case
including conditions as to deposit of admitted rent which has become due.

### 26. Alteration or revision of fair rent.

\- [(1) Where in respect of any land fair rent has been determined under this
Chapter, it shall continue in force for five years:Provided that the Rent
Court may, on an application made by the cultivating tenant under any public
trust, reduce the fair rent if it is satisfied that on account of
deterioration of the land by floods or other causes beyond the control of the
cultivating tenant, the land has been wholly or partially rendered unfit for
the purposes of cultivation:Provided further that the Rent Court may, on an
application made by the trustee of a public trust, enhance the fair rent if it
satisfied that on account of any improvements made in the land by or at the
expense of the public trust, the produce of the land has increased.(2)[ Where
fair rent has been determined under this Chapter, in respect of any land
before the date of the publication of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation
of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1980, in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, and such fair rent is in excess of the fair rent
specified in section 24, as amended by the said Amendment Act, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), on and from the said
date, the fair rent so determined shall, in respect of that date and any
period after that date, stand reduced to the fair rent specified in the said
section 24, are amended by that Amendment Act.] [Section 26 was renumbered as
sub-section (1) of that section by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts
(Regulation or Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 18 of 1980).]]

### 27. Sharing of produce.

(1)Where the produce to be shared is grain, no cultivating tenant shall
harvest the crop unless he has given in such manner as may be prescribed, not
less than ten days' notice in writing intimating the public trust of his
decision to harvest and the notice shall expire on the day on which the
harvest is to take place.(2)Where the produce to be shared is grain, the
sharing shall be done at the threshing floor on which tiff threshing took
place; and no portion of the produce shall be removed therefrom at such time
or in such manner as to prevent the due division thereof at the proper
time.(3)If the trustee of a public trust fails to attend harvest on the date
of harvest specified in the notice give under sub-section (1), the cultivating
tenant shall entitled to harvest the crop on that date or on any date. In such
a case, either the trustee of the public trust or the cultivating tenant may
make an application to the authorized officer requesting that an officer may
be disputed to make the division of the produce.(4)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (3), if the trustee of a public trust apprehends the
removal of the produce by the cultivating tenant from the threshing floor in
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2), such trustee may make an
application to the authorized officer requesting that an officer may be
deputed to make the division of the produce.(5)On receipt of the application
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), as the case may be, the authored
officer may depute an officer who shall, exercise such functions and in
accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.

### 28. Constitution of Rent Courts and Rent Tribunals.

(1)The Government may, by notification, constitute Rent Courts and Rent
Tribunals for the purposes of this Chapter, with jurisdiction over such areas
as may be specified in the notification.(2)Every Rent Court shall be presided
over by an officer not below the rank of Tahsildar and every Rent Tribunal
shall be presided over by an officer not below the rank of District Munsif.

### 29. Application to Rent Courts and appeals to Rent Tribunal.

(1)Notwithstanding any agreement between a public trust and the cultivating
tenant, or any decree or order of a Court, either party may apply to the Rent
Court for fixation of fair rent or for deciding any dispute arising under this
Chapter.(2)From every decision of a Rent Court, an appeal shall, within such
time as may be prescribed, be to the Rent Tribunal whose decision shall be
final, subject to revision, if any, under section 32.

### 30. Collector to publish list of prices.

(1)The Collector of the district shall publish in the months of January,
April, July and October every year in the District Gazette the average market
price during the immediately preceding three months at the headquarters of
each taluk of the main crops of the district.(2)Where, for the payment of fair
rent by a cultivating tenant under any public trust, to whom the provisions of
this Chapter apply, the cash value of any has to be fixed, such value shall
be-(a)in the case of any of the crops referred to sub-section (1), the market
price at the taluk headquarters last published under sub-section (1) before
the when such fair rent became payable.(b)in the case of any other crop, such
amount may be agreed upon between the public trust and the cultivating tenant
and in the case of disagreement, amount as may be deemed fair and reasonable
by Rent Court.

### 31. Exemption.

\- Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to any during the period when such land
is used for as main crop, [***] [The word 'sugarcane' was omitted by section 6
of Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration Agricultural Lands)
Amendment Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act of 1980).], plantain or betel vines or any
which does not give any yield for a continuous period two years or more from
the time of cultivation or to contract merely for the collection or harvesting
of crop of any kind.

### 32. Revision by the District Court.

\- The District Court may call for and the record of any Rent Tribunal in
respect of any proceeding under this Chapter to satisfy itself as to the
regularity of such proceeding or the correctness, legality propriety of any
decision, or order passed there and if, in any case, it appears to the
District Court any such proceeding, decision or order should be annulled or
reversed or remitted for reconsideration, it may pass orders
accordingly:Provided that the District Court shall not pass order prejudicial
to any party unless he has been a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, "District Court" shall
mean-(i)in the City of Madras, the City Civil Court and(ii)in any other area,
the principal civil original jurisdiction.

## Chapter V  
Tenant Farming Societies

### 33. Formation of tenant farming societies.

\- Any ten or more cultivating tenants under any public trust may form a joint
tenancy co-operative farming, society (in this Act referred to as the tenant
farming society) and for that purpose may apply in writing in the prescribed
form to the Registrar for the registration thereof.

### 34. Application for registration.

(1)An application for registration of a tenant farming society shall be
accompanied by-(i)extracts from such records as may be prescribed showing the
total area with the survey numbers of all the lands held by each of the
applicants,(ii)a copy of the proposed by-laws of the tenant farming
society;(iii)a statement whether any applicant is in arrear with respect to
any rent payable to the public trust, and shall contain such particulars as
may be prescribed.(2)The by-laws referred to in clause (ii) of sub-section (1)
shall be deemed to be the by-laws required to be filed under the provisions of
the Co-operative Societies Act.

### 35. Registration of tenant farming societies.

(1)After making such enquiry as may be prescribed, the Registrar shall,
subject to such conditions as maybe prescribed, register the tenant farming
society and grant a certificate of registration.(2)The Registrar shall cause a
copy of the certificate to be forwarded within such time and such manner as
may be prescribed to the authorized officer within whose jurisdiction the land
in respect of at which the tenant farming society is registered is signed for
such action as may by prescribed.

### 36. Transfer of possession of land to tenant farming society.

(1)When a tenant farming society has been registered under section 35, the
possession of all land held by a member in respect of which he becomes a
member of the tenant farming society shall with effect from the date of such
registration and for so long as the registration of the tenant farming society
is not cancelled stand transferred to the tenant farming society, which shall
thereupon hold such land and use it for agricultural purposes.(2)If any
cultivating tenant under any public trust is admitted as a member of a tenant
farming society after its registration, the possession of the land held by him
and in respect of which he becomes a member, shall with effect from the date
on which he becomes a member stand transferred to the tenant farming
society.(3)No member of a tenant farming society shall withdraw his membership
during the period specified in the agreement executed by him under sub-section
(1) of section 40:Provided that the society may, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, permit any member to withdraw.(4)Where any member of a
tenant farming society ceases to be a cultivating tenant by virtue of any
order passed under Chapter III by the authorized officer or the District Court
in respect of any land the possession of which stood transferred to the tenant
farming society, he shall, with effect from the date of such order, cease to
be a member of that society in respect of that land.(5)(a)Notwithstanding the
withdrawal of membership of a tenant farming society by a cultivating tenant
under sub-section (3), or the cessation if such membership under sub-section
(4), the possession of the land in respect of which the cultivating tenant had
become a member shall continue, to remain with the tenant farming society and
the rights, and liabilities of the cultivating tenant aforesaid shall be
deemed to have devolved on the tenant farming society:Provided that nothing in
this clause shall be deemed to make the tenant farming society liable for the
payment of rent accrued due before the date on which the cultivating tenant
became a member of such society.(b)The tenant farming society shall in respect
of such land as is referred to in clause (a) admit a new member and permit him
to cultivate such land:Provided that the extent of the land so cultivated
together with the other land already held by him shall not exceed in the
aggregate the cultivating tenant's ceiling area.

### 37. Consequences of registration.

\- When a certificate of registration in respect of any tenant farming society
has been granted as provided in section 35, the provisions of the Co-operative
Societies Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder,
apply in relation to such tenant farming society, as they apply in relation to
a society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act.

### 38. Amendment of by-laws by the Registrar.

\- [(1)] [Section 38 was renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section by
section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of
Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1968).] The
Registrar may at any time on application made by a majority of the members of
a tenant farming society, [***] [The words 'or of his own motion' were omitted
by section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration
of Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1968).] after
giving notice to the society in such manner as may be prescribed and after
giving the society an opportunity of being heard, amend the by-laws.(2)[ Where
the Registrar is satisfied that for the purpose of altering the area of
operations of a tenant farming society or for the purpose of improving the
services rendered by it or for such other purpose as may be prescribed, an
amendment of the by-laws is necessary, he may, after giving notice to the
society in such manner as may be prescribed and after giving the society an
opportunity of being heard, amend the by-laws.] [This sub-section was added by
section 3(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts Regulation of Administration of
Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1968 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1968).]

### 39. Land to continue to vest in the owner thereof.

\- Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to cause the right of ownership of a
public trust or any other person in the land the possession of which stands
transferred under section 36 to the tenant farming society to cease to vest in
such public trust or such other person.

### 40. Agreement regarding period of membership, sharing of income, etc.

(1)Every member of a tenant farming society shall execute an agreement with
the tenant farming society specifying-(i)the period for which he shall
continue as member of such society, such period not being less than five years
in any case;(ii)the basis on which the share of his income shall be
determined; and(iii)such other matters as may be prescribed.(2)The agreement
executed under sub-section (1) shall be sent by registered post by the tenant
farming society to the sub-registrar having jurisdiction over the area in
which the lands are situated.(3)On receipt of the agreement the sub-registrar
shall register such agreement and issue a copy, thereof to the tenant farming
society.(4)Any agreement executed under sub-section (1) which has not been
registered under sub-section (3) shall be null and void.(5)The tenant farming
society shall be entitled to collect any sun due to the society under the
agreement executed under sub-section (1) or on any account what soever, by any
member or past or deceased member.

### 41. Liability of the tenant farming society to rent and other dues.

\- A tenant farming society shall, as from the on which it is registered, or
from the date on which new member is admitted, be liable for the payment rent,
betterment contribution and other public if any, accrued due after the date
aforesaid and by the member concerned under this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, in respect of the land the possession of which stands
transferred to the tenant farming society under section 36.

### 42. Admission of new members.

\- Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, any cultivating tenant
under any public trust may be admitted as a member of a tenant farming
society.

### 43. Heirs deemed to be members of tenant fanning society.

\- When a member the possession of whose land stands transferred to a tenant
farming society dies, his heirs shall be deemed to have become the members of
the tenant farming society subject to the same rights and liabilities of the
first mentioned member.

### 44. Concessions and facilities for the tenant farming society.

\- A tenant farming society shall be entitled to such concessions and
facilities as may be prescribed.

### 45. Act to apply to certain tenant farming societies.

(1)For the purposes of this Act, the tenant farming societies Specified in
Schedule II shall be deemed to have-been registered under this Chapter on the
notified date and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply to
such tenant farming societies.(2)The Government may, by notification, add any
tenant farming society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, before
the date of; the commencement of this Act and in possession of land belonging
to any public trust to, or omit any tenant farming society from, Schedule II;
and, on the publication of such notification, such tenant farming society
shall be deemed to be included in, or as the case may be, omitted from,
Schedule II.

## Chapter VI  
Penalties and Procedure

### 46. Penalty for failure to furnish return.

(1)If the trustee of any public trust or any cultivating tenant under any
public trust refuses or wilfully fails to furnish a return within the time
specified in the notice under sub-section (1) of section 11 or within the
further time, if any, allowed by the authorized officer under that sub-
section, such trustee or cultivating tenant shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to two hundred rupees.(2)If the trustee of any public trust
or any cultivating tenant under any public trust, after having been convicted
under sub-section (1), continues to refuse or to wilfully fail to furnish the
return, such trustee or cultivating tenant shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to fifty rupees for each day after the previous date of conviction
during which such trustee or cultivating tenant continues so to offend.

### 47. Penalty for furnishing false return or information.

\- If the trustee of any public trust or any cultivating tenant under any
public trust, who is under an obligation to furnish any return or information
under this Act, furnishes a return or information which he knows or has reason
to believe to be false, such trustee or cultivating tenant shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 48. Penalty for contravention of the direction of the authorized officer.

\- If the trustee of any public trust contravenes any direction of the
authorized officer under clause (b) of section 12, or clause (b) of sub-
section (2) of section 13 or sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 14,
[or sub-section (1) of section 14-A] [This expression was inserted by section
7 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of
Agricultural Lands) Amendment Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).], he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.

### 49. Penalty for contravention of any lawful order.

\- If the trustee of any public trust, any cultivating tenant under any public
trust or any other person contravenes any lawful order passed under this Act
or obstructs any person from lawfully taking possession of any land for the
possession of which such person is entitled in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act or of any order passed thereunder, such trustee,
cultivating tenant or other person shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees.

### 49A. [ Penalty for obstructing the trustee or authorized officer from
taking possession. [This section was inserted by section 8 of the Tamil Nadu
Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands) Amendment
Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1973).]

\- If any person obstructs any trustee of a public trust or the authorized
officer from taking possession of the land under sub-section (4) or sub-
section (5) of section 14-A or under section 15-A, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.]

### 50. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act
except on complaint in writing made by the authorized officer or any officer
empowered by him by special order.(2)No court inferior to that of a
[Presidency Magistrate] [According to clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (3)
of section (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974),
any reference to a Magistrate of first class shall be construed as a reference
to a Judicial Magistrate of the first class and any reference to a Presidency
Magistrate shall be construed as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate with
effect on and from 1st April, 1974.] or a Magistrate of the first class shall
try any offence punishable under this Act.

## Chapter VII  
Exemptions

### 51. Exemptions.

\- Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to-(i)plantations;(ii)any land
interspersed among plantations;(iii)any land contiguous to any plantation;
provided that the extent of such land shall not exceed twenty per centum of
the total extent of such plantation;(iv)lands converted into orchards or topes
or arecanut dens, whether or not such lands are contiguous or
scattered:Provided that such lands shall be exempt only so long as they
continue to be orchards, topes, or arecanut gardens;(v)any land used
exclusivity for growing fuel trees:Provided that such land shall be exempt
only so long as such land continues to be used for such purpose;(vi)any land
used exclusively for dairy farming, poultry farming or livestock
breeding:Provided that such land shall be exempt only so long as such land
continues to be used for such purpose;(vii)any land used exclusively for
grazing and assessed to land revenue at Rs. 1.25 and below per acre:Provided
that such land shall be exempt only so long as such land continues to be used
for such purpose;(viii)forests.

### 52. Power of Government to exempt by notification and to cancel such
notification.

(1)If, upon application or otherwise, the Government are satisfied that having
due regard to-(i)the object of any public trust;(ii)the purpose for which any
land held by such public trust is used and the income from such land;(iii)in
the case of any educational institution, the extent of land required for
teaching and demonstration purposes; and(iv)such other matters as may be
prescribed,the operation of the provisions of this Act in respect of any land
held by such public trust will not be in the interests of such public trust,
they may, by notification and subject to such conditions, if any, as they may
specify in the notification, exempt such land from the operation of all or any
of the provisions of this Act.(2)If, upon application or otherwise, the
Government are satisfied that-(i)the land or part thereof exempt by virtue of
the notification issued under sub-section (1) as used for any purpose other
than the purpose for which it was used on the date of the issue of such
notification; or(ii)the public trust has contravened or failed to comply with
the conditions specified in such notification,the may, in respect of the whole
or any part of the land exempt by virtue of such notification, cancel such
notification; and upon such cancellation, the whole or part of such land, as
the case may be, Shall again be subject to the operation of all the provisions
of this Act.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 53. Act to apply to certain portion of land held by public trust in cases
where any interest is reserved in favour of the founder of such trust.

(1)Where under the terms of a public trust any interest either in the land in
respect of which the public trust is created or in the income from such land
is presented in favour of the founder of such public trust, or of any other
person, the authorized officer shall declare the extent of land which bears to
the total extent of land in respect of which the public trust is created, the
same proportion as such interest bears to the total interest in such land or
the income therefrom. The extent of the land so declared shall, with effect
from the date of such declaration be deemed to be held by the founder or such
other person and the provisions of this Act shall apply to the remaining
extent, of the land.(2)The extent declared under sub-section (1) shall cease
to be the trust property from the date of such declaration but shall be
subject to any other liability that may be subsisting on such land:Provided
that the extent of such liability shall been the same proportion to the entire
liability as the extent so declared bears to the total extent.

### 54. Power of Government, to issue orders and directions to the authorized
officer, etc.

\- The Government may issue such orders and directions of a general character
as they may consider necessary in respect of any matter relating to the powers
and duties of the authorized officer and the Registrar.The authorized officer
and the Registrar shall give effect to all such orders and directions.

### 55. Transfer of proceedings from one authorized officer to another.

(1)On the application of any of the parties of his or its own motion,-(a)the
Collector of the district may, at any stage after giving the parties a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, transfer any application or other
proceeding under this Act pending before any authorized officer in the
district for disposal to any other authorized officer in the same
district;(b)the [Board Revenue] [By virtue of section 10(1) of the Tamil Nadu
Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980) any reference
to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference to the State
Government.] may, at any stage after giving the particular reasonable
opportunity of being heard, transfer any application or other proceeding under
this Act pending before any authored officer in any district for disposal to
any other authorized officer in any other district.(2)Where any application or
proceeding has been transferred under sub-section (1), the authorized officer
to whom such transfer is made may, subject to any special directions given in
the order of transfer, either hold the enquiry de novo of proceed from the
stage at which the said application of other proceeding stood when it was
transferred.

### 56. Costs.

\- The costs of, and incidental to, all proceedings before the authorized
officer, the Rent Court, the Rent Tribunal of other authority shall be in his
or its discretion.

### 57. Indemnity.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be against the
authorized officer, the Registrar, the Rent Court, the Rent Tribunal or other
authority for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act of any rule of older made there under.

### 58. Bar of jurisdiction of civil courts.

\- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no civil court, shall have
jurisdiction to decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act
required to be decided or dealt with by the authorized, Officer, the
Registrar, the Rent Court the Rent Tribunal or Other authority.

### 59. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for -(a)all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act, to be prescribed.(b)the procedure to be followed by Rent Courts and
Rent Tribunals;(c)the matters to be taken into account in determining normal
gross produce;(d)the fees to be paid in respect of application and appeals
under this Act;(e)the time within which appeals may be presented under this
Act;(f)the notification of prices of agricultural produce for the purpose of
fixing the cash value of the fair rent;(g)the rights and privileges to which a
member of a tenant farming society shall be entitled and the obligations and
liabilities to which such member shall be subject.

### 60. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion may require, by order, do anything which
appears to them necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty.

### 61. Rules and orders to be placed before the Legislature.

(1)All rules made under section 59 and all orders issued under section 60
shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.] and, unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(2)Every rule made under section 59 and every order made under
section 60 shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the table
of both Houses of the Legislature, and if, before the expiry of the session in
which it is so placed or the next session, both Houses agree in making any
modification in any such rule or order or both Houses agree that the rule or
order should not be made, the rule or order shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case maybe, so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule or order.

### 62. Partial repeal of certain Acts.

\- On and from the date of the commencement of this Act, the [Tamil Nadu]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955
([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXV of 1955) and the [Tamil Nadu]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fail
Rent) Act, 1956 ([Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIV of
1956) shall stand repealed in their application to a cultivating tenant in
respect of any land held by him under a public trust.

## I

(See section 2(13)(b)(i))

Serial number. | District. | Taluk. | Revenue number and name of village.  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
1 .. | Chingleput .. | Saidapet .. | 13\. Grant Lycn.  
[1A .. [This item and the entries were inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural Lands Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1964).] | Do. .. | Do. .. | 55\. Mukthapudupattu.]  
2 .. | Do. .. | Ponneri .. | 146\. Karadiputhur.  
3 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 147\. Kannankottai.  
4 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 150\. Therxoy.  
5 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 151\. Kandigai.  
6 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 180\. Pappankuppam alias Alamelu-mangapwram  
7 .. | Madras | .. | 121\. Ikkattutangal.  
8 .. | Salem .. | Harur. .. | 317\. Hunisanahalli.  
9 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 318\. Sillarahalli.  
10 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 321\. Regadahalli.  
11 .. | Do. .. | Do. .. | 322\. Mottankurichi  
  
## II

(See section 45)

Serial number. | Name of the society. | Name of the temple or institution.  
---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3)  
| Thanjavur District. |   
1. |  The Vakkaramari Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Kambahareswarar templs, Tiruouvanam, Kumbakonam taluk.  
2. |  The Melaramansethi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
3. | The Tenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Pasupathiswarar temple, Pandanallur, taluk.  
4. |  The Araseri Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
5. |  The Sirukadambur Tenants Co-operative FanningSociety. | Sri Pasupathiswarar Temple, Pandanallur, Kumbakonam taluk.  
6. |  Sri Thiagesar Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. |  Rajan Kattalai-attached to Sri Thiagarajaswamy, Thiruvarur,Nagapattinam taluk.  
7. |  The Brahannayaki Ambal Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Sri Bavaoushadiswarar Poonguli temple, Thiruthuraipoondi taluk.  
8. |  The Thillaiyadi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Saranatharaikartharswamy, Thillaiyadi,Mayuran taluk.  
9. |  Kailasanathaswamy Temple Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Kailasanathaswamy temple, Koilkadambanur, Nagapattinam taluk  
10 | The Mangal Tenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Manthrapuriswarar temple, Kovilur, Tiruthuraipoondi taluk.  
11. |  The Vallivalam Sri Koil Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri swamy temple, ???  
12. |  The Mariammankoil Inam Arulmozhipettai TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Sri Palace Devasthanam, Thanjavur town.  
13. |  The Pulimangalam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Panchanathiswarar temple, Thiruvaiyaru.  
14. |  Agniswarar Temple Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Agniswaraswamy temple, Thirupugalur, Nannilam taluk.  
15. |  The Maruvathur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Vaidyanathaswamy temple, Vaithiswarankoil, Sirkali taluk.  
16. |  The Kadiramangalam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
17 |  The Sikkil Navancetheswaraswami TenantsCo-operative Farming Society (at Kothamangalam). | Sri Sirkali, taluk.  
18 |  The Sikkil Navaneetheswaraswami TenantsCo-operative Farming Society (at Thethampet). | Sri Navaneetheswaraswamy Sikkil, Nagapattinam taluk.  
19 |  The Thenur Tiruchenkattangudi TenantsCooperative Farming Society. | Sri Rudrapaihiswarar temple, Tiruchengattankudi, Nannilam taluk.  
20 |  The Thenur Tenants Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Sattanathaswami temple, Sirkali taluk.  
21 |  The Tiruvilanadur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Parimalarenganathar temple, Tiruvilandur, Mayuram taluk  
22 |  The Tirunellikaval Sri NellivananathaswamiDevasthanam tenants Co-operative farming Society. |  Sri Nellivananathaswamy temple, Tirunellikaval, Marinarguditaluk.  
23 |  The Thirunaraiyur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Srinivasaperumai, Nachiyarkbil, Kumbakonam taluk.  
24 |  Sri Amaruviperumal Devasthanam TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Sri Amaruviperumal temple, Theralundur, Mayuram taluk.  
25 |  The Vedanayagi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Vederanyeswarar temple, Vedaranyam, Tiruthuraipoondi taluk.  
26 |  The Pannirneer Mozhiyalpuram TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Do.  
27 |  The Andergadu Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
28 |  The Kunnalur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
29 |  The Kariapattinam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Kailasanagaram Chattiram Devasthanam, Vedaranyam.  
30 |  The Natchatramalai Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri temple, Thirukadaiyur, Mayuram taluk.  
31 |  The Thirukkadaiyur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Amirthadeswarar temple, Thirukadaiyur, Mayuram taluk.  
32 |  The Vedgrangam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Ranganathaperumal temple, Vedarangam, Sirkali taluk.  
33 |  The Santhanaramaswamy Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Santhanaramaswamy temple, Needamangalam, Mannargudi taluk.  
34 |  The Thillaivilagam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Veera Kothandarama swamy temple, Thillaivilagam.  
35 |  The Kalukarainatnaiu Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Sri temple, Thiruvilandur, Mayuram taluk.  
36 |  The Sembiamahadevi Sri Kailasanathar DevasthanamTenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Kailasanathaswamy temple, Sembiamahadevi, Nagapattinam taluk.  
37 |  The Ottagudi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Palace Devasthanam, Thanjavur.  
38 |  The Sowrirajaperumal Tenants, CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Sowrirajaperumal, Thiruk-Kaanapuram, Nannilam taluk.  
39 |  Sri Murugan Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Subramaniaswamy temple, Ettikudi.  
40 |  Sri Vedaputiswarar aswami Devasthanam TenantsCo-operative Farming Society (at Kilayur). | Sri Vedaputiswarar temple, Theraliuidur, Mayuram taluk.  
41 |  The Muthupet Sri Sundareswarasami Devasthanam,Pudukkottagam Tenants Cooperative Farming Society. | Sri Soundareswararswamy temple, Muthupet, Tiruthuraipundi taluk.  
42 |  The Thiruvoimoor Thiagarajaswami DevasthanamTenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Thyagarajaperomai temple, Thiruvojmoor, Nagapattinam taluk.  
43 |  The Nemmeli Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Chokkanathaswamy temple, Mannargudi taluk.  
44 |  The Pamini Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple, Mannargudi.  
45 |  The Kannambadi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple, Mannargudi.  
46 |  The Kuruvadi Village Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Do.  
47 |  The Mattiyur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Arunachalaswamy temple Tiruppanandal, Kumbakonam taluk.  
48 |  The Tirappanandal Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
49 |  The Thiruvalaputhnr Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Sri Rathinagiriswararswamy temple, Thiruvalaputhur.  
50 |  The Kuttalam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Ukthavediswarar temple Kuttaiam, Mayuram taluk.  
51 |  The Saranathaswamy Temple Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Saranathaperumal temple Tirucherai, Kumbakonam taluk.  
52 |  The Poovanur Tenants Co-operative SriSathuranga Vallabanatha swamy Farming Society. | Devasraaham, Poovanur Mannargudi taluk.  
53 |  The Ariyalur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Koteeswarar Endowments, Thanjavur.  
54 |  The Vilathur Sri Varadarajaperumal TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Sri Varadarajaperumal temple, Vilathur.  
55 |  The Tiruvarur Sri Thiagarajaswamy DevasthanamArthajama Kattalai, Mosakulam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Thiagarajaswamy Devas thanam, Tiruvarur.  
56 |  The Sattiakudi Sri Vedapuriswaraswamy templeTenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Vedapuriswaraswamy temple, Sattiagudi, Nagapattinam taluk.  
57 |  The Kallapuliyur Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. |  Sri Parimala Renganathaswamy Devasthanam, Tiruvilandur, Kumbakonam taluk.  
58 |  Sri Thiyagarajaswami AbishegakattalaiThirupallimukkudal Tenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Thiagarajaswamy Devasthanam, Tiruvarur.  
59 |  The Kizhvelur Sri Akshayalingaswami DevasthanamTenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Akshayalingaswami Dcvas thanam, Kizhvelur.  
60 |  The Nattiruppu Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. |  Sri Thiyagarajaswamy Devasthanam of Dharmapuram-Mutt,Thirukkuvalai.  
61 |  The Keelaiyur Sri Renganatha Perumal SriArunachaleswaraswami Devasthanam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. |  Sri Renganathaperumal Devasthanam, Keelaiyur and SriArunachalaswamy Devasthanam, Keelaiyur.  
62 |  The Thevur Devapuriswaraswami TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Sri Thevur Devapuriswarar Devasthanam, Thevur.  
63 |  Sri Kalahastheeswaraswami Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Kalahastheeswaraswami, Devasthanam, Papanasam.  
64 |  The Uthamadani Sri Srinivasaperumal TenantsCo-operative Farming Society. | Sri Srinivasaperumal Devas thanam, Uthamadani.  
65 | The Sembanarkoil Swarnapureeswaraswami |  Sri Swarnapureeswaraswami Devasthanam, Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. Sembanarkoil.  
66 |  The Kallikudi Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. |  Rajankattalai attached to Sri Thiagarajaswami Devasthanam,Tirnvarur.  
67 |  The Thirumaraikadar Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Vedarayanyeswaran temple, Vedaranyam.  
68 |  The Thirukannankudi Sri DamodaraNarayanaperumal Temple Tenants Cooperative Farming Society. | Sri Damodaranarayanaperumal Devasthanam, Tirukannankudi.  
69 |  Mayileripuram Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Kalandeeswaraswami Devasthanam, Kottur.  
70 |  The Thirukkannanmangai Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Bakthavatchalaperumal Devasthanam, Thirukkananmangai.  
| Tirunelvellt District. |   
71 |  The Chinthamaniperi Tenants Co-operativeFanning Society. |  Sri Sankaranarayanaswamy Devasthanam, Sankarankoil and SriChintamaninathaswami temple Vasudevanallur, Sankarankoil taluk.  
72 |  Sri Narambunathaswamy Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. |  Sri Narurribunathaswamy temple, Thirupudaimarethur, Ambasanmdramtaluk.  
73 |  The Sivagiri Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri R.K. Nachiar Endowments, Sivagiri, Sankarankoil taluk.  
74 |  The Varadarajaswamy Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. |  Sri Varadarajaswamy Devasthanam, Mela veeraraghavapuram, Tirnnelveli Junction.  
75 |  Sri Thirukkuthalanathaswamy Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Thirukkuthalanathaswamy Devasthaham, Courtalam.  
76 |  The Puliarai Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Thirumalaikumaraswamy Devasthanam, Panpoli.  
77 |  Sri Sankaranarayanaswamy Tenants CooperativeFarming Society. | Sri Sankaranarayanaswamy Devasthanam, Sankarankoil.  
| Ramanathapuram District. |   
78 |  The Devadhanam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Sri Nachadai Thavir tharuliaswamy Deyas, thanam, Devadhanam.  
79 |  The Devadhanam Ammaiyappa Tenants Co-operativeFarming Society. | Do.  
80 |  The Panankulam Tenants Co-operative FarmingSociety. | Do.  
| Chingleput District. |   
81 | The Kovur Tenants Co-operative Farming Society. | Sri Sundhareswaraswamy Devasthanam, kovur.

