## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Reduction of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1970

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Reduction of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1970

## Act 17 of 1970

  * Published on 20 June 1970 
  * Commenced on 20 June 1970 
  * [This is the version of this document from 20 June 1970.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Reduction of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1970(Tamil Nadu
Act 17 of 1970)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Reduction of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 17 of 1970). -
According to section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on
Land) Act, 1961, the ceiling area in the case of every person and in the case
of every family consisting of not more than five members, is 30 standard
acres. Even after the implementation of the said Act, there is disparity in
the ownership of agricultural land leading to the concentration of such land
in the hands of certain persons to the common detriment. As a further step
towards agrarian reform it is considered necessary to reduce such disparity.
With a view to achieve this object it is considered necessary to reduce the
ceiling area from 30 standard acres to 15 standard acres.2\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-Section 3 page 54 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st March 1970.Received the
assent of the President on the 20th June 1970 and first published in Part IV-
Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd
June 1970.An Act further to reduce the ceiling on agricultural land holding in
the State of Tamil Nadu.Whereas under the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of
Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961), the ceiling area in
the case of every person and in the case of every family consisting of not
more than five members, is 30 standard acres;And Whereas Even after the
implementation of the said Act, there is disparity in the ownership of
agricultural land leading to the concentration of such land in the hands of
certain persons to the common detriment;And Whereas as a further step towards
agrarian reform, it is considered necessary to reduce such disparity;And
Whereas with a view to achieve this object, it is considered necessary to
reduce the ceiling area from 30 standards acres to 15 standard acres;And
Whereas for the above purpose it is expedient that the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961) shall have
effect subject to modifications;Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State
of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Reduction of Ceiling on
Land) Act, 1970.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 15th day
of February 1970.

### 2.

[The modifications made by this section have been incorporated in the
principal Act, viz., the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land)
Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961).]

### 3. Saving.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), any action taken (including
any order made, notification issued, decision or direction given, preceding
taken, liability or penalty incurred and punishment awarded, under the
provisions of the principal Act before the date of the publication of this Act
in the Fort St. George Gazette, may be continued or enforced after the said
date in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act as if this Act had
not been passed.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to entitle any
person whether or not such persons is a party to any proceeding mentioned in
sub-section (1) to hold after the 15th day of February 1970, land in excess of
the ceiling area under the principal Act as modified by section 2 and the
provisions of the principal Act as modified by section 2 shall, after the said
date, apply to such person.

