## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Report
of Village Panchayats) Rules, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Report
of Village Panchayats) Rules, 1999

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-PREPARATION-AND-SUBMISSION-OF-ADMINISTRATION-
REPORT-OF-VILLAGE-PANCHAYATS-RULES-1999 of 1999

  * Published on 3 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 3 December 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and Submission of Administration Report of
Village Panchayats) Rules, 1999Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No.
248, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 3rd December 1999 - No. SRO A-88
(a-2)/99Published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th December 1999.G.O. Ms. No. 248. - In
exercise of the powers conferred under section 98 and sub-section (1) of
section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994)
and in supersession of the rules relating to preparation and submission of
Administration Reports, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Preparation and
Submission of Administration Report of Village Panchayats) Rules, 1999.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Submission of Administration Report of Village Panchayats.

\- The Executive Authority of every village panchayat shall, after the close
of each financial year, prepare the administration report of the village
panchayat concerned in two parts, namely: -(a)the report embodying the
particulars specified in Appendix-A; and(b)the annual account indicating
income and expenditure for the year as per audited accounts as specified in
the Appendix-B.

### 4. Procedure of submission and processing.

\- The administration report shall be placed before the village panchayat
which shall consider the report and pass a resolution thereon. The president
shall sign the report with seal and send three copies of the administration
report to the panchayat union concerned through the Deputy Block Development
Officer (Panchayats) concerned not later than the 30th June of the year
following year to which the report relates.Appendix-A(See rule
3)Administration Report of Village Panchayat Within Panchayat
Union,......................... District For The Year.................I.
Constitution and management. - (1) (a) What is the number and date of order
constituting the village panchayat?(b)What is the area of the village
panchayat? Was there any change in jurisdiction during the year? Quote the
number and the date of order.(c)What is its population according to the latest
census figures available?(2)(a)What is the total sanctioned strength of the
village panchayat?(b)Was there any change in its strength during the
year?(c)Was any revision of wards ordered during the year?(d)The number of
seats, if any, reserved for Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe/Women. Was this
number changed during the year? State the ward members to which these seats
are allotted.(e)The number of elected women members Scheduled Caste/Scheduled
Tribe/General;(f)Is there any vacancy and, if so, how long?(g)Was any election
of members, ordinary or casual held during the year and was there any election
dispute?(3)President, vice-president and members. - (a) Is the office of the
president reserved. If so, to whom, Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled
Tribe/Women?(b)Was there any election of president or vice-president during
the year and was there any election dispute ? If so, what was the
result?(c)Was the president or vice-president removed from office during the
year? If so, reasons for the same and details may be furnished;(d)Was any
motion expressing want of confidence in the vice-president passed?(e)Was the
vice-president in-charge, of the office of president or whether any temporary
president appointed, and, if so, for what period ?(f)Was any member
disqualified during the year?(g)Was any member restored to office during the
year?(4)Meetings of Gram sabha and village panchayat. - (a) Did Gram sabha,
meet on 4 occasions as stipulated by Government? If yes, provide briefs about
the resolution passed and action taken thereon. If no, what are the reasons.
Did Women, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe members participate-give
members of participants.(b)Number of village panchayat meetings held during
the year with dates and how many meetings were ordinary, urgent and special?
How many were adjourned for want of a quorum and date of such meeting.(5)How
many committees are functioned? Was any committee formed during the year ?
and, if so, for what purpose? How many times the committees meet and nature of
discussion. Are there any joint committees with other village panchayats? If
yes, furnish details.(6)Management. - (a) Where is the village panchayat
office located? Is the building owned or rented ? If rented, what is the
amount paid? Is it accessible to all communities?(b)Are the prescribed
registers and forms maintained?(c)Establishment. -(i)State the number of
ministerial and contingent staff employed (both full time and part time) and
what is the salary paid to them and annual expenditure for the same?(ii)Are
the number of ministerial staff and contingent staff and salary of
pay/honorarium is paid in accordance with the orders of the Inspector or
Government?(iii)Has the village panchayat, along with any other village
panchayat employed any common staff? If so, furnish details of such staff with
information regarding the proportion of cost thereof met by the other village
panchayat(s).II. Communications. - (1) (a) Any road newly formed or bridges
and culverts constructed during the year and at what cost ? How were they
financed?(b)What is the total length of roads and streets maintained by the
village panchayat? Give break-up details in respect of Cement concrete/Black
Topped / Metalled /Gravelled / Earthen;(c)Number of encroachments pending at
the beginning of the year, detected during the year, evicted during the year
and pending at the close of the year;(d)What is the general condition of
roads?(e)What is the budget provision and the percentage to the total budget
of the village panchayat for road maintenance?III. Lighting. - State the
number of electric lights. Details of lights maintained ordinary, ' tube
lights, sodium vapour lamp, mercury lights. What is the total expenditure on
street lighting?(2)Are there any canals and ferries in the village and is the
management of such ferries entrusted to the village panchayats ? What is the
income derived from the source?(3)Is the right to collect the usufruct of
avenue trees leased out ? What is the income and expenditure?IV. Education. -
(1) (a) What are the number of primary, elementary, secondary and higher
secondary schools in the panchayat village?(b)By whom are they
maintained?(c)Are the schools adequate? Are the buildings adequate?(d)What is
the total number of boys and girls attending the schools?(2)How many Scheduled
Caste/Scheduled Tribe girls are studying in the schools?(3)Is there any
reading room in the village panchayat? Give details of journals
supplied.(4)(a)Is there any adult literacy centre in the village panchayat? If
so, how many and by whom they are conducted? What is the literacy per cent in
the village?(b)What was the strength of these adult literacy centre during the
year?(c)Where any illiterate adults turned literate in the village panchayat
during the year, and if so, how many?V. Public Health. - (1) Streets - (a) Are
streets swept regularly?(b)What is the number of sweepers employed and at what
cost?(c)What is the budget provision and per cent to the total
budget?(2)Sanitary Latrines. - (a) How many houses are there in the village
panchayats? How many of those have household flushhold toilets? How many
families constructed toilets during the year ?(b)Are there any public
latrines? If so, how many? For how many latrines water supply connection has
being given? How many are put under use? Are they maintained properly? As a
result of abolition of private scavanging, the living conditions and working
conditions of the sweepers in the employment of the village panchayat
satisfactory? Whether as a result these improvements any scavenger was thrown
out of employment ? If so, how many of them have been absorbed in any other
suitable work of employment under the control of village panchayat ?(3)Water
Supply. - (a) What are the drinking water sources and are they adequate ? Give
details of sources - Public open wells, power pumps, hand pumps, tube wells,
bore wells, oranies, ground level reservoirs, overhead tanks, with number of
public water taps provided.(b)How many house service connections have been
given and the amount collected as water charges ? Are there any irregular
connection ? If so, what action has been taken ?(c)Have measures been taken to
prevent water sources from pollution ? Where any prosecution launched, and, if
so, the number and the result ?(d)What is the total expenditure on drinking
water supply and total receipt on water charges ? What is the budget provision
and the percentage to the total budget.(4)Drainage. - Are there any drain in
the village panchayat and are they cleaned regularly and maintained properly ?
If there are no drains, what arrangements are made for the disposal of sullage
?(5)Burial and Burning grounds. - (a) Is there any common burial ground ? Is
the space adequate ?(b)Is there a common burning ground ?(c)What is the
expenditure incurred in improving and maintaining them ? What is the budget
provision and state the percentage to total budget.(6)Fairs and festivals. -
What are the principal fairs and festivals in the village panchayat ? Where
sanitary arrangements made during such fairs and festivals ? If so, by whom
and at what cost ?(7)Medical Relief Epidemics. - (a) Is there any hospital or
dispensary in the village panchayat ? How are there maintained ? How many
medical and para medical personnel working and the annual expenditure on these
?(b)Were there any epidemics during the year and what preventive measures were
taken by the village panchayat ?(8)Dangerous and offensive trades. - Has the
village panchayat notified any industrial area ? What are the trades
controlled by the village panchayat ? How many licences were issued during the
year and what is the income derived from them ? Has the village panchayat
framed any by-laws?(9)What is the income derived from Public Resort Act
licence fees ? What is the income derived from entertainment tax ?(10)How many
new building licences were issued during the year and of which how many houses
were completed ? What is the total income derived from building licence fees ?
Was there any lay-out approved and, if so, the extent and number of plots ? Is
there any housing scheme ? If so, the number of house constructed for
Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Backward, Most Backward and
others.(11)Irrigation Source Maintenance. - How many village panchayat . tanks
and other irrigation sources are there and how are they maintained ?VI.
Remunerative enterprises. - Did the village panchayat open any new markets,
bus stands, cart-stands or slaughter-houses during the year ?(2)Markets. - (a)
How many public markets are there in the village panchayat ? Is the village
panchayat maintaining any market and has it constructed any stalls ? What is
the income therefrom ?(b)Is the village panchayat receiving contribution from
the panchayat union council on account of markets classified as panchayat
union markets?(c)Furnish details on private markets, their number and income
derived by way of licence fees levied on them ?(3)Cart-stands or Bus Stand. -
Is the village panchayat maintaining any bus stand or cart-stand ? What is the
method of collecting fees ? What is the income therefrom and the cost of
establishment ?(4)Slaughter-houses. - State the number of slaughter-houses
maintained by the village panchayat and private and the revenue derived
therefrom.(5)Cottage Industries. - What are all cottage industries in the
village panchayat ? Describe the steps taken, if any, by the village panchayat
to improve them.(6)Is any rent paid for the unreserved forest and social
forest under the control of the village panchayat, and if so, state the income
realised and other expenditure incurred.(7)Is compost manufacture in the
panchayat village ? If so, state the income derived therefrom and expenditure
incurred ?(8)How many trees were planted during the year ? Give details of
programme under which such trees were planted ? What is the experience on
maintenance and revenue realised.(9)(1) Number and name of public parks and
gardens maintained, -(i)Expenditure incurred on their maintenance;(ii)Income,
if any, derived from them; and(iii)Proposal, if any, to open new parks or
gardens.(2)How many private parks and gardens are there in panchayat village?
Furnish information briefly.VII. General Revenues. - Taxes : -(a)Give
particulars of rates at which house-tax, profession-tax and advertisement tax
are levied and the amount collected during the year under each head.(b)State
the number of coercive process taken for the recovery of tax;(c)is any tax
levied on agricultural land for specific purpose under subsection (3) of
section 17 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994),
and if so, what is the income derived from it ?(2)Other income. - State the
following:(a)The amount of local cess credited to the village panchayat
account;(b)Income from duty on transfers of property;(c)Income from
fisheries;(d)Income from communal porambokes;(e)Income from endowments and
trusts;(f)Any ex-gratia grants paid by Government;(g)Government grants under
section 183 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of
1994); and(h)Any other income.(3)(a)The amount of contribution, if any, paid
by the panchayat union council and on what account;(b)The amount of
contribution, if any, paid by private individuals and for what purpose.VIII.
Accounts and Audit. - (a) State the name of the Cooperative Bank, Regional
Rural Bank, Post Office Savings Bank, Nationalised Bank in which the funds of
the village panchayat are maintained.(b)Is the village panchayat maintaining
separate bank accounts and separate cash books ? Give details of the accounts
opened and maintained as specified by the Government.(c)Give details of
investment, if any, of village panchayat fund, quoting the authority in
support of such investment.(d)When were the accounts of the village panchayat
last audited and what is the result of the audit ? Give a brief abstract of
receipts and charges separately under all accounts during the year together
with the opening and closing cash balance. (The heads and the amounts
furnished in the audit report for the year under report to be entered here if
audit has been completed already) This information should be in consonance
with the facts furnished in Appendix-B.IX. Miscellaneous functions. - (1) Was
any unreserved forest withdrawn from the control of the village panchayat
during the year ?(2)Are there any institutions or works transferred to the
management of the village panchayat ?(3)Are there any charitable endowments or
inams under the management and superintendence of the village panchayat
?(4)Was any donation accepted during the years ? If so, state details.(5)Are
there any trusts under the management of the village panchayat?(6)Is
protection and maintenance of any village irrigation work, management of turns
of irrigation or regulation of distribution of irrigation water transferred to
the village panchayat ?(7)Was any poramboke grazing ground, threshing floor,
burning and burial ground, cattle-stand, bus stand, cart-stand and tope
excluded by the Collector from the operation of the Act during the year
?(8)Was any kudimaramat work executed ?(9)What are the steps taken for
improving the economic status and control of population in the village
panchayat ? What are the steps taken for effecting family welfare in the
village panchayat ?(10)What are the steps taken for eradicating of
untouchability and communal harmony ?(11)Was village plan prepared and sent to
the panchayat union council?X. Implementation of Schemes and Programmes. - (a)
How many works were under State Government and Government of India sponsored
programmes and schemes ? How many are completed ? Provide details of physical
and financial aspects of each scheme and programme.(b)How many houses are
constructed under State and Government of India Schemes (IAY) ? What is the
total amount spent on this scheme ? How many houses are completed ?(c)How many
toilets are taken up under CRSP and how many completed ? What is the total
expenditure under this scheme ?(d)How many villagers got the benefit under
SGSY Scheme and what is the total subsidy involved ? Are there self-help
groups ? If yes, give details.(e)Give details of State Plan schemes
implemented in the Panchayat Village, Namakku Naame Thittam, Anna Marumalarchi
Thittam, Member of Legislative Assembly Constituency Development Scheme and
Scheme of other departments implemented in the village should be
provided.(f)How many household have got bio-gas plants and are they working
well ?XI. General Administration. - (1) Was the village panchayat dissolved
during the year ? If so, state the period.(2)Was there any occasion for the
executive authority or the Inspector to exercise emergency powers under
section 86 or section 203 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994) ? If so, furnish details.(3)Was any resolution, licence or
permission cancelled during the year ? If yes, give details.(4)Was there any
occasion for the Inspector or other competent authority to direct the
performance of any duty in default of the village panchayat president,
executive authority performing the same ?(5)Are weights and measures tested in
the panchayat village, and, if so, give details;(6)Were any bye-laws framed ?
If so, state their nature; and(7)General remarks, if anyAppendex-B(See rule
3)Income and Expenditure of Village Panchayat For The Year...

Serial No. | Source of income | Amount | Serial No. | Head of Account for expenditure | Amount  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6)  
|  | Rs. |  |  | Rs.

