## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Rules, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Rules, 1961

## Act 1194 of 1961

  * Published on 4 November 1961 
  * Commenced on 4 November 1961 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 November 1961.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Rules, 1961Published vide Notification No.
G. O. Ms. No. 3810, Food and Agriculture, dated 4th November 1961 - S.R.O. No.
A-1194 of 1961Published in Part V, page 1238 of the Fort St. George Gazette,
dated the 6th December 1961.G. O. Ms. No. 3810, Food and Agriculture, dated
4th November 1961 - S.R.O. No. A-1194 of 1961. - In exercises of the powers
conferred by section 44 of the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959
(Tamil Nadu Act 51 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rides:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Rules,
1961.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1959);(b)"Assistant Agricultural Engineer" means any person appointed by the
Government to exercise the powers of an Assistant Agricultural
Engineer;(c)"Form" means a Form appended to these rules;(d)"Section" means a
section of the Act.

### 3. Particulars with which and the period within which claim under sub-
section (2) of section 5 should be preferred.

\- Any claim preferred under sub-section (2) of section 5 shall be by an
application in Form I with the particulars set out in that Form and the period
within which it shall be preferred shall be thirty days from the date of the
publication of the proclamation referred to in sub-section (1) of that
section.

### 4. Inquiry under sub-section (1) of section 6.

\- For the purpose of sub-section (1) of section 6, the Collector shall
require any officer of the Forest Department not below the rank of Range
Officer or any officer of the Agriculture Department not below the rank of
Agricultural Demonstrator to inspect the area concerned and to submit through
the District Forest Officer or the District Agricultural Officer, as the case
may be, a report to the Collector regarding the claim preferred under section
5, the amount of compensation payable and where there are two or more
claimants, the proportion in which it should be paid to such claimants.The
Collector shall, after the receipt of such report, proceed to inquire into
every such claim and shall, after fully satisfying himself about the claim,
make an award. [As amended by G. O. Ms. No. 570, Food and Agriculture, dated
the 19th February 1963.]

### 5. Form of notice of award and manner of service.

\- The notice of award under sub-section (4) of section 6 shall be in Form II.
Such notice shall be served by delivering or tendering a copy thereof, signed
by the Collector or any other officer authorised in this behalf on the
claimant or claimants named therein or their representatives and to the
persons to whom compensation is payable, whenever it may be practicable. When
such person cannot be found, the service may be made on any adult male member
of his family residing with him, and if no such adult male member can be
found, the notice may be served by affixing on the outer door of the house in
which the person ordinarily resides or carries on his business or by affixing
a copy thereof in some conspicuous place of the office of the Collector and
also in the village chavadi.

### 6. Additional functions of the District Committee.

\- In addition to the functions mentioned in section 12, the District
Committee shall perform the following functions, namely:-(i)to organize and
co-ordinate local land utilization surveys in the district and to check the
process of erosion caused by denudation of trees, cultivation of sloping land
and use of wrong cultivating methods and to recommend correct soil
conservation methods;(ii)to advise the Land Improvement Board on the
conditions under which cultivation in specific areas should be stopped and the
land put under soil conservation measures;(iii)(a)to advise on questions
relating to the acquisition of privately owned waste lands for
afforestation;(b)to prepare a list showing the distribution of forest areas
with reference to agricultural areas so as to facilitate measures being taken
for afforestation; and(c)to study the effects of clearing and cultivation of
catchment areas of important streams which feed power and irrigation
projects;(iv)to co-ordinate functioning of regional soil conservation plans
which involve participation of several departments;(v)to scrutinize plans
submitted by the Forest, Agricultural and Public Works Departments for the
conservation of vital catchment areas.

### 7. Additional matters for which provisions may be made in the scheme.

\- A scheme may, in addition to the matters mentioned in clauses (i) to (xvii)
of section 14, provide for-(a)the prohibition of soil wash and debris from the
mining areas to the cultivable and productive areas;(b)the prohibition of
cultivation on slopes more than 33-1/3 per cent, in the hilly areas;(c)the
prohibition of cultivation on slopes less than 33-1 /3 per cent, in the hilly
areas except with such soil conservation measures as may be specified by the
Executing Officer; and(d)the measures to prevent soil wash and debris from the
newly opened up areas for construction of buildings, roads and the like.

### 8. Publication of draft scheme in village under section 16.

(1)A copy of the draft scheme prepared or approved by the Land Improvement
Board under subsection (4) of section 15 shall, in addition to its publication
in the District Gazette under section 16, be affixed in the headquarters of
the taluk in the village chavadi and offices of the panchayats and panchayat
union councils and also in a conspicuous place in the village or villages in
which the lands proposed to be included in the scheme are situated. [As
amended by G. O. Ms. No. 570, Food and Agriculture, dated the 19th February
1963.](2)The Collector may also direct the publication of the scheme in such
newspapers, if any, circulating in the locality as he may think fit.

### 9. Form and service of notice under section 22.

(1)The notice under sub-section (1) of section 22 shall be in Form III.(2)A
copy of the notice referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be served in the manner
specified in rule 5.

### 10. Amount payable under sub-section (3) of section 22 or sub-section (1)
of section 34 and interest.

(1)The net expenditure recoverable under sub-section (1) of section 34 shall
be payable in such number of equated annual instalments not exceeding twenty
as the Collector may fix.(2)Each instalment under sub-rule (1) or under sub-
section (3) of section 22 shall be paid on the date appointed for the payment
of the first instalment of land revenue.(3)The rate of interest payable under
sub-section (3) of section 22 or sub-section (1) of section 34 shall be the
same as that chargeable for loans under the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883
(Central Act XIX of 1883).(4)(a)The option under sub-section (3) of section 22
shall be in writing and shall be exercised within one month from the date of
receipt of notice under section 22. The option shall be signed by the person
and shall be handed over in person to the Executing Officer or sent to him by
registered post acknowledgement due.(b)If no reply is received from any person
liable to pay within the said period, the amount shall be paid by him in one
lump sum after the end of two years from the date of completion of work. The
Collector shall serve a notice to that effect on the person concerned as soon
as possible after the expiry of a period of one month allowed for the exercise
of the option referred to above. He shall also serve a further notice on the
person concerned immediately after the end of two years from the date of
completion of work directing such person to pay the lump sum within two months
from the date of receipt of notice.

### 11. Apportionment of cost of works among owners.

\- Where any land in which any work has been carried out under the proviso to
clause (a) of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 22 is owned by two
or more persons, the cost of such work shall be apportioned among those
persons in proportion to the area of the land owned by them and such area
shall be determined by the Executing Officer in such manner as he may deem fit
with reference to the relevant records.

### 12. Maintenance of record of rights.

\- The record of rights referred to in sub-section (2) of section 25 shall be
maintained by the Executing Officer in Form IV.

### 13. Payment of cost of repair.

\- The cost of repair under sub-section (2) of section 26 shall be paid within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the notice issued by the Collector or
any other officer authorized by him in his behalf. Such notice shall be in
Form V

### 14. Inquiry under section 31.

(1)The Collector shall, before passing an order under section 31, require the
Assistant Agricultural Engineer or the District Forest Officer, as the case
may be, to inspect the land concerned and to make a report to him and satisfy
himself regarding the completion of reclamation.(2)The Collector may, before
determining the rent payable by the tenant to the owner under clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of section 31 and the compensation payable by the Government
under sub-section (1) of section 32, require the Tah-sildar concerned to make
a report to him for the determination of rent or compensation payable, as the
case may be.

### 15. Receipts and registers.

(1)The Collector or any other officer authorised by him in this behalf shall
maintain a register in Form VI giving an account of all receipts and payments
by the Government in respect of land included in any scheme under the
Act.(2)The Collector or the officer authorized by him shall see that the total
cost incurred in respect of each sub-division of work agrees with the total
cost of the scheme indicated in the headlines and if any discrepancy occurs,
he shall take immediate measures to see that the omission is rectified and
that future lapses are avoided.

### 16. Time for appeal and manner of appeal.

(1)The period within which an appeal may be preferred under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) of section 35 shall be two months from the date of the receipt
by the appellant of the order which is appealed against.(2)Every such appeal
shall be in writing.

### 17. Form of notice under section 39(1).

\- The notice referred to in section 39 shall contain a description of the
land, the name of the owner, the designation of the officer and the date or
dates on which such officer proposes to enter upon, survey and mark the land
and do all other acts under the said section.(2)Such notice shall be served in
the manner specified in rule 5, sufficiently in advance on the occupier of the
land in order to enable him to remove obstacles, if any, in the execution of
work by the officer concerned.

### 18. Inspection of documents under section 41.

(1)Any person applying for inspection of the records, documents, plans, or
maps under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 41 shall make an
application in writing to the Collector or the Executing Officer who shall
permit the applicant to inspect the same after collecting from him an
inspection fee of one rupee for every day of inspection.(2)Such fee shall be
paid in cash to the officer granting permission for inspecting them or into a
Government treasury under the head "XXIX Agriculture-Agricultural Receipts-
Miscellaneous Receipts".(3)Any person desiring to obtain copies of such
records, documents, plans or maps shall apply in writing to the Collector or
the Executing Officer and shall pay a fee of five rupees for each set of
copies of records, documents, plans, or maps (or parts thereof) pertaining to
each survey number or contiguous holding. The amount shall be paid in cash to
the officer issuing the copies or into a Government treasury under the head
"XXIX. Agriculture-Agricultural Receipts- Miscellaneous Receipts". The
Collector or Executing Officer shall, thereupon, issue copies of the records,
documents, plans or maps.

### 19.

[Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 259, Agriculture, dated the 5th February 1969.]

### 20. Terms and conditions of grant or advance of loan under section 45.

\- The terms and conditions on which the Collector or any officer authorized
by the Collector may make a grant or advance loans under section 45 to any
person shall be as follows, namely:-(i)The loans shall be granted on the
sureties given by the ryots provided all the ryots in one catchment area apply
for the loan jointly for carrying out the work in respect of the entire
block;(ii)No individual ryot shall be granted more than Rs. 500 in the plains
and Rs. 1,500 on the hills;(iii)the maximum loan amount per acre shall not
exceed Rs. 50 in the plains and Rs. 400 in the hills;(iv)the loan shall carry
the same rate of interest as other takkavi loans;(v)only 50 per cent of the
loan amount should be granted in the first instance before execution of the
work and the balance shall be given only after completion of the work;(vi)soil
conservation measures shall be carried out under the technical guidance of the
Assistant Agricultural Engineer, Soil Conservation Scheme of the district
concerned;(vii)the loan granted shall be recovered with interest in ten equal
annual instalments;(viii)the recovery of loans shall be effected by the
District Collector as in the case of takkavi loans granted for the purchase of
manures and seeds;(ix)the loans granted shall be met from the usual allotment
made for each district under the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (Central Act
XIX of 1883), and the Agriculturists' Loans Act, 1884 (Central Act XII of
1884) and shall be debited to "Loans and Advances by the State Government-d.
Advance to Cultivators-II. Other loans-A. Loans under the Land Improvement
Loans Act and Agriculturists' Loans Act".AppendixForm I(See rule 3)Sub-section
(2) of section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil
Nadu Act 31 of 1959)

### 1\. Name(s) of applicants) and address.

### 2\. Name of village and taluk.

### 3\. S. No.(s) of the field(s) and extent.

### 4\. Classification of land.

### 5\. Nature and extent of right claimed and proof of its exercise in the
past.

### 6\. Amount of compensation claimed and how the amount was arrived at.

Declaration

### 1\.

/We declare that the particulars furnished above are true to the best of my/
our knowledge.Station:Date:Signature of applicant/applicants.Form II(See rule
5)Sub-section (4) of section 6 of the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act,
1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1959)The following award has been passed by the
undersigned in the matter of compensation payable under section 5, of the
lands noted below and situated in Village..........taluk.

Survey number and sub-division | Extent | Amount awarded | Person to whom award is made  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  |  |   
  
The person(s) to whom the award, is made is/are hereby informed that he/ they
should appear either in person or by an authorized agent before the
undersigned within.........days after the issue of this notice, and receive
the amount specified above, failing which the said sum of money will be kept
in revenue deposit and will bear no interest.Note. - 1. The paragraph below
the statement in this notice should be deleted when the notice is served on
those who are not awardees.

### 2\. If the persons interested are present, the contents of the award
should be made known to them and the compensation amount tendered to the
awardees immediately. The notice of the award to the persons interested who
are absent should be without delay

Station:Date:Collector.Form III(See rule 9)Sub-section (1) of section 22 of
the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of
1959)Take notice that the soil conservation work or works as described
hereunder in respect of the land or land belonging to you or in which you hold
a beneficiary claim mentioned below and included in the scheme should be
carried out on or before the ........... to the satisfaction of the Executing
Officer failing which the work will be carried out by the Government as far as
possible through the panchayat union concerned having jurisdiction over the
land and the cost thereof recovered in accordance with sub-section (3) of
section 22 of the Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu
Act 31 of 1959).Form IV(See rule 12)Sub-section (2) of section 25 of the Tamil
Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1959)

Name of the Scheme............. |  1\. Number and date of Government orderssanctioning the scheme.  
---|---  
Village........... |  2\. The general rate per acre or per rupee ofassessment per annum or the special rate, if any, at which costof work to be recovered from owners.  
Taluk............. | 3\. Total cost recoverable from the village.  
District.......... |  4\. Total of annual instalment recoverable fromthe village.  
  
Serial number | Survey number and/or sub-division | Classification | Extent | Assessment |  Name and address of owners to included in thescheme | The right of the owners to the use of the works | Extent of liability of each owner |  Name of transferees or successors liable tomaintain repair works or the follow up of soil conservationpractices  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Extent of liability of each transferee orsuccessor to maintain and repair works, or the follow up of soilconservation practices. |  The rights if any,of the owners or any of them inregard to the use of such work. | Nature of work done | Total cost of work done | Total amount to be recovered from the owner | Number of annual instalments | Year from which recovery shall begin | Amount of each annual instalments | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Note. - (1) Separate sheets shall be used for each village.(2)A map of the
village and plan showing the extent and nature of works shall be enclosed in
this register.Form V(See rule 13)[Sub-section (2) of section 26 of the Tamil
Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1959)]

### 1\. Name(s) of the applicant(s) and address.

### 2\. Name of village and taluk.

### 3\. S.No.(s) of the field(s) and extent.

### 4\. Classification of the land.

### 5\. Nature and extent of maintenance and follow up practices to be
carried.

### 6\. Amount payable to maintain and repair with details.

Station:Date:Signature of the applicant /applicants.Form VI(See rule 15)The
Tamil Nadu Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 31 of 1959)Name
of the village.Name of the taluk.Name of the scheme.Total cost of the scheme.

Serial number and sub-division number |  Name of the registered holder or registered jointholders | Receipts | Payments  
---|---|---|---  
Amount received | Chalan number and date | Details of payment | Amount paid | Date of payment and voucher number  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  | 

