## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board Rules, 1998

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board Rules, 1998

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PALM-PRODUCTS-DEVELOPMENT-BOARD-RULES-1998 of 1998

  * Published on 24 August 1998 
  * Commenced on 24 August 1998 
  * [This is the version of this document from 24 August 1998.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board Rules, 1998Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 229, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi
(B2), Dated the 24th August 1998 - SRO No. A-55/99G.O. Ms. No. 229. - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31 of
the Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board
Rules, 1998.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Palm Products Development Board Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of
1994);(b)"Fund" means the Palm Products Industry Fund.

### 3. Term of office.

\- (i) A member shall hold office for a period of one year from the date of
publication of this notification of his appointment in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.(ii)A Vice-President shall hold office for a period of one
year from the date of his election or till the date of expiry of his term of
membership whichever is earlier.(iii)The Chief Executive Officer shall be
appointed by Government under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of
the said Act.(iv)A casual vacancy in the Board shall be fixed by a fresh
nomination and the persons so nominated shall hold office only for the
remainder of the term for which the member in whose place he was nominated.

### 4. Disqualification for membership.

\- A person shall be disqualified for appointment as a member, if on date of
appointment such person -(a)is less than twenty one years of age; or(b)is of
unsound mind; or(c)has applied to be or has been, or is adjudicated as an
insolvent; or(d)has been sentenced by Criminal Court for an offence involving
moral delinquency, such sentence has been reserved; or(e)has, on any previous
occasion, been removed from the office of members or has been removed by any
competent Court from any position of trust either for mismanagement or
corruption; or(f)has any financial interest in any subsisting contract with or
in any work being done for the Board except a share holder (other than a
director or managing agent) in a company as defined in section 3 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956), provided that where he is a share
holder, he will disclose to the Government the nature and extent of shares
held by him in such a company.

### 5. Payment of allowances to the members of the Board.

(1)The members shall be entitled to payment of travelling allowance from the
funds of the Board for the journeys performed by them for the purpose of the
Board.(2)The members who are Government servants or paid servants of the Board
shall be allowed the travelling allowance admissible to them under the Tamil
Nadu Government Travelling Allowance Rules.(3)The Board shall be deemed to be
a first class committee constituted by the Government for the purposes of the
travelling allowance and other allowances of the member of the Board and the
members of the Board shall be paid the allowance accordingly.(4)The Chief
Executive Officer shall be the controlling authority in respect of his own
travelling allowance as well as those of the other members, unless such member
being an official member submits his travelling allowance direct without
countersignature under the Rules applicable to him.(5)The travelling allowance
bills of the members who are also the members of the Legislative Assembly
shall counter-signed by the authorities only after ascertaining from the
Legislative Assembly Department as to whether the members concerned have
obtained any allowance for the same journeys and period for which travelling
allowance is claimed in their bills for attending Government committees.

### 6. Removal of a non-official member of the Board.

(1)(a)The Government may, by notification, remove any non-official member of
the Board, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of making his
representation -(i)if he is disqualified to hold office as a member by any
provisions under rule 4 of the rules;(ii)if he, being a legal practitioner
acts or appears on behalf of any person other than the Board in any civil,
official or other legal proceedings in which the Board is interested either as
a party or otherwise; or(b)if he, in the opinion of the Government, is
unsuitable or has become incapable of acting as a member of the Board or has
been guilty of any misconduct or negligent or has so abused in the opinion of
the Government his position as a member of the Board as to render his
continuance as such a member detrimental to the interest of the Board.(2)(a)A
Non-official member of the Board removed under the provisions of sub-clause
(ii) of clause (a) of sub-rule (1) shall, unless otherwise directed by the
Government be disqualified for appointment as a member of the Board for a
period of three years from the date of such removal; and(b)A non-official
member of the Board removed under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) shall not be
eligible for appointment until he is declared by an order of the Government to
be no longer ineligible.(3)The Board may, suo motu and shall on an application
made by any person, consider whether any non-official member of the Board was
or has become disqualified to hold office as such under these rules and take a
decision. Such a decision shall be communicated to such non-official member
and the applicant concerned, if any:Provided that no decision shall be taken
unless the non-official member of the Board is given an opportunity of making
his representation:Provided further that pending such decision, the non-
official member of the Board shall be entitled to continue as such as if he is
qualified or is not disqualified.(4)Whenever the Government has come to know
that any non-official member of the Board was or has become disqualified under
these rules to hold office as such and that the Board, either suo motu or an
application made by any person, has failed to give a decision under sub-rule
(3) within one month from the date of incurring the disqualification, the
Government may, at any time by an order in writing, decide the question and
direct the removal of such member from the membership of the Board if he is
found disqualified:Provided that no non-official member of the Board shall be
removed from such membership under this rule without such member and the Board
of which he is a member being given an opportunity of making his or its
representation:Provided further that pending such decision of removal, the
non-official member of the Board shall be entitled to continue as such as if
he is qualified or is not disqualified.

### 7. Powers and duties to be exercised and discharged by the Chief Executive
Officer.

(1)(a)The Chief Executive Officer shall be the Chief Executive authority of
the Board and shall be in charge of the day-to-day administration of the Board
and shall exercise supervision and control over the employees of the
Board.(b)The Chief Executive Officer shall work under the general control of
the Board which may delegate to him powers and duties as it may consider
necessary including the following: -(i)convening of the meeting of the Board
under the direction of the President;(ii)drawing up the agenda for each
meeting under the President's directions and communicating it to each other
with the notice of the meeting;(iii)attending the meetings of the Board and
participating in all discussions:(iv)ensuring recording proper maintenance of
the decisions of the meetings of the Board in an appropriate subject to the
approval of the President, communicating the minutes to the members of the
Board and placing before the Board at its subsequent meeting for
confirmation;(v)issue directions as to the method of carrying out the
decisions of the Board.(c)Furnishing to the Government all reports including
annual reports and returns and necessary communication required under the Act
or these rules.(d)Preparation of the annual budget of the Board in
consultation with the Standing Finance Committee.(2)The Chief Executive
Officer shall cause to be kept a record of the members of the Board and their
address. If a member changes his address, he shall notify his new address at
the earliest opportunity to the Chief Executive Officer who shall, thereupon,
enter the new address in the record. The Chief Executive Officer shall make
available, if required, papers connected with the items in the agenda during
the meetings of the Board and shall also make available, if the information
relating to the affairs of the Board to any of the members provided that the
Chief Executive Officer shall bring this to the notice of the
President.(3)Subject to such delegation as may be made, from time to time,
under the Act or these rules, the Executive Officer, shall -(a)cause all
important papers and matters to be presented to the Board as early as
practicable;(b)draw from the funds the pay and allowances of the staff of the
office of the Board and travelling expenses of the members of the
Board;(c)maintain or cause to be maintained an account of the receipts and
expenditure of the Board; and(d)present a draft annual report on the working
of the Board to its approval and submit the report so approved by it to the
Government.(4)The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise administrative
control over all departments and officers of the Board, subject to such
restrictions as may be imposed, from time to time, by the
President.(5)(a)Subject to such monetary limits as may be prescribed by the
Standing Finance Committee, the Executive Officer may sanction expenditure on
contingencies, supply and services required for the working of the office of
the Board.(b)The Chief Executive Officer shall be competent to settle all
bills relating to sanctioned schemes for which there is a provision in the
Budget.(c)The Chief Executive Officer shall be competent to accord technical
sanction for all estimates.(d)The Chief Executive Officer shall have power to
accept tenders not exceeding rupees three lakhs.(e)The Chief Executive Officer
may exercise such other powers and discharge such duties as may be delegated,
to him form time, to time by the Government or by the President.(6)The Chief
Executive Officer may under take tours within India for carrying out the work
of the Board or whenever, occasioned in the interest of the work of the
Board:Provided that he shall keep the President and the Government informed of
his tours outside the State of Tamil Nadu.:

### 8. Budget.

(1)The Standing Finance Committee shall in each year prepare a palm products
industry budget for the next ensuring year showing the estimated receipt and
expenditure and place it before the Board for adoption.(2)The Budget so
prepared shall differentiate between Capital and Revenue and Capital Funds
shall not be used for revenue purposes.(3)The palm Products industry budget
shall contain particulars of: -(i)Receipts:(a)(i)Receipts from departmental
schemes and interest on investment and loans and advances.(ii)Grant from Khadi
and Village Industries Commission.(iii)Grant from State Government.(iv)Grant
from other bodies.(v)Other miscellaneous receipts.(vi)Deduct-
Refunds.(b)Recoveries under loans and advances.(c)Loans raised by the Board
-(i)From Khadi and Village Industries Commission.(ii)From State
Government.(ii)From others.(d)Deposits: -(i)Security deposit.(ii)Other
deposits.(iii)Charges-Charges under -(a)Revenue account.(b)Capital
account.(c)Loans and Advances account.(d)Repayments of loan raised by the
Board.(e)Deposits and advances.Receipts and expenditure of the Board shall be
classified under such major, minor and subordinate heads of accounts and shall
be shown under each further detailed heads of account again as the Board may
deem necessary for purposes of administration and control.The Board shall
consider every budget so laid before it and shall adopt the budget either
without modification or with such modification as it may deem fit.The Budget
shall be prepared before the 31st December every year. Either the budget or
the supplementary budget as approved by the Board shall be submitted to the
Government by the 31st January.The Government may, within one month after
receipt of the budget, either -(a)approve the budget; or(b)disallow the budget
or any portion thereof and return the budget for amendment and, if any, budget
is so returned to the Board, it shall forthwith proceed to amend it and shall
re-submit the budget so amended to the Government who may then approve it.The
Board may, at any time during the year for which any budget has been
sanctioned, cause a revision of the budget to be prepared and laid before
it.The Board shall be competent to incur expenditure in excess of one third of
the limit provided in the budget by the Government under any head of
expenditure or in connection with any particular scheme so long as the amount
in the budget approved by the Government is not exceeded.The budget submitted
by the Board to the Government shall be approved before the end of March.

### 9. Procedure to be followed for placing the Board in possession of the
Palm Products Industry Fund.

(1)The following procedure shall be followed in regard to placing and
administration of the Palm Products Industry Fund -(i)All money received or
realised by the Board shall be credited to the Fund.(ii)The budget of the
Board submitted for approval of the Government may indicate the net revenue
under the Palm Products Industry Fund and the gap in resources position in
that fund. The Government, while approving the budget may sanction the payment
of grant or grants to recover the revenue deficits Such grants and loans may
be disbursed in advance or by instalments or in such a manner the Government
may determine. The amount so received shall be credited to the Fund.(2)All
expenditure of the Board, in exercise of its powers and the performance of its
functions and duties" under the provisions of the Act, shall be made from the
Fund.(i)After approval of the budget by the Government, provisions of
expenditure made in the budget so approved will be distributed among the
District Officers and other according to the details of appropriations shown
in the expenditure budget of the Board.(ii)The drawing officers will draw upon
the Boards amount kept in the Banks by preparing bills and passing them after
due scrutiny.(iii)Monthly accounts will be rendered to the Board to the
drawing officers. The central officer of the Board will compile the accounts
of the Boards in the accounts form prescribed by the Board.(iv)The branches of
the Banks concerned shall render monthly scrolls indicating the withdrawals in
receipts during every month to the Board.(3)Sale proceeds of palm products
which will be received by the officers authorised in this behalf by
cheques/draft shall be sent to the central office of the Board.(4)For cash
collections also Bank Drafts shall be obtained and sent to the central
office.(5)The central office of the Board will arrange to credit all
remittances to the receipt accounts of the Board with the Bank.(6)All moneys
belonging to the Fund may be deposited or invested -(a)in any scheduled bank
under the meaning of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Central Act II of
1934); or(b)in the State banks as defined in the State of Bank India
(Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (Central Act 30 of 1959); or(c)in such securities
as may be approved by the Government.(7)The accounts of the Board shall be
operated upon by such officers jointly or individually as may be authorised by
the Board.(8)When the Board sanctions grant-in-aid to a local body, co-
operative society or a registered institution or contribution towards the cost
of a public exhibition or fair or a loan to such body co-operative society or
institution, the payments of such sanction shall not be made without an
authorisation by the Accounts wing of the Board which maintains and controls
the accounts of the Board.(9)The accounts of money realised or received and of
the expenditure made therefrom shall be kept and audit thereof shall be
kept.(10)In performing duties connected with the receipts of money, remitting
them to Bank, drawing moneys from Bank by preparing and passing the bills and
keeping accounts thereof, the Board officers who also perform functions of the
Treasury Officers shall follow the rules prescribed in the Tamil Nadu
Financial Code, Tamil Nadu Treasury Code and Tamil Nadu Accounts Code.

### 10. Procedure to be followed and the conditions to be observed in
borrowing money and in granting loans.

(1)Subject to the provision of the Act, and if the Board require bank finance
to implement any scheme for the purposes the Act and the implementation of
schemes under palm-sugar industry require bank finance, and if any loan is
duly required for the purposes and functions of the Board, the Board may
arrange or obtain loans, subject to fulfillment of loans and conditions
governing the grant of such loans by lending authorities -(a)from any
scheduled bank or other financing institution, or(b)from any corporations
owned or controlled by the Central or State Government:Provided that previous
approval of the Government in raising loans shall be obtained except the loans
required to be obtained for implementation of schemes linked with bank
finance.(c)The Board shall grant loans in accordance with the terms and
conditions imposed by the Government under palm products industry and in
accordance with, and at the rates and terms governing the sanction of loans by
the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, from time to time.(d)The Board
shall not be competent to modify, amend or otherwise vary the provisions of
the loan rules.(e)The Government may, at its own initiative or on the
recommendation of the Board, modify of amend the loan rules. The modification
or amendment will have effect from the date on which it is made by the
Government.

### 11. The form and manner in which the Accounts of the Board shall be
maintained.

\- I. Accounts of the Board. - There shall be an Accounts Wing to the Board
exclusively to maintain proper accounts of its receipts and charges. The
Accounts Wing shall function under the control of one Financial Controller and
Accounts Officer who shall be duly qualified in financial matters and accounts
and also shall cause to keep and maintain all accounts.All financial matters
of the Board shall be passed through the competent authority of the Accounts
Wing.The broad classification of receipts and charges of the Board shall be as
indicated below:(a)Receipts:(a)Revenue Account:(i)Receipts from the Palm
Products Industry Schemes.(ii)Grant from Khadi and Village Industries
Commission.(iii)Grant from State Government.(iv)Grant from other
bodies.(v)Interest and other miscellaneous receipts.(vi)Deduct
refunds.(b)Loans and advances account:(i)Recoveries of loans and advances from
co-operatives, registered institutions, local bodies, etc.(ii)Recovery of
loans and advances from Board servants.(c)Boards debt account:(i)Loans and
advances from Khadi and Village Industries Commission.(ii)Loans and advances
from State Government.(iii)Other loans.(d)Deposit Account:General Provident
Fund, Security Deposit, etc.Charges:(a)Revenue Account.(b)Capital
Account.(c)Loans and Advances by the Board.(d)Board's Debt
Accounts:(i)Repayment of loans and advances to the Khadi and Village
Industries Commission.(ii)Repayment of loans and advances to the State
Government.(iii)Repayment of other loans.(e)Deposits and advances
account.General Provident Fund, Security Deposit, Festival Advance, Permanent
Advance, Departmental Advance, etc.(2)The Board shall prepare an annual
statement of accounts including the profit and loss accounts and the balance
sheets in such form as may be prescribed as required under sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Act within five months after the final and supplemental
accounts for the financial year are closed.(3)The Board shall keep at its
office proper books of accounts in respect of-(a)all sums of money received
and expended by the Board;(b)all loans and grants received and paid by the
Board including repayments and refunds;(c)all sales and purchases of goods by
the Board; and(d)assets and Liabilities of the Board.II. Audit. - (1) The
accounts of the Board shall be audited by an auditor duly qualified to act as
an auditor under sub-section (1) of section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956
(Central Act 1 of 1956) who shall be appointed by the Board with the approval
of the Government and shall receive such remuneration as the Board may
fix.(2)The audit shall be extended back to the last date of the previous audit
and shall be carried upto the last date of the financial year immediately
proceeding the audit.(3)The auditor shall be supplied a copy of the annual
accounts of the Board and it shall be his duty to examine it together with the
books and vouchers relating hereto and he shall have a list delivered to him
of all books kept by the Board.(4)The auditor shall, at all reasonable times,
have access to the books accounts, vouchers and other document of the
Board.(5)The auditor may, in relation to such accounts, examine any past or
present member, officers or other employees of the Board and shall be entitled
to enquire from the Board, such member, officer or other employees and obtain
information and explanation as he may think necessary for the performance of
his duties.(6)(i)The auditor shall make a report to the Board and certify the
correctness of statements and accounts prepared in respect of -(a)all sums of
money received and expended by the Board;(b)all loans and grants received and
paid by the Board including repayments and refunds;(c)all sales and purchases
of goods by the Board; and(d)valuation and verification of assets and
liabilities of the Board.(ii)He shall also furnish to the Board along with his
report the following, viz., whether in his opinion and to the best of his
information and according to the explanation given to him the said accounts
give a true and fair picture, -(a)in the case of the balance sheet as at the
end of the financial year, and(b)in the case of profit and loss account, of
the profit or loss for the financial year.(iii)The auditor who does the audit
also state in his report -(a)whether he has obtained all the informations and
explanations which in the best of his knowledge and were necessary for the
purpose of his audit;(b)whether, in his opinion, proper accounts and books as
required by the Act and these rules have been kept and regularly maintained by
the Board so far it appears from the examinations of those books;
and(c)whether the Board's balance sheet and profit and loss account are in
agreement with the accounts, books returns.(7)Where any of the matters
referred to in the above sub-rule is answered in negative or with a
qualification, the person who does the audit shall specify the reasons for
such answer in his report.(8)The audit report shall contain schedules with
full particulars of -(i)all transactions which appear to be contrary to the
provisions of the Act and these rules;(ii)all sums which ought to have been
but have not been brought into account by the Board;(iii)any material
impropriety or irregularity in the expenditure or in the realisation of moneys
due to the Board; and(iv)any money or property belonging to the Board which
appears to be bad or doubtful debts.(9)Any other information as may be
required by the Board in this behalf.(10)Such certified accounts and audit
report furnished by the auditor to the Board shall, as soon as possible after
they are so furnished, be forwarded to Government for being placed on the
table of the State Legislature.(11)On receipt of the report from the auditor,
the Board shall forthwith remedy the defect or irregularity that may be
pointed out by the auditor and shall report to the Government the action taken
by it thereon within a reasonable time from the date of receipt of the report
of the auditor:Provided that if there is any difference of opinion between the
Board and the auditor or if the Board does not remedy any defect, irregularity
within a reasonable period or render satisfactory information in regard to the
defect or irregularity, the Government, on a reference specifically made
therefor by the auditor, pass such orders thereon as they may deem fit and the
Board shall, thereafter, take action in accordance therewith in such time as
may be specified by the Government.(12)Without prejudice to anything contained
in the proceeding rules, the Government may, at any time, appoint an auditor
to examine and report upon the accounts of the Board and any expenditure
incurred by such auditor in connection with such examination and report shall
be payable by the Board.(13)The accounts of the Board as certified by the
auditor and the audit report thereon shall be forwarded by the Board annually
to the Government and Khadi and Village Industries Commission before the 31st
October of the following year:Provided the Government may give such further
extension of time as they may consider necessary for any reason.

### 12. Conditions subject to which and the mode in which contracts may be
entered into by, or on behalf of, the Board.

(1)The Board shall follow the provisions of Article 51 of the Tamil Nadu
Financial Code when entering into contract for, and on behalf of, the Board. -
The form of contract and tenders used by the Government Departments may be
accepted with suitable modifications as may be considered necessary by the
Board.(2)The Board may delegate to the President, Vice President, Chief
Executive Officer or any officer of the Board any power as it may think fit
for entering into contract subject to such power contracts may be entered into
and made on its behalf.(3)The President, Vice-President, Chief Executive
Officer or any officer of the Board or any officer shall not be liable for any
bona fide assurance or contract and it shall discharge only from the moneys at
the disposal of the Board.

### 13. Return, Reports, Statements, etc., to be submitted.

(1)The programme for the promotion of palm products industry in the form of a
note in Annexure-I and the stand required therefore in the forms specified in
Annexure-II to be submitted to the Government along with the budget on or
before the 31st January.(2)If the programme includes a number of proposals, an
abstract of all the proposals shall be prepared and submitted to the
Government together with notes on individual proposals.(3)The form of the
supplementary programme shall be in the same form as prescribed in the sub-
rule (1) and shall be submitted to the Government along with the supplementary
budget on or before the 31st January of each year.(4)(a)The annual report
specified in sub-section (2) of section 26 of the Act should be submitted by
the Board to the Government not later than the 1st October of the following
year and it shall be in such form as the Government may, from time to time,
direct and contain particulars, among others, in respect of the following,
viz. -(1)Budget provision and actuals of expenditure.(2)Production and sale of
palm products.(3)Export of edible products such as Nungu, Jaggery, etc. and
non-edible products, such as Palm Stalks Leaf articles, etc.(4)Employment
statistics, and(5)Training of personnel.(b)The Board shall submit to the
Government and to such other authority as they may specify, -(i)monthly
statement of accounts relating to disbursements made by the Board;(ii)monthly
statement of accounts relating to withdrawals from Palm Products Industry
Fund; and(iii)quarterly progress report on production and sale of palm
products specified or deemed to be specified under the Act.(c)The monthly
reports and statements shall be submitted to the Government not later than the
20th of the following months and the quarterly reports not later than he 20th
of the month following quarter.Annexure I(See rule 13)Subject

Head of account | Summary of cost  
---|---  
Ultimate cost | Cost in (Net.)  
Recurring | Non-Recurring  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
| Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
Expenditure heads |  |  |   
Total Gross Cost |  |  |   
Receipts heads, if any |  |  |   
Departmental Receipts |  |  |   
Grant from Khadi and Village IndustriesCommission |  |  |   
Total Net Cost |  |  |   
  
Annexure II(See rule 13)Form IStatement of Sanctioned Post in Each Permanent
and Temporary Establishment (Both Gazetted and Non-Gazetted)Class or Category
of establishments:Details of appointment in each class or category:Scale of
pay:Number of persons at each rate of pay:Pay that will be drawn on 1st April
next:Provisions to be made in the budget estimates with ensuring financial
year on account of each class or category of officers or
subordinates:Authority for change in the strength or scale of pay as compared
with the current year's budget estimates:Remarks:Annexure II(See rule 13)Form
IIStatement Affixed Allowances

### 1\. Name of office and designation of the Department:

### 2\. Station:

### 3\. Pay of the appointment:

### 4\. Nature of allowance attached (whether local, presidency, house rent
allowance, fixed travelling allowances, etc.):

### 5\. Amount of fixed allowance:

### 6\. Provision to be made in the budget estimates of the ensuring financial
year for each class or category:

### 7\. Authority for change in the number of amount as compared with the
current year's budget estimates, board's order number and date

### 8\. Remarks:

