## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) Act, 1987

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) Act, 1987

## Act 37 of 1987

  * Published on 4 May 1987 
  * Commenced on 4 May 1987 
  * [This is the version of this document from 4 May 1987.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) Act, 1987(Tamil Nadu Act 37
of 1987)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University (Chennai) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 37 of 1987) - Recent
advancement in professional education has shown that the starting of
universities on the basis of the particular profession has resulted in
considerable improvement in the standards of education and in the development
of particular profession. If the medical colleges and institutions which have
been hither to affiliated to or approved by, various Universities in Tamil
Nadu are brought under single University, there will be uniform standard of
education resulting in improvement in the field of medicine. Medical Education
and Research with reference to the latest developments and achievements in the
field of medicine. With the above object in view, the Government have decided
to establish a Medical University, namely, The Tamil Nadu Medical University.
The said University will be of an affiliating type for the present.2\. The
Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.3\. The provisions of the Bill
are explained in the Notes on Clauses appended to the Bill.Published in Part
IV - Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
4th May 1987.An Act to provide for establishment and incorporation of a
Medical University in the State of Tamil Nadu.Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-eight year of the Republic
of India as follows :-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. [ Short title, extent, application and commencement. [Substituted by
section 2 of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (Chennai) (Amendment) Act, 1991
(Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991), which was deemed to have come into force on the
10th December 1990.]

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University
[Chennai] Act, 1987.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It applies to -(a)every college and institution specified in the
Schedule;(b)all colleges and institutions deemed to be affiliated to, or
approved by, the University under this Act;(c)every other college or
institution situated within the University area and which may be affiliated
to, or approved by, the University in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, statutes and ordinances and regulations made thereunder; and(d)every
college and institution situate within the University area, which conducts any
course of study or imparts any course of training which may qualify for the
award of any degree, diploma or other academic distinctions by the University
in any system of medicine.(4)This section and sections 2, 3, 4,5, 6, 7, 8,
9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16, 31,34,46,47,48,49,57,60,61,65,66,67 and 68 shall come
into force at once and the rest of this Act shall come into force on such date
as the Government may, by notification, appoint.]Notes. - Sections 1 to 16,
31,3446, 4748, 4957,60, 61, 65,66, 67 and 68 came into force on the 24th day
of September 1987 and sections 35 and 36 shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 1st day of March 1988. Other provisions of the Act came into
force on the 23rd day of August 1988.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"affiliated college"
means any college or institution, situate within the University area and
affiliated to the University and providing courses of study in medical science
for admission to the examinations for degree, diplomas and other academic
distinctions of the University and includes a college deemed to be affiliated
to the University under this Act and includes an autonomous
college;(b)"approved institution" means any hospital, centre or other
institution situated in the University area which-(i)is approved by the
University; and(ii)provides training for admission to the examinations for
degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the
University;(c)"autonomous college" means any college designated as an
autonomous college by or under the statutes;(d)"college" means any college or
any institution maintained by, or affiliated to the University and providing
courses of study or training in medical science for admission to the
examinations for degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the
University;(e)"Dental Council of India" means, the Dental Council of India
constituted under section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (Central Act 16 of
1948);(f)"Government" means the State Government;(g)"hostel" means a unit of
residence for the students maintained or recognised by the University in
accordance with the provisions of this Act;(h)"institution" means any
hospital, centre or other institution providing training for admission to the
examinations for degree, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the
University;(i)"Medical Council of India" means the Medical Council of India
constituted under section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (Central
Act 102 of 1956);(j)"notified date" means the date specified in the
notification issued under sub-section (4) of section 1;(k)"Nursing Council of
India" means the Nursing Council of India constituted under section 3 of the
Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 (Central Act 48 of 1947);(l)"Pharmacy Council
of India" means the Pharmacy Council of India constituted under section 3 of
the Pharmacy Act, 1948 (Central Act 8 of 1948);(m)"prescribed" means
prescribed by this Act or the statutes, ordinances or
regulations;(n)"Principal" or "Dean" means the head of a college, or college
and hospital;(o)"statutes", "ordinances" and "regulations" mean, respectively,
the statutes, ordinances and regulations of the University made or continued
in force under this Act;(p)"teachers" mean such Lecturers, Readers, Assistant
Professors, Associate Professors, Professors and other persons giving
instruction in the University including the University Laboratories, in
affiliated colleges or approved institutions and Librarian as may be declared
by the statutes to be teachers;(q)[ "University" means the Tamil Nadu Dr.
M.G.R. Medical University, [Chennai] [Substituted by section 3 of the Dr.
M.G.R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9
of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.
Previously substituted by section 3 of Act 50 of 1987 with effect from
24.9.87.]];(r)"University area" means the area to which this Act extends under
sub-section (2) of section 1 excluding the Annamalai Nagar as defined in
clause (a) of section 2 of the Annamalai University Act, 1928 (Tamil Nadu Act
I of 1929);(s)"University college" means a college maintained by the
University, whether instituted by it or not, and which provides courses of
study or training, leading to a degree, diploma or other academic distinctions
of the University;(t)"University Grants Commission" means the Commission
established under section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956
(Central Act 3 of 1956);(u)"University Laboratory" means a laboratory
maintained by the University, whether instituted by it or not, which is
intended to carry on research work;(v)"University Lecturer" , "University
Reader" "University Professor" or "University Teacher" means Lecturer, Reader,
Professor or Teacher, respectively, appointed by the University;(w)"University
Library" means a library maintained by the University, whether instituted by
it or not.

## Chapter II  
The University

### 3. The University.

(1)There shall be a University [by the name the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University,] [Substituted by section 3 of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed
to have come into force on the 10th December 1990]].(2)The University shall be
a body corporate, shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and shall
sue and be sued by the said name.(3)The headquarters of the University shall
be located within the limits of the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area as
defined in clause (23-a) of section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country
Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972).

### 4. Objects of the University.

\- The University shall have the following objects, namely:-(1)to provide for
instruction and training in such branches of learning as it may determine in
the field of medical science;(2)to provide for research and for the
advancement and dissemination of knowledge in the field of medical
science;(3)to institute degrees, diplomas and other academic
distinctions;(4)to institute lecturerships, readerships, professorships and
other teaching posts required by the University and to appoint persons to such
lecturership, readerships, professorships and other teaching posts;(5)to
institute and award fellowships, scholarships, studentships, bursaries,
exhibitions, medals and prizes in accordance with the statutes;(6)to institute
research posts and to appoint persons to such posts;(7)to organise advanced
studies and research programmes from time to time;(8)to organise continuing
medical education programmes;(9)to develop research faculties; and(10)to
encourage co-operation among the colleges, University laboratories, hospitals
and institutions in the University area and to co-ordinate with other
Universities and other authorities in such manner and for such purposes as the
University may determine.

### 5. Powers of University.

\- The University shall have the following powers, namely:-(1)to hold
examinations and to confer degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions
on any person who : -(a)shall have pursued an approved course of study or
training in a college or University laboratory or an approved institution
unless exempted therefrom in the manner prescribed by the statutes and shall
have passed the examinations prescribed by the University; or(b)shall have
carried on research under conditions prescribed by the statutes;(2)to confer
degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions on persons who shall have
pursued an approved course of study, training or research in an autonomous
college;(3)to confer honorary degrees or other honorary academic distinctions
under conditions prescribed;(4)to establish, maintain and manage institutes of
research, University colleges, departments, laboratories, hospitals,
libraries, museums and other institutions necessary to carry out the objects
of the University;(5)to affiliate colleges to the University as affiliated
colleges, within the University area under conditions prescribed and to
withdraw such affiliation:[Provided that no college shall be affiliated to the
University unless the permission of the Government to establish such college
has been obtained and the terms and conditions, if any, of such permission
have been complied with;] [Added by section 2(a) of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of
1990) which was deemed to have come into force on the 24th September
1987.](6)to take over any Government college or institution with the approval
of the Government;(7)to approve institutions providing training for admission
to the examinations for degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of
the University under conditions prescribed and to withdraw such
approval:[Provided that no institution shall be approved by the University
unless the permission of the Government to establish such institution has been
obtained and the terms and conditions, if any, of such permission have been
complied with;] [Added by section 2(b) of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1989 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1990) which
was deemed to have come into force on the 24th September 1987.](8)to designate
any college as an autonomous college, with the prior concurrence of the
Government under conditions prescribed and to cancel such designation;(9)to
establish, maintain and manage hostels, to recognise hostels not maintained by
the University under conditions prescribed and to withdraw such recognition
thereof;(10)to exercise such control over the students of the University
through the colleges and institutions, as well secure their health and well-
being and discipline;(11)to hold and manage endowments and other properties
and funds of the University;(12)to borrow for the purposes of the University
money with the approval of the Government on the security of the property of
the University;(13)to fix fees and to demand and receive such fees, as may be
prescribed;(14)to make grants from the funds of the University for the
maintenance of National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme or other similar
organisations; and(15)generally to do all such other acts and things as may be
necessary or desirable to further the objects of the University.

### 6. Colleges situate within the University area not to be affiliated to any
other University and recognition of institutions by University.

(1)No college or institution within the University area shall be affiliated to
any other University other than the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai.(2)No institution affiliated to, or associated with, or maintained by,
any other University whether within the State of Tamil Nadu or outside the
State of Tamil Nadu shall be recognized by the University for any purpose
except with the prior approval of the Government and the University concerned.

## Chapter III  
Officers

### 7. Officers of University.

\- The University shall consist of the following officers, namely: -(1)The
Chancellor;(2)The Pro-Chancellor;(3)The Vice-Chancellor;(4)The
Registrar;(5)The Finance Officer;(6)The Controller of Examinations; and(7)Such
other persons as may be declared by the statutes to be officers of the
University.

### 8. The Chancellor.

\- [(1) The Governor of Tamil Nadu shall be the Chancellor of the University.
He shall, by virtue of his office, be the head of the University and shall,
when present, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to receive
them.] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Tamil
Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have
come into force on the 10th December 1990.](2)Where power is conferred upon
the Chancellor to nominate persons to the authorities of the University, the
Chancellor shall nominate persons to the extent necessary to represent
interest not otherwise adequately represented.(3)The Chancellor may, on his
own motion or on application, call for and examine the record of any officer
or authority of the University in respect of any proceedings to satisfy
himself as to the regularity of such proceedings or the correctness, legality
or propriety of any decision taken or order passed therein; and if, in any
case, it appears to the Chancellor that any such decision or order should be
modified, annulled, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, he may pass
orders accordingly:Provided that every application to the Chancellor for the
exercise of the powers under this sub-section shall be preferred within three
months from the date on which the proceedings, decision, or order to which the
application relates, was communicated to the applicant:Provided further that
no order prejudicial to any person shall be passed unless such person has been
given a reasonable opportunity of making his representation.(4)The Chancellor
shall exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may be
conferred on him by or under this Act.

### 9. The Pro-Chancellor.

(1)The Minister in-charge of the portfolio of Health in the State of Tamil
Nadu shall be the Pro-Chancellor of the University.(2)In the absence of the
Chancellor or during the Chancellor's inability to act, the Pro-Chancellor
shall exercise all the powers and perform all the functions of the
Chancellor.(3)The Pro-Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform
such other functions as may be conferred on him by or under this Act.

### 10. The Vice-Chancellor.

(1)Every appointment of the Vice-Chancellor shall be made by the Chancellor
from out of a panel of three names recommended by the Committee referred to in
sub-section (2). Such panel shall not contain the name of any member of the
said committee :[Provided that if the Chancellor does not approve any of the
persons in the panel so recommended by the Committee, he may take steps to
constitute another Committee in accordance with sub-section (2), to give a
fresh panel of three different names and shall appoint one of the persons
named in the fresh panel as the Vice-Chancellor.] [Substituted by section 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Madras (Amendment) Act, 1992
(Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1992).](2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), the
Committee shall consist of three persons of whom one shall be nominated by the
Government, one shall be nominated by the Senate and one shall be nominated by
the Governing Council:Provided that the person so nominated shall not be a
member of any of the authorities of the University.(3)The Vice-Chancellor
shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-
appointment for a further period of three years:Provided that no person shall
hold the office of Vice-Chancellor for more than six years in the aggregate or
after attaining the age of [seventy years] [Substituted for 'sixty-five' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 42 of 2012, dated. 14.11.2012, w.e.f. 6.8.2012.]
years.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), where the
Chancellor is of the opinion, that a Vice-Chancellor could not be appointed
immediately after the expiry of the term of office of the outgoing Vice-
Chancellor, he may direct the outgoing Vice-Chancellor to continue in office
for such period, not exceeding a total period of one year, as may be specified
in the direction.(5)The Vice-Chancellor may, by writing under his hand
addressed to the Chancellor and after giving two months notice, resign his
office.(6)When any temporary vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-
Chancellor or if the Vice-Chancellor is, by reason of absence or for any other
reason, unable to exercise the powers and perform the functions of his office,
the senior most Professor of the University shall exercise the powers and
perform the functions of the Vice-Chancellor till the Governing Council makes
the requisite arrangements for exercising the powers and performing the
functions of the Vice-Chancellor.

### 11. Terms and conditions of service of Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be a whole time officer of the University and his
terms and conditions of service shall be as specified in the following sub-
sections.(2)The Vice-Chancellor shall be paid -(i)a salary of Rs. 5,000 (Rupee
five thousand only) per mensem or such higher salary as may be fixed by the
Government, from time to time; and(ii)such other perquisites as may be fixed
by the statutes.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to such terminal
benefit and allowances as may be fixed by the Governing Council with the
approval of the Chancellor, from time to time :Provided that, where an
employee of, -(a)the University; or(b)any other University or college or
institution maintained by, or affiliated to, that University,is appointed as
Vice-Chancellor, he shall be allowed to continue to contribute to the
Provident Fund to which he is a subscriber, and the contribution of the
University shall be limited to what he had been contributing immediately
before his appointment as Vice-Chancellor.(4)The Vice-Chancellor shall be
entitled to travelling allowances at such rates as may be fixed by the
Governing Council.(5)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled to earned leave on
full pay at one-eleventh of the period spent by him on duty.(6)The Vice-
Chancellor shall, on the expiry of the term of his office, or upon
relinquishment of his office, be entitled to draw cash equivalent of leave
salary in respect of the earned leave at his credit subject to a maximum of
one hundred and eighty days.(7)The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled, on
medical grounds, to leave with pay for a period not exceeding three months
during his term of office.

### 12. Powers and functions of Vice-Chancellor.

(1)The Vice-Chancellor shall be the academic head and the principal executive
officer of the University and shall, in the absence of the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor, preside at any convocation of the University and confer degrees,
diplomas or other academic distinctions upon persons entitled to receive them.
He shall be a member ex-officio and Chairman of the Senate, the Governing
Council, the Standing Academic Board, the Finance Committee and the Planning
Board and shall be entitled to be present at, and to address, any meeting of
any authority of the University, but shall not be entitled to vote thereat,
unless he is a member of the authority concerned.(2)It shall be the duty of
the Vice-Chancellor to ensure that the provisions of this Act, the statutes,
ordinances and regulations [except section 35-A] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act
20 of 1993.] are observed and carried out and he may exercise all powers
necessary for this purpose.(3)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power to convene
meetings of the Senate, the Governing Council, the Standing Academic Board and
the Finance Committee.(4)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power to take action
on any matter concerning the affairs of the University and may take such
action as he may deem necessary, but shall, as soon as may be, thereafter
report the action taken to the officer or authority or body who or which would
have ordinary dealt with the matter:Provided that no such order shall be
passed unless the person likely to be affected, has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.(5)When action taken by the Vice-Chancellor under
sub-section (4) affects any person in the service of the University, such
person shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Governing Council within
thirty days from the date on which he has notice of such action. The Vice-
Chancellor shall give effect to the order passed by the Governing Council on
such appeal.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power to give effect to the
decisions of the Governing Council.(7)The Vice-Chancellor shall have power to
exercise control over the affairs of the University and shall be responsible
for the due maintenance of discipline in the University.(8)The Vice-Chancellor
shall be responsible for the co-ordination and integration of teaching and
research, extension, education and curriculum development.(9)The Vice-
Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform such other functions
as may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 13. The Registrar.

\- [(1) The Registrar shall be a whole time salaried officer of the
University, appointed by the Governing Council on such terms and conditions as
may be fixed by the Governing Council.] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act 20 of
1992.](2)The Registrar shall be, -(a)an academician in the field of medical
science not lower in rank than that of a Professor of five years standing;
or(b)an officer of the Government not lower in rank than that of Deputy
Secretary to Government.(3)The Registrar shall hold office for a period of
three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for a further period of
three years :Provided that no person appointed as Registrar shall hold office
on attaining the age of fifty-eight years.(4)The Registrar shall be the ex-
officio secretary of the Senate, the Governing Council, the Standing Academic
Board and the Faculties, but shall not be deemed to be a member of any of
these authorities.(5)When the office of the Registrar is vacant, or when the
Registrar, by reason of illness, absence, or any other reason is, unable to
perform the functions and discharge the duties of his office, the functions
and the duties of the office of the Registrar shall be performed and
discharged by such persons as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the
purpose.(6)It shall be the duty of the Registrar, -(a)to manage the property
and investments of the University including trust and endowed property in
accordance with the decision of the Finance Committee and the Governing
Council;(b)to be the custodian of the records, the common seal and such other
properties of the University as the Governing Council shall commit to his
charge; and(c)to issue all notices convening meetings of the Senate, the
Governing Council, the Standing Academic Board, the Faculties, the Board of
Studies, the Boards of Examiners and of any Committee appointed by the
authorities of the University.(7)The Registrar shall exercise such other
powers and perform such other functions and discharge such other duties as may
be prescribed by the Governing Council.(8)In all suits and other legal
proceedings by or against the University, the pleadings shall be signed and
verified by the Registrar and all processes in such suits and proceedings
shall be issued to, and served on, the Registrar.

### 14. The Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall be a whole time salaried officer of the
University, appointed by the Governing Council from out of a panel of three
names recommended by the Government. He shall hold office for a period of
three years subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by the
Governing Council.(2)The emoluments and other terms and conditions of service
of the Finance Officer shall be such as may be prescribed by the Governing
Council.(3)The Finance Officer shall retire on attaining the age of fifty-
eight years.(4)When the office of the Finance Officer is vacant or when the
Finance Officer is by reason of illness or absence or any other cause, unable
to perform the functions and discharge the duties of his office, the functions
and duties of the office of the Finance Officer shall be discharged by such
person as the Vice-Chancellor may appoint for the purpose.(5)The Finance
Officer shall be the ex-officio Secretary of the Finance Committee, but shall
not be deemed to be a member of such Committee.

### 15. Powers, functions and duties of Finance Officer.

(1)The Finance Officer shall, -(a)exercise general supervision over the funds
of the University and shall advice the University as regards its financial
policy; and(b)exercise such other powers and perform such other financial
functions, as may be assigned to him by the Governing Council, or as may be
prescribed by the statutes or ordinances :Provided that the Finance Officer
shall not incur any expenditure or make any investment exceeding such amount
as may be prescribed by the statutes or ordinances except with the previous
approval of the Governing Council.(2)Subject to the control of the Governing
Council, the Finance Officer shall, -(a)ensure that the limits fixed by the
Governing Council for recurring and non recurring expenditure for a year are
not exceeded and that all moneys expended for the purposes for which they are
granted or allotted;(b)be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts,
financial estimates and the budget of the University and for their
presentation to the Finance Committee and the Governing Council;(c)keep a
constant watch on the cash and bank balances and of investments;(d)watch the
progress of the collection of revenue and advice on the methods of collection
employed;(e)ensure that the registers of buildings, land, furniture and
equipment are maintained up-to-date, and that stock checking is conducted in
respect of equipment and other consumable materials in all offices, centres,
laboratories and colleges maintained by the University;(f)bring to the notice
of the Vice-Chancellor any unauthorised expenditure or other financial
irregularity and suggest appropriate action, to be taken against persons at
fault; and(g)call from any office, centre, laboratory and college maintained
by the University, any information or returns as he may consider necessary for
the performances of his functions and discharge of his duties.

### 16. The Controller of Examinations.

(1)The Controller of Examinations shall be an academician in the field of
medical science and a whole time officer of the University appointed by the
Governing Council on such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the
Governing Council.(2)The Controller of Examinations shall hold office for a
period of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment for a further
period of three years:Provided that no person appointed as Controller of
Examinations shall hold office on attaining the age of fifty-eight
years.(3)The Controller of Examinations shall exercise such powers and perform
such functions and discharge such duties as may be prescribed in the statutes.

## Chapter IV  
Authorities

### 17. Authorities of University.

\- The authorities of the University shall be, -(1)The Senate;(2)The Governing
Council;(3)The Finance Committee;(4)The Standing Academic Board;(5)The
Faculties;(6)The Board of Studies;(7)The Planning Board; and(8)Such other
authorities as may be declared by the statutes to be authorities of the
University.

### 18. The Senate.

(1)The Senate shall consist of ex-officio and other members.(2)The ex-officio
members of the Senate shall be, -(a)the Chancellor;(b)the Pro-
Chancellor;(c)the Vice-Chancellor;(d)the Director of Medical Education;(e)the
Director of Medical Services and Family Welfare;(f)the Director of Public
Health and Preventive Medicine;(g)the Director of Indian Medicine and
Homeopathy;(h)Heads of University Departments of Study and Research;(i)Heads
of Principals of all Medical Colleges;(j)Deans or Principals of Colleges of
Indian System of Medicine and Homeopathy;(k)Principals of Post-Graduate Dental
Colleges;(l)Principals of Post-Graduate Colleges of Nursing;(m)Deans or
Principals of Post-Graduate Colleges of Pharmacy;(n)the President of the Tamil
Nadu State Medical Council;(o)the President of the Tamil Nadu Homeopathy
Council;(p)the President of the Tamil Nadu Board of Indian Medicine;(q)members
of the Governing Council who are not otherwise members of the Senate;
and(r)the Librarian of the University Library.Explanation. - In case the
Secretary to Government, in-charge of Health and Family Welfare, or the
Secretary to Government, in-charge of Finance, or the Secretary to Government,
in-charge of Education, or the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Law, who
is a member of the Senate by virtue of clause (q), is unable to attend any
meeting of the Senate for any reason, he may depute any officer of his
department, not lower in rank than that of Deputy Secretary to Government, to
attend such meeting. The officer so deputed shall have the right to take part
in the discussions of the meeting and shall have the right to vote.(3)The
other members of the Senate shall be, -(a)one Professor elected by the
teachers of each affiliated medical college from among themselves;(b)one
Professor elected by teachers of all affiliated Dental Colleges from among
themselves;(c)one Professor elected by teachers of all affiliated colleges of
Nursing from among themselves;(d)one Professor elected by teachers of all
affiliated colleges of Pharmacy from among themselves;(e)two members elected
by the members of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from among
themselves;(f)one member nominated by the President of the Indian Council of
Medical Research;(g)one member nominated by the Director-General of Indian
Council of Medical Research;(h)one member each nominated by the Chancellor
representing,-(i)Chambers of Commerce;(ii)Industries including engineering and
technology;(iii)Other Sciences; and(iv)Law; and(i)one member each to be
nominated by the Pro-Chancellor to secure the representation of, -(A)the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes; and(B)Sports.

### 19. Senate to review broad policies and programmes of the University.

\- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Senate shall have the
following powers and functions, namely: -(a)to review, from time to time, the
broad policies and programmes of the University and to suggest measures for
the improvement and development of the University;(b)to advise the Chancellor
in respect of any matter which may be referred by him for advice;(c)to
exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may prescribed
by the statutes.

### 20. Meetings of Senate.

(1)The Senate shall meet at least twice in every year on the dates to be fixed
by the Vice-Chancellor. One of such meetings shall be called the annual
meeting.(2)One-third of the total strength of the members of the Senate shall
be the quorum required for a meeting of the Senate :Provided that such quorum
shall not be required at a convocation of the University.(3)The Vice-
Chancellor may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall, upon a requisition in
writing signed by not less than fifty per cent of the total members of the
Senate, convene a special meeting of the Senate.

### 21. The Governing Council.

(1)The Chancellor shall, as soon as may be, after the first Vice-Chancellor is
appointed under section 47, constitute the Governing Council.(2)The Governing
Council shall, in addition to the Vice-Chancellor, consist of the ex-officio
and other members,(3)The ex-officio members of the Governing Council shall be,
-(a)the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Health and Family Welfare;(b)the
Secretary to Government, in-charge of Finance;(c)the Secretary to Government,
in-charge of Education;(d)the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Law;(e)the
Director of Medical Education;(f)the Director of Medical Services and Family
Welfare; and(g)the Director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy.Explanation. -
In case any ex-officio members of the Governing Council referred to in clause
(a), (b), (c) or (d), is unable to attend any meeting of the Governing Council
for any reason, he may depute any officer of his department not lower in rank
than that of Deputy Secretary to Government to attend such meeting. The
officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussion of the
committee and shall have the right to vote.(4)The other members of the
Governing Council shall be, -(a)two members elected by the Senate from among
its members;(b)two members elected by the Dean or Principals of affiliated
colleges providing courses of study and training in medical science from among
themselves;(c)one member elected by the University Professors from among
themselves; and(d)one expert in Medical Education, nominated by the Chancellor
on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor.

### 22. Powers of Governing Council.

\- The Governing Council shall have the following powers, namely: -(1)to make
statutes and amend or repeal the statutes;(2)to make ordinances and amend or
repeal the same;(3)to hold, control and administer the properties and funds of
the University;(4)to provide for instruction and training in such branches of
learning in medical science as it may think fit;(5)to institute departments of
study in the University in such discipline of learning in medical science as
it may deem fit;(6)to provide for research and advancement and dissemination
of knowledge in medical science;(7)to institute lecturerships, readerships,
professorships and any other teaching posts required by the University;(8)to
prescribe, in consultation with expert committees to be appointed for the
purpose, the conditions for affiliating colleges to the University or approval
of institutions by the University and to join such affiliation or
approval;(9)to institute degrees, diplomas and other academic
distinctions;(10)to confer degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions
on persons who-(a)shall have pursued an approved course of study or training
in a college, or University laboratory or an approved institution unless
exempted there, from in the manner prescribed by the statutes and shall have
passed the examinations prescribed by the University; or(b)shall have carried
on research under conditions prescribed by the statutes;(11)to confer honorary
degrees or other honorary academic distinctions on the recommendation of not
less than two-thirds of its members;(12)to consider and take such action as it
may deem fit on the annual report, the annual accounts and the financial
estimates;(13)to prescribe the qualifications of teachers in the University
departments and colleges of the University and the affiliated colleges in the
statutes;(14)to appoint, on the recommendation of the Selection Committee of
Experts appointed for the purpose, University Lecturers, Professors, Readers
and teachers, fix their emoluments, define their duties and the conditions of
their services and provided for filling up of temporary vacancies;(15)to make
statutes specifying the mode of appointment of persons to administrative and
other posts, provide for filling up of temporary vacancies and define their
duties and their terms and conditions of service;(16)to take disciplinary
proceedings against the University Professors, Readers, Lecturers, teachers
and other employees of the University in the manner prescribed by the statutes
and to impose such penalties as may be specified in the statutes and to place
them under suspension pending enquiry;(17)to cause an inspection of all
colleges, hospitals and other institutions affiliated or to be affiliated, to
the University and to take such action as may be deemed necessary;(18)to
prescribe, in consultation with the Standing Academic Board, the manner in
which and the conditions subject to which, a college or institution may be
designated as an autonomous college or institution and to cancel such
designation;(19)with the concurrence of the Government, to designate any
college as an autonomous college and to cancel such designation;(20)to
recognise, on the report of inspection commission, any college or institution
outside the University area;(21)to raise, on behalf of the University, loans
from the Central or any State Government, or any corporation owned or
controlled by the Central or any State Government or the public;(22)to borrow
money for the purposes of the University with the approval of the Government
on the security of the property of the University;(23)to appoint examiners on
the recommendation of the Board of Studies and to fix their
remuneration;(24)to charge and collect such fees as may be prescribed by the
statutes;(25)to conduct the University examinations and approve and publish
the results thereon;(26)to appoint members to the Boards of Studies;(27)to
make ordinances, regarding the admission of students to the University, or
prescribing examinations to be recognised as equivalent to University
examinations;(28)to establish and maintain hostels;(29)to recognise hostels
not maintained by the University, and to suspend or withdraw recognition of
any hostel which is not conducted in accordance with the conditions subject to
which hostel was recognised;(30)to supervise the residence of the students of
the University and to make arrangements for securing their health and well-
being;(31)to award fellowships, travelling fellowships, studentships, medals
and prizes in accordance with the statutes;(32)to manage any publication
bureau, employment bureau and University sports or athletic clubs instituted
by the University;(33)to review the instruction and teaching of the
University;(34)to promote research within the University and to require
reports, from time to time, of such research;(35)to administer all properties
and funds placed at the disposal of the University for specific purposes;
and(36)to accept, on behalf of the University endowments, bequests, donations,
grants and transfers of any movable and immovable property of the University
made to it.

### 23. Meeting of Governing Council.

(1)The Governing Council shall meet at such times and places and shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), observe such rules of
procedure at its meetings including the quorum at meetings, as may be
prescribed by the statutes.(2)The Vice-Chancellor or, in his absence, any
member chosen by the member present, shall preside at a meeting of the
Governing Council.(3)All questions at any meeting of the Governing Council
shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting
and, in the case of equality of votes, the Vice-Chancellor or the member
presiding, as the case may be, shall have and exercise a second or casting
vote.(4)(a)The Governing Council may, for the purpose of consultation, invite
any person, having special knowledge or practical experience in any subject
under consideration to attend any meeting. Such person may speak in, and
otherwise take part in, the proceedings of such meeting, but shall not be
entitled to vote.(b)The person so invited shall be entitled to such daily and
travelling allowances as are admissible to a member of the Governing Council.

### 24. Members not entitled to remuneration.

\- The members of the Governing Council shall not be entitled to receive any
remuneration from the University except such travelling and daily allowances
as may be prescribed by the statutes:Provided that nothing contained in this
section shall preclude any member from drawing his emoluments to which he is
entitled by virtue of the office he holds.

### 25. Resignation of members.

\- A member of the Governing Council, other than ex-officio members, may
tender resignation of his membership at any time before the expiry of the term
of his office. Such resignation shall be conveyed to the Chancellor by a
letter in writing by the member and the resignation shall take effect from the
date of its acceptance by the Chancellor.

### 26. Governing Council to prepare annual report.

(1)The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Governing
Council and shall be placed before the Senate on or before such date as may be
prescribed by the statutes and shall be considered by the Senate at its next
annual meeting. The Senate may pass resolution thereon and communicate the
same to the Governing Council.(2)The Governing Council shall inform at a
subsequent meeting of the Senate the action taken by it on the resolution
passed by the Senate.(3)A copy of the annual report and a copy of the
resolution passed by the Senate together with information on the action taken
under sub-section (2) shall be submitted to the Government by the Governing
Council for information.

### 27. Governing Council to submit annual accounts.

(1)The annual accounts of the University shall be submitted by the Governing
Council to such examination and audit as the Government may direct.(2)The
Governing Council shall settle objections raised in such audit and carry out
such instructions as may be issued by the Government on the audit report, as
prescribed in the statues.(3)The accounts when audited shall be published by
the Governing Council in such manner as may be prescribed by the ordinance and
copies thereof shall be submitted to the Senate at its next meeting, and to
the Government within three months of such publication.

### 28. The Finance Committee.

(1)The Finance Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:
-(a)the Vice-Chancellor;(b)the Secretary to Government, in-charge of
Finance;(c)the Secretary to Government, in-charge of Health and Family
Welfare; and(d)three members nominated by the Governing Council from among its
members.(2)If, for any reasons, the member referred to in clause (b) or clause
(c) of sub-section (1), is unable to attend any meeting of the Finance
Committee, he may depute any officer of his Department concerned not lower in
rank than that of Deputy Secretary to Government to attend such meeting. The
officer so deputed shall have the right to take part in the discussions of the
Finance Committee and shall have the right to vote.(3)The Vice-Chancellor
shall be the ex-officio Chairman and the Finance Officer shall be the ex-
officio Secretary of the Finance Committee.(4)The members nominated by the
Governing Council under clause (d) of sub-section (1), shall hold office for a
period of three years.(5)The annual accounts of the University prepared by the
Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance Committee for consideration
and comments and thereafter submitted to the Governing Council for
approval.(6)The annual financial estimates of the University prepared by the
Finance Officer shall be laid before the Finance Committee for consideration
and comments. The said estimates, as modified by the Finance Committee, shall,
then, be laid before the Governing Council for consideration. The Governing
Council may approve the financial estimates with such modification as it deems
fit(7)The Finance Committee shall -(a)meet at least once in three months to
examine the accounts and to scrutinize proposal for expenditure;(b)review the
financial position of the University, from time to time;(c)make recommendation
to the Governing Council on every proposal involving investment or expenditure
for which no provision has been made in the annual financial estimates or
which involves expenditure in excess of the amount provided for in the annual
financial estimates;(d)prescribe the methods and procedure and forms for
maintaining the accounts of the University and Colleges;(e)make recommendation
to the Governing Council on all matters relating to the finances of the
University; and(f)perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the
statutes.

### 29. The Standing Academic Board.

(1)There shall be a Standing Academic Board of the University which shall,
subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes and the ordinances, co-
ordinate and exercise general supervision over the academic affairs of the
University.(2)The Standing Academic Board shall consist of the following ex-
officio members, namely: -(a)the Vice-Chancellor;(b)the Director of Medical
Education;(c)the Director of Medical Services and Family Welfare;(d)the
Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine;(e)the Director of Indian
Medicine and Homeopathy;(f)the Presidents of the Faculties of the University;
and(g)the Chairman of the Boards of Studies of the University.(3)Subject to
the provisions of this Act, the statutes, the ordinances, the Standing
Academic Board shall have the following powers, namely:-(a)to make regulations
and amend or repeal the same;(b)to advise the Governing Council on the
promotion of research in the University; and(c)to suggest measures for
revisions and innovations in academic and research programmes.(4)The Standing
Academic Board shall ordinarily meet twice in a year. The Board may, however,
meet on other occasions as may be decided by the Governing Council.(5)One-
third of the total strength of the members of the Standing Academic Board
shall be the quorum required for a meeting of the Standing Academic
Board.(6)The Vice-Chancellor shall preside at all meetings of the Standing
Academic Board. If the Vice-Chancellor cannot be present at a meeting of the
Standing Academic Board due to any reason, the members present may elect a
chairman from among themselves.

### 30. Faculties.

\- [(1) The University shall Consist of the following Faculties, namely:
-(a)Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences;(b)Faculty of Medicine and Medical
Specialities;(c)Faculty of Surgery and Surgical Specialities;(d)Faculty of
Paediatrics and Paediatric Specialities;(e)Faculty of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology and related Specialities;(f)Faculty of Community Health, Social
Sciences and History of Medicine;(g)Faculty of Dentistry;(h)Faculty of
Pharmacy;(i)Faculty of Nursing; and(j)such other Faculty as may be prescribed
by the statutes.](2)The constitution and functions of the Faculties shall, in
all other respects, be such as may be prescribed by the
regulations.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the
Standing Academic Board may, on the recommendation of the Governing Council,
appoint any teacher of the University as a member of a Faculty.

### 31. The Planning Board.

(1)There shall be constituted a Planning Board which shall advise generally on
the planning and development of the University and review, from time to time,
the standards of education and research in the University.(2)The Planning
Board shall consist of the following members, namely: -(a)The Vice-Chancellor,
who shall be the Chairman of the Planning Board; and(b)Not more than eight
persons of high academic standing nominated by the Governing Council.(3)The
Planning Board shall, in addition to all other powers vested in it by this
Act, have the right to advise the Governing Council and the Standing Academic
Board on any academic matter.(4)The term of office of the nominated members of
the Planning Board shall be three years and they are eligible for re-
nomination after the expiry of their term of office.

### 32. The Board of Studies.

(1)There shall be Boards of Studies attached to each of department of study or
research.(2)The constitution and powers of the Boards of Studies shall be such
as may be prescribed by the statutes.

### 33. Constitution of other authorities.

\- The Governing Council may constitute such other authorities of the
University as may be necessary in the manner prescribed in the statutes.

## Chapter V  
University Funds

### 34. General Funds.

\- The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited,
-(a)its income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;(b)any
contribution or grant received from the Central Government or any State
Government or any Local Authority or the University Grants Commission or any
other similar body or any Corporation owned or controlled by the Central or
any State Government; and(c)endowments and other receipts.

## Chapter VI  
Admission of Students

### 35. Admission to University course.

(1)No person shall be admitted to a course of study or training in a college
or University laboratory or an approved institute to appear for any
examination held by the University for conferring any degree, diploma or other
academic distinction unless he,-(a)has passed the qualifying examination
prescribed therefor by the University; and(b)fulfils such other condition as
may be prescribed by the regulations.(2)The Governing Council may, on the
recommendation of the Standing Academic Board, exempt from the provisions of
sub-section (1) any candidate who has undergone an equivalent course of study
or training in any college or institution outside the University area.(3)The
question whether such candidate has undergone the equivalent course of study
or training shall be decided by the Standing Academic Board with reference to
the syllabus, the course contents and the period of study or training.

### 35A. [ Selection and admission of candidates to Government colleges or
institutions. [Inserted by section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Madras (Second Amendment) Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 1992).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 35 or in any other provisions
of this Act, -(a)the Government shall be the competent authority to select and
admit candidates to a course of study or training in the Government colleges
and institutions and to a course of study or training in private colleges and
institutions to which this Act applies, in respect of seats under Government
quota; and(b)the Government may specify, by general or special order, the
policy, guidelines, method and procedure for selection of candidates for
admission to a course of study or training in Government colleges and
institutions and to a course of study or training in private colleges and
institutions to which this Act applies, in respect of seats under Government
quota.Explanation. - In this section the expression "seats under Government
quota" means the seats reserved in a course of study or training in private
colleges or private institutions to which this Act applies, to be filled in by
the Government from among the approved list of candidates selected for
admission.] [Substituted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Madras (Amendment) Act, 1993 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1993).]

### 36. Admitted to University examination.

(1)No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless,-(a)he
is enrolled as a member of a University college, University laboratory,
affiliated college or approved institution; and(b)he has satisfied the
requirement as to the attendance prescribed by the regulations.(2)The
Governing Council may, on the recommendation of the Standing Academic Board,
grant exemption to any candidate from the provisions of sub-section (1)
subject to such conditions, as it may deem fit.

## Chapter VII  
Establishment and Conditions of Service.

### 37. Appointment of officers, heads of departments, etc.

\- The University may appoint such number of officers, heads of departments,
professors, readers, lecturers, teachers, librarians and such other employees
as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act
in such manner as may be prescribed by statutes.

### 38. Conditions of service.

\- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selections, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers,
teachers and other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be
prescribed by statutes.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, the
word "Officers" shall not include the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.

### 39. Pension and gratuity, etc.

(1)The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers
and other persons employed by the University, such pension, gratuity,
insurance and provident fund as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to
such conditions, as may be prescribed by statutes.(2)Where the University has
so instituted a provident fund under sub-section (1), the Government may
declare that the provisions of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (Central Act 19
of 1925), shall apply to such fund as if the University were a local authority
and the fund, a Government Provident Fund.(3)The University may, in
consultation with the Finance Committee, invest the provident fund amount in
such manner, as it may determine.

### 40. Terms and conditions of service of Heads of Department.

(1)Each department of the University shall have a Head who shall be a
Professor or Director and whose functions and duties and terms and conditions
of appointment shall be such as may be prescribed by statutes :Provided that
if there is more than one Professor in any department, the Head of the
department shall be appointed in the manner prescribed by statutes:Provided
further that in a department where there is no Professor, an Assistant
Professor or a Reader may be appointed as a Head of the department in the
manner prescribed by the statutes.(2)It shall be open to a Professor or
Assistant Professor or Reader to decline the offer of appointment as Head of
the department.(3)A person appointed as Head of the department shall hold
office as such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-
appointment.(4)A Head of the department may resign his office at any time
during his tenure of office.(5)A Head of the department shall perform such
functions and discharge such duties as may be prescribed by statutes.

### 41. Terms and conditions of service of Co-ordinator of University
departments and Dean of students.

(1)There shall be a Co-ordinator of University departments who will act as a
liaison officer between the Vice-Chancellor and the Heads of departments of
the University. He shall perform such functions and discharge such duties as
may be prescribed by statutes.(2)There shall be a Dean of students in the
University who shall be in-charge of the welfare of, and the discipline among,
the students. He shall exercise such powers and perform such functions and
discharge such duties as may be prescribed by statutes.

## Chapter VIII  
Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations

### 42. Statute.

(1)The Governing Council may, from time to time, make statutes and amend or
repeal the same.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act, the statutes may
provide for, -(a)the holding of convocation to confer degrees and academic
distinctions;(b)the conferment of honorary degrees and honorary academic
distinctions;(c)the constitution, powers and functions of the authorities of
the University;(d)the manner of filling vacancies among members of the
authorities of the University;(e)the allowances to be paid to the members of
the authorities of the University and committees thereof;(f)the procedure at
meetings of the authorities including the quorum for the transaction of
business at such meetings;(g)the authentication of the orders of decisions of
the authorities of the University;(h)the formation of departments of research
at the University;(i)the term of office and methods of appointment and
conditions of service of the officers of the University other than the
Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor;(j)the qualifications of the teachers and
other persons employed by the University and affiliated colleges or
institutions;(k)the classification, the method of appointment and
determination of the terms and conditions of service of teachers and other
persons employed by the University;(l)the institution of pension, gratuity,
insurance or provident fund for the benefit of the officers, teachers and
other persons employed of the University;(m)the institution of Fellowships,
Travelling Fellowships, scholarships, studentships, bursaries, exhibitions,
medals and prizes and the conditions of award thereof;(n)the conditions of
affiliation of colleges to the University;(o)the manner in which, and the
conditions subject to which, a college may be designated as an autonomous
college and the conditions subject to which, such designation may be cancelled
and matters incidental to the administration of autonomous colleges including
the constitution, or reconstitution, powers and duties of the committee on
academic affairs in the college, Boards of Studies and Boards of
Examiners;(p)the establishment and maintenance of halls, hostels and
laboratories;(q)the conditions for recognition of hostels other than those
maintained by the University;(r)the conditions for residence of students of
the University in the halls and hostels and the levy of fees and other charges
for such residence;(s)the delegation of powers vested in the authorities or
officers of the University; and(t)any other matter which is required to be or
may be prescribed by the statutes.(3)A statute passed by the Governing Council
shall be submitted to the Chancellor who may assent thereto or withhold his
assent. A statute passed by the Governing Council shall have no validity until
it has been assented to by the Chancellor.

### 43. Ordinances.

(1)The Governing Council may, from time to time, make ordinances and amend or
repeal the same.(2)Subject to the provisions of this Act and the statutes, the
ordinances may provide for, -(a)the admission of the students to the
University and to its affiliated colleges and the levy of fees for admission
to the University colleges and University laboratories;(b)the course of study
leading to all degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the
University;(c)the conditions under which the students shall be admitted to the
courses of study leading to degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions
of the University;(d)the conduct of examinations of the University and the
conditions subject to which student shall be admitted to such
examinations;(e)the manner in which exemption relating to the admission of
students to examination may be given;(f)the conditions and mode of appointment
and duties of examining bodies and examiners;(g)the maintenance of discipline
among the students of the University;(h)the fees to be charged for courses of
study, research, experiment and practical training and for admission to the
examinations for degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions of the
University; and(i)any other matter expressly required or allowed by this Act
or the statutes.(3)In making the ordinances, the Governing Council shall
consult, -(a)the Boards of Studies in matters relating to the appointment and
duties of examiners; and(b)the Standing Academic Board in matters relating to
the conduct or standard of examination.(4)All ordinances made by the Governing
Council shall have effect from date as the Governing Council may specify and
every ordinance so made shall be submitted, as soon as may be, to the
Chancellor and the Senate for information.

### 44. Regulations.

(1)The Standing Academic Board may make regulations consistent with this Act,
the statues and the ordinances, to carry out the duties assigned to it
thereunder.(2)All such regulations shall have effect from such date as the
Standing Academic Board may specify and every regulation so made shall be
placed before the Governing Counsel for information.

### 45. Term of office of members of Senate and Governing Council.

(1)Every elected and nominated member of the Senate and Governing Council,
shall hold office for a period of three years and such member shall be
eligible for election or nomination for another period of three years
:[Provided that a member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly elected to the
Senate shall cease to be a member of the Senate from the date on which he
ceases to be a member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly.] [Added by
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai (Amendment)
Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1991) which came into force on the 23rd
October 1991.](2)Any person who has completed two terms of three years each,
continuously in any one of the authorities referred to in sub-section (1)
shall be eligible after a period of three years has elapsed from the date of
his ceasing to be such member for election or nomination for a further period
of three years.Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, a person who
has held office for a period not less than one year in any one of the
authorities mentioned in sub-section (1) in a casual vacancy, shall be deemed
to have held office for a term of three years in that authority.(3)Where an
elected or a nominated member of any of the authorities is appointed
temporarily to any of the office by virtue of which he is entitled to be an
ex-officio member of any other authority, he shall, by notice in writing
signed by him and communicated to the Vice-Chancellor within seven days from
the date of taking charge of his appointment, choose whether he will continue
to be a member of the authority to which he was elected or nominated by virtue
of his election or nomination or whether he will vacate office as such member
and become a member ex-officio of any other authority by virtue of his
appointment and the choice shall be conclusive. On failure to make such a
choice, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office as an elected or
nominated member.(4)Where a person is a member of any other authority and by
virtue of such membership, he is a member of any other authority or
authorities and if for any reason, he ceases to be a member of the first
mentioned authority, he shall also cease to be a member of other authority or
authorities.(5)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall have application in respect
of, -(i)ex-officio members referred to in sub-section (2) of section 18, but
not including members of the Governing Council who are not otherwise members
of the Senate referred to in clause (q); and (ii) ex-officio members referred
to in sub-section (3) of section 21.

## Chapter IX  
Disqualification for Membership

### 46. Disqualification for membership.

(1)No person shall be qualified for nomination or election as a member of any
of the authorities of the University, if, on the date of such nomination or
election he, -(a)is of unsound mind or a deaf-mute; or(b)is an applicant to be
adjudicated as an insolvent, or an undischarged insolvent; or(c)is sentenced
by a criminal Court to imprisonment for any offence involving moral turpitude;
or(d)has completed sixty-five years of age.(2)In case of dispute or doubt, the
Governing Council shall determine whether a person is disqualified under sub-
section (1) and its decision shall be final.

### 47. Appointment of the first Vice-Chancellor.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 10 within
[one year] [Substituted for the words 'three months' by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai (Amendment) Act, 1988 (President's
Act 3 of 1988).] from the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the
Government on a salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three
years and on such other conditions as they may deem fit:Provided that a person
appointed as first Vice-Chancellor shall retire from office, if, during the
term of his office, he completes the age of sixty-five years.

### 48. Appointment of the first Registrar.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 13, within
[one year] [Substituted for the words 'three months' by section 2 of the Tamil
Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai (Amendment) Act, 1988 (President's
Act 3 of 1988).] from the date of the publication of this Act in the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette, the first Registrar shall be appointed by the
Government on a salary to be fixed by them, for a period not exceeding three
years and on such other conditions as they may deem fit.

### 49. Transitory power of the Vice-Chancellor.

(1)It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Senate, the Governing Counsel and the Standing Academic Board
and such other authorities of the University within 2 years from the notified
date.(2)The first Vice-Chancellor shall, in consultation with the Government,
make such rules as may be necessary for the functioning of the
University.(3)The authorities constituted under sub-section (1) shall perform
their functions with effect from such date as the Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf.(4)It shall be the duty of the first
Vice-Chancellor to draft such statutes, ordinances and regulations as may be
necessary and submit them to the respective authorities competent to deal with
them for their disposal. Such statutes, ordinances, and regulations when
framed shall be published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the statutes and
until such time an authority is duly constituted, the first Vice-Chancellor
may appoint any officer or constitute any committee temporarily to exercise,
perform and discharge any of the powers, functions and duties of such
authority under this Act and the statutes.

### 50.

Where any vacancy among the elected members of any authority filling up of
regular vacancies or other body of the University arises by efflux of time,
such vacancy shall be filled by way of election which may be fixed by the
Vice-Chancellor:Provided that such election shall not be held earlier than two
months from the date of which the vacancy arises.

## Chapter X  
Miscellaneous

### 51. Filling up of casual vacancies.

\- All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio members) of
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as may
be by the person or body who or which nominated or elected the member whose
place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected to a casual
vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the residue of the
term for which the person whose place he fills would have been a
member:Provided that no casual vacancy shall be filled, if such vacancy occur
within six months before the date of the expiry of the term of the member of
any authority or the body of the University.

### 52. Proceeding of University authority or body not invalidated by
vacancies.

\- No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any
defect or irregularity in the election or appointment of a member of any
authority or other body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in
such act or proceeding not affecting the merits of the case or on other ground
only that the Senate did not meet twice in any year.

### 53. Removal from membership and withdrawal of degree, diploma or other
academic distinction of University.

(1)The Governing Council may,-(a)remove by an order in writing made in this
behalf any person from membership of any authority of the University by a
resolution passed by a majority of the total membership of the Governing
Council and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the
Governing Council present and voting at the meeting, if such person has been
convicted by a criminal Court for an offence which in the opinion of the'
Governing Council involves moral turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross
misconduct; and(b)for the same reason, withdraw any degree, diploma and other
academic distinctions conferred on, or granted to, that person by the
University.(2)The Governing Council may also by an order in writing made in
this behalf remove any person from the membership of any authority of the
University, if he becomes of unsound mind, or deaf-mute has applied to be
adjudicated or has been adjudicated as an insolvent.(3)No action under the
section shall be taken against any person unless he has been given a
reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to be
taken.(4)A copy of every order passed under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2), as the case may be, shall, as soon as may be, after it is so passed, be
communicated to the person concerned in the manner prescribed by the
regulations.

### 54. Dispute as to election or nomination.

\- If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or
nominated as, or is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the
University or other body of the University, the question shall be referred to
the Chancellor whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 55. Authorities to constitute committees and to delegate powers.

\- All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they
deem fit. Such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of
members of the authority concerned and of such other person, if any, as the
authority may deem fit.

### 56. Power to obtain information.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any
information from the University or any matter relating to the affairs of the
University and the University shall, if such information is available with it,
furnished the Government with such information within a reasonable
period:Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the Vice-Chancellor of the University may place the same before
the Chancellor for his decision.

### 57. Transfer of certain employees of the University of Chennai to the
Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai.

(1)(a)As soon as may be, after the notified date, the Government may after,
consulting the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Chennai and [the Tamil
Nadu Dr. M.G.&. Medical University, Chennai] [This expression was substituted
by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment)
Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 10th December 1990.] direct, by general or special order, that such of
the employees of the University of Chennai, as are serving in the Post-
Graduate institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Taramani, Chennai, shall stand
allotted to serve in connection with the affairs of [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M. G.
R. Medical University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R.
Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of
1991) which was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990],
with effect on and from such date as may be specified in such order:Provided
that no such direction shall be issued in respect of any person without his
consent for such allotment.(b)With effect on and from the date specified in
the order under clause (a), the persons specified in such order shall become
employees of [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Chennai] [This
expression was substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical
University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which
was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.] and shall cease
to be employees of the University of Chennai.(2)Every person referred to in
sub-section (1) shall hold office under [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai] [This expression was substituted by section 5 of the Dr.
M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act
9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December
1990.], upon such tenure, remuneration, terms and conditions and rights and
privileges as to pension or gratuity, if any, and other matters which shall
not be less favourable than those to which he would have been entitled to on
the date specified in the order under clause (a) of sub-section (1), as if
this Act had not been passed.(3)The liability to pay pension and gratuity to
the persons referred in subsection (1) shall be the liability of [the Tamil
Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai] [This expression was substituted
by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment)
Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force
on the 10th December 1990.].

### 58. Transfer of accumulations in Provident Fund and other like funds.

(1)The sums at the credit of the Provident Fund accounts of the persons
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 57 as on the date of their becoming
employees of [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai]
[Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu
(Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come
into force on the 10th December 1990.] shall be transferred to [the Tamil Nadu
Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr.
M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act
9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December
1990.] and the liability in respect of the said Provident Fund accounts shall
be the liability of [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai]
[Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu
(Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come
into force on the 10th December 1990.]. -(2)There shall be paid to [the Tamil
Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the
Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu
Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December
1990.] out of the accumulations in the superannuation fund and other like
funds, if any, of the University of Chennai such amounts as have been credited
to the superannuation fund or other like funds, if any, on behalf of the
persons referred to in sub-section (1) of section 57. The amount so paid shall
form part of the superannuation fund or other like funds, if any, that may be
established by [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai]
[Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu
(Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come
into force on the 10th December 1990.] for the benefit of its employees.

### 59. Payment of certain amount by the University of Chennai.

(1)The University of Chennai shall, out of its funds as on the notified date,
pay to [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai] [Substituted by
section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act,
1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come into force on
the 10th December 1990.], such, amount as the Government may, in consultation
with the University of Chennai, specify.(2)The amount payable under sub-
section (1) shall be in addition to the amounts payable by the University of
Chennai to [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai]
[Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Tamil Nadu
(Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed to have come
into force on the 10th December 1990.], under section 57.

### 60. Visitation.

(1)The Government shall have the right to cause an inspection or inquiry to be
made, by such person or persons, as they may direct, of the University, its
buildings, laboratories, libraries, museums, workshops and equipments, and of
any institution maintained, recognised or approved by, or affiliated to, the
University and also of the examinations, teaching and other work conducted or
done by the University and to cause an inquiry to be made in respect of any
matter connected with the University. The Government shall, in every case,
give notice to the University of their intention to cause such inspection or
inquiry to be made and the University shall be entitled to be represented
thereat.(2)The Government shall communicate to the Governing Council their
views with reference to the result of such inspection or inquiry and may,
after ascertaining the opinion of the Governing Council thereon, advise the
University upon the action to be taken and fix a time limit for taking such
action.(3)The Governing Council shall report to the Government the action
taken on the basis of the result of such inspection or inquiry. Such report
shall be submitted within such time as the Government may direct.(4)Where the
Governing Council does not take action to the satisfaction of the Government
within a reasonable time, the Government may, after considering any
explanation furnished or representation made by the Governing Council, issue
such directions as they may think fit and the Governing Council shall not
comply with such directions. In the event of the Governing Council complying
with such directions within such time as may be fixed in that behalf by the
Government, the Government shall have power to appoint any person or body to
comply with Such directions and make such orders as may be necessary for the
expenses thereof.

### 61. Librarian.

(1)The Librarian shall be a whole-time officer of the University appointed by
the Governing Council on the recommendation of the Selection Committee
constituted for the purpose, for such period and such terms and conditions as
may be prescribed.(2)The Librarian shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as may be assigned to him by the Governing Council.

### 62. Special mode of appointment.

(1)The Governing Council may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of Professor in the University on
such terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on his acceptance appoint him
to the post.(2)The Governing Council may appoint a teacher or any other member
of the academic staff working in any other University or organisation, for
undertaking a joint project in the manner laid down in the ordinances.

### 63. Report on affiliated colleges.

\- The Governing Council shall, at the end of every five years from the
notified date, submit a report to the Government on the condition of
affiliated colleges and approved institutions within the University area. The
Government shall take such action on the report as they deem fit.

### 64. Selection Committee.

(1)There shall be a Selection Committee for making recommendations to the
Governing Council for appointment to the posts of Professor, Assistant
Professor, Reader, Lecturer and Librarian of institutions maintained by the
University.(2)The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts referred to
in subsection (1) shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, the Chairman of the
Board of Studies concerned and persons not less than two but not exceeding
four, who are experts in the subject in which the appointment is to be made,
nominated by the Governing Council:Provided that at least two experts shall be
present at the Selection Committee meeting :Provided further that, in the case
of selection for appointment of Readers and Lecturers, one of the experts
shall be the University Professor and Head of the Department in the subject,
if there is one.

### 65. Vice-Chancellor and other officers, etc. to be public servants.

\- The Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar, the Finance Officer, the Controller of
Examinations and other employees of the University shall be deemed when acting
or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act 45 of 1860).

### 66. Power to amend Schedule.

\- The Government may, by notification, amend the Schedule to include in it
any college, institution or centre to, or to exclude therefrom any college,
institution or centre from, and on the publication of such notification, such
college, institution or centre shall be deemed to be included in, or as the
case may be, omitted from the Schedule.

### 67. Certain Acts not to apply.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) to (7), the Chennai University
Act, 1923 (Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1923), the Madurai-Kamaraj University Act,
1965 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1965), the Bhar-athiar University Act, 1981 (Tamil
Nadu Act 1 of 1982) and the Bharathidasan University Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act
2 of 1982) (hereafter in this section referred to as the said Acts) shall,
with effect on and from the notified date, cease to apply in respect of every
college and institution to which this Act applies.(2)Such cessor shall not
affect -(a)the previous operation of the said Act in respect of the colleges
and institutions referred to in sub-section (1),(b)any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the said Acts,
or(c)any investigation, legal proceedings, or remedy in respect of such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment and any such investigation, legal proceeding
or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), all statutes,
ordinances and regulations made under the said Act and in force on the
notified date shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act,
continue to be in force in respect of the colleges and institutions referred
to in the said sub-section (1), until they are replaced by the statutes,
ordinances and regulations to be made under this Act.(4)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, the statutes, ordinances and regulations
continued in force under sub-section (3) or made under this Act, every person
who immediately before the notified date was a student of a college within the
University area affiliated to, or approved or maintained by, the Chennai,
Madurai-Kamaraj, Bharathiar and Bharathidasan Universities, or was eligible to
appear for any of the examinations in medical science of the said
Universities, shall be permitted to complete his course of study in the
respective Universities and [(the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Chennai)] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M.G.R. Medical University,
Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which was deemed
to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.] shall make arrangements
for the instruction, teaching and training for such students for such period
and in such manner as may be determined by [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical
University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which
was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.] in accordance
with the course of study, in the respective Universities, and such students
shall, during such period, be admitted to the examinations held or conducted
by the respective Universities and the corresponding degree, diploma or other
academic distinctions of the Universities shall be conferred upon the
qualified students on the result of such examinations, by the Universities
concerned.(5)All property, whether movable or immovable, including lands,
buildings, equipments, books and library and all rights whatsoever kind owned
by or vested in or held in trust, immediately before the notified date, by the
University Chennai at the University campus at Taramani, Chennai as well as
liabilities legally subsisting against that University at that campus shall
stand transferred to, and vest in [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical
University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which
was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.].(6)All Medical,
Dental, Nursing and Pharmacy colleges within the University area which
immediately before the notified date, -(a)continue to be affiliated to, or
recognised by, the Chennai, Madurai, Kamaraj, Bharathiar and Bharathidasan
Universities; and(b)provide courses of study for admission to the examination
for degrees and diplomas of the Universities specified in clause (a), shall be
deemed to be colleges affiliated to [the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical
University, Chennai] [Substituted by section 5 of the Dr. M. G. R. Medical
University, Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Tamil Nadu Act 9 of 1991) which
was deemed to have come into force on the 10th December 1990.] under this Act
and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply
accordingly.(7)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), but without
prejudice to the provisions of sub-sections (3) to (6), anything done or any
action taken before the notified date under any provisions of the said Acts in
respect of any area to which the provisions of this Act apply shall be deemed
to have been done or taken under the corresponding provision of this Act and
shall continue to have effect accordingly unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under the corresponding provisions in this
Act.

### 68. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or reconstitution of
any authority of the University after the notified date or otherwise in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification,
make such provision, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may
appear to them to be necessary or expedient, for removing the
difficulty:Provided that no such notification shall be issued after the expiry
of five years from the date of establishment of the University under section
3.(2)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under any other
provisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be
placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of
the session in which it is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes
any modification in any such notification or the Assembly decides that the
notification should not be issued, the notification shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case maybe, so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under the notification.

## Schedule

[See sections 1 (3) (a) and section 66]List of InstitutionsI. Government
Medical Colleges-Under the control of Director of Medical Education -

### 1\. Chennai Medical College, Chennai-3

### 2\. Stanley Medical College, Chennai-1.

### 3\. Kilpauk Medical College, Chennai-10.

### 4\. Madurai Medical College, Madurai.

### 5\. Thanjavur Medical College, Thanjavur.

### 6\. Coimbatore Medical College, Coimbatore.

### 7\. Tirunelveli Medical College, Tirunelveli.

### 8\. Chengalpattu Medical College, Chengalpattu.

Private Medical College. -

### 1\. Christian Medical College, Vellore.

### 2\. Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute, Chennai.

### 3\. P. S. G. Institute of Medical Sciences, Coimbatore.

II. Government Medical Colleges under the control of Director of Indian
Medicine. -

### 1\. Government Sidha Medical College, Palayamkottai, Tirunelveli.

### 2\. Government Sidha Medical College, Palani.

### 3\. Government Homeopathy Medical College, Tirumangalan, Madurai district.

### 4\. Government Unani Medical College, Chennai.

Private Medical College. -

### 1\. Venkataraman Ayurvedha College, Chennai.

### 2\. Ayurvedha College, Coimbatore.

III. Government Dental College. -Chennai Dental College, Chennai.IV.
Government Pharmacy Colleges (B.Pharm). -

### 1\. Chennai Medical College, Chennai.

### 2\. Madurai Medical College, Madurai.

Private Pharmacy Colleges (B. Pharm). -

### 1\. C.L. Baid Metha College of Pharmacy, Thorapakkam, Chennai.

### 2\. J.S.S. College of Pharmacy, Rockland, Ootacamund-1.

### 3\. K.M. College of Pharmacy, Melur Road, Uthangudi, Madurai.

V. Government College of Nursing. -Chennai Medical College, Chennai.Private
College of Nursing. -Christian Medical College, Vellore.VI. Government College
of Physiotherapy. -

### 1\. Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine, K.K. Nagar, Chenani.

### 2\. College of Physiotherapy at the Campus of Government Rajaji
Tuberculosis Hospital, Thiruchirapalli.

VII. Private Institutions conducting Post-Graduate Degree and Diploma Courses.
-

### 1\. Cancer Institute, Adyar, Chennai.

### 2\. Sankara Nethralaya Medical Research Foundation, College Road,
Chennai-6.

### 3\. St. Joseph Hospital, Tiruchirappalli.

### 4\. Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai.

### 5\. Excluded by Notification No. 11(2)748/589/97 : 903 DNo.59/HFW/ MCA,
dated 17-12-1996.

### 6\. Gandhigram Rural Institute of Health and Family Planning.

### 7\. Christian Community Health Centre, Ambilikkai.

