## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982

## Act 50 of 1982

  * Published on 30 September 1982 
  * Commenced on 30 September 1982 
  * [This is the version of this document from 30 September 1982.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982(Tamil Nadu Act 50 of 1982)Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief (Amendment) Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu
Act 45 of 1982). - The Government decided to enact a legislation to provide
relief to the people in rural and urban areas who suffer from a heavy debt
burden on account of the usurious practices of pawnbrokers, money lends, and
other non-institutional sources of credit. The debts due to such pawnbrokers,
money-lenders and other non-institutional sources of credit incurred by those
who are living in rural and urban areas and whose annual household income is
no more than four thousand and eight hundred rupees will be deemed to be
wholly discharged. Accordingly the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Ordinance, 1982
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 9 of 1982) was promulgated by the Governor.2\. The Bill
seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 4th September
1982.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief (Amendment)
Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1984). - The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act 1982
(Tamil Nadu Act 50 1982) provides for the relief of certain indebted persons
in the State of Tamil Nadu from the usurious practices of pawnbrokers, money-
lenders and Other non-institutional sources of credit and to give relief from
the debts due to such pawnbrokers money lenders and other non-institutional
sources of credit. Six month from the date of commencement of the Act was
allowed to debtors to the applications for relief under the Act. When it was
brought to the notice of the Government that people in rural areas were not
fully aware of the time limit within which they have to make application, the
time limit within which they have to make application, the time limit was
extended up to 23rd February 1984. On review of the working of the Act, it is
found that people in rural areas are still not aware of the time limit within
which they have to make applications to the Tahsildars for seeking relief
under the said Act. Accordingly, it has been decided to extend further the
time limit up to twenty-four months from the date of commencement of the said
Act, namely the 24th August 1982.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part IV-Section I of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary dated the 29th March 1984.Statement of Objects and
Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief (Second Amendment) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act
31 of 1984). - The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 50 of
1982) provides for the relief of certain indebted persons in the State of
Tamil Nadu from the usurious practices of pawn brokers, money-lenders and
other non-institutional sources of credit and to give relief from the debts
due to such pawn brokers money-lenders and other non-institutional sources of
credit. Six months from the date of commencement of the Act was allowed to
debtors to file applications for relief under the Act. When it was brought to
the notice of the Government that people in rural areas were not fully aware
of the time limit within, which they have to make application, the time limit
was extended up to 23rd August 1984. On review of the working of the Act, it
is found that people in rural areas are still not aware of the time limit
within which they have to make applications to the Tahsildars for seeking
relief under the said Act. Accordingly, it has been decided to extend further
the time limit up to thirty months from the date of commencement of the said
Act, namely the 24th August 1982. It has also been decided to empower the
Tahsildars to give further time not exceeding three months instead of the
present one month after the expiry of the time limit of thirty months, for
making applications under the said Act.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to
the above decisions.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th October 1984.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief (Amendment) Act, 1985 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1985). - The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 50 of
1982) provides for the relief of certain indebted persons in the Stale of
Tamil Nadu from the usurious practices of pawnbrokers, money-lenders and other
non-institutional sources of credit and to give relief from the debts due to
such pawnbrokers, money-lenders, and other non-institutional source of credit.
In the first instance six months from the date of commencement of the said
Act, namely, the 24th August 1982, were allowed to debtors to file
applications for relief under the Act. When it was brought to the notice of
the Government that people in rural areas were not fully aware of the time
limit within which they have to make applications, the time limit was
extended, from time to time, up to the 23rd August 1987. On a review of the
working of the said Act, it is found that compared to the earlier debt relief
Acts, the number of applications received under Tamil Nadu Act 50 of 1982 is
very low. This shows that many people in rural areas, for whose benefit the
Act is intended, are still not aware of the provisions of the Act and the time
limit within which the debtors have to make applications to the Tahsildars for
seeking relief under the said Act. In order that the benefits of the said Act
may reach all persons eligible under the Act, it has been considered necessary
to extend the time limit by a further period of one year beyond the 23rd
August 1987.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object.Published in Part
IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
16th March 1985.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Debt Relief
(Amendment) Act, 1985 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1988). - The Tamil Nadu Debt
Relief Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 50 of 1982) provides for the relief of
certain indebted person in the State of Tamil Nadu from the usurious practices
of pawnbrokers, money-lenders and other non-institutional sources of credit
and to give relief from the debts due to such pawnbrokers, money-lenders and
other non-institutional sources of credit. Six months from the date of
commencement of the Act was allowed to debtors to the applications for relief
under the Act. When it was brought to the notice of the Government that people
in rural areas were not fully aware of the time limit within which they have
to make applications, the time limit was extended up to the 23rd August 1984.
On review of the working of the Act, it was found that people in rural areas
were not aware of the time limit within which they have to make applications
to the Tahsildars for seeking relief under the said Act. It was, therefore,
decided to extend further the time limit up to the 23rd February 1985, that
is, thirty months from the date of commencement of the said Act, namely, the
24th August 1982. It was also decided to empower the Tahsildars to give
further time not exceeding three months instead of one month after the expiry
of the time limit of thirty months for making applications under the said Act.
Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Tamil
Nadu Ordinance I of 1985) was promulgated by the Governor on the 30th January
1985 and published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 31st January 1985.2\. It has also been decided to further extend the time
limit for making applications to the Tahsildars for seeking relief under the
Act of another period of six months beyond the 23rd February 1985.3\. The Bill
seeks to replace the said Ordinance by an Act of the Legislature and also to
give effect to the above decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil
Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th March 1985.Received the
assent of the President on the 30th September 1982 and fires published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 5th October 1982.An Act
further to amend the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976.Whereas it is expedient
to provide relief to certain indebted persons in the State of Tamil Nadu from
the usurious practices of pawn-brokers, money-lenders and other non-
institutional sources of credit and to give relief from the debts due to such
pawn-brokers, money-lenders and other non-institutional sources of credit;Be
it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirty-third
Year of the Republic of India as follows:

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

\- This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982.(2)It extends
to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall be deemed to have come
into force on the 24th August 1982.

### 2. Declaration.

\- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of
the State towards securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of
Article 39 of the Constitution.

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"annual household
income" means the aggregate of the gross annual income from all sources of all
members of a family during the year ending on the 31st December
1981;(b)"creditor" means a person from or in respect of whom the debtor has
borrowed or incurred a debt and includes the heir of such person;(c)"debt"
means any liability in cash or in kind, whether secured or unsecured and
whether decreed or not, but does not include arrears of taxes due to the
Central Government or a State Government or a local authority;(d)"debtor"
means any person from whom any debt is due and whose annual household income
does not exceed four thousand and eight hundred rupees:Provided that a person
shall not be deemed to be a debtor, if he or any member of his family-(i)has,
in either of the two financial years, or in both the two financial years,
immediately preceding the 1st day of April 1981 been assessed to income-tax
under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (Central Act 43 of 1961) or under the income-
tax law in force in any foreign country; or(ii)has, in either of the two
financial years, or in both the two financial years, immediately preceding the
1st day of April 1981 been assessed to sales tax under the [Tamil Nadu General
Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1959)] [This Act has been repealed
and re-enacted as the Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act 36
of 2006).] or under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956);
or(iii)has, in any one or more within the four half years, or in all the four
half years, immediately preceding the 1st October 1981 been assessed to
property or house tax in respect of buildings or lands other than agricultural
lands, under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act
V of 1920), the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the Coimbatore
City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981), the [Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958)] [This Act has been
repealed and re-enacteed as the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994)], the [Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act II of 1924)] [This
Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Cantonment Act, 2003] or any law
governing municipal or local bodies in this State or in any other State or
Union territory in India, provided that the aggregate annual rental value of
such buildings and lands whether let out or in the occupation of the owner is
not less than rupees one thousand and two hundred.Explanation. - The annual
rental value of any building or land for the purposes of proviso (iii)
shall-(1)where the assessment is based on the annual rental value, be deemed
to be such value;(2)where the assessment is based on the capital value, be
deemed to be five per cent of the capital value; and(3)in any other case, be
deemed to be the value ascertained in the prescribed manner; or(iv)has, in any
one or more within the four half years or in all the four half years
immediately preceding the 1st October 1981, been assessed to profession tax on
a half-yearly income of more than one thousand and two hundred rupees derived
from a profession other than agriculture under the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Municipal Corporation, Act, 1919
(Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 15 of 1971), the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act,
1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981), the [Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1958 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXV of 1958)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Tamil
Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).], the [Cantonments Act,
1924 (Central Act II of 1924)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as
the Cantonment Aet, 2003.] or any law governing municipal or local bodies in
this State or in any other State or Union territory in India.Explanation. -
Proviso (iv) shall apply only to a person whose annual household income
exceeds four thousand and eight hundred rupees and such person shall not be
deemed to be a debtor for the purposes of this Act; or(v)whether individually
or jointly owns in this State or elsewhere agricultural lands exceeding ten
acres of unirrigated lands or five acres of irrigated lands (whether irrigated
from a Government source or a private source).Explanation. - Where any person
owns both irrigated and unirrigated lands, for the purpose of calculating
under proviso (v), the extent of lands owned by him, one acre of irrigated
land shall be deemed to be equal to two acres of unirrigated lands;
or(vi)whether individually or jointly owns in this State or elsewhere any
other immovable property (other than agricultural lands) the market value of
which exceeds twenty-five thousand rupees; or(vii)whether individually or
jointly owns in this State or elsewhere both agricultural lands and other
immovable property, the market value of both such agricultural lands and other
immovable property exceeds twenty-five thousand rupees.Explanation. - For the
purposes of provisos (vi) and (vii), the market value of the immovable
property or both the agricultural lands and other immovable property, as the
case may be, shall be estimated to be the price which, in the opinion of the
authority prescribed in this behalf, such immovable property or both the
agricultural lands and other immovable property, as the case may be, would
have fetched if sold in the open market on the 24th August 1982;(e)"family" in
relation to a person, means the individual, the wife or husband, as the case
may be, of such individual and their unmarried minor children.Explanation. -
For the purpose of this clause, "minor" means a person who has not completed
his or her age of eighteen years;(f)"interest" means any amount or other thing
paid or payable in excess of the principal sum borrowed or pecuniary
obligation incurred; or where anything has been borrowed in kind, in excess of
what has been so borrowed, by whatsoever name such amount or this may be
called, and whether the same is paid or payable entirely in kind or partly in
cash and partly in kind and whether the same is expressly mentioned or not in
the document or contract, if any;(g)"person" means an individual or a
family;(h)"Tahsildar" includes a Deputy Tahsildar in independent charge of a
taluk or sub-taluk and any other officer of the Revenue Department, not below
the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar empowered by the State Government to exercise
the powers and perform the functions of a Tahsildar under this
Act;(i)"transferee of the creditor" means any person [including an institution
referred to in clause (h) of section 13 to whom-(i)the creditor has pledged
the movable property pledged to him by the debtor and includes any subsequent
transferee to whom such transferee has pledged such movable property and also
includes any person in possession of the property pledged; or(ii)the creditor
has transferred or otherwise assigned his interest in the property mortgaged
by the debtor and includes any subsequent transferee to whom such transferee
has transferred or otherwise assigned his interest in the property' mortgaged
and also includes any person in possession of the property mortgaged.

### 4. Relief from indebtedness.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Tamil Nadu Agriculturists Relief
Act, 1938 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1938), the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers Act, 1943
(Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1943), the Tamil Nadu Money-lenders Act, 1957 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXVI of 1957), the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act
38 of 1972), the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1976 (President's Act 31 of
1976), the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1979 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1979), the
Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1980) or in any other
law for the time being in force or in any contract or instrument having force
by virtue of any such law and save as otherwise expressly provided in this
Act, and in particular sub-section (2), with effect on and from the 24th
August 1982,-(a)every debt advanced or incurred before the 24th August 1982
(including interest, if any) and payable by the debtor to the creditor shall
be deemed to be wholly discharged;(b)no Civil Court shall entertain any suit
or other proceeding against the debt or for the recovery of any amount of such
debt (including interest, if any):Provided that where any suit or other
proceeding is instituted jointly against the debtor and any other person,
nothing in this section shall apply to the maintainability of such suit or
proceeding insofar as it relates to such other person;(c)all suits and other
proceedings (including appeals, revisions, attachments or execution
proceedings) pending on the 24th August 1982 against any debtor for the
recovery of any such debt (including interest, if any) shall abate:Provided
that nothing in this clause shall apply to the sale, in respect of any such
debt, of-(i)any movable property held and concluded before the 24th August
1982;(ii)any immovable property confirmed before such date;(d)every debtor
undergoing detention in a civil prison in execution of any decree for money
passed against him by a Civil Court in respect of any such debt (including
interest, if any) shall be released;(e)every movable property pledged by a
debtor shall stand released in favour of such debtor and the creditor shall be
bound to return the same to the debtor forthwith;(f)every mortgage executed by
the debtor in favour of the creditor shall stand redeemed and the mortgaged
property shall be released in favour of such debtor.Explanation. - Nothing in
this section shall be construed as entitling any debtor for refund of any part
of any debt repaid or interest paid already by him or recovered from him
before the 24th August 1982.(2)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to
any debtor who is entitled to the benefits of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act,
1976 (President's Act 31 of 1976) or the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1980) only insofar as any debt to which any of those Act
applies, is concerned.

### 5. Debtors to make application for the return of the movable property
pledged by them.

(1)(a)Every debtor referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 4
shall make an application in such form and containing such particulars as may
be prescribed to the Tahsildar having jurisdiction over the area where his
creditor has his ordinary place of business for an order for the return of the
movable property pledged by the debtor.(b)Every such application shall
be,-(i)supported by an affidavit, which shall be in such form and be sworn or
affirmed before such officer or authority as may be prescribed and which shall
state that the debtor is entitled to relief under section 4;
and(ii)accompanied by a certificate from the prescribed authority as to the
annual household income of such debtor.(c)Every such application shall be made
before the expiry of the period of eight months from the 24th August
1982:Provided that the Tahsildar may, in his discretion, allow further time
not exceeding three months for making any such application, if he is satisfied
that the debtor had sufficient cause for not making the application in time,
but no application shall be made after the expiry of seven months from the
24th August 1982.(2)(a)On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the
Tahsildar, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the creditor concerned and
the debtor to make their representations and if he is satisfied,-(i)that the
debtor is entitled to relief under section 4, shall pass an order for the
return of the movable property pledged by the debtor and direct the credit or
to produce on or before the date specified in the order, the movable property
pledged by such debtor with the creditor; or(ii)that the debtor is not
entitled to relief under section 4, shall pass an order dismissing the
application:Provided that the Tahsildar may, if he deems fit, hold a summary
enquiry before passing an order under this sub-section.(b)An order under
clause (a) shall be communicated to the creditor concerned and the debtor
within such period as may be prescribed.(3)(a)The Tahsildar shall, as soon as
may be, after the expiry of seven months from the 24th August 1982 publish in
such form and in such manner as may be prescribed a list of debtors who have
made applications under sub-section (1).(b)Upon publication under clause (a)
of the list of debtors, it shall be lawful for the creditors to dispose of, in
accordance with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Pawn-brokers Act, 1943 (Tamil
Nadu Act XXIII of 1943) or any other law for the time being in force relating
to the sale of pledged articles, the movable properties pledged with the
creditors by persons other than those whose names are published in the list
referred to in clause (a).(c)Where the Tahsildar has passed an order under
sub-section (2) dismissing any application, the creditor may, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3) of section 9, dispose of in accordance with the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Pawn-brokers Act, 1943 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of
1943) or any other law for the time being in force relating to the sale of
pledged articles, the movable property for the return of which the said
application was made.(d)Where any debtor referred to in clause (e) of sub-
section (1) of section 4, has not made any application in accordance with the
provisions of, and within the time specified in, sub-section (1), then, such
debtor shall not be entitled to relief under this Act.(4)Where the movable
property pledged by the debtor is in the possession of any transferee of the
creditor, the creditor shall redeem the said property from such transferee and
produce it on or before the date specified in the order referred to in sub-
section (2).(5)If the creditor fails to produce the movable property as
directed in the order under sub-section (2),-(a)the Tahsildar may, with the
previous approval of the Revenue Divisional Officer concerned, enter any
premises of the creditor or of the transferee of the creditor [other than an
institution referred to in clause (h) of section 13] search and seize the said
property; and(b)where the movable property is in the possession of any of the
institutions referred to in clause (h) of section 13, the Tahsildar
shall,-(i)by an order, direct the said institution to deposit, on or before
the date Specified in the order, the movable property with the Tahsildar
together with a statement specifying the amount due to the said institution in
respect of the said property and simultaneously issue a certificate to the
said institution to the effect that the amount due to the said institution in
respect of the said property shall be recovered from the creditor as if it
were an arrear of land revenue and paid to the said institution; and(ii)on the
said institution depositing the said property with the Tahsildar, acknowledge
in writing the receipt of the movable property and proceed to recover from the
creditor such amount as is due to the said institution in respect of the said
property as if it were an arrear of land revenue, and on such recovery, pay
the same to the said institution.(6)After such production or recovery or
deposit of the movable property pledged, the Tahsildar shall deliver the said
property to the debtor.(7)Pending the passing of an order under sub-section
(2) in respect of an application made under sub-section (1), no creditor or
the transferee of the creditor shall sell or pledge or otherwise dispose of
any movable property pledged by the debtor.(8)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (5) or in the Tamil Nadu Pawn-brokers Act, 1943
(Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1943), the Tahsildar-(a)may, with the previous
approval in writing of the Revenue Divisional Officer concerned, enter any
premises of the creditor or of the transferee of the creditor [other than an
institution referred to in clause (h) of section 13] and search and seize the
movable properties pledged by debtors and arrange for their safe
custody;(b)shall proceed to determine which of the movable properties so
seized are to be released to the debtors and pass orders accordingly.(9)The
Revenue Divisional Officer shall not give his approval under sub-section (5)
and sub-section (8) unless he is of opinion that there is sufficient cause for
effecting search and seizure.(10)The provisions of sections 100 and 165 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), relating to search
and seizure shall, as far as may be, apply to searches and seizures under sub-
sections (5) and (8).

### 6.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the
time being in force relating to the sale of pledged articles, where any debtor
has pledged any movable property with the creditor, the creditor or the
transferee of the creditor shall not sell or otherwise dispose of, in any
manner whatsoever, any such movable property during the period up to and
inclusive of the date of publication of the list of debtors under clause (a)
of sub-section (3) of section 5 and in the case of debtors whose names are so
published in the said list, the creditor or the transferee of the creditor
shall not sell or otherwise dispose of, in any manner whatsoever, the movable
properties pledged by such debtors until final orders (including orders on
appeal) are passed on the applications made by them.

### 7. Debtors to apply for release of mortgaged property.

(1)(a)Every debtor referred to in clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 4
shall make an application in such form and containing such particulars as
maybe prescribed to the Tahsildar having jurisdiction over the area within
which such debtor ordinarily resides for an order releasing the mortgaged
property and for the grant of a certificate of redemption.(b)Every such
application shall be,-(i)supported by an affidavit, which shall be in such
form and be sworn or affirmed before such officer or authority as may be
prescribed and which shall state that the debtor is entitled to relief, under
section 4; and(ii)accompanied by a certificate from the prescribed authority
as to the annual household income of such debtor.(c)Every such application
shall be made before the expiry of the period of six months from the 24th
August 1982:Provided that the Tahsildar may, in his discretion, allow further
time not exceeding three months for making any such application, if he is
satisfied, that the debtor had sufficient cause for not making the application
in time, but no application shall be made after the expiry of seven months
from the 24th August 1982.(2)(a)On receipt of an application under sub-section
(1), the Tahsildar, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the creditor
concerned and the debtor to make their representations and if he is
satisfied-(i)that the debtor is entitled to relief under section 4, shall pass
an order releasing the mortgaged property and grant a certificate of
redemption in the prescribed form which shall be admissible as evidence of
such redemption in any proceeding before any Court or other authority;
or(ii)that the debtor is not entitled to relief under section 4 shall pass an
order dismissing the application:Provided that the Tahsildar may, if he deems
fit, holds a summary enquiry before passing an order under this clause.(b)An
order under this clause shall be communicated to the creditor concerned and
the debtor within such period as may be prescribed.(3)(a)The Tahsildar shall,
as soon as may be, after the expiry of seven months from the 24th August 1982,
publish in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed a list of debtors
who have made applications under sub-section (1).(b)Where any debtor referred
to in clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 4 has not made any application
in accordance with the provisions of, and within the time specified in, sub-
section (1), then, such debtor shall not be entitled to relief under this
Act.(4)Pending orders under sub-section (2), no creditor or the transferee of
the creditor shall transfer or otherwise assign his interest in, or exercise
his right of foreclosure in respect of the property mortgaged by the
debtor.(5)Where the mortgaged property has been transferred or any right
therein has been assigned to any of the institutions referred to in clause (h)
of section 13 by the creditor, the Tahsildar shall recover from the creditor
such amount as is due to such institution in respect of the said mortgaged
property, as if it were an arrear of land revenue, and shall pay the same to
the said institution.

### 8. Finality of orders passed under this Act.

\- Every order of the Tahsildar under section 5 or section 7 shall, subject to
appeal under section 9, be final and shall not be called in question in any
Court.

### 9. Appeal.

(1)Every person aggrieved by an order made by the Tahsildar under this Act
within such period and in such manner as maybe prescribed, appeal to such
authority as may be specified by the State Government in this behalf.(2)In
deciding the appeal, the authority specified under sub-section (I) shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed and the decision of such authority
on such appeal shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
Court.(3)Pending disposal of an appeal under this section in respect of an
order made by the Tahsildar,-(a)under section 5, any movable property pledged
by any debtor who is a party to such appeal shall not be either returned or
disposed of under this Act; and(b)under section 7,-(i)the Tahsildar shall not
order the release of the mortgaged property or grant a certificate of
redemption; and(ii)the creditor or the transferee of the creditor shall not
transfer, or otherwise assign his interest in, or exercise his right of
foreclosure in respect of the property mortgaged by the debtor.

### 10. Legal practitioner not to appear.

\- No party to any proceeding under this Act shall be entitled to be
represented by a legal practitioner.Explanation. - In this section, "legal
practitioner" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 2 of the
Advocates Act, 1961 (Central Act 25 of 1961).

### 11. Penalty.

(1)Any person failing to comply with the order made or direction given under
section 5 or section 6 or filing false affidavit under section 5 or section 7
or otherwise contravening the provisions of either of the said sections shall
be liable to imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months
but which may extend to one year and with fine which shall not be less than
one thousand rupees but which may extend to five thousand rupees.(2)Every
offence punishable under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.(3)Every offence
punishable under sub-section (1) shall be tried in a summary way and the
provisions of sections 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), shall as far as may be, apply to such
trial.

### 12. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time of the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer of the company shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation.
- For the purpose of this section-(a)"company" means any body corporate and
includes a firm or other association of individuals; and(b)"director" in
relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 13. Certain debts and liabilities not to be affected.

\- Nothing in this Act shall apply to the following categories of debts and
liabilities of a debtor, namely:-(a)any rent due in respect of any property
including agricultural land let out to a debtor;(b)any amount recoverable as
arrears of land revenue;(c)(i)any revenue, tax or cess payable to the State
Government or any other sum due to them, by way of loan or otherwise;(ii)any
revenue, tax or cess payable to the Central Government or any other sum due to
them, by way of loan or otherwise;(iii)any tax or cess payable to any local
authority or any other sum due to them, by way of loan or otherwise;(d)any
liability arising out of breach of trust or any tortious liability;(e)any
liability in respect of wages or remuneration due as salary or otherwise for
sendees rendered;(f)any liability in respect of maintenance whether under a
decree of ' a Court or otherwise;(g)a debt due to-(i)the Central Government or
any State Government,(ii)any local authority;(h)save as otherwise provided in
this Act, any liability in respect of any sum due to-(i)(A)any banking company
to which the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Central Act 10 of 1949)
applies;(B)the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India
Act, 1955 (Central Act 23 of 1955);(C)any subsidiary bank as defined in clause
(k) of section 2 of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959
(Central Act 38 of 1959);(D)any corresponding new bank as defined in clause
(d) of section 2 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings Act), 1970 (Central Act 5 of 1970);(E)any corresponding new bank
as defined in clause (b) of section 2 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (Central Act 40 of 1980);(F)[ the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development established under the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (Central Act 61
of 1981)] [Substituted by (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1984)];(G)any Regional Rural
Bank established under the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (Central Act 21 of
1976);(H)the Committee for the Administration of the Amalgamated Tamil Nadu
Shares of the Post War Services Reconstruction Fund and Special Fund for
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Ex-serviceman;(I)the Industrial
Development Bank of India established under the Industrial Development Bank of
India Act, 1964 (Central Act 18 of 1964);(J)the Industrial Finance Corporation
of India established under the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948
(Central Act XV of 1948);(K)the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India;(L)the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India established under the
Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act,-1984 (Central Act 62'of
1984);(M)the State Financial Corporations established under the State
Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (Central Act LXIII of 1951);(N)the Unit Trust
of India established under Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (Central Act 52 of
1963);(NN)The Export-Import Bank of India established under Export-Import Bank
of India Act, 1981 (Central Act 28 of 1981);(O)any other financial institution
notified in this behalf by the State Government in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette;(ii)any Government company within the meaning of the Companies Act,
1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956);(i)any debt which represents the price of
property' whether movable or immovable purchased by a debtor or any amount due
under a hire purchase agreement;(iii)any company which is declared to be a
Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society under sub-section (1) of section 620-A of the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956);(iv)any corporation owned or
controlled by the Central Government or any State Government;(v)The Life
Insurance Corporation of India;(vi)any co-operative society including a land
development bank registered or deemed to be registered under the [Tamil Nadu
Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 53 of 1961)] [Substituted by
(Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1984)];(j)any amount received by a debtor as advance for
the delivery of goods at a future date;(k)any liability incurred or arising
under any chit, the by-laws of which have been registered under the [Tamil
Nadu Chit Funds Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 24 of 1961)] [This Act was impliedly
repealed by the Chit funds Act];(l)any debt or debts payable on the 24th
August 1982 to-(i)a widow; or(ii)a minor child both of whose parents are dead;
or(iii)a minor child whose father is dead; or(iv)a female person whose
marriage has been dissolved by a decree of divorce or has been declared null
and void, or annulled by a decree of nullity:Provided that,-(a)the market
value of the property owned by such widow, minor child or female person on the
24th August 1982, including the principal amount of the debt or debts so due,
did not exceed twenty-five thousand rupees;(b)the right of such widow, minor
child or female person to recover the debt or debts did not arise by reason of
any assignment.Explanation. - For the purpose of clause (1), the market value
of the property shall be estimated to be the price, which in the opinion of
the authority prescribed in this behalf, such property would have fetched if
sold in the open market on the 24th August 1982.

### 14. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the
day on which they are so published.(3)Every rule made or notification issued
under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be
placed on the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the word
'both Houses of the Legislature' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order
1987], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, [the Legislative assembly agrees] [Substituted for the word
'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu Adapation of Laws Order 1987] in making
any modification in any such rule or notification or [the Legislative assembly
agrees] [Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987] that the rule or notification should not be
made or issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only
in such modified form, or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity .'of anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 15. Amendment of Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1943.

\- In the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers Act 1943 (Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1943), in
section 12-A, in sub-section (1), in clause (ii), after sub-clause (c), the
following sub-clause shall be added, namely:-"(d) where any debtor to whom the
provisions of the Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 50 of 1982)
are applicable, has pledged any article with any pawn-broker, the pawn-broker
shall not sell or otherwise dispose of, in any manner whatsoever, any such
pledged article during the period up to and inclusive of the date of
publication of the list of debtors under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of
section 5 of the said Act and, in the case of debtors whose names are so
published in the said list, the pawn-broker shall not sell or otherwise
dispose of, in any manner whatsoever, the articles pledged by such debtors
until final orders (including orders on appeal) are passed on the application
made by them.".

### 16. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Debt Relief Ordinance, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 9 of 1982)
is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under this Act.

