## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing of
Private Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing of
Private Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MINISTERS-AND-PRESIDING-OFFICERS-OF-LEGISLATURE-FURNISHING-
OF-PRIVATE-HOUSES-AND-PROVISION-OF-AMENITIES-RULES-1977 of 1977

  * Published on 1 November 1967 
  * Commenced on 1 November 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 November 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers of Legislature (Furnishing of
Private Houses and Provision of Amenities) Rules, 1977Last Updated 5th June,
2019In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 read
with sub-section (2) of section 6-B of the Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act,
1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules: -

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Ministers and Presiding Officers
of Legislature (Furnishing of Private Houses and Provision of Amenities)
Rules, 1977.(2)[ They shall apply to the furnishing, maintenance and the
provision of amenities at the house occupied and owned by [any Minister or the
Speaker and is paid a rent of a sum not exceeding] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568,
Public (Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.] [twenty thousand
rupees] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from 1st November 1986).] per mensem as
may be fixed by the Public Works Department of the State Government in lieu of
house rent paid under 3section 3 or 4 of the Act.](3)[ They shall also apply
to the furnishing, maintenance and the provision of amenities at the house
occupied and owned by [the Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary] [Vide
G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th
July 1990 (with effect from 1st November 1986).], the Leader of Opposition and
Chief Government Whip and paid a rent of a sum not exceeding [twenty thousand
rupees] [Vide G O. Ms.No. 1178, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature) dated
the 1st July 2007 (with effect from dated the 1st July 2007).] per mensem as
may be fixed by the Public Works Department of the State Government in lieu of
the house rent paid under sections 2, 6 or 6-A of the Act.](4)They shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 1st November 1967.

### 2. [ definitions. [ Vide G.O. Ms.No. 4, Public (Legislature Wing), dated
the 2nd January 1989 (with effect from 2nd January 1989).]

\- I. In these rules,-(a)[Omitted].(b)"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951);(c)"Chief Government Whip"
means the Chief Government Whip in the Legislative
Assembly;(d)[Omitted](e)"Deputy Speaker" means the Deputy Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly;(ee)["electrical appliances"] [ Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266,
Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with
effect from the 1st November 1986).] include fan, refrigerator, hot water
boiler, T.V. and motor;(f)"House" means a house mentioned in sub-rule (2) of
rule 1;(g)"Leader of the Opposition" means the Leader of the Opposition in the
Legislative Assembly;(h)"Minister" includes the Chief
Minister;(i)"Parliamentary Secretary" means the Parliamentary Secretary to the
Minister;(j)"Speaker" means the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly;(k)"Term
of office" means the period during which a person holds office as such and it
shall continue till the spell of five years after the general election
expires, unless he ceases to hold that post earlier.]

### 3. Structural alterations and additions to houses.

(1)Such structural alterations and additions as are required to be made in any
house for the accommodation and convenience of sentries, visitors and personal
staff, or as are necessitated by the posting of sentries and personal staff,
shall subject to the approval of the State Government, be carried out at the
cost of the State Government.(2)[ The total cost of such structural
alterations and additions made to the house during the tenure of office of
[the Minister or the Speaker] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.], as the case may be, shall not
exceed thirty thousand rupees and in the case of the Deputy Speaker, [the
Leader] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from the 1st November 1986).] of
opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary or the Chief Government Whip, as the
case may be, shall not exceed twenty thousand rupees.](3)[ When the Minister,
the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of
Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, lays down office,
such of those structural alterations and additions carried out at the cost of
the State Government as cart be dismantled, shall be removed and taken back by
the State Government or [depreciated] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.] value thereof as may be fixed
by the Public Works Department of the State Government from time to time,
shall be recovered from the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, [the
Parliamentary] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from the 1st November
1986).] Secretary, the Leader of Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, if
he desires to retain them. The structural alterations and additions as cannot
be dismantled shall be left as they are.]

### 4. Electrical fittings.

(1)Any extension of electrical amenities, including increase in number of
fans, required to bring the house to proper standards, shall, subject to the
approval of the State Government, be provided at the cost of the State
Government.(2)[ The total cost of any extension of electrical amenities
provided to the house during the tenure of office of [the Minister] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 1568, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.] or the
Speaker, as the case may be, shall not exceed three thousand rupees and in the
case of the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of Opposition, the Parliamentary
Secretary or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, shall not exceed
two thousand rupees.]

### 5. [ Furniture and fittings. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1568, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 12th August 1981.]

\- Furniture and fittings costing up to monetary limit of thirty thousand
rupees shall be provided to the house during the tenure of office of the
Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, and twenty thousand rupees during
the tenure of office of the Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary, the
Leader of Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, and
maintained at the cost of the State Government. The cost of the annual
maintenance of furniture and fittings shall be fixed at eight percent of the
capital cost of the furniture supplied and fittings provided. Such amenities
shall be, removed or taken back by the State Government when the Minister, the
Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of the
Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, lays down office
or the value thereof shall be recovered from the Minister, the Speaker, the
Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of the Opposition or
the Chief Government Whip desires to retain them.]Explanation. - The monetary
limit specified in this rule shall be with reference to the actual capital
cost of the furniture and fittings at the time of purchase and no depreciation
shall be allowed in working out the monetary limit on any date. The rules of
the Public Works Department governing the life of steel and wooden furniture
shall also apply to the furniture provided under this rule.(2)[ The life of
the furniture and furnishings shall, from the date of its purchase, be fixed
as follows: -

(i) | Wooden furniture | 10 years  
---|---|---  
(ii) | Steel furniture | 15 years  
(iii) | Furnishings - |   
| (a) Pillow Covers and Sofa Covers | 2 years  
| (b) Bed sheets and Bed spreads | 3 years  
|  (c) Curtains, Carpets, Doormats, Woollen and Linen furnishingand Mosquito nets | 3-1/2 years]  
  
### 6. Refrigerator and hot water boilers.

\- One Refrigerator and two electric hot water boilers may be provided to the
house during the term of office of the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy
Speaker, Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of Opposition or the Chief
Government Whip, as the case may be, and maintained at the cost of the State
Government be provided to the house of the Minister or the Speaker, as the
case may be, at the cost of the Government:Provided that if the house has a
separate guest wing, an additional electric hot water boiler may be provided
to the house of the Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, at the cost
of the Government.

### 6A. [ Television. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1601, Public (Legislature Wing), dated
the 22nd September 1988 (with effect from the 14th October 1986).]

(1)Colour Television Set shall be provided to the house during the [term of
office of the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the
Opposition, as the case may be, at the cost of the State Government, if he
does not own at his cost.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 169, Public (Establishment-I),
dated the 8th February 1984.](2)Black and White Television set shall be
provided in the house during the term of office of the Parliamentary Secretary
or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, at the cost of the State
Government, if he does not own one at his cost.]

### 7. Telephone.

\- Telephone facilities shall be provided to the house during the term of
office of the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary
Secretary, the Leader of Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case
may be at the cost of the State Government. Telephone charges shall also be
borne by the State Government.

### 8. [ Overall monetary limit. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 4, Public (Legislature
Wing), dated the 2nd January 1989 (with effect from the 2nd January 1989).]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 3, 4, and 5 the State
Government may authorise the incurring of expenditure in excess of the
monetary limits specified in any of the rules on any of the items mentioned
therein:Provided that the total expenditure incurred on the structural
alterations and additions, extensions or electrical fittings, furniture and
fittings, refrigerator, electric, hot water boilers during the tenure of
office of the Minister or the Speaker, as the case may be, shall not in any
case exceed sixty thousand rupees and in the case of the Deputy Speaker, the
Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of Opposition or the Chief Government Whip
as the case may be, shall not in any case exceed forty thousand rupees.]

### 9. Removal of amenities.

(1)When the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of
Opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary or the Chief Government Whip, as the
case may be, to whom a house rent is paid under sections 23, 4, 6 or 6-A of
the Act, cease to occupy any house in respect of which any expenditure has
been incurred under rules 24, 5, 6, 6-A or 7 or when he lays down office, such
of those amenities as are provided at the cost of the State Government, shall
be removed and taken back by the State Government. However, if for any reason,
they are not able to return the articles, the Minister, the Speaker, the
Deputy Speaker, the Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of Opposition or the
Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, permitted to retain them after the
payment of depreciated value of the articles.(2)[ The depreciated value of the
article referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be determined with reference to the
life time of the article, from the date of its purchase, as detailed in the
Table below:-

| Serial number and name of the article | Life time | Depreciation in percentage per annum  
---|---|---|---  
| (1) | (2) | (3)  
1. | Furniture - |  |   
| (i) Wooden furniture | Ten years | 10  
| (ii) Steel or Aluminium furniture | Fifteen years | 6.67  
2. | Electrical Appliance - |  |   
|  (i) Fan, Refrigerator, Hot water boilers,Television and Motor | Ten years | 10  
| (ii) Other electrical appliances | Seven years | 14.25  
3. | Furnishings - |  |   
| (i) Sofa pillow and Mattress covers | Two years | 50  
| (ii) Bed sheet and Bed spreads | Three years | 33.3  
|  (iii) Curtains, Carpets, Mats, Mattress,pillows, Woollen and Linen furnishing, Mosquito nets and otherfurnishings | Three years and six months | 28.5]  
  
### 10. Water charges.

\- The water charges payable to the Municipal Corporation of Chennai and the
pumping charges shall be borne by the State Government.

### 11. Electricity consumption charges.

\- The electricity consumption charges shall be borne by the State Government.

### 12. Up-keep of house.

\- The house shall be provided with one sweeper, one mazdoor and one gardener
at the cost of the State Government and appointment to the these posts shall
be made by [Minister or the Speaker,] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from
the 1st November 1986).] as the case may be, at his own accord:Provided that
in the case of the house provided to the Deputy Speaker, [the Parliamentary
Secretary,] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from the 1st November 1986).] the Leader
of Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, one sweeper and one gardener shall
be provided at the cost of the State Government and appointment to these posts
shall be made at their own accord.

### 12A. Expenditure towards repair.

\- The total expenditure per annum towards repair charges including white
washing shall not exceed a month's rent fixed to the house.

### 13.

An inventory of furniture, fittings and electrical appliances provided at the
house of the Minister, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, [the Parliamentary
Secretary,] [Vide G.O.Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from the 1st November 1986.] the Leader
of the Opposition or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, shall be
prepared and verified periodically by the Chief Engineer (Buildings), Public
Works Department, in accordance with the instructions issued by the State
Government.

### 14. Receipt of acknowledgement.

\- An acknowledgement shall be obtained from the Senior Personal Assistant to
the Minister or the Speaker as the case may be and the Personal Assistant to
the Deputy Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition, the Parliamentary Secretary
or the Chief Government Whip, as the case may be, for the furniture, fittings
and electrical appliances provided at the house by the Chief Engineer
(Buildings), Public Works Department. The Senior Personal Assistant or the
Personal Assistant, as the case may be, shall be responsible for the up-keep
of all the furniture, fittings and electrical appliances which are provided at
the house.[Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1266, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature),
dated the 26th July 1990 (with effect from the 1st November 1986).]

