## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Salaries and Reimbursement of Medical
Expenses to Members) Rules, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Salaries and Reimbursement of Medical
Expenses to Members) Rules, 1979

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-LEGISLATIVE-ASSEMBLY-SALARIES-AND-REIMBURSEMENT-OF-MEDICAL-
EXPENSES-TO-MEMBERS-RULES-1979 of 1979

  * Published on 15 May 1979 
  * Commenced on 15 May 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 15 May 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (Salaries and Reimbursement of Medical
Expenses to Members) Rules, 1979Published vide Notification No. G.O. MS.No.
906, Public (Establishment-1), Dated 15th May 1979In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 12, read with section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Payment of
Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of 1951), the Governor of Tamil Nadu
hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992] (Salaries and Reimbursement of Medical expenses to Members) Rules,
1979.(2)These rules shall come into force on the 1st June 1979.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Payment of Salaries Act, 1951 (Tamil Nadu Act XX of
1951);(b)"Assembly" means the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly;(bb)[
"Authorised Officer" means an Officer authorised by the Secretary to claim
salary and to countersign medical reimbursement bills of Members;] [Vide G.O.
Ms.No. 504, Public (Establishment-I), dated 16th March 1983 (with effect from
16th March 1983).](c)[***] [Omitted by vide G.O. Ms.No. 485, Public
(Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April, 1992.](d)"Form" means
a form appended to these rules;(e)"Government" means the State
Government;(f)"Medical expenses" means the expenses incurred towards the cost
of drugs purchased in the open market;(g)"Member" means a member of the
Assembly but does not include a Minister, the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker
of the Assembly, a Parliamentary Secretary, the Leader of the Opposition in
the Assembly, the Chief Government Whip in the Assembly;(h)"Salary" means the
Salary and allowance payable to a Member under section 12 of the Act;(i)[
"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Assembly; and (j) "State" means the
State of Tamil Nadu.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated 22nd April, 1992.]

### 3. Authority for payment of salary.

\- The Secretary shall be the authority competent for the payment of Salary to
the Members entitled under the Act. No authorisation from the Accountant-
General, Tamil Nadu, shall be required for this purpose.

### 4. Date of payment of salary.

\- The salary shall become payable only on the last working day of each month
and if the last working day of a month is a Saturday, it shall become payable
on the previous working day. The salary for the month of March shall become
payable only on the first working day of April.

### 5. Claim of Salary.

\- A consolidated salary bill shall be prepared in advance in Form A without
any claim being preferred by the Member, scrutinized and passed for payment by
the Secretary [or by any officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary
authorised by him in this behalf.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 1307, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 8th August 1984.]

### 6. Mode of payment of salary.

(a)The salary shall be paid by the Secretary or any other officer not below
the rank of an Under Secretary authorised by him, in this behalf by cheque, or
credited to the account of the Member concerned in a Nationalised Bank or in a
Scheduled Bank or in a Co-operative Bank, if he so desires.Explanation. - For
the purpose of this rule, -(i)"Nationalised Bank" means any corresponding new
bank as defined in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings) Act, 1970 (Central Act 5 of 1970);(ii)"Scheduled Bank" means a
Bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(Central Act II of 1934); and(iii)"Co-operative Bank" means any Bank to which
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Central Act X of 1949), applies.(b)If any
Member desires for payment of his salary through Bank draft, the Secretary or
any other officer not below the rank of an under Secretary authorised by him,
in this behalf, shall first draw a cheque in favour of the Manager, Reserve
Bank of India, Chennai and the latter shall issue a Bank draft thereon in
favour of the Member.(c)The salary cheque or Bank draft shall be superscribed
"not payable before the last working day of the month or before a fixed date"
which shall not be a day earlier than the day previous to the last working day
if the last working day is a Saturday or "not payable before the first
proximo", as the case may be, and it shall be despatched to the Member or the
Bank as the case may be about 25th of every month to which the salary relates.

### 7. Receipt of payment.

\- The member or the Bank shall furnish stamped receipt for the receipt of
salary in Form B either before or soon after receipt of cheque by the members,
or the Bank authorised by the member in this behalf, as the case maybe, or
after the receipt of the bank draft, by the Member. The salary for the
subsequent month shall be drawn only on receipt of the stamped receipt for the
previous month. The member shall arrange with the Bank concerned to furnish
the stamped receipt referred to for the amount received from the Secretary [or
from any other officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary authorised by
him, in this behalf.] [Vide.G.O. Ms.No. 1307, Public (Establishment-I), dated
the 8th August 1984.]

### 8. Change of address.

\- It shall be the duty of a Member to intimate the change, if any, of his
residence, lasting for more than a month, to the Secretary to facilitate easy
despatch of the cheque or Bank draft.

### 9. Medical expenses reimbursement.

\- The medical expenses reimbursement bill in "Form C" shall be prepared on
receipt of an application in Form D from the Member and after scrutiny, the
bill shall be passed for payment by the Secretary or any other officer not
below the rank of an Under Secretary authorized by him in this behalf and the
cheque shall be issued.

### 10.

\- [***] [Omitted by vide G.O. Ms.No. 1171, Public (Legislature Wing),dated
3rd August 1983.]

### 11. Over payments or wrong payments.

\- If any over payments or wrong payments are made, the amount so paid shall
be adjusted in the subsequent payment payable under these rules or recovered
from the pension payable to the Member under section 12-B of the Act, or
recovered from the Member under the Tamil Nadu Revenue Recovery Act, 1864
(Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864) as if were arrears of revenue under the said Act.

### 12. [ Recovery of dues, if any. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 904, Public
(Establishment-I), dated the 14th March 1989.]

\- Dues, if any, towards arrears of legislator's hostel rent, guest
charges/Trunk call and Phonogram charges, loss of library books of any other
dues to the Legislative Assembly Secretariat or to former Legislative Council
Secretariat or the house rent due to the Government or the advance sanctioned
to the Member for the purchase of handloom cloth or any other dues to
Government from the member shall be recovered from the salary payable to him.]

### 13. [ Death of Member. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]

\- In the event of the death of the Member, the salary due till the date of
his death, and the medical expenses reimbursement, if any, shall be paid to
his legal heir, after recovering the dues, if any, to the Legislative Assembly
Secretariat or to the Government.]

### 13A. [ Residual claims of former Member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Council. [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 92, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated
the 20th January 1994 (With effect from 1st June 1991).]

\- These rules shall apply mutatis mutandis to claims arising up to the 31st
October 1986 in respect of the former Member of the Council.]

### 14. Decision of the Secretary is final.

\- The decision of the Secretary shall be final on all matters relating to the
payment of salary and medical expenses reimbursement, not covered by these
rules.Form A(See rule 5)Salary Bill of Members of The Tamil Nadu Legislative
AssemblyName of Member Month of.........Year,Voucher No..........

Details of the salary and allowances due | O.A. | Gross Amount | H.R. | *Deductions |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Serial Number | Name of the Member | Salary | CA | Telephone Allowance |  |  |  | Hostel Rent | Telephone Charges | Other Deduction | Total Deduction | **Net Amount | Remarks  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) |  | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10) | (11) | (12) | (13) | (14)  
Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs.P | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs. P. | Rs.P. | Rs.P. | Rs.P.  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Total |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
*1. Details**2. Should be expressed both in figures and words.Certified that the amount has not been drawn previously:Passed for payment of, Rs................(Rupees............................)Secretary,[Authorised Officer,] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 504, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 16th March 1989.][Legislative Assembly Secretariat.] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]Form B(See rule 7)(Stamped Receipt for the Salary Cheque)Receipt No.........Dated:..........Received a cheque/demand draft bearing No..............dated the............for Rs........(Rupees..................) from the Authorised Officer, Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Chennai - 600 009, being the salary for the month of........... to be credited in the account of Thiru M.L.A. Member, [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.],orBank nominated by the Member of the Legislative Assembly.Form C(See rule 9)Medical Expenses Reimbursement Bill of Member is of The Tamil Nadu [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O. Ms.No. 804, Public (Establishment-I), Department, dated the 16th March 1985.]

Name................. | Month:  
---|---  
Head of service chargeable:...........Voucher No. |   
  
Received the sum of [Rs] [Should be expressed both in words and
figures.]......... (Rupees............) being the amount payable on account of
my reimbursement of cost of drugs as Member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative
Assembly.

| Stamp  
---|---  
| when claim exceeds[Rs. 5000] [Vide Tamil Nadu Government Gazette No. 280,
dated the 3rd November 2004.]  
Date: | Claimant's Signature:  
| (stamp, if required)  
Counter-signed for Rs....... (in figures) (in words)Rupees................. | [Authorised Officer,] [Vide G.O.Ms.No. 804, Public (Establishment-I), Department, dated the 16th March 1985.]  
| [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O.Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]Secretariat.  
For use in the Treasury | Cheque No......... drawn on..............  
| Pay Rs............  
| [Authorised Officer,] [Vide G.O.Ms.No. 804, Public (Establishment-I),
Department, dated the 16th March 1985.]  
| [Legislative Assembly] [Vide G.O.Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and
Legislature), dated the 22nd April 1992.]Secretariat  
  
[Form D] [Vide G.O. Ms.No.197, Public (Establishment-I), dated the 4th March
1981.](See rule 9)Form of Application For Claiming Refund of Medical Expenses
in Connection With Medical Attendance and/or Treatment of Members of The
Legislative Assembly and Their Families(N. B. Separate form should be used for
each patient)

### 1\. Name and the Constituency of the Member (in Block Letters).

### 2\. Address of the Member.

### 3\. Name of the patient and his/her relationship to the Member. N.B. In
case of children, state the age also.

### 4\. (i) Place at which the patient fell ill.

(ii)Period of treatment and nature of illness.

### 5\. Details of amount claimed Cost of Medicines purchased from the market
(list of medicines, cash memos should be attached). Total.

### 6\. List of enclosures.

Declaration to be Signed by the Member of the [Legislative Assembly.] [Vide
G.O.Ms.No. 485, Public (Establishment-I and Legislature), dated the 22nd April
1992.]I hereby declare that the statements in this application are true to the
best of my knowledge and belief. *The person for whom medical expenses were
incurred is wholly dependent on me.Station:Dated:Signature of the Member.*
Strike out if the Member himself is a patient.

