## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Constitution of Committees of Village Panchayats and
Delegation of Functions to Such Committees) Rules, 2005

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Constitution of Committees of Village Panchayats and
Delegation of Functions to Such Committees) Rules, 2005

  * Published on 12 July 2005 
  * Commenced on 12 July 2005 
  * [This is the version of this document from 12 July 2005.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Constitution of Committees of Village Panchayats and
Delegation of Functions to Such Committees) Rules, 2005Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 102, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 12th
July 2005 - No. SRO A-30(a)/2005G.O. Ms. No. 102. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (vi) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Constitution of Committees of Village Panchayats and
the Delegation of Functions to such Committees) Rules, 1999, the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Constitution of
Committees of Village Panchayats and Delegation of Functions to such
Committees) Rules, 2005.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, "Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Constitution of Committees.

(1)Every Village Panchayat shall constitute the following Committees, namely:
-(i)Appointments Committee.(ii)Welfare Committee.(iii)Health, Water and
Sanitation Committee.(iv)Public Distribution System Committee.(v)Agricultural
Production Committee.(vi)Works Committee.(vii)Education Committee.(2)The
Village Panchayat concerned shall select members for each Committee as
indicated in the respective provisions of these rules. The President and
members of the Village Panchayat may serve in one or more Committees. No
member of a Committee shall act as Chairman for more than three Committees.
The President shall be ex-officio member of all the Committees constituted
under sub-rule (1).

### 4. Appointments Committee.

\- The Appointments Committee shall consist of the President of Village
Panchayat and two of its members selected from among its members
annually.(2)The Appointment Committee may select candidates for appointment to
any of the posts sanctioned in the Village Panchayats as prescribed in section
101 of the Act (except the posts which are specifically excluded from the
purview of the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder) and the pay
of which is debitable to the funds of the Village Panchayat.

### 5. Development Committee.

(1)(a)The Chairman of the Development Committee shall be selected from among
the women members of the Village Panchayat. (b) The Development Committee
shall consist of the following members, namely: -(i)two members of the Village
Panchayat.(ii)one Noon-Meal Organiser.(iii)one Head-Master or Headmistress of
local Primary or Middle School.(iv)one Non-Government Organiser or Social
Worker.(v)representative from one Self Help Group.(vi)one Village Health
Nurse.(vii)one Rural Welfare Officer.(viii)Secretary of the Primary
Agriculture Co-operative Society.(2)The Development Committee shall
-(a)promote community maintenance of assets in the field of health, drinking
water and sanitation;(b)supervise the protected drinking water supply to all
the areas of the Panchayat Village to ensure prevention of communicable
diseases;(c)organise immunisation and vaccination camps and promote better
health care;(d)create awareness to promote, organize campaign relating to
public health, water and rural sanitation;(e)inspect health sub-centres and
health centres located in the Panchayat Village and submit its observations
and suggestions for discussion in the Village Panchayat;(f)promote
participation of the users of drinking water in maintenance of water supply
system;(g)promote individual household toilets, group toilets, school and
community sanitation and women sanitary complex;(h)process and recommend the
resolution passed by the habitation or Ward Committees;(i)promote the welfare
of women, children, physically handicapped, destitute, widows, aged people,
bonded labourers, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes;(j)form self help
groups;(k)take action for eradication of child labour, prohibition of liquor,
prevent female infanticide, promotion of anti dowry, promotion of communal
harmony, eradication of untouchability and implementation of Poverty Reduction
Project;(l)assist the Village Panchayat in the maintenance of hand pumps,
power pumps, overhead tanks, drinking water ooranies and any other means of
drinking water supply in the panchayat village;(m)assist the Village Panchayat
to watch the functioning of ration shop under Public Distribution System in
the panchayat village and monitor timely supply of goods in prescribed
quantity and quality, display of daily stock position in retail shop, price of
each commodity sold, supply among the card holders and suggest steps to
redress the public grievances;(n)assist the Village Panchayat for the
preparation of comprehensive village development plan.(3)The Committee may
visit and inspect such centre, establishment or institution within the area of
the panchayat village. The Chairman of the Committee shall intimate in writing
to the Head of the Centre establishment or institution three days in advance
indicating the date, time and purpose of visit or inspection.

### 6. Agricultural and Watershed Committee.

(1)(a)The Chairman of the Agricultural and Watershed Committee shall be
selected by the members of the Committee among themselves.(b)The Committee
shall consist of the following members, namely:-(i)one member (from General
category) of the Village Panchayat;(ii)one member (from Scheduled Castes or
Scheduled Tribes Members) of the Village Panchayat;(iii)Village Administrative
Officer;(iv)a representative from Non-Governmental Organisation;(v)a
representative from Self Help Group (women);(vi)Assistant Agricultural Officer
or his representative;(vii)a representative from Watershed Association.(2)The
Agricultural and Watershed Committee shall -(a)plan and assist for the
implementation of programmes relating to agriculture, horticulture,
sericulture, floriculture, pisciculture, dairy development, poultry
development, drought prone area development, watershed, wasteland development,
social forestry, soil conservation and water management;(b)organize farmers
forum in panchayat village to promote application of latest technologies,
improved irrigation system in minor irrigation tanks, Public Works Department
Tanks, etc.(c)process and recommend the resolution passed by the
habitation/Ward Committees.

### 7. Works Committee.

(1)(a)The Chairman of the Works Committee shall be selected by the members of
the Committee from among themselves.(b)The Committee shall consist of the
following members, namely:-(i)one member of the Village Panchayat (from
General category);(ii)one member of the Village Panchayat (from Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes women members).(iii)one representative from Non-
Government Organisation;(iv)one representative from Self Help Group;(v)one
Noon Meal Organiser;(vi)one Headmistress or Headmaster of the local Primary or
Middle School;(vii)one Rural Welfare Officer;(viii)Village Administrative
Officer;(ix)one Village Health Nurse.(2)The Works Committee shall -(a)assist
the Village Panchayat to executive centrally and State sponsored Schemes where
the guidelines prescribed for the execution of works through public and
monitor other works executed in the panchayat village including works related
to Government Departments and organizations to ensure quality and timely
execution;(b)assist the Village Panchayat in the preparation of village
development plan based on the requirements and available local
resources;(c)process and recommend the resolution passed by the habitation /
Ward Committees.

### 8. Education Committee.

(1)(a)The Chairman of the Education Committee shall be selected by the Village
Panchayat from among its members.(b)The Committee shall consist of the
following members, namely: -(i)one Representative from Parent Teacher
Association;(ii)one representative from Self Help Groups;(iii)one
representative from Non-Governmental Organisations;(iv)one Head Master or
Headmistress of local Primary or Middle School;(v)one Noon Meal
Organiser.(2)The Education Committee shall -(a)monitor the functioning of all
schools in its area;(b)plan and organize public participation to develop
school infrastructure including building;(c)organize campaign for universal
education, non-formal education, maintenance of libraries and promote the
literacy and reading habit among public.

### 9. Constitution of Temporary Committee.

(1)A Village Panchayat may constitute any Committee other than the Committee
specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 3 for any specific purpose of exercising
such powers discharging such duties and performing such functions as it may
delegate (except irrigation) to such Committee, and may also constitute any
Committee as and when required to inquire into and report or advise on any
matter which may be referred to it. The tenure of such Committees shall not
exceed six months from the date of its constitution. If a Committee needs to
function for a period longer than six months, prior sanction of the Inspector
of Panchayats shall be obtained.

### 10. Constitution of Sub-Committees.

(1)A Village Panchayat may constitute any sub-committee other than the
Committees specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 3 for any specific or general
purpose of exercising such powers, discharging such duties and performing such
functions as it may delegate (except irrigation) to such Committee and may
also constitute any Committee as and when required at habitation or ward
level. The ward member of the Village Panchayat concerned will be Chairman of
the Sub-Committee.(2)The Sub-Committee shall -(a)suggest any improvement to
promote the purpose for which it has been constituted;(b)monitor the programme
implementation, etc.;(c)forward the recommendations to Panchayat Level
Committees for consideration and recommendation to Village Panchayat.

### 11. Inspection.

\- Every Committee may visit and inspect such Centre, Establishment or
Institution within the area of the Panchayat Village. The Chairman of the
Committee shall intimate in writing to the head of the Centre, Establishment
or institute, as the case may be, three days in advance.

### 12. Notice and Agenda for Committee.

\- The Chairman of the Committee shall fix the date, time and venue of the
meeting of the Committee and circulate the Agenda for discussion at least
three days in advance.

### 13. Periodicity of meeting.

\- Every Committee, except the Appointments Committee, shall meet once in two
months. The Appointments Committee shall meet whenever selection for any post
in the Village Panchayat is to be made.

### 14. Plan preparation.

\- Every Committee shall prepare respective sectorial, annual and perspective
development plan for Panchayat Village. The Chairman of each Committee shall
submit such plan to the Village Panchayat for discussion and decision.

### 15. Approval of Panchayat.

\- Every observation, suggestion or recommendation of each Committee shall be
placed in the meeting of the Village Panchayat for consideration and decision.

### 16. Appraisal to Grama Sabha.

\- Grama Sabha to be appraised about the recommendations of the Committees.
The Village Panchayat shall compile the recommendations of the Committee every
year and apprise the Grama Sabha during its meeting to be held in the quarter
of January to March.

