## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act, 1963

## Act 30 of 1963

  * Published on 28 January 1964 
  * Commenced on 28 January 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 January 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion Into Ryotwari) Act,
1963(Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act
30 of 1963). - For Statement of Objects and Reasons, please see Part IV -
Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th April
1962, pages 80-81, for the Report of the Joint Select Committee, please see
Part IV - Section 3 of the Fort St. George Extraordinary, dated the 14th
August 1963, pages 189 to 223.Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964). - The Madras Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Madras Act 30 of 1963) extends to the
whole of the State of Madras, except the Kanyakumari district and the
Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district. The Government have decided that
the Act should be extended to these excepted areas also, with suitable
modifications. This Bill seeks to amend the Act so as to give effect to the
above decision.Published in Part IV - Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 26th March 1964.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) (Amendment)
Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1966). - According to section 8(2)(i)(b) of
the Madras Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Madras Act 30 of 1963), in the case of lands in an iruvaram minor inam
granted for the support or maintenance of a religious institution or for the
performance of a charity or service connected therewith or of any other
religious charity and alienated by such institution byway of sale, if the
alienee is in exclusive possession of such land for a continuous period of
twelve years immediately before the 1st April 1960, such person shall, with
effect from the appointed day, be entitled to a ryotwari patta subject to the
payment to the Government of a consideration equivalent to twenty times the
difference between the fair rent in respect of such land determined in the
manner laid down in the Schedule to the Act and the land revenue due on such
land. Section 8(4) of the Act lays down that the amount specified in clause
(i)(b) of sub-section (2) of section 8 is payable by the Government to the
institution concerned within one year from the appointed day. The appointed
day in relation to the whole of the State except the transferred territory of
Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district is
the 15th February 1965 and in relation to the transferred territory is the 1st
March 1965. It has been brought to the notice of the Government that it will
not be possible to make the payment within the prescribed time limit of one
year from the appointed day as the Assistant Settlement Officers will not be
able to determine within that period the quantum of the amount after following
the prescribed formalities and verification.The Government have, therefore,
decided to Amend section 8 (4) of the Act so as to take power for the
Government to prescribe the time limit by rules made by the Government. If the
time limit as prescribed in the rules is found insufficient, the time limit
can be extended by a mere amendment of the rules and no amendment of the Act
will be necessary.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV - Section 3 of the Fort St. George Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 28th October 1966.Statement of Objects and Reasons -
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1971). - Under clause (d) of section 3 of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil
Nadu Act 30 of 1963), the Government may, after removing any obstruction that
may be offered, forthwith take possession of the minor inam and all accounts,
etc. But, under the proviso to the said clause (d), the Government shall not
dispossess any person of any land in the minor inam in respect of which they
consider that he is prima facie entitled to a ryotwari patta pending the
decision of the appropriate authority under this Act as to whether such person
is entitled to such patta. Rule 5 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Rules, 1965, framed under the said Act prescribes
the procedure for taking possession of land in an inam estate. The intention
is that whoever is in actual possession of the land in a minor inam on the
notified date should not be disturbed until it is decided by the appropriate
authority under this Act as to whether such person is entitled to such patta.
The Government consider that the existing provision regarding determination
about prima facie entitlement to patta as now contained in clause (d) of
section 3 of the said Act has led to complications. They also consider that
when there is a special machinery provided for under the Act for deciding the
question of grant of patta under section 11 of the said Act, it is unnecessary
for the Tahsildar to conduct a parallel enquiry for deciding the very same
question just to find out whether the person is prima facie entitled to
ryotwari patta. It is also considered that if a person is dispossessed on the
basis of a decision arrived at after following the procedure prescribed under
rule 5 of the said rules, it is quite possible that his chances for getting a
patta before the regular machinery provided by the Act will become remote in
many cases. It is, therefore, proposed to recast the proviso to clause (d) of
section 3 of the said Act so as to provide that the Government shall not
dispossess any person who is personally cultivating any land in the minor
inam, until the Assistant Settlement Officer and the Tribunal and the Special
Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, decide that such person is not actually
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land under the provisions of
this Act. A person is said to personally cultivate a land when he contributes
his own physical labour or that of the members of his family in the
cultivation of that land. The amendment is given retrospective effect from the
date of the commencement of the principal Act.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve
the above objects.Published in Part IV - Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th July 1971.Statement of
Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, Lease-holds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1975). - Under clause (b) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1963)
and of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 30 of 1963), and under clause (b) of section 4 of
the Tamil Nadu Leaseholds (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963
(Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1963), the entire inam estate, every minor inam and
every lease-hold including tanks and irrigation works, among other things
shall stand transferred to the Government and vest in them free of all
encumbrances.2\. In a case relating to abolition of estates, the High Court
has held that a tank which is the private property of the landholder will not
vest in the Government under section 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948). It was,
therefore, considered necessary that all tanks and ooranies (including private
tanks and ooranies) should vest in the Government so that they could be
maintained by the Government for public use. Provision has accordingly been
made in the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,
1948 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVI of 1948), for the above purpose by Tamil Nadu Act 49
of 1974. It has now been decided that all tanks and ooranies (including
private tanks and ooranies) in inam estates, minor inams and leass-holds
should also be deemed to have been vested in the Government from the notified
date or the appointed, day, as the case may be, that no ryotwari patta shall
be granted in respect of any such private tank or oorani and that any ryotwari
patta already granted in respect of any such private tank or oorani shall
stand cancelled, and compensation re-determined in respect of any such inam
estate, minor inam or lease-hold.3\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the
above decision.Published in part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th October 1975.Received the assent of the
President on the 28th January 1964 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette, dated 5th February 1964.An Act to provide for the acquisition of the
rights of inamdars in minor inams in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, a amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] and the introduction of ryotwari settlement in such inams

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent, applications and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Minor
Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1963.(2)It extends to the
whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] [xxx] [The
expression 'except the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah taluk of the
Tirunelveli district' was omitted by section 2( i) of the Tamil Nadu Minor
Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu
Act 33 of 1964).](3)It applies to all minor inams.(4)It shall come into force
on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint:[Provided that in
respect of the transferred territory, it shall come into force on a date to be
appointed by the Government which date shall be after the publication of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1964, in the] [Proviso was added by section 2(ii) by section 2(i) of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] [Fort St. George Gazette.] [Now the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette.](5)The Assistant Settlement Officer, shall immediately
after the date of the publication of the notification under sub-section (4),
publish in the District Gazette, a copy of the notification under sub-section
(4) and shall also cause to be published in a conspicuous place in the village
in which the minor inam is situated a copy of the notification under sub-
section (4) together with such particulars as may be prescribed.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(1)"Abolition Act"
means the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Act, 1948 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXVI of
1948);(2)"appointed day" means the date appointed by the Government under
subsection (4) of section 1:Provided that -(i)in the case of a minor inam in
the merged territory of Pudukkottai, the settlement of which is published
under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Pudukkottai (Settlement of Inams)
Act, 1955 Tamil Nadu Act XXIII of 1955), on a date subsequent to the date
appointed under sub-section (4) of section 1, "appointed day" means such
subsequent date;(ii)in the case of a land governed by clause (b) of sub-
section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 17 of the Abolition Act or by
clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 14 of the Inam
Estates Abolition Act, if the order of the competent authority recognising
such land to be a minor inam is passed date subsequent to the date appointed
under sub-section (4) of section 1, "appointed day" means such subsequent
date;(iii)[ in the case of a minor inam in the transferred territory,
"appointed day" means the date appointed by the Government under the proviso
to sub-section (4) of section 1;] [Added by section 3(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).](3)[ "Assistant Settlement Officer" means an
Assistant Settlement Officer appointed under section 5 and having
jurisdiction;] [[Substituted for the following clause 3 by section 3(b) of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964) :-(3)'Assistant Settlement Officer' means an
Assistant Settlement Officer appointed under section 5;]](4)"Government" means
the State Government;(5)"inam" means-(i)a grant of the melvaram in any inam
land; or(ii)a grant of both the melvaram and the kudivaram in any inam land;
which grant has been made, confirmed or recognised by the
Government;(6)"inamdar", in respect of any inam, means the person who held the
inam immediately before the appointed day;(7)"inam land" means any land
comprised in a minor inam;(8)"Inam Estates Abolition Act" means the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Act, 1963 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 30 of 1963);(9)"minor inam" means
-(i)any inam which,is not -(a)an estate within the meaning of sub-clause (d)
of clause (2) of section 3 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land
Act, 1908 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908); or(b)a new inam estate
as defined in clause (9) of section 2 of the Inam Estates Abolition Act;
or(c)an estate within the meaning of sub-clause (d) of clause (2) of section 3
of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estates Land Act, 1908 [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act I of 1908), as in force in the territories specified in the
Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Madras (Alteration of Boundaries)
Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959);(ii)lakhiraj tenures of land;(iii)any inam
recognised and confirmed under section 2 of the Pudukkottai (Settlement of
Inams) Act, 1955 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXIII of 1955), but not including
a new inam estate as defined in clause (9) of section 2 of the Inam Estates
Abolition Act and situated in the merged territory of Pudukkottai;(iv)[ any
inam in the transferred territory including any inam governed by the Service
Inams Proclamation, dated the 13th May 1893 or by section 22 of the [Tamil
Nadu] [Inserted by section 3(c) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).]
(Transferred Territory) Incorporated and Unincorporated Devaswoms Act, 1959
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 30 of 1959); but not including lands held on any
of the tenures specified below, namely :-(a)Sreepandaravaka,(b)Sreepadam,
and(c)Thirruppuvaram.]Explanation. - Any land granted on service tenure and
governed by clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 17 of
the Abolition Act, or by clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of
section 14 of the Inam Estates Abolition Act shall be deemed to be a minor
inam;(10)[ "Settlement Officer" means a Settlement Officer appointed under
section 4 and having jurisdiction;] [[Substituted for the following clause
(10) by section 3(d) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964) :-(10)'Settlement
Officer' means the Settlement Officer appointed under section 4;]][(10-A)
"transferred territory" means the Kanyakumari district and the Shencottah
taluk of the Tirunelveli district;] [Inserted by section 3(e) of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and conversion into Rayotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).](11)"Tribunal" means a Tribunal constituted under
section 7 and having jurisdiction.

## Chapter II  
Vesting of Minor Inams, Etc. in Government

### 3. Vesting of minor inams, etc., in Government.

\- With effect on and from the appointed day and save as otherwise expressly
provided in this Act -(a)clause (b) of sub-section (1) of sub-section (2) of
section 17 of the Abolition Act and clause (b) of sub-section (1) and sub-
section (2) of section 14 of the Inam Estates Abolition Act, sections 2 and 12
of the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras
(Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Land Revenue
Act, 1851 (Central Act XII of 1851), the Pudukkottai (Settlement of Inams)
Act, 1955 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XXII of 1955), [section 22 of the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'and all other enactment
applicable to minor inams' by section 4(i)of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act
33 of 1964).]Transferred Territory)] Incorporated and Unincorporated
Devakswoms Act, 1959 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 30 of 1959), clause
(i) of section 3 of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Transferred Territory
Ryotwari Settlement Act, 1964 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 33 of 1964), the
Service Inams Proclamation, dated the 13th May 1893, and all other enactments
applicable to minor inams) as such shall be deemed to have been repealed in
their application to minor inams;(b)every minor inam including all communal
lands and porambokes, waste lands, pasture lands, forests, mines and minerals,
quarries, rivers and streams [tanks and ooranies (including private tanks and
ooranies) and irrigation works] [These words and brackets were substituted,
and were deemed always to have been substituted, for the words 'tanks and
irrigation works' by section 4(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estate, Lease-holds
and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976).], fisheries and ferries, situated within the
boundaries thereof, shall stand transferred to the Government and vest in them
free of all encumbrances, and the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] City Land Revenue Act, 1851 (Central Act XII of 1851) except sections
2 and 12, the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).] City Land
Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act II of 1864), the
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Act VII of 1865), [the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression 'and all
other enactment applicable to ryotwari lands' by section 4(ii) of the Tamil
Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] (Transferred Territory) Ryotwari Settlement Act,
1964 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 33 of 1964), and all other
exactments applicable to ryotwari lands] shall apply to the minor inam;(c)all
rights and interests created by the inamdar in or over his inam before the
appointed day, shall, as against the Government, cease and determine;(d)the
Government may, after removing any obstruction that may be offered, forthwith
take possession of the minor inam and all accounts, registers, pattas,
muchilikas, maps, plans and other documents relating to the minor inam which
the Government may require for the administration thereof:[Provided that the
Government shall not disposes any person who is personally cultivating any
land in the minor inam, until the Assistant Settlement Officer and the
Tribunal and the Special Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, if any, decide that
such person is not actually entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that
land under the provisions of this Act:] [[Substituted for the following
proviso by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1971), which was
deemed to have come into force on the 15th February 1965 :-Provided that the
Government shall not dispossess any person of any land in the minor inam in
respect of which they consider that he is prima facie entitled to a ryotwari
patta pending the decision of the appropriate authority under this Act as to
whether such person is entitled to such patta.]]Explanation. - For the
purposes of this proviso, a person is said to personally cultivate land when
he contributes his own physical labour that of the members of his family in
the cultivation of the land;(e)the inamdar and any other person whose rights
stand transferred under clause (b) or cease and determine under clause (c)
shall be entitled only to such rights and privileges as are recognised or
conferred on him by or under this Act;(f)the rights and obligations of the
inamdar as such shall be extinguished;(g)any rights and privileges which may
have accrued in the minor inam to any person before the appointed day against
the inamdar shall cease and determine and shall not be enforceable against the
Government or against the inamdar, and every such person shall be entitled
only to such rights, and privileges as are recognized or conferred on him, by
or under this Act.

### 4. [ Appointment and functions of Settlement Officer. [[Substituted for
the following section 4 by section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964)
:-

### 4\. Appointment and functions of Settlement Officers. - As soon as may be,
after the publication of this Act in the Fort St. George Gazette, the
Government shall appoint a Settlement Officer to carry out survey and
settlement operations in respect of all minor inams and introduce ryotwari
settlement therein. The Settlement Officer shall be subordinate to the Board
of Revenue.]]

\- As soon as may be, after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St.
George Gazette], the Government shall appoint one or more Settlement Officers
to carry out survey and settlement operations in respect of minor inams and
introduce ryotwari settlement therein. Every Settlement Officer shall be
subordinate to the [Board of Revenue.] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by
the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G.O. Ms. No. 2675,
Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.]]

### 5. Appointment and functions of Assistant Settlement Officers.

(1)As soon as may be, after the publication of this Act in the [Fort St.
George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], the Government shall
appoint one or more Assistant Settlement Officers to carry out the functions
and duties assigned to them by or under this Act.(2)Every Assistant Settlement
Officer shall be subordinate to the Settlement Officer and shall be guided by
such lawful instructions as he may issue, from time to time, and the
Settlement Officer shall also have power to revise within such period as may
be prescribed, any of the orders, acts or proceedings of the Assistant
Settlement Officer, other than those in respect of which an appeal lies to the
Tribunal.

### 6. [ Powers of control of the Board of Revenue.] [The Board of Revenue was
abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu
Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No.
2675, Revenue, dated 1st December 1980.]

\- [The Board of Revenue] [ The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil
Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now,
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] shall have power -(a)to give effect to the provisions
of this Act;(b)to issue instructions for the guidance of [the Settlement
Officers] [Substituted for the expression 'the Settlement Officer' by section
6 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] and Assistant Settlement
Officers;(c)to cancel or revise, within such period as may be prescribed, any
of the orders, acts or proceedings of [the Settlement Officers] [Substituted
for the expression 'the Settlement Officer' by section 6 of the Tamil Nadu
Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964
(Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).], other than those in respect of which an appeal
lies to the Tribunal.

### 7. Constitution of Tribunals.

(1)The Government shall constitute as many Tribunals as may be necessary for
the purposes of this Act.(2)Each Tribunal shall consist of one person only who
shall be a judicial officer not below the rank of Subordinate Judge.(3)Each
Tribunal shall have such jurisdiction as the Government may, by notification
from time to time, determine.(4)[Every Tribunal shall, subject to the
provisions of section of 47-A] [Substituted for the expression 'Every Tribunal
shall' by section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1975).], have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), when trying a suit or
when hearing an appeal.

## Chapter III  
Grant of Ryotwari Pattas

### 8. Grand of ryotwari pattas.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), every person who is lawfully
entitled to the kudivaram in an inam land immediately before the appointed day
whether such person is an inamdar or not shall, with effect on and from the
appointed day, be entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that
hand.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) in the [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 22 of 1959), [and in the [Tamil Nadu] [Inserted
by section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] (Transferred
Territory)] Incorporated and Unincorporated Devaswoms Act, 1959 [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Act 30 of 1959), the following provisions shall apply in the
case of lands in an iruvaram minor inam granted for the support or maintenance
of a religious institutions or for the performance of a charity or service
connected therewith or of any other religious charity -(i)where the land has
been transferred by way of sale and the transferee or his heir, assignee,
legal representative or person deriving rights through him had been in
exclusive possession a such land -(a)for a continuous period of sixty years
immediately before the 1st day of April 1960, such person shall, with effect
on and from the appointed day, be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of
that land;(b)for a continuous period of twelve years immediately before the
1st day of April 1960, such person shall, with effect on and from the
appointed day, be entitled to a ryotwari patta if he pays as consideration to
the Government in such manner and in such number of instalments as may be
prescribed an amount equal to twenty times the difference between the fair
rent in respect of such land determined in accordance with the provisions
contained in the Schedule and the land revenue due on such land;(ii)in the
case of any other land, the institution or the individual rendering service
shall, with effect on and from the appointed day, be entitled to a ryotwari
patta in respect of that land.Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-
section, "land revenue" means the ryotwari assessment including the additional
assessment, water-cess and additional water-cess.(3)Any arrear of the amount
due from any person under clause (i)(b) of subsection (2) shall be recovered
together with such interest as may be prescribed as if it were an arrear of
land revenue.(4)The Government shall [within such period as may be prescribed]
[Substituted for the words 'within one year from the appointed day' by section
2 of the Tamil Nadu Inam (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1966 (Tamil Nadu Act 26 of 1966).], pay to the institution concerned in
one lump sum the amount specified in clause (i)(b) of sub-section (2) and such
payment shall be made in such form and manner as may be prescribed.(5)In the
case of a minor inam held immediately before the appointed day by an
individual on condition of rendering service to a religious, educational or
charitable institution, the grant of ryotwari patta under sub-section (1) or
(2) shall be subject to the provisions of section 21.

### 9. Grant of ryotwari patta in cases not covered by sections.

(1)Subject to the provisions of the next succeeding section, where in respect
of an inam land, no person is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section 8,
and the land vests in Government, the persons specified below shall be
entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of that land in the following order of
preference :-(i)firstly, a person who had been personally cultivating such
land for a continuous period of twelve years immediately before the 1st day of
April 1960;(ii)secondly, if there is no such person as is referred to in
clause (i), then, a person who had been lawfully admitted into possession of
such land on or after the 27th day of September 1955 and who had been
personally cultivating such land over since; and(iii)thirdly, if there is no
such person as is referred to in clauses (i) and (ii), then, a person who had
been personally cultivating that land on the 26th day of September 1955 and
for a period of twelve years immediately before the date:Provided that no
person shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta in respect of any land under
clause (i) or (iii) of this sub-section if such person has voluntarily
abandoned or relinquished his rights in respect of such land on or before the
date of the decision of the Assistant Settlement Officer under sub-section (2)
of section 11.Explanation I. - In this section "person" includes an
inamdar.Explanation II. - For the purposes of this sub-section, a person is
said to personally cultivate a land when he contributes his own physical
labour or that of the members of his family in the cultivation of that
land.(2)Among the persons specified in sub-section (1), those specified in
clause (i) of that sub-section shall be entitled to a ryotwari patta to the
exclusion of the persons specified in clauses (ii) and (iii) of that sub-
section and those specified in clause (ii) of that sub-section shall be
entitled to a ryotwari patta, to the exclusion of the persons specified in
clause (iii) of that sub-section.(3)Any ryotwari patta granted under this
section shall take effect from the date of the grant of such patta.

### 10. Lands in respect of which no ryotwari patta will be granted.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 8 and 9, no ryotwari patta
shall be granted in respect of any land falling under any of the categories
specified below and situated within the limits of any minor inam :
-(a)forests;(b)beds and bunds of tanks and supply, drainage, surplus or
irrigation channels;(c)threshing floor, cattle stands, village sites, cart-
tracks, roads, temple sites and such other lands situated in any minor inam as
are set apart for the common use of the villages;(d)rivers, streams and other
porambokes.

### 10A. [ [Inserted and was deemed always to have been inserted by section
4(2) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion
into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 2 of 1976).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no ryotwari patta shall be
granted in respect of any private tank or oorani.(2)Any ryotwari patta granted
in respect of any private tank or oorani under the Act before the date of the
publication of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates, lease holds and Minor Inams
(Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act, 1975 in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, shall stand amended and for purposes of compensation under this Act,
the private tank or Oorani shall be deemed to be land in respect of which no
person is entitled to ryotwari patta under section 8.]

### 11. Determination of lands in respect of which any person is entitled to
ryotwari patta.

(1)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall, subject to the provisions of sub-
section (2), inquire into the claims of any person for a ryotwari patta under
this Act in respect of any inam land and decide in respect of which land the
claim should be allowed.(2)(a)Before holding the enquiry under sub-section
(1), the Assistant Settlement Officer shall give notice in the prescribed
manner to the inamdar and to the Tahsildar of the taluk or Deputy Tahsildar of
the sub-taluk the inam land is situated; and(i)if the person in occupation of
the land is not the inamdar, to the occupant;(ii)if the inam has been granted
for the benefit of a Hindu religious institution or for service therein, to
the Commissioner appointed under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Hindu Religious
and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 22 of
1959), or to an officer specified by the said Board in this behalf.(iii)if the
inam is a wakf within the meaning of the [Wakf Act, 1954 (Central Act XXIX of
1954)] [This Act has been repealed and re-enacted as the Wakf Act, 1995
(Central Act 43 of 1995).], to the Board of Wakfs constituted under the Act,
or to an officer specified by the said Board in this behalf;(iv)[ to such
other persons as may be specified in the rules made by the Government in this
behalf.] [Added by section 8 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of
1964).](b)The Assistant Settlement Officer shall also publish in the
prescribed manner in the village the notice referred to in clause (a) and
after giving the parties who appear before him an opportunity to be heard and
to adduce their evidence, give his decision.(3)Against a decision of the
Assistant Settlement Officer under sub-section (2), the Government may, within
one year from the date of the decision, and any person aggrieved by such
decision may, within three months of the said date, appeal to the
Tribunal:Provided that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further time
not exceeding two months for the filing of any such appeal:Provided further
that the Tribunal may, in its discretion, entertain an appeal by the
Government at any time if it appears to the Tribunal that the decision of the
Assistant Settlement Officer was vitiated by fraud or by mistake of fact.

### 12. Liability to pay land revenue to Government.

(1)(a)Every person, whether an inamdar or not, who becomes entitled to a
ryotwari patta under this Act (other than under section 9) in respect of any
inam land shall, for each fasli year commencing with the falsi year in which
the appointed day falls; and(b)every person who becomes entitled to a ryotwari
patta imder section 9 in respect of any inam land shall, for each fasli year
commencing with the fasli year in which such patta is granted, be liable to
pay to the Government, the assessment under the ryotwari settlement of the
inam land under section 16 [or under section 16-A, as the case may be]
[Inserted by section 9(1) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).]
and pending such ryotwari settlement be liable to pay land revenue -(i)in case
such land is already assessed under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Inams
(Assessment) Act 1956 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act XL of 1956) or under
the Andhra Assessment Act, 1955 (Andhra Act XVII of 1955), at the rate of such
assessment;[(i-A) in case such land is situated in the transferred territory,
at the same rate and in the same manner as for the nearest ryotwari land of
similar description and with similar advantages in the Tirunelveli district;]
[Inserted by section 9(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of
1964).](ii)in any other case, at the same rate and in the same manner as for
the nearest ryotwari land of similar description and with similar advantages
in the district in which the inam is situated.(2)The land revenue payable
under sub-section (1) shall be fixed by the prescribed authority.

### 13. Vesting of buildings.

(1)Every building situated within the limits of an inam land shall, with
effect on and from the appointed day, vest in the person who owned it
immediately before that day; but the Government shall be entitled for each
fasli year commencing with the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, to
levy the appropriate assessment thereon.(2)In this section, "building"
includes the site on which it stands and any adjacent premises occupied as an
appurtenance thereto.

### 14. Rights of certain lessees and others.

(1)In cases not governed by any other provision of this Act, where on or after
the 30th day of September 1961, but before the appointed day, an inamdar has
created, by way of lease or otherwise, right in any mines or minerals,
quarries, fisheries, or ferries, the transaction shall be deemed to be valid;
and all rights and obligations arising thereunder, on or after the appointed
day, shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that the
transaction is not void or illegal under any law in force at the time and that
any such right was created for a period not exceeding one year.(2)(a)Where any
such right was created before the 30th day of September 1961 for a period
exceeding one year, the Government may, if in their opinion it is in the pubic
interest to do so, by notice given to the person concerned, terminate the
right with effect from the such date as may be specified in the notice, not
being earlier than three months from the date thereof.(b)The person whose
right has been so terminated shall be entitled to compensation from the
Government which shall be determined by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of
Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, Commissioner of Land Administration, vide
G.O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] in such manner as
may be prescribed, having regard to the value of the right and the period for
which the right was created.(c)Where any such right created before the 30th
day of September 1961 is not determined under this sub-section, the
transaction whereby such right was created shall be deemed to be valid and all
rights and obligations arising thereunder, on or after the appointed day,
shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that the
transaction was not void or illegal under any law in force at the time.(3)The
Government may, if in their opinion, it is in the public interest to do so,
impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any right continued under
this section.Explanation. - Any rights granted in perpetuity shall cease and
determine and be dealt with under sub-section 3(e) and not under this section.

## Chapter IV  
Survey and Settlement of Inam Lands

### 15. Survey of inam lands.

(1)[Any inam land, other than an inam land in the transferred territory, may
be surveyed] [Substituted for the expression 'Any inam land may be surveyed'
by section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).], or if it has been
surveyed before the appointed day, may be re-surveyed, as if it were
Government land, in accordance with the provisions for the survey of such land
contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923
[Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII of 1923):Provided that any re-survey, except
so much thereof as is payable by any person under the provisions of section 8
of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII of 1923), shall be borne by the Government.
(2) The cost of the survey or re-survey, except so much thereof as is payable
by any person under the provisions of section 8 of the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.] Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act VIII
of 1923) shall be borne by the Government.

### 16. Manner of effecting ryotwari settlement.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall effect a ryotwari settlement of all inam lands
[other than those situated in the transferred territory] [Inserted by section
11(i) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] in accordance with a
settlement notification framed and published by the Government for the
purpose.(2)(i)In the case of the City of [Chennai] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act.
28 of 1996).], the said notification shall embody the principles adopted in
making ryotwari settlement in the adjoining district and shall adopt such
rates of assessment as may be specified by the Government having regard to the
rates under the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of
Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act. 28 of 1996).] City Land
Revenue Act, 1851 (Central Act XII of 1851) and the settlement notification in
force in the adjoining district; and(ii)in the case of other areas in the
State [except the transferred territory] [Inserted by section 11 (ii) of the
Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act,
1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).], the said notification shall embody the
principles adopted in making ryotwari settlements in ryotwari areas and shall
adopt -(a)the rates of assessment set out in the settlement notification in
force on the date of the publication of this Act in the [Fort St. George
Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] in the district in which the
inam land is situated; or(b)if more than one such notification is in force in
the district, the rates set out in one of those notification which the
Government consider to be the most appropriate to the case.(3)All rates of
assessment imposed at a ryotwari settlement under this section shall be liable
to revision, from time to time, as laid down in the settlement or resettlement
notification aforesaid, as the case may be.(4)Nothing in this section shall be
construed -(i)as entitling any person to a ryotwari patta for any land in
respect of which he has not made any claim under section 11; or(ii)as
empowering the appropriate officer or authority to reopen any decision made
under section 11.

### 16A. [ Survey and ryotwari settlement of inam lands in transferred
territory. [Inserted by section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition
and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of
1964).]

(1)In respect of every inam land in the transferred territory, survey shall be
made and ryotwari settlement shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of the [Tamil Nadu] (Transferred Territory) Ryotwari Settlement
Act, 1964 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 33 of 1964).(2)Nothing in this
section shall be construed -(i)as entitling any person to a ryotwari patta for
any land in respect of which he has not made any claim under section 11;
or(ii)as empowering the appropriate officer or authority to reopen any
decision made under section 11.

## Chapter V  
Determination and Payment of Compensation

### 17. Compensation how determined.

\- The compensation payable in respect of an inam shall be determined in
accordance with the following provisions.

### 18. Compensation to be determined for the inam as a whole.

\- The compensation shall be determined for each inam as a whole and not
specify for each of the interests in the inam.

### 19. Scale of compensation.

\- Except in the case governed by section 20, compensation shall be paid to
the inamdar in accordance with the following provisions for the loss of income
from all sources in the inam excluding the lands in respect of which any
person is entitled to ryotwari patta under section 8 :-(i)The average annual
miscellaneous revenue from the said sources shall be the average of the net
annual income derived by the Government from the said sources during the fasli
year commencing on the appointed day, if that day was the first day of July,
or on the first day of July immediately succeeding the appointed day if that
day was not the first day of July and the next fasli year in case ryotwari
settlement is effected in that year or the next two fasli years in other
cases.(ii)The compensation payable to any inamdar under this section shall be
twenty times the average net annual miscellaneous revenue.

### 20. Payment of tasdik allowance to religious, educational or charitable
institution.

(1)Where the inamdar of an iruvaram minor inam is a religious, educational or
charitable institution, or an individual holding, the inam on condition of
rendering service to a religious, educational or charitable institution, the
Government shall pay to the institution every fasli year commencing with the
fasli year in which the appointed day falls, as a tasdik allowance an amount
equal to the average not annual miscellaneous revenue as calculated under
section 19.(2)Where the inamdar of a melvaram minor inam is a religious
educational or charitable institution or an individual holding the inam on
condition of rendering service to a religious, educational or charitable
institution, the Government shall pay to the institution every fasli year
commencing with the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, an amount
equal to the net tasdik allowance as calculated imder sub-section (3).(3)The
net tasdik allowance shall be the difference between -(i)the aggregate of the
tasdik allowance determined under sub-section (1) and of the appropriate fair
rent in respect of the land covered by the minor inam, determined in
accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule; and(ii)the quit
rent, jodi, kattubadi or other amount of a like nature, together with the cess
and additional surcharge payable for the fasli year immediately before the
appointed day in respect of the whole of the minor inam.(4)The payment shall
be made to the institution under this section so long as it exists.

### 21. Service inams.

(1)The provisions of this section shall apply in respect of any minor inam
which was held immediately before the appointed day by an individual
(hereinafter referred to in this section as the service-holder) on condition
of rendering service to a religious, educational or charitable
institution.(2)The service-holder shall, subject to the provisions of sub-
section (3), be bound to continue to render the service after the appointed
day.(3)(i)Where a service-holder is entitled to a ryotwari patta under section
8 in respect of any land, he shall have the option -(a)either to pay to the
religious institution the amount specified in subsection (4) and on such
payment the land shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (7),
be discharged from the condition of the service; or(b)to hold the land and
continue to render service subject to the provisions contained in sub-sections
(1), (2), (6) and (7).(ii)The option referred to in clause (i) shall be twenty
times the difference between the fair rent in respect of such land determined
in accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule and the land
revenue due on such land.(5)Where the service-holder has exercised his option
to pay the amount specified in sub-section (4), the tasdik allowance referred
to in sub-section (6) in respect of the period subsequent to the date of the
exercise of such option shall be the absolute property of the institution and
the institution shall be at liberty to make such arrangements as it thinks fit
for the performance of the service.(6)(a)For so long as the service-holder
renders the service, the institution shall pay to the service-holder the
tasdik allowance paid by the Government under section 20.(b)If the service-
holder fails to render the service, the prescribed officer shall, after such
inquiry and after such notice to the service-holder as may be prescribed in
this behalf, notify such failure in such manner as may be prescribed. He shall
then declare that the tasdik allowance payable to the institution in respect
of the period subsequent to the failure shall be the absolute property of the
institution and the institution shall be at liberty to make such arrangement
as it thinks fit for the performance of the service.(7)(a)For so long as the
service-holder renders the service, he shall be entitled to occupy permanently
the lands in respect of which he is entitled to a patta under section 8,
subject however, to the payment of the assessment fixed [under section 16 or
under section 16-A, as the case may be] [Substituted for the expression 'under
section 16' by section 13 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and
Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).],
in respect of such lands.(b)If the service-holder fails to render the service,
the prescribed officer shall, after such inquiry and after such notice to the
service-holder as may be prescribed in this behalf, notify such failure in
such manner as may be prescribed. He shall then declare that the service-
holder's right to occupy permanently the land under clause (a) shall cease and
determine, and the institution shall be at liberty to make such arrangement as
it thinks fit for the performance of the service and shall be entitled to hold
the land as its absolute property subject, however, to the payment of the
assessment fixed therefor [under section 16 or under section 16-A, as the case
may be] [Substituted for the expression 'under section 16' by section 13 of
the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment
Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).].Explanation I. - For the purposes of
this section, -(i)service-holder includes his heirs;(ii)non-performance of the
service due to illness or other temporary disability shall not be deemed to be
failure to render service, provided that the service-holder makes alternative
arrangements for rendering the service during the period of such illness or of
other temporary disability.Explanation II. - For the purposes of sub-section
(4), "land revenue" means the ryotwari assessment including the additional
assessment, water-cess and additional water-cess.

### 22. Determination of compensation and tasdik allowance payable.

(1)The Settlement Officer shall, by order in writing, determine in respect of
each inam, the compensation payable under section 19 or, as the case may be,
the tasdik allowance payable under section 20.(2)Any inamdar or other person
interested may, within such time as may be prescribed or such further time as
the Settlement Officer may, in his discretion allow, apply in writing to that
officer for a copy of the data on the basis of which he proposes to determine
the tasdik allowance or compensation payable.(3)On receipt of such
application, the Settlement Officer shall furnish the data aforesaid to the
applicant; and he shall also, before passing any order under sub-section (1),
give the applicant a reasonable opportunity of making his representations in
regard thereto, in writing or orally.(4)A copy of every order passed under
sub-section (1) shall be communicated to the inamdar and also to every
applicant under sub-section (2).(5)(i)The Settlement Officer may, at anytime,
either suo motu or on the application of any person, review an order passed by
him under sub-section (1) on any one or more of the following grounds, namely
:-(1)that the said order is vitiated by any clerical or arithmetical mistake
or error apparent on the face of the record; or(2)that subsequent to the
passing of the said order, data for the better calculation of the tasdik
allowance or compensation have become available; or(3)that the said order
requires to be modified in pursuance of the final order of any competent
authority or Court:Provided that the Settlement Officer shall not exercise the
powers under this sub-section in respect of any inam without giving the
inamdar concerned and every applicant under this sub-section and sub-section
(2), a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(ii)A copy of every order passed
under this sub-section shall be communicated to the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] and also to the inamdar concerned and every applicant under this sub-
section and sub-section (2).(6)Any person deeming himself aggrieved by an
order made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) may, within one month from
the date of the order or such further time as the [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] may, in its discretion, allow, appeal to the Board; and the Board
shall, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard,
pass such orders on the appeal as it thinks fit.(7)The [Board of Revenue] [The
Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition
Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land
Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December
1980.] may also, in its discretion, at any time, either suo motu or on the
application of any person, call for and examine the record of any order
passed, or proceeding taken, by the Settlement Officer under this section, for
the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality, regularity or propriety
of such order or proceeding and pass such order in reference thereto as it
thinks fit:Provided that the tasdik allowance or the compensation payable in
respect of any inam shall not be altered by the Board without giving the
inamdar and every person who has made an application under sub-section (2) a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (6) or sub-section (7), the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of
Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980
(Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land Administration,
vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] may, on
application made to it by the Settlement Officer or by any other person in
that behalf, review any order passed by it under subsection (6) or sub-section
(7), if it is of the opinion that the said order is vitiated by an error in
the decision on a point of law or by a mistake, and may make such order on the
application as it thinks fit:Provided that no application for review shall be
granted by the Board of Revenue without previous notice to the inamdar, and to
the applicant, to enable them to appear and be heard in support of the order,
a review of which is applied for.(9)No order passed by the Settlement Officer
under sub-section (1) or subsection (5) shall be liable to be cancelled or
modified except by the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished
by the Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of
1980). Now, the Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675,
Revenue, dated the 1st December 1980.] as aforesaid; and no order passed by
the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu
Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the
Commissioner of Land Administration, vide G. O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated
the 1st December 1980.] under subsection (6), sub-section (7) or sub-section
(8) shall be liable to be cancelled or modified by the Government or any other
authority.

### 23. Compensation, etc., to be paid in prescribed manner.

\- The tasdik allowance and the compensation payable under this Act may be
paid in such form and manner, and at such time or times, and in one or more
instalments, as may be prescribed.

## Chapter VI  
Deposit and Apportionment of Compensation

### 24. Compensation to be deposited in office of the Tribunal.

(1)The Government shall deposit in the office of the Tribunal, the
compensation payable under section 19 as finally determined under section 22
in such form and manner and at such time or times and in one or more
instalments, as may be prescribed by rules made under section 23:Provided that
the Government shall be entitled to deduct from the amount so deposited all
moneys, if any, still remaining due to them -(i)in respect of quit-rent, jodi
or other dues of a like nature, or(ii)in respect of any claim which was
secured immediately before the appointed day by a mortgage of or a charge on,
the inam or any portion thereof:Provided further that, where the amount of the
compensation payable in respect of any inam stands altered after the deposit
referred to above has already been made, the Government may deposit the
difference or withdraw the same from the deposit already made or otherwise
adjust the same, in such manner and at such time or times as may be prescribed
and the provisions of sections 25, 26, 27, 28, 30 and 31 shall apply to the
amount finally under deposit and to this extent the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall be competent to revise its
orders, if any, already passed.(2)On the making of such deposit, the
Government shall be deemed to have been completely discharged in respect of
all claims to, or enforceable against, the compensation aforesaid.

### 25. Claims to be made within three months.

(1)Every person making a claim to, or enforceable against, the compensation
deposited under any of the provisions of this Act or any portion thereof,
shall apply to the Tribunal within three months from the date on which the
amount was deposited or within such further time not exceeding three months as
the Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow.(2)Every claim to, or enforceable
against, the compensation or any portion thereof which is not made to the
Tribunal within the time aforesaid shall, -(i)in so far as it relates to the
amount paid by the Tribunal under section 32; or(ii)subject to the provisions
of section 35, in so far as it relates to the amount in respect of which an
order for payment has been made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate
Tribunal in favour of any person, cease to be enforceable.

### 26. Duty of Tribunal.

\- The Tribunal shall, after giving notice to all persons who have applied
under section 25 and to any others whom it considers to be interested, make
inquiry into the validity of the claims received by it, and determine the
persons who, in its opinion, are entitled to the compensation deposited and
the amount to which each of them is entitled.

### 27. Compensation to be apportioned by the Tribunal.

(1)As a preliminary to such determination, the Tribunal shall apportion the
compensation among the inamdar and any other persons whose rights or interests
in the inam stand transferred to the Government under clause (b) of section 3,
or cease and determine under clause (c) of section 3, as far as possible, in
accordance with the value of their respective interests in the inam.(2)The
value of those interests shall be ascertained in accordance with such rules as
may be made by the Government in this behalf.(3)After the compensation has
been apportioned among the persons referred to in sub-section (1), or where it
is more convenient so to do pending such apportionment, the Tribunal shall
take into consideration the applications of creditors and decide the amount to
which each of such creditors is entitled and the person or persons out of
whose share or shares of the compensation such amount should be paid.

### 28. Devolution of interest in compensation.

\- Where it is alleged that the interest of any person entitled to receive
payment of any portion of the compensation has devolved on any other person or
persons, whether by act of parties or by operation of law, the Tribunal shall
determine whether there has been any devolution of the interest, and if so, on
whom it has devolved.

### 29. Interim payments to inamdar and others.

(1)In cases falling under section 19, if the compensation payable is not
finally determined and deposited in pursuance of this Act before the close of
the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, interim payments in respect
of the inam shall be deposited by the Government in the office of the Tribunal
every fasli year prior to the falsi year in which the deposit is made.(2)In
respect of the falsi year in which the appointed day falls, the interim
payment to be deposited shall be one-twentieth of the compensation payable, as
roughly estimated by the Government, after deducting thereform the income from
the inam actually derived by the inamdar before the appointed day in respect
of that fasli year.(3)In respect of each of the subsequent falsi years, the
interim payment to be deposited shall be one-twentieth of the compensation
payable, roughly estimated as aforesaid.(4)The Government shall deposit all
such amounts in the office of the Tribunal and the Tribunal shall, after such
inquiry, if any, as it thinks fit apportion the amounts among the persons,
entitled to any portion thereof, as far as possible in accordance with the
value of their respective interests.(5)On the making of such a deposit, the
Government shall be deemed to have been completely discharged in respect of
all claims, to, or enforceable against, the amount so deposited.(6)after the
compensation has been finally determined, the Government shall ascertain the
aggregate interim payment which would have been due in respect of the inam
under sub-sections (2) and (3) for the fasli years concerned, if the
compensation as finally determined had been adopted instead of the
compensation as roughly estimated.(7)If the aggregate interim payment thus
determined exceeds the aggregate interim payment already deposited, the
balance with interest thereon at three per cent per annum shall be deposited
by the Government with the Tribunal along with the compensations finally
determined.(8)If the aggregate interim payment determined under sub-section
(6) is less than the aggregate amount already deposited, the excess amount
deposited shall be deducted by the Government from the amount of compensation
finally determined and the balance shall be deposited in the office of the
Tribunal.(9)No interim payment made under this section shall be deemed to
constitute any part of the compensation which the Government are liable to
deposit under section 24, or to any extent to be in lieu of such
compensation.(10)The Tribunal shall revise its apportionment of the interim
payments with reference to the aggregate interim payment as finally determined
by the Government and make the necessary adjustments when apportioning the
compensation as fully determined.

### 30. Appeals.

(1)Against any decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (3) of section 11,
the Government may, within six months from the date of the decision, and any
person aggrieved by any decision of the Tribunal under sub-section (3) of
section 11, section 26, section 27, section 28, or section 29 may, within
three months from the date of the decision, appeal to the Special Appellate
Tribunal consisting of two Judges of the High Court nominated, from time to
time, by the Chief Justice in this behalf:Provided that the Special Appellate
Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow further time not exceeding three months
for the filing of such appeal.(2)The members of the Special Appellate Tribunal
shall hear the appeal on all points, whether of law or of fact. Where on any
such point or points the members are divided in their opinion, they shall
state the point or points on which they are so divided and such point or
points together with their opinion thereon shall then be laid before one or
more Judges nominated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such Judge or
Judges shall hear the appeal in so far as it relates to such point or points
and on each such point, the decision of the majority of the Judges who have
heard the appeal including those who first heard it shall be deemed to be the
decision of the Special Appellate Tribunal.(3)[The Special Appellate Tribunal
shall, subject to the provisions of section 47-A] [Inserted by section 3(3) of
the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975).], have the same
powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908), when hearing an appeal.(4)Every decision of the
Special Appellate Tribunal, and subject to such decision, every decision of
the Tribunal, shall be binding on all persons claiming an interest in any inam
land notwithstanding that any such person has not preferred any application or
filed any statement or adduced any evidence or appeared or participated in any
proceeding before the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal, as the case
may be.

### 31. Restriction on the jurisdiction of Tribunal and Special Appellate
Tribunal.

\- In respect of compensation finally determined under section 22 and the
interim payments made under section 29, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and
the Special Appellate Tribunal shall be limited to the apportionment thereof
among the persons referred to in section 26 or sub-section (4) of section 29,
as the case may be, and neither the Tribunal nor the Special Appellate
Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to go into the question of the correctness of
the determination or the adequacy of the compensation.

### 32. Disbursement of compensation.

\- All payments made out of the compensation deposited in the office of the
Tribunal under section 24 shall be made by it in accordance with its orders
and decisions subject to the modifications, if any, made on appeal under
section 30.

### 33. Interim payment to institutions.

(1)In cases falling under section 20, if the tasdik allowance payable under
the section is not finally determined and paid in pursuance of this Act before
the close of the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, interim payments
in respect of each inam shall be made by the Government every falsi year prior
to the falsi year in which the tasdik allowance as finally determined is
paid.(2)In respect of the fasli year in which the appointed day falls, the
interim payment to be made shall be the tasdik allowance payable under section
20 as roughly estimated by the Government after deducting thereform the income
from the inam actually derived by the inamdar before the appointed day in
respect of that fasli year.(3)In respect of each of the subsequent falsi
years, the interim payment to be made shall be the tasdik allowance payable
under section 20 roughly estimated as aforesaid.(4)After the tasdik allowance
has been finally determined, the Government shall ascertain the aggregate
interim payment which would have been made in respect of the inam under sub-
sections (2) and (3) for the fasli years concerned if the tasdik allowance as
finally determined had been adopted instead of the tasdik allowance as roughly
estimated.(5)If the aggregate interim payment determined under sub-section (4)
exceeds the aggregate interim payment already made, the balance [***] [The
words 'with interest thereon at three per cent per annum' were omitted by
section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1964 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1964).] shall be paid by
the Government to the inamdar.(6)If the aggregate interim payment determined
under sub-section (4) is less than the aggregate interim payment already made,
the excess amount paid shall be deducted from the tasdik allowance payable in
any subsequent fasli year or years as the Government may direct.

### 34. Limitation for claims by persons entitled to payment.

\- Every person in whose favour an order for payment has been made by the
Tribunal shall make an application for payment within three months from the
date of such order:Provided that the Tribunal may, within such further time
not exceeding three months, as it may, in its discretion allow, admit a claim
preferred after the period of three months aforesaid, if it is satisfied that
the claimant had sufficient cause for not preferring the claim within that
period:Provided further that, where an appeal has been filed before the
Special Appellate Tribunal against the said order for payment, the aforesaid
period of three months shall be reckoned from the date of the decision of the
Special Appellate Tribunal on the appeal.

### 35. Unclaimed and undisbursed amounts how dealt with.

(1)(a)All amounts deposited in the office of the Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 24, subsections (4) and (7) of section 29, and remaining unpaid
and with reference to which no claim has been made within the time specified
in sub-section (1) of section 25, or no application for payment has been made
within the time specified in section 34; and(b)all amounts deposited as
aforesaid and remaining unpaid after the expiry of a period of six months from
the date of disposal of the application under section 34, shall be withdrawn
by the Tribunal and deposited in the District Court having jurisdiction over
the minor inam concerned in the name of the minor inam or, as the case may be,
in the name of the person or persons in whose favour an order for payment has
been made by the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal.(2)All amounts
deposited by the Tribunal in the District Court under subsection (1) shall be
dealt with by the District Court in accordance with such rules as may be made
by the Government in this behalf.(3)Every person making a claim to, or
enforceable against, any amount held in deposit under sub-section (1) shall
apply to the District Court in the prescribed form setting forth his
claim.(4)The District Court shall, after giving notice to all person who have
applied under sub-section (3) and to any others whom it considers to be
interested, make inquiry into the validity of the claims received by it and
subject to the provisions of sub-section (5) determine the persons who are
entitled to the amount held in deposit and the amount to which each of them is
entitled.(5)Every order for payment made by the Tribunal or the Special
Appellate Tribunal in favour of any person shall be binding on the District
Court.

### 36. Wrong and excess payments to be recoverable as land revenue.

\- Where any payment made to any person is subsequently found to be not due to
him or to be in excess of the amounts due to him, the amount which is found to
be not due or which is in excess, as the case may be, with interest thereon at
three per cent per annum or any portion thereof which cannot be otherwise
adjusted by deduction from any amount due to such person shall be recoverable
as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

## Chapter VII  
Miscellaneous

### 37. Quite-rent, jodi and kattubadi.

\- Quit-rent, jodi, kattubadi or other amount of a like nature which the
inamdar was liable to pay every year before the appointed day to the
Government or to the land-holder of an estate in which the inam was situated,
shall cease to accrue with effect from the end of the fasli year immediately
preceding the appointed day.Explanation. - In this section, "estate" shall
have the same meaning as in clause (2) of section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Estates
Land Act, 1908 (Tamil Nadu Act I of 1908), as in force in the territories
specified in the Second Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh and Madras (Alteration
of Boundaries) Act, 1959 (Central Act 56 of 1959) and in the rest of the State
and shall include a new inam estate as defined in clause (9) of section 2 of
the Inam Estates Abolition Act.

### 38. Stay of execution proceedings and prohibition of certain transfers.

(1)No Court shall, before the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance
of this Act is made in the office of the Tribunal, order or continue execution
in respect of any decree or order passed against the inamdar, against his
interest in the inam or against his other immovable property or against him,
personally by arrest and detention; and with effect on and from such date,
execution in the cases aforesaid may be ordered or continued as specified in,
and in accordance with, the provisions of section 39.(2)All proceedings for
the execution of any decree or order by the arrest and detention in prison of
the inamdar pending on the appointed day shall stand dismissed and if on such
day the inamdar is detained in a prison in execution of any such decree or
order, he shall be released forthwith.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in
any other law for the time being in force, no inamdar shall, on or after the
appointed day and before the date on which the earliest deposit as aforesaid
is made, sell, mortgage, lease or otherwise assign, or alienate any of his
immovable property and any transaction of the nature hereby prohibited shall
be void and inoperative and shall not confer or take away any right whatever
on or from any party to the transaction.

### 39. Transitional provision in regard to liabilities of inamdar, etc.

(1)No claim or liability enforceable immediately before the appointed day
against the inamdar or against any other person whose rights stand transferred
to the Government enforceable against the interest he had in the inam; and all
such claims and liabilities shall, after the date on which the earliest
deposit in pursuance of this Act is made in the office of the Tribunal, be
enforceable -(a)against the interim payments or the compensation or other sum
or sums paid or payable to him under this Act to the same extent to which such
claims and liabilities were enforceable against his interest in the inam
immediately before the appointed day; and(b)against his other property, if
any, to the same extent to which such claims and liabilities were enforceable
against such property immediately before the appointed day.(2)No Court shall,
on or after the appointed day, order or continue execution in respect of any
decree or order passed against the inamdar or any other person aforesaid
against the interest he had in the inam, and execution shall be ordered or
continued in such cases in conformity with the provisions of sub-section (1)
only as against the interim payments or against the compensation or other sum
or sums paid or payable to him as aforesaid, or against his other property, if
any.(3)No Court shall, in enforcing any claim or liability against the inamdar
or any other person aforesaid allow interest at a rate exceeding six per cent
per annum simple interest for the period commencing on the appointed day and
ending with the date on which the earliest deposit in pursuance of this Act is
made in the office of the Tribunal.

### 40. Decision of question regarding forests.

\- If any question arise whether any land in inam is a forest or is situated
in a forest, or as to the limits of a forest, it shall be determined by the
Assistant Settlement Officer subject to an appeal to the Settlement Officer
within such time as may be prescribed and also to revision by the [Board of
Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished by the Tamil Nadu Board of
Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980). Now, the Commissioner
of Land Administration, vide G.O. Ms. No. 2675, Revenue, dated the 1st
December 1980.].

### 41. Inamdar's right to collect arrears.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act in the case of a minor inam,
all arrears of rent payable by a person to an inamdar in respect of any land
in such inam and outstanding on the appointed day shall, to the extent to
which such arrears are in excess of the rent due for three fasli years in
respect of that land, be deemed to be discharged whether or not a decree has
been obtained therefor if such person pays to the inamdars the arrears of rent
due for a period of any three fasli years.(2)In any suit or proceeding for the
recovery of any arrears of rent referred to in sub-section (1), the Court or
authority concerned shall, upon deposit in the Court or before the authority,
or upon proof by the ryot of the payment, of arrears of such rent for three
fasli years, dismiss the suit or proceeding.(3)If before the appointed day,
any decree or order has been passed in any suit or proceeding for the recovery
of any arrears of rent due from a ryot, which is inconsistent with the
provisions of this section, the Court or authority concerned shall, upon
deposit in the Court or before the authority, or upon proof of the payment of
the arrears of rent due from the ryot for any three fasli years and on the
application of any person affected by such decree, or order, whether or not he
was a party thereto, vacate the decree or order:Provided that nothing
contained in this section shall apply to any suit or proceeding in which the
decree or order has been satisfied in full, before the appointed day.(4)The
provisions of this section shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word
'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Estate Land
(Reduction of Rent) Amendment Act, 1963 (Tamil Nadu Act 19 of
1963).Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the
payment, or deposit, of arrears of rent for three fasli years referred to in
this section shall be payment or deposit made after the appointed day.

### 42. Rights of owner or occupier not to be affected by temporary
discontinuance of possession or occupation.

\- Where a person -(a)is entitled to the ownership or to the possession or
occupation of any land or building immediately before the appointed day, but
has transferred his right to the possession or occupation therefor has been
temporarily dispossessed or deprived of his right to the occupation thereof;
and(b)has not, on that day, lost his right to recover the possession or
occupation of such land or building, he shall, for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the provisions thereof, be deemed to be the owner or to be in
possession, or occupation of such land or building:Provided that any lawful
transferee of the right to the possession or occupation of such land or
building shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, continue to
have the same rights against his transferor as he had immediately before the
appointment day:Provided further that any lawful transferee of the title to
such land or building shall be entitled to all the rights under this Act of
his transferor.

### 43. Res judicata.

(1)The decision of a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in any
proceeding under this Act on any matter falling within its jurisdiction shall
be binding on the parties thereto and persons claiming under them in any suit
or proceeding in a Civil Court, in so far as such matter is in issue between
the parties or persons aforesaid in such suit or proceeding.(2)The decision of
a Civil Court (not being the Court of a District Munsiff or a Court of Small
Causes) on any matter falling within its jurisdiction shall be binding on the
parties there and persons claiming under them in any proceeding under this Act
before a Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal in so far as such matter
in issue between the parties or persons aforesaid in such proceeding.

### 44. Presumption in the case of service man.

\- In proceedings under this Act relating to any inam granted for the benefit
of any religious, educational or charitable institution or granted to any
individual for rendering service to a religious, educational or charitable
institution or for the purpose of rendering any other service, it shall be
presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the inam consists not merely of
a grant of the melavaram in the land, but also the kudivaram therein.

### 45. Limitation.

(1)A copy of every decision or order in any proceeding against which an appeal
or revision is provided for under this Act shall be communicated, in such
manner as may be prescribed.(2)For the purpose of computing the period of
limitation in respect of any appeal or application for revision against any
decision or order, the date of communication of a copy of the decision or
order to the appellant or applicant shall be deemed to be the date of the
decision or order.(3)The provisions of section 4 and sub-section (1) and sub-
section (2) of section 12 of the [Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Central Act IX
of 1908)] [See now the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963).] shall,
so far as may be, apply to any appeal or application for revision under this
Act.(4)Where under this Act an appeal or application for revision may be
preferred to any authority or officer within, a prescribed period or within
such further time not exceeding a specified period as may be allowed by such
authority or office, the further time aforesaid shall not computed on and from
the expiry of such prescribed period computed in accordance with the
provisions of subsections (2) and (3).

### 46. Finality of orders passed under this Act.

(1)Any order passed by any officer, the Government or other authority or any
decision of the Tribunal or the Special Appellate Tribunal under this Act in
respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall,
subject only to any appeal or revision provided under this Act, be final.(2)No
such order or decision shall be liable to be questioned in any Court of law.

### 47. Jurisdiction of Courts barred in certain cases.

(1)No suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government for any act
done or purporting to be done under this Act or any rule made
thereunder.(2)(a)No suit, prosecution, or other proceeding shall lie against
any officer or servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be
done under this Act or any rule made thereunder without the previous sanction
of the Government.(b)No officer or servant of the Government shall be liable
in respect of any such act in any civil or criminal proceeding if the act was
done in good faith in the course of the execution of the duties, or the
discharge of the functions imposed by or under this Act.(3)No suit,
prosecution or other proceeding shall be instituted against any officer or
servant of the Government for any act done or purporting to be done under this
Act or any rule made thereunder after the expiry of six months from the date
of the act complained of.

### 47A. [ [Inserted by section 3(3) of the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor
Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu
Act 22 of 1975).]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) of section 7 or in
sub-section (3) of section 30 or in any other provision of this Act or in any
other law for the time being in force, no Tribunal or other authority under
this Act shall have the power to appoint a Receiver or Commissioner in respect
of any land in a minor inam and in respect of which any proceeding is pending
before such Tribunal or other authority.(2)Any person who was personally
cultivating any such land on the appointed day and continues to be in
possession of that land shall not be dispossessed of the land, until it is
finally decided that such person is not actually entitled to ryotwari patta in
respect of that land under the provisions of this Act.(3)Where any Receiver or
Commissioner appointed before the date of the commencement of the Tamil Nadu
Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari)
Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu 22 of 1975) by any Tribunal or other authority
in respect of any land in a minor inam, is functioning on such date, the
Tribunal or other authority shall, either on an application made by the
aggrieved party within sixty days from such date, or suo motu, cancel such
appointment, and on such cancellation, the possession of such land shall
transferred to the person who was personally cultivating such land immediately
before the date of the appointment of such Receiver if such person had been
dispossessed of such land by the Receiver.(4)If it is finally decided that any
such person as is referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) who was
personally cultivating any such land (hereinafter in this section referred to
as the "said person") in not actually entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of
such land under the provisions of this Act, the person who has been granted
ryotwari patta in respect of such land shall be entitled to recover arrears of
fair rent in respect of such land determined in accordance with the provisions
contained in the Schedule, from the said person.(5)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, the
said person shall be deemed to be a cultivating tenant and shall continue to
be a cultivating tenant for the purposes of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants
Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955) and the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants (Payment of Fair Rent) Act, 1956 and the arrears referred
to in sub-section (4) shall be paid to the owner or deposited in Court, in
such manner and in such number of instalments and within such period as may be
prescribed.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, a person is said
to personally cultivate a land when he contributes his own physical labour or
that of the members of his family in the cultivation of that land.(6)The said
person shall not be liable to be evicted under the Tamil Nadu Cultivating
Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu XXX of 1955), in respect of the
arrears referred to in sub-section (4), except for failure to pay the said
arrears in accordance with the rules made in this behalf under sub-section
(5).]

### 48. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)In
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power,
such rules may provide for -(a)matters expressly required or allowed by this
Act to be prescribed;(b)the procedure to be followed by the Tribunals, the
Special Appellate Tribunal, authorities and officers appointed, or having
jurisdiction under this Act;(c)the delegation of powers conferred by this Act
on the Government or any other authority, officer or person;(d)the time within
which appeals and applications for revision may be presented under this Act in
cases for which no specific provision in that behalf has been made
therein;(e)the application of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (Central Act V of 1908), to applications, appeals and proceedings under
this Act;(f)the fees to be paid in respect of applications and appeals under
this Act;(g)the transfer of proceedings from one Tribunal, authority or
officer to another;(h)the manner in which and the officer by whom, fair rent
shall be ascertained for the purposes of this Act.(3)A rule made under clause
(c) of sub-section (2) may provide for restrictions and conditions subject to
which the power delegated may be exercised and also for control and revision
by the delegating authority, either suo motu or on application, of the orders
of the authority or person to whom the power is delegated.(4)(a)All rules made
under this Act shall be published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.] and unless they are expressed to come into
force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are
so published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.(5)Every rule made or notification issued under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made or issued, be placed on
the table of [the Legislative Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both
Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.] and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so
placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for
the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making any modification in any such rule
or notification or [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the
expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of laws Order, 1987.] that the rule or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or notification.

### 49. Act to override contract and other laws, etc.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law, custom, usage or contract.

### 50. Special provision relating to fixation of ceiling area in respect of
inam land.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Land
Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 58
of 1961), but subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the authorized
officer shall in the fixation of the ceiling area of any person under that
Act, exclude any inam land.(2)As soon as may be, after the ryotwari settlement
is brought into force in any land referred to in sub-section (1) and after the
grant of the ryotwari patta in respect of such land to any person in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, the authorized officer shall
calculate or recalculate the ceiling area of such person and in so calculating
or recalculating, the authorized officer shall take into account the extent of
the land in respect of which a ryotwari patta has been granted to such person
under this Act.(3)For the purposes of the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Land
Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act 58
of 1961), any ryotwari patta granted under this Act shall be deemed to have
taken effect on the 6th day of April shall be deemed to have taken effect on
the 6th day of April 1960 and for the purposes of calculating the standard
acre under that Act, "land revenue" shall, in respect of the land referred to
in sub-section (1), mean the ryotwari assessment payable in pursuance of the
ryotwari settlement referred to in sub-section (2).

### 51. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion may require by order, do anything which
appears to them to be necessary for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.(2)Every order issued under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as
possible after it is issued, be placed on the table of [the Legislative
Assembly] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by
paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] and if,
before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session,
[the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the expression 'both Houses
agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.]
in making any modification in any such order or [Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] that the order should not be
issued, the order shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that order.

### 52. Repeal.

\- The Andhra Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1956 (Andhra
Act XXXVII of 1956) is hereby repealed.

## Schedule

[See sections 8(2)(i)(b), 20(3)(i), 47-A and 21(4)] [Substituted for the
expression '[See sections 8(2)(i)(b), 20(3)(i)and 21(4)]' by section 3(4) of
the Tamil Nadu Inam Estates and Minor Inams (Abolition and Conversion into
Ryotwari) Amendment Act, 1975 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1975).]Provisions Relating
to the Determination Affair Rent

### 1\. For topes, orchards and lands used for non-agricultural purposes, the
fair rent shall be the lease amount as determined by rules made by the
Government in this behalf.

### 2\. In respect of land, other than those specified in paragraph 1, the
fair rent shall be the aggregate of:-

(a)(i)in the case of wet land, 40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(ii)in the case of wet land, the irrigation of which is
supplemented by lifting water, 35 per cent of the normal gross produce or its
value in money;(iii)in the case of land on which crops which do not give any
yield within a period of one year from the time of cultivation are cultivated,
40 per cent of the normal gross produce or its value in money;(iv)in the case
of any other class of land, 33-1 /3 per cent of the normal gross produce or
its value in money:Provided that in the case of lands referred to in sub-
paragraphs (ii) and (iv) for the cultivation of which water is lifted by
pumpset installed at the cost of the person owning the kudivaram, the fair
rent shall be increased to 40 per cent;(b)the value of one-fifth of the straw
or stalk of all the crops cultivated on the land in an agriculture
year.Explanation I. - In this paragraph, "normal gross produce", -(a)in
respect of a land cultivated with any crop which does not give any yield
within a period of one year from the time of cultivation, means the gross
produce for one year if the land were cultivated with paddy;(b)in respect of a
land cultivated with any other crop, means the produce which would be obtained
for one year from a land of the same class as the land in question similarly
situated and possessing similar advantages if the rainfall and the seasons
were normal.Explanation II. - In the case of land on which different crops are
cultivated at different times on different portions of the lands, the fair
rent shall be calculated with reference to the actual crops ordinarily
cultivated according to the ordinary rotation of crops in the area in which
such land is situated.Explanation III. - In this paragraph, "agricultural
year" means the year commencing on the 1st day of April, or, in respect of the
whole or any part of any district, or such other date as the Collector of the
district may specify in that behalf, by notification, in the District Gazette.

### 3\. In the case of land cultivated by the person owning the kudivaram, the
fair rent shall be the fair rent as calculated in the manner specified in
paragraph 2 in respect of a land of the same class as the land in question,
similarly situated and possessing similar advantages.

### 4\. If the rent actually payable to the person owning the kudivaram in
respect of the land during the fasli year immediately before the fasli year in
which the appointed day falls is less than the fair rent ascertained as
aforesaid, the said rent shall be deemed to be the rent in respect of the
land.

