## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests (Extension to Kanyakumari
District) Act, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests (Extension to Kanyakumari
District) Act, 1979

## Act 28 of 1979

  * Published on 3 May 1979 
  * Commenced on 3 May 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 3 May 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests (Extension to Kanyakumari District)
Act, 1979(Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1979)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The
Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1949 (Tamil Nadu Act XXVII of
1949) is now in force in the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu except the
Kanyakumari district, which territory, including Shencottah Taluk of
Tirunelveli district, was transferred to the State of Tamil Nadu from the
Kerala State in 1956. At the time of extending the said Act to the Shencottah
Taluk of Tirunelveli district, it was considered that there were no private
forests in Kanyakumari district to which the provisions of the said Tamil Nadu
Act XXVII of 1949 could be applied. Indiscriminate destruction of private
forests in Kanyakumari district has been brought to the notice of the
Government. In order to prevent such indiscriminate destruction of such
private forests and to prohibit persons from cutting trees or reeds or doing
any act likely to denude the forest or diminish its utility as a forest
without the previous permission of the District, Collector and also to punish
such persons who commit such prohibited acts, it is considered necessary that
the said Tamil Nadu Act XXVII of 1949 should be extended also to Kanyakumari
District.2\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectPublished in Part IV-
Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 7th
March 1979.Received the assent of the President on the 3rd May 1979 and first
published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 9th May 1979.An Act to extend the Tamil Nadu Preservation
of Private Forests Act, 1949 to the Kanyakumari district.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic
of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests
(Extension to Kanyakumari District) Act, 1979.(2)It shall come into force on
such [date] [Enforced on 15.6.1979.] as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definition.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, "existing law" means
any law, Ordinance, Proclamation, Regulation or Order, By-law or Rule passed
or made before the date of commencement of this Act by Parliament or by any
Legislature, authority or person having power to make such a Law, Ordinance,
Proclamation, Regulation, Order, By-Law or Rule.

### 3. Extension of Tamil Nadu Act XXVII of 1949.

\- The Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1949 (Tamil Nadu Act
XXVII of 1949), as in force immediately before the date of commencement of
this Act in the State of Tamil Nadu except the Kanyakumari District, is hereby
extended to, and shall be in force in the Kanyakumari District.

### 4. Repeal of corresponding laws.

\- If, immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, there is in
force in the Kanyakumari District any Act, Ordinance, Proclamation,
Regulation, Order, By-law, Rule or other law corresponding to the enactment
now extended to the Kanyakumari District whether such Act, Ordinance,
Proclamation, Regulation. Order, By-law, Rule or other law is in force by
virtue of section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (Central Act 37
of 1956), or by virtue of any other legislative power, such corresponding law
shall, on the date of commencement of this Act, stand repealed to the extent
to which the corresponding law relates to matters with respect to which the
State Legislature has power to make laws for the State.

### 5. Savings.

(1)The repeal by section 4 of any corresponding existing law shall not affect
-(a)the previous operation of any such law or any thing duly done or suffered
thereunder, or(b)any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under any such law, or(c)any fine, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any such law,
or(d)any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, fine, penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment as aforesaid,and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy
may be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such fine, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed.(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), anything done or any
action taken includes any appointment or delegation made, notification, order,
instruction or direction issued, rule, regulation, form, by-law or scheme
framed certificate, permit or licence granted or registration effected, under
such corresponding existing law shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provision of the enactment as now extended to, and in
force in, the Kanyakumari District and shall continue in force accordingly,
unless until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the said
enactment.

### 6. Construction of references to laws not in force in Kanyakumari
District.

(1)Any reference in the enactment now extended to the Kanyakumari District to
a law which is not in force in the Kanyakumari District shall, in relation to
that District, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any,
in force in that District.(2)Any reference in any existing law which continues
to be in force in the Kanyakumari District after the date of commencement of
this Act to any law repealed by section 4 shall, in relation to that District,
be construed as a reference to the enactment now extended to the Kanyakumari
District corresponding to the law so repealed.

### 7. Construction of references to authorities where new authorities have
been constituted.

\- Any reference, by whatever form of words, in any existing law to any
authority competent at the date of the passing of that law to exercise any
powers or discharge any functions in the Kanyakumari District shall, where a
corresponding new authority has been constituted by or under the enactment now
extended to the Kanyakumari District, have effect as if it were a reference to
that new authority.

### 8. Powers of Courts and other authority for purposes of facilitating
application of laws.

\- For the purpose of facilitating the application in the Kanyakumari District
of the enactment now extended to the Kanyakumari District, any Court or other
authority may construe such enactment with such alterations not affecting the
substance, as may be necessary or proper to adopt it to the matter before the
Court or other authority.

