## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Action Against Illicit Cutting of Tree) Rules, 2001

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Action Against Illicit Cutting of Tree) Rules, 2001

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-ACTION-AGAINST-ILLICIT-CUTTING-OF-TREE-
RULES-2001 of 2001

  * Published on 13 August 2001 
  * Commenced on 13 August 2001 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 August 2001.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Action Against Illicit Cutting of Tree) Rules,
2001Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 179, Rural Development
(C-4), dated 13th August 2001 - No. SRO-A-49(a)/2001Published in Part III -
Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the
16th August 2001.In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of
section 242, read with clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 131 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Action against illicit
cutting of Tree) Rules, 2001.

### 2. Reporting of illicit cutting of tree.

\- The Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II shall report every
case of illicit cutting of tree standing on road margins and lands belonging
to, or vesting with, the village panchayat or in panchayat union council or in
district panchayat, as the case may be, to the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be. The Executive Authority or
the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall, thereupon, send
a report based on such reports received from the Panchayat Assistant/Rural
Welfare Officer, Grade-II to the Tahsildar. The Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall, within seven days
from the date on which the said report has been sent, inform the Tahsildar of
the action taken or proposed to be taken against the person or persons
responsible for the illicit cutting. If no communication is received from the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be,
within seven days from the date of the report received by him, the Tahsildar
shall, after ascertaining the factual position, he himself lay the complaint
of the said offence before the appropriate Judicial Magistrate. Whenever the
Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II apprehends an offender in
the act of illicit cutting of trees, seize the cut tree trunk and branches and
hand over them to the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, or to any person authorised by him for that
purpose.

### 3. Failure of Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer Grade-II to report
about illicit cutting of tree.

\- In a case of illicit cutting of tree, in the panchayat area, wherein the
Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II, fails to report the same
and where the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the
case may be, notices the incident, the Executive Authority or the Commissioner
or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall be competent to take action as
specified in these rules.

### 4. Assessment of value of the tree and compounding of offences.

\- The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case
may be, within two days from the receipt of the report of illicit cutting of
tree from the Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II, shall
inspect the site of the offence, satisfy himself about the truth of the
report, take measurements of the trunk of the tree in question, conduct
enquiries in the vicinity, record statements of any possible witnesses, if
available, who might disclose the identity and the name of the offender, if
mentioned, in the report of the Panchayat Assistant/ Rural Welfare Officer,
Grade-II or revealed from the evidence of the witnesses, the Executive
Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall
decide whether to prosecute the offender or to compound the offence as per
rule 2 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Composition of Offences) Rules, 2000. In
case the cut tree parts are seized by the Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare
Officer, Grade-II and handed over to the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, and where he decides to
compound the offence, the Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II,
as the case may be, shall assess the value of the tree parts by following the
procedure prevailing in the Revenue Department and communicate the same to the
Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be.
The Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may
be, shall measure the cut tree parts, assess all the value of the tree parts
and decide the quantum of penalty byway of compounding fee to be imposed which
shall represent the compensation for the offence committed and shall be in
terms of number of times the value of tree, which shall not be less than twice
the value of the tree assessed, and then pass orders for compounding of the
offence. The orders so passed shall be communicated to the offender by means
of a written notice, to be served on him in the manner specified in the
Annexure, informing him of the offence committed, enquiries made thereon, the
decision made requiring the offender to pay the value of the cut tree parts
assessed and the amount of the compounding fee imposed. These amounts shall be
mentioned separately in the said notice for remittance by the offender within
a time to be specified in the notice of the period being not less than fifteen
days, or in default, face imminent prosecution. If it is decided to confiscate
the seized tree parts, the offender shall not be asked to pay the value of the
tree parts seized. So, such a notice shall also indicate whether the seizure
of the tree parts involved in the offence will be returned to the offender or
will be confiscated.In case, the offender remits the amount mentioned in the
above notice, into the funds of the village panchayat or the panchayat union
council or the district panchayat, as the case may be, within the period
prescribed, it shall be at the discretion of the administration, either to
accept the compounding of the offence or to proceed with the prosecution. The
fact of compounding the offence and the payment of amount by the offender
shall be reported to the Tahsildar. Where an offender after receiving the
notice referred to above, fails to respond to the notice within the period
specified thereon or where the Executive Authority or the Commissioner or the
Secretary, as the case may be, desires to prosecute the offender instead of
adopting the method of compounding the offence, the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, shall lay a complaint with
concerned Judicial Magistrate.

### 5. Filing of complaint with the police.

\- Where the name of the offender is not mentioned in the report of the
Panchayat Assistant/Rural Welfare Officer, Grade-II or could not even be
identified during the enquiry conducted by the Executive Authority or the
Commissioner or the Secretary, as the case may be, he shall file a complaint
with the police having jurisdiction over the place of crime within five days
of the date of receipt of report of the Panchayat Assistant/ Rural Welfare
Officer, Grade-II, obtain a copy of first information report from the police
station and intimate the fact to the Tahsildar.Annexure(See rule 4)Notice for
Compounding of Offence for Illicit Cutting of Tree Standing on the Road
Margins and Lands Belonging to, or Vesting with, the Village Panchayat or
Panchayat Union Council or District Panchayat...........village
panchayat/panchayat union/district panchayat............
District.Post..............Pincode...........ToThiru./Tmt./Messrs.Village..............Post.................District.............Sir,Whereas,
this village panchayat/panchayat union/district panchayat has detected illicit
cutting of tree standing on the road margins and lands belonging to, or
vesting with, the village panchayat/panchayat union council;And Whereas the
executive authority/the Commissioner or the Secretary has inspected the site
where illicit cutting of tree took place and satisfied about the truth of the
report of illicit cutting of tree;And Whereas the executive authority/the
Commissioner or the Secretary has come to the conclusion that you have
committed the said offence of illicit cutting of tree;And Whereas, it is
decided to compound the offence of the illicit cutting of tree in rule 2 of
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Composition of Offences) Rules, 2000.This notice is
issued to you that the value of the tree illicitly cut is assessed at
Rs......(Rupees.................only) and the said offence is compounded
................... times (not less than two times) of the value of the
illicitly cut tree and you are informed that the illicitly cut tree will be
confiscated/returned. You are informed to pay totally
Rs.............(Rupees.............only) in the office of the undersigned
within.............days (not less than fifteen days), failing which action
will be taken against you as per the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Action against
Illicit Cutting of Tree) Rules, 2001.Yours faithfully, Executive
Authority/Commissioner ..........village panchayat/panchayat union council.

