## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Fishermen and Labourers Engaged in Fishing and Other Allied
Activities (Social Security and Welfare) Act, 2007

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Fishermen and Labourers Engaged in Fishing and Other Allied
Activities (Social Security and Welfare) Act, 2007

## Act 19 of 2007

  * Published on 7 June 2007 
  * Commenced on 7 June 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 7 June 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Fishermen and Labourers Engaged in Fishing and Other Allied
Activities (Social Security and Welfare) Act, 2007(Tamil Nadu Act 19 of
2007)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - In the Budget Speech for the year
2007-08, it has been announced that all benefits given under the Landless
Agricultural Labourers and Farmers Social Security and Welfare Scheme Will be
extended to fishermen also and that a separate Bill for the same will be
introduced during this session of the Legislative Assembly and Women who have
engaged in activities like drying and sale of fish will also be covered under
the above scheme. A sum of Rs. 5 crores has been provided for this purpose.2\.
The Government have therefore decided to undertake legislation for the above
purpose.3\. The Bill seeks to given effect to the above decision.Published in
Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
8th May 2007.Received the assent of the Governor on the 7th June 2007 and
published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated 8th June 2007.An Act to provide for comprehensive social
security and for ensuring well being of fishermen and labourers engaged in
fishing and other allied activities.Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly
of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India
as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Fishermen and Labourers engaged in
Fishing and other Allied Activities (Social Security and Welfare) Act,
2007.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"allied activity"
means an activity of a person who is working as beach worker, peeling worker,
processing labourer, boat building yard worker, net mending worker, or small
scale fish distributor for his livelihood;(2)"beach worker" means a person who
is employed in fishing harbours or fish landing centres or fish landing, sites
to carry out activities such as,-(a)unloading offish from fishing crafts to
fish baskets;(b)transportation of fish baskets to auction site or icing
site;(c)transportation of trash fish or, small fish, to curing site;(d)sorting
of fish at the landing site, unloading and crushing of ice, packing of fish
with ice in boxes and loading of packed boxes into vehicles used for
transportation;(e)loading of fish directly from boats to lorries, sale of ice
in the fishing harbours or fish landing centres;(f)cleaning of auction hall,
fishing crafts and supplying water for fishing boats;(3)"Board" means a Board
established under section 5;(4)"boat building yard worker" means a worker who
is engaged in construction and repairing of fibre reinforced plastic and
wooden boats;(5)"dealer" means any person who carries on, within the State of
Tamil Nadu, the business of buying or selling or processing, fish or exporting
fish in raw or in processed form or fish products and includes,-(a)a
commission agent, a broker or any other mercantile agent, by whatever name
called; and(b)a non-resident dealer or an agent of a non-resident dealer or a
local branch of a firm or company or association situated outside the State of
Tamil Nadu;(6)"dependent" in relation to a registered member, means any of the
relatives of such member as specified below:-(i)wife or husband, as the case
may be;(ii)children;(iii)widow and children of the pre-deceased son;
and(iv)parents;(7)"employer" means a person who engages labourers;(8)"fish"
means fish of all varieties including prawn, lobster, shell fish, clam, squids
and any other aquatic organism exploited commercially for edible purpose or
for manure;(9)"fish farm" means the land of water spread area of fresh water
or brackish water or saline water in which cultivating of fish is carried
on;(10)"fish products" means fish in raw or in processed form;(11)"fisheries"
means marine fisheries, inland fisheries, brackish water fisheries,
mariculture which includes lobsters, crabs, fin fish, seaweed, oyster, mussel
culture, pearl and chank fishery, breeding, raising offish seeds and farming,
ornamental fish culture, sewage fed fish culture and also any other fisheries
as may be notified by the Government;(12)"fisherman" means any person in the
age group of 18-65 years,-(i)engaged in fishing, drying of fish, sale of fish
or other allied activities for his livelihood,(ii)who owns fish farm not
exceeding 2.5 acres of land,(iii)who owns,-(a)one country craft, or(b)one
country craft fitted with outboard motor or inboard engine with capacity of
less than 15 HP, or(c)one coracle in fresh water;(13)"fund" means the Tamil
Nadu Fishermen and Labourers engaged in Fishing and other allied activities
(Social Security and Welfare) Fund established under a scheme;(14)"Government"
means the State Government;(15)"labourer" means any person in the age group of
18 to 65 years, engaged to work in fishing or other allied activities or in
fisheries or in fish farms for wages, but who does not own any
crafts;(16)"Member-Secretary" means the Member-Secretary of the Board
constituted under section 5;(17)"net mending worker" means a worker engaged in
mending and repair of fishing net;(18)"peeling worker" means a worker who is
engaged in peeling prawn, lobster, clam, cleaning squids and cuttle fishes in
huts, peeling sheds and fish processing plants;(19)"processing" means any
means of preservation' of fish products effected with or without physical or
chemical changes by mechanical means or otherwise, intended to facilitate
increase in the shelf life of fish or fish products or to avoid loss during
transit or value addition;(20)"processing labourer" means a worker who is
engaged in cleaning, grading, processing and packing offish or fish
products;(21)"registered members" means fishermen-and labourers engaged in
fishing and other allied activities registered as a member under a
Scheme;(22)"Schedule" means a Schedule to this Act;(23)"Scheme" means a scheme
made by the Government under this Act;(24)"small scale fish distributor" means
any person engaged for a period of not less than one hundred and twenty days
in a year in the distribution of fish from fish landing centres or fish
harbours or fish curing yards or markets through retail outlets or by house
delivery and includes, -(a)auto-carrier distributors;(b)cycle load
vendors;(c)drivers and cleaners engaged in fish transporting on a permanent
basis;(d)head load vendors, including vendors, who sell fish in temporary
camps;(e)mini lorry distributors; and(f)moped load distributors.

### 3. Scheme.

(1)The Government may by notification by means of a Scheme provide for the
registration of members subject to such conditions as may be provided therein
and make provisions for the purpose of ensuring social security and welfare of
the fishermen and labourers engaged in fishing and other allied
activities.(2)The relief or assistance as the case may be, to its registered-
members in respect of all or any of the following matters, that is to
say-(a)Accident relief for death and injury;(b)Missing fisherman while
fishing;(c)Death while fishing or immediately thereafter not due to
accident;(d)Natural Death;(e)Funeral expenses;(f)Education of
children;(g)Marriage;(h)Delivery or miscarriage or termination of
pregnancy;(i)Old age Pension;shall be as specified in the Schedule.(3)The
Government may, in consultation with the Board, by notification, add to, amend
or vary all or any of the provisions of the aforesaid scheme or substitute
another scheme for any scheme made by it.

### 4. Disputes regarding application of the scheme.

\- If any question arises whether any scheme applies to any class of fishermen
or, labourers engaged in fishing and other allied activities, the matter shall
be referred to such authority as may be prescribed in this behalf and the
decision of such authority shall be final.

### 5. Establishment of Board.

(1)The Government may, by notification, establish a Board to be known by such
name as may be specified in the notification for implementing and
administering a scheme.(2)The Board shall be a body corporate with the name
aforesaid, having perpetual succession and common seal, with power to acquire,
hold and dispose of property, and to contract, and may, by that name, sue or
be sued.(3)The Board shall consist of members nominated, from time to time, by
the Government representing the fishermen and labourers engaged in fishing and
other allied activities, employers and the Government of whom the Director of
Fisheries shall be the Member-Secretary of the Board.(4)The Chairman of the
Board shall be appointed from amongst the members nominated to represent the
Government.(5)After nomination of all the members of the Board including the
Chairman, the Government shall, by notification, publish the names of all the
members of the Board.(6)The term of office of members of the Board shall be
such as may be prescribed.(7)The meetings of the Board and procedures to be
followed for the purpose and all matters supplementary or ancillary thereto
shall, subject to the approval of the Government, be regulated by the Board
itself.

### 6. Power of Government to appoint one man Board.

(1)For any reasons whatsoever, if it appears to the Government that it is
unable to establish a Board in accordance with the provisions of section 5,
the Government may, by notification, appoint a person who shall hold office
until a Board is duly established under section 5.(2)The person so appointed
shall be deemed to constitute the Board for the time being, and shall exercise
all the powers and perform and discharge all the duties and functions
conferred and imposed upon the Board by or under this Act. He shall continue
in office until the day immediately preceding the date of the first meeting of
such Board.(3)The person constituting the Board shall receive such
remuneration from the fund of the Board, and the terms and other conditions of
service shall be such as may be prescribed.

### 7. Powers and duties of the Board.

(1)The Board shall be responsible for administering a scheme, and shall
exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be conferred on it by
the scheme.(2)The Board may take such measures as it may deem fit for
administering the scheme.(3)The Board shall submit to the Government as soon
as may be, after the first day of April every year, the annual report of the
working of the scheme during the preceding year ending on Thirty-first March
of that year. Every report so received shall be laid as soon as may be after
it is received before the Legislative Assembly if it is in session, or in the
session immediately following the date of receipt of the report.(4)The Board
shall receive all contributions and use such contributions in the manner as it
may deem fit in order to achieve the objects of the scheme.(5)In exercise of
the powers and discharge of its functions, the Board shall be bound by such
directions as the Government may, for reasons to be stated in writing, give to
it, from time to time.

### 8. Committees.

(1)The Government may, by order, constitute district level, taluk level or
village level committees with members nominated by the Board and such
committees shall be presided by an official nominated by the Government.(2)The
Committee shall have such powers and perform such duties as maybe specified in
the scheme or entrusted by the Board, from time to time.

### 9. Contribution to the Fund.

(1)There shall be a Fund constituted in the name and style as Tamil Nadu
Fishermen and Labourers engaged in fishing and other Allied Activities (Social
Security and Welfare) Fund under a scheme and all monies received from the
sources as specified in sub-section (3) shall be credited to such fund.(2)The
Board shall hold the fund in any of the Nationalised Banks or any of the Co-
operative Banks under the control and supervision of the Tamil Nadu State Co-
operative Bank or any other Bank as may be decided by the Board, with the
approval of the Government, from time to time Such an account shall be jointly
operated by any two of the authorized signatories of the Board, one of them
being the Member-Secretary.(3)The contributions to the Fund shall be made by
the sources specified in sub-section (4), the Government and such other
sources as may be specified in the scheme.(4)The contribution towards the Fund
shall be,-(i)at such rate, as may be fixed by the Government, from time to
time, on the recommendation of the Board for every' year from,-(a)every
fisherman;(b)every allied worker;(c)the owner of a mechanised fishing vessel
of any category;(d)the owner of net making plant and fish feed manufacturing
unit;(e)the owner of a prawn culture farm or a fish farm;(ii)one per cent of
the sale proceeds of the dealer for every year;(iii)at the rate of 5 paise per
litre of diesel sold by the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation
Limited, Tamil Nadu Apex Fisheries Co-operative Federation Limited and private
diesel bunks approved by the Government;(iv)at the rate of 10 paise per litre
of Tax Free Diesel purchased by the mechanized Boat owners from the Tamil Nadu
Fisheries Development Corporation or Tamil Nadu Apex Fisheries Co-operative
Federation Limited and private diesel bunks approved by the Government;(v)at
the rate of 5 per cent of the lease amount for the lease of reservoirs under
the control of the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation Limited;(vi)at
the rate of 5 per cent of the lease amount for fishing collected by the
respective authorities in Revenue, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments,
[Public Works, Fisheries and Forest Departments] [Substituted for 'Public
Works and Forest Departments' by Act No. 16 of 2014, dated 2.9.2014.] and
Local authorities;(vii)at the rate of Rs. 10 per member for every year by the
Primary Fishermen Co-operative Societies or Primary Fisherwomen Co-operative
Societies;(viii)at the rate of one rupee for every Kilogram of fish sold by
the Mettur Dam Co-operative Fish Marketing Society.(5)The Government may, in
consultation with the Board, revise the proportion in which the contribution
is to be collected.(6)The contribution to the fund referred to in sub-section
(4) shall be remitted to the Fund within such period and in such manner as may
be prescribed.(7)All the expenditures relating to the implementation of the
scheme shall be met from the Fund including the contingent expenditure in the
administration of the scheme.

### 10. Recovery of dues to the Board.

(1)On an application made by the Board for the recovery of arrears of any sum
payable to it under this Act or under the scheme, and on its furnishing of a
statement of accounts in respect of such arrears, the Collector may, after
making such inquiries as he deems fit, grant a certificate for the recovery of
the amount stated therein to be due as arrears.(2)A certificate by the
Collector shall be final and conclusive as to the arrears due. The arrears
stated to be due therein shall be recovered as arrears of land revenue by the
Collector and remitted to the Board.

### 11. Accounts and Audit.

(1)The Board shall maintain,proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts, including a balance-sheet in such
form as may be prescribed.(2)The accounts of the Board shall be audited
annually by such qualified person as the Government may appoint in this
behalf.(3)The auditor shall at all reasonable time have access to the books of
accounts and other documents of the Board, and may for the purposes of the
audit, call for such explanation and information as he may require or examine
any member or officer of the Board.(4)The accounts of the Board certified by
the auditor, together with the audited report thereon shall be forwarded
annually to the Government before such date as the Government may specify in
this behalf.(5)The Board shall comply with such directions as the Government
may after perusal of the report of the auditor, think fit to issue.(6)The cost
of audit shall be paid out of the funds of the Board.

### 12. Disqualifications and removal.

(1)No person shall be chosen as, or continue to be, a member of the Board
who,-(a)is a salaried officer of the Board; or(b)is or at any time has been
adjudged insolvent; or(c)is found to be lunatic or becomes of unsound mind;
or(d)is or has been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude.(2)The
Government may remove from office any member who-(a)is or has become subject
to any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (1); or(b)is absent
without leave of the Board for more than three consecutive meetings of the
Board.

### 13. Resignation by member.

\- Any member of the Board may at any time resign his office by writing under
his hand addressed to the Government and his office shall, on acceptance of
resignation by the Government, become vacant.

### 14. Filling up of vacancy.

\- In the event of any vacancy occurring on account of death, resignation,
disqualification or removal or otherwise, the Board shall forthwith
communicate the occurrence to the Government and the vacancy shall be filled
not later than ninety days from the date of the occurrence of the vacancy and
the person nominated to fill in the vacancy shall hold office so long only as
the member in whose place he is nominated would have held it if the vacancy
had not occurred:Provided that during any such vacancy, the continuing members
may act as if no vacancy has occurred.

### 15. Vacancies not to invalidate proceedings.

\- No act or proceedings of the Board shall be questioned or invalidated
merely by reason of any vacancy in its membership or by reason of any defect
in the constitution thereof.

### 16. Enquiry into working of the Board.

(1)the Government may, at any time, appoint, any person to investigate or
enquire into the working of the Board or scheme and submit a report to the
Government in that behalf.(2)The Board shall give to the person so appointed
all facilities for the proper conduct of the investigation or enquiry, and
furnish to him such documents, accounts or information in possession of the
Board as he may require.

### 17. Supersession of the Board.

(1)If the Government, on consideration of the report referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 16 or otherwise, is of the opinion,-(a)that the Board
is unable to perform its functions; or(b)that the Board has persistently made
default in the discharge of its functions or has exceeded or abused its
powers, the Government may, by notification, supersede the Board and
reconstitute it in the prescribed manner, within a period of twelve months
from the date of supersession. The period of supersession may be extended for
sufficient reasons by a like notification by not more than six months:Provided
that before issuing a notification under this sub-section on any of the
grounds mentioned in clause (b), the Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Board to show cause why it should not be superseded, and
shall consider the explanations and objections, if any, of the Board.(2)After
the supersession of the Board and until it is reconstituted, the powers,
duties and functions of the Board under this Act shall be exercised and
performed by the Government, or by such officer or officers as the Government
may appoint for this purpose.(3)When the Board is superseded, the following
consequences shall enure, that is to say-(a)all the members of the Board
shall, as from the date of publication of the notification under sub-section
(1), vacate their office;(b)all the powers, duties and functions, which may be
exercised or performed by the Board shall, during the period of supersession,
be exercised or performed by the Government or by such officer or officers as
may be specified in the notification;(c)all funds and other property vesting
in the Board shall, during the period of supersession, vest in the Government
and on the reconstitution of the Board, such funds and property shall revest
in the Board.

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government or the Board or the Chairman, Member-Secretary, or any member of
the Board or Committee or any other officer's of the Board for anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this is Act, or
any scheme or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 19. Power to amend Schedule.

\- The Government may, by notification, add to or modify the Schedule.

### 20. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule or order made or notification issued under this Act
shall, as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or in the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in any such rule, order or notification or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule, order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule, order or notification shall, thereafter, have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule, order or notification.

### 21. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion requires, by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this
Act.

## Schedule

[See section 3(2)1

SI. No. | Relief or Assistance | Amount (in Rupees)  
---|---|---  
1 | 2 | 3  
1 | Accident Relief: |   
(a) Death due to accident | 1,00,000  
(b) Loss of both hands | 1,00,000  
(c) Loss of both legs | 1,00,000  
(d) Loss of one hand and one leg | 1,00,000  
(e) Total and irrecoverable loss of sight in both eyes | 1,00,000  
(f) Loss of one hand or one leg | 50000  
(g) Loss of limbs from grievous injuries other than thosespecified above | 20000  
2 |  Death while fishing 01 immediately thereafternot due to accident | 20  
3 | Missing fisherman while fishing | 1,00,000  
4 | Natural Death | 10000  
5 | Funeral Expenses | 2500  
6 |  Educational Assistance to Son and Daughter ofthe Members  
| Day Scholar |  | Hosteller  
| Boys | Girls |  | Boys | Girls  
(a)10th Std. Pass | 1.25 | 1.5 |  | - | -  
(b) 12th Std. Pass | 1.75 | 2000 |  | - | -  
(c) I.T.l, or Polytechnic (per year) | 1.25 | 1750 |  | 1450 | 1950  
(d) Bachelor Degree (per year) | 1.75 | 2250 |  | 2000 | 2500  
(e) Post Graduate (per year) | 2250 | 2750 |  | 3250 | 3750  
(f) Professional Course (Law, Engineering, Medicine, etc) (peryear) | 2250 | 2750 |  | 4250 | 4.75  
(g) Post-Graduate Professional Course (per year) | 4.25 | 4750 |  | 6250 | 6.75  
7 | Marriage Assistance:  
(a) Marriage of Member -  
(i) Male | 3000  
(ii) Female | 5000  
(b) Marriage of son or daughter of the Member -  
(i) Male | 3000  
(ii) Female | 5  
8 |  Delivery or Miscarriage of Pregnancy orTermination of Pregnancy:  
(i) Delivery | 6000  
| (@Rs.1,000 per month for six months.)  
(ii) Miscarriage | 3000  
(iii) Termination | 3  
9 | Old age Pension (per month) | 400

