## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief)
Rules, 1984

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief)
Rules, 1984

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-FLOOD-AFFECTED-AREAS-CULTIVATING-TENANTS-TEMPORARY-RELIEF-
RULES-1984 of 1984

  * Published on 9 February 1985 
  * Commenced on 9 February 1985 
  * [This is the version of this document from 9 February 1985.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Rules,
1984Published vide Notification No. S.R.O. A-30/35.-G. O. Ms. No. 215,
Finance, dated the 9th February 1985In exercise of the powers conferred by
section 9 of the Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants
(Temporary Relief) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1984), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating
Tenants (Temporary Relief) Rules, 1984.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act,
1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1984);(b)"Form" means a form appended to these
rules.

### 3. Right to restoration of possession of evicted cultivating tenants.

\- Every cultivating tenants who had been evicted from any land on or before
the 10th January 1984, but before the date of publication of the Act in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette (i.e.) 9th August 1984, in any flood affected
areas specified in the Schedule to the Act and every cultivating tenant who
had been evicted before the date of the publication of the notification under
section 10, in any flood affected area included in the Schedule to the Act by
such notification, on the ground that such cultivating tenant was in arrear
with respect to the rent payable to the landlord or the public trust, as the
case may be, shall make an application to the Revenue Divisional Officer in
the Form appended to these rules within a period of five months from the date
of the publication of the Act in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette for the
restoration of possession of such land and to hold it with all the rights and
subject to all the liabilities of a cultivating tenant under the Tamil Nadu
Cultivating Tenants Protection Act, 1955 (Tamil Nadu Act XXV of 1955) or under
the Tamil Nadu Public Trusts (Regulation of Administration of Agricultural
Lands) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 57 of 1961), as the case may be:Provided that
the restoration of possession in the case of cultivating tenant does not
violate the provisions contained in section 62 of the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms
(Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 58 of 1961):Provided
further that the application shall be received after the period of five months
aforesaid, but before the expiry of the Act, if the applicant satisfies the
Revenue Divisional Officer that he had sufficient cause for not making the
application within the said period of five months.

### 4. Court-fees.

\- Every application under these rules shall bear a Court-fee stamp of two
rupees and shall be accompanied by sufficient number of copies of the
applications for service on the landlord, cultivating tenant or other persons
likely to be affected.Form Prescribed under the Tamil Nadu Flood Affected
Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Rules, 1984. Issued under the
Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Areas Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act,
1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1984)Form(See rule 3)Application for the
Restoration of Possession of the Evicted Cultivating TenantIn the Court
of........,.............Before the...........................

| Between |   
---|---|---  
............. |  | Plaintiff/Petitioner  
| and |   
............. |  | Defendant/Respondent.  
  
The above named plaintiff/ petitioner states as follows:-The
plaintiff/petitioner..................(Name) is a cultivating tenant, residing
at.............(address). The address of the plaintiff/petitioner for service
of all notices of process is............(address);

### 2\. The defendant/respondent is a landlord, residing at
................(address);

### 3\. Whereas a decree or order has been passed in the suit or proceeding
(No of ) by the...............................against the plaintiff/petitioner
for eviction for non-payment of instalment of arrears of rent and has been
evicted from the lands specified in the table below after the 16th January
1984 and before the publication of the Tamil Nadu Flood Affected Area
Cultivating Tenants (Temporary Relief) Act, 1984 (Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 1984)
in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and before the date of publication of the
notification under section 10 in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette in any
flood affected area included in the Schedule to the Act, and whereas, the
plaintiff/ petitioner in the said suit pray that the said decree or order may
be cancelled and he be restored to possession of the land specified in the
Table below with all the rights and subject to all the liabilities of a
cultivating tenant.

### 4\. The following particulars are furnished for the information of the
Court/ competent authority:-

### 1\. Name and address of the cultivating tenant to whom the evicted lands
are to be restored.

### 2\. Particulars of lands cultivated before eviction

### 3\. Actual date of eviction from the lands.

Name of the District | Name of the Taluk | Name of the Village | Survey number of the land | Local name, if any | Classification on (wet dry garden or Manavari) | Extent (A.C.)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7)  
|  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  | Total |   
  
### 4\. Name and address of the landlord or landowners from whom the lands are
to be restored.

### 5. Remarks

I hereby declare that the particulars furnished in the application are to the
best of my knowledge and belief, true and correct.Place:Date:Signature of the
applicant

