## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-Regular) Public Health Establishment
Discipline and Appeal Regulations, 1977

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-Regular) Public Health Establishment
Discipline and Appeal Regulations, 1977

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-NON-CENTRALISED-REGULAR-PUBLIC-HEALTH-
ESTABLISHMENT-DISCIPLINE-AND-APPEAL-REGULATIONS-1977 of 1977

  * Published on 1 January 1977 
  * Commenced on 1 January 1977 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 1977.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-Regular) Public Health Establishment
Discipline and Appeal Regulations, 1977

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)These Regulations may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-
Regular) Public Health Establishment Discipline and Appeal Regulations,
1977.(2)They shall come into force on and from the date of issue of the
orders.(3)They shall apply to every member holding the posts in any of the
categories governed by the Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-Regular)
Public Health Establishment Regulations.(4)If any doubt arises as to the
application of these regulations to any person, the matter shall be referred
to the State Government whose decision thereon shall be final.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the context,
the words or expressions shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Tamil Nadu Municipal (Non-Centralised-Regular) Public Health Establishment
Regulations;(2)"Appellate authority" means the authority competent to
entertain and pass orders setting aside or confirming or modifying an original
order of a disciplinary authority imposing any of the penalties specified in
regulation 3 on any member of the establishment;(3)"Disciplinary authority"
means the authority who passes an original order imposing any of the penalties
specified in regulation 3, he shall, in respect of that order, be deemed to be
the disciplinary authority.

### 3. Penalties.

(1)The appointing authority may, subject to the conditions laid down in
regulation 5, fine any member of the establishment excepting superior staff
and for good and sufficient reasons impose on any member of the establishment
all or any of the following penalties, namely: -(i)Censure.(ii)Withholding of
increment or promotion including stoppage of increment.(iii)reduction to a
lower post or time-scale, or to a lower stage in a time scale.(iv)(a)Recovery
from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the local
authority or to the State Government or to Central Government by negligence or
breach of orders; or(b)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the
monetary value equivalent to the amount of increments ordered to be withheld,
where such an order cannot be given effect to.Explanation. - In case of
stoppage of increment with cumulative effect, the monetary value equivalent to
3 times the amount of increments ordered to be withheld may be
recovered.(c)Recovery from pay to the extent necessary of the monetary value
equivalent to the amount of reduction to a lower stage in a time scale
ordered, where such an order cannot be given effect to.(v)Compulsory
retirement from the establishment.(vi)Removal from establishment (which does
not disqualify from future employment).(vii)Dismissal from establishment
(which ordinarily disqualifies from future employment).(viii)Suspension where
a member of the establishment has already been suspended under regulation 4 to
the extent considered necessary by the authority imposing the penalty.The
penalties mentioned in items (i) (ii) (iv) and (viii) shall be deemed to be
minor penalties and those in items (iii) and (v) to (vii) as major
penalties.Explanation. - (1) The discharge or reversion to a lower post of a
member of the establishment appointed to hold a temporary appointment on the
expiry of the period of the appointment does not amount to removal or
dismissal or to reduction within the meaning of this regulation.(2)The
discharge or reversion to a lower post of any member of the establishment
officiating in any post, if made in accordance with such regulations, rules or
orders as the Government may issue in that behalf, does not amount to removal
or dismissal or to reduction within the meaning of this regulation.

### 4. Suspension.

(1)A member -of the establishment may be placed under suspension from service
by the appointing authority where -(i)an enquiry into grave charge against him
is contemplated or is pending, or(ii)a complaint against him of any criminal
offence is under investigations or trial and such suspension is necessary in
the public interest.(2)A member of the establishment who is detained in
custody, whether on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period longer than
48 hours, shall be deemed to have been suspended under this
regulation.(3)Where a penalty of dismissal, removal, or compulsory retirement
from establishment imposed on a member of the establishment under suspension
is set aside in appeal, or on review under these regulations, and the case is
remitted for further enquiry or action or with any other directions, the order
of his suspension shall be deemed to have continued in force on and from the
date of the original order of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and
shall remain in force until further orders.(4)Where a penalty of dismissal,
removal or compulsory retirement from establishment imposed upon a member of
the establishment is set aside or declared or rendered void in consequence of,
or by a decision of Court of Law, and the disciplinary authority, on a
consideration of the circumstances of the case, decides to hold a further
enquiry against him on the allegations on which the penalty of dismissal,
removal or compulsory retirement was originally imposed, such member of the
establishment shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension by the
appointing authority from the date of original order of dismissal, removal or
compulsory retirement and shall continue to remain under suspension until
further orders.(5)Where a member of the establishment is suspended or is
deemed to have been suspended (whether in connection with any disciplinary
proceedings or otherwise) and any other disciplinary proceedings is commenced
against him during the continuance of that suspension, the authority competent
to place him under suspension may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
direct that such member shall continue to be under suspension until the
termination of all or any of such proceedings.(6)An order of suspension made
or deemed to have been made under this regulation may, at any time, be revoked
by the authority which made the order or by the appellate authority or the
State Government.(7)Suspension of a member of establishment pending enquiry
referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (1) shall not ordinarily be for a
period exceeding 3 months and in exceptional cases where the enquiry cannot be
completed within 3 months, the period of suspension may be extended for
further periods with the consent of the Director of Public Health and
Preventive Medicine, Chennai.(8)During the period of suspension, the member of
the establishment shall be paid a subsistence allowance at such rates as are
prescribed under the Fundamental Rules applicable to State Government
servants.

### 5. Procedure for imposing penalties.

(1)In every case where it is proposed to impose fine on a member of
establishment (in the case of persons for whom such penalty is permissible
under these regulations) or to impose on a member of the establishment any of
the penalties specified in items (i), (ii) and (iv) of regulation 3(1), he
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of making any representation that he
may desire to make and such representation, if any, shall be taken into
consideration before the order imposing the penalty is passed:Provided that
the requirements of this clause shall not apply where it is proposed to impose
on a member of the establishment any of the penalties aforesaid on the basis
of facts which have led to his conviction by a Court Martial or where the
member concerned has absconded or where it is for other reasons impracticable
to communicate with him.(2)In every case where it is proposed to impose on a
member of the establishment any of the penalties specified in items (iii),
(v), (vi) and (vii) of regulation 3(1), the grounds on which it is proposed to
take action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges which
shall be communicated to the member charged together with a statement of the
allegations on which each charge is based and on any other circumstances which
it is proposed to take into consideration in passing orders on the case. He
shall be required within a reasonable time to put in a written statement of
his defence and to state whether he desires an oral enquiry or only to be
heard in person or both. An oral enquiry shall be held if such an enquiry is
desired by the member charged or is directed by the authority concerned. At
that enquiry, oral evidence shall be heard as to such of the allegations as
are not admitted and the member charged shall be entitled to cross-examine the
witnesses, to give evidence in person and to have such witnesses called as he
may wish, provided that an officer conducting the enquiry may, for special and
sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to call a witness. After
the enquiry has been completed, the member charged shall be entitled to put
in, if he so desires, any further written statement of his defence. If no
enquiry is held and if he desires to be heard in person a personal hearing
shall be given to him. The proceedings shall contain a sufficient record of
the evidence and a statement of findings and grounds thereon.(3)After the
enquiry referred to in clauses (2) has been completed and after the authority
competent to impose the penalty mentioned in that clause has arrived at
provisional conclusions in regard to the penalty to be imposed, the member
charged shall be supplied with copy of the report of the enquiring authority
and be called upon to show cause within a reasonable time not ordinarily
exceeding one month against the particular penalty proposed to be
inflicted.(4)Any representation in this behalf submitted by the member charged
shall be taken into consideration before final orders are passed, provided
that such representation shall be based only on the evidence adduced during
the enquiry.(5)The requirements of clause (2) shall not apply where it is
proposed to impose on a member of the establishment any such penalty as is
referred to therein on the basis of facts which have led to his conviction in
a Criminal Court (whether or not he has been sentenced by such Court to any
punishment), but he shall be given a reasonable opportunity for making any
representation that he may desire to make, and such representation, if any,
shall be taken into consideration before the order imposing the penalty is
passed.(6)The requirements of clause (2) shall not apply where it is proposed
to impose on a member of the establishment any of the penalties mentioned in
regulation 3 on the basis of facts which have led to his conviction by a Court
Martial or where the member concerned has absconded or where it is for other
reasons impracticable to communicate with him.(7)The provisions of clause (2)
shall not apply where the State Government are satisfied that, in the interest
of the security of the State, it is not expedient to follow the procedure
prescribed in that clause.(8)All or any of the provisions of clauses (1),
(2),and (3) may, in exceptional cases, for special and sufficient reasons to
be recorded in writing, be waived where there is difficulty in observing
exactly the requirements without injustice to the persons charged. If any
question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to follow the procedure
prescribed in clause (2), the decision thereon of the authority competent to
dismiss or remove such person or reduce him in rank, as the case may be, shall
be final.

### 6. Maintenance of records.

\- The authority imposing any penalty under these regulation shall maintain a
record showing -(1)the allegations upon which action was taken against the
member punished;(2)the charges framed, if any;(3)the member's representation,
if any, and the evidence taken, if any; and(4)the finding and the grounds
thereof, if any.

### 7. Communication of orders of punishment.

(1)All orders of punishment shall state the grounds on which they are based
and shall be communicated in writing to the member against whom they are
passed.(2)Every order, notice or other process issued under these regulations
shall be served on a member of the establishment concerned or sent to him by
registered post with acknowledgements due, or if such person is not found, by
leaving it at his last known place of residence; or by giving or tendering it
to an adult member of his family, or if none of the means aforesaid is
available, by affixing it on some conspicuous part of his last known place of
residence.

### 8. Appeal.

(1)An appeal shall lie to the Director of Public Health and Preventive
Medicine, Chennai against any orders of the appointing authority imposing any
of the penalties specified in regulation 3(1).(2)An appeal shall lie to the
Government against an order passed under clause (1) by an officer empowered by
the Government, if the order imposes a punishment where the appointing
authority had not imposed a punishment or if the order enhanced the punishment
imposed by the appointing authority.

### 9. Powers of appellate authority or Government when no appeal is
preferred.

\- The authority by whom an order imposing a penalty specified in regulation 3
may be reversed or altered in cases in which no appeal is preferred shall be
the appellate authority prescribed in the regulations or any higher authority
empowered by the Government.

### 10. Powers of Government to pass orders on completed disciplinary
proceedings.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the State
Government or such officer as they may empower in this behalf, shall have the
powers to call for the records relating to a disciplinary proceedings which
has been completed either by the disciplinary authority or by the appellate
authority, and pass such orders on it as they may consider just or
expedient:Provided that before a penalty is imposed in a case where no penalty
has been imposed, or a penalty which has been imposed is enhanced, the person
concerned should be given an opportunity to show cause why the penalty should
not be imposed or enhanced, as the case may be.

### 11.

All orders passed under clauses (1) and (2) of regulation 8 and regulation 9
shall be given effect to forthwith by the appointing authority.

### 12. Mode of preferring an appeal.

(1)Every member of the Public Health Establishment of a local authority
preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own name.(2)No appeal
preferred under these regulations shall be entertained, unless it is preferred
within a period of 2 months from the date on which the appellant received the
order appealed against:Provided that the appellate authority may entertain an
appeal after the expiry of such period if it is satisfied that there was
reasonable cause for the delay.(3)Every appeal preferred under these
regulations shall contain all material statements and arguments relied on by
the appellant, shall contain no disrespectful or improper language, and shall
be complete in itself. Every such appeal shall be addressed to the authority
to whom it is preferred and shall be submitted through the head of the office
to which the appellant belongs or belonged and through the authority from
whose order the appeal is preferred.

### 13. Matters to be considered in appeal.

(1)In the case of an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties
specified in regulation 3, the appellate authority shall consider the
following: -(i)whether the facts on which the order was based have been
established 5(ii)whether the facts established afford sufficient grounds for
taking action; and(iii)whether the penalty is excessive, adequate or
inadequate; and after such consideration shall pass such order as it thinks
proper.(2)Any error or defect in the procedure followed in imposing a penalty
may be disregarded by the appellate authority, if such authority considers for
reasons to be recorded in writing, that the error or defect was not material
and has neither caused injustice to the person concerned nor affected the
decision of the case.

### 14. Orders on appeal.

\- In the case of an appeal, the appellate authority shall pass such order as
appears to it just and equitable having regard to the circumstances of the
case.

### 15. Withholding of appeals.

(a)An appeal may be withheld by an authority not lower in rank than the
authority from whose order it is preferred, if -(i)it is an appeal in a case
in which under these regulations no appeal lies, or(ii)it does not comply with
the provisions of regulation 22, or(iii)it is not preferred within the time
limit prescribed in regulation 12(2) and no reasonable cause is shown for the
delay, or(iv)it is repetition of a previous appeal and is made to the same
appellate authority by which such appeal has been decided, and no new facts or
circumstances are adduced which afford grounds for a re-consideration of the
case, or(v)it is addressed to an authority to which no appeal lies under these
regulations:Provided that in every case in which an appeal is withheld the
appellant shall be informed of the facts and the reasons for it:Provided
further that an appeal withheld under clause (ii) or clause (v) maybe re-
submitted at any time within one month from the date on which the appellant
has been informed of the withholding of the appeal and if re-submitted to the
appropriate appellate authority in a form which complies with the provisions
of regulation 12, it shall not be withheld.

### 16. No appeal to lie against withholding of any appeal.

\- (i) No appeal shall lie against the withholding of an appeal by a competent
authority.Forwarding of appeal and list of appeals withheld. - (ii) Every
appeal which is not withheld under these regulations shall be forwarded to the
appellate authority by the authority against whose order the appeal is
preferred with an expression of opinion.(iii)A list of appeals withheld under
regulation 14 (a) with the reasons for withholding them shall be forwarded
half-yearly by the withholding authority to the appellate authority.Powers of
appellate authority: (i) An appellate authority may call for any appeal
admissible under these regulations which has been withheld by a subordinate
authority and may pass such orders thereon as it considers fit.The authority
by whom an order imposing a penalty specified in regulation 3 may be reversed
or altered in cases in which ho appeal is preferred shall be the appellate
authority prescribed in the regulations or any higher authority.

### 17. Treatment of period of absence.

\- When a member of the establishment who has been dismissed, removed,
compulsorily retired or suspended is reinstated, the authority competent to
order the reinstatement shall consider and make a specific order regulating
the period of absence from duty with reference to the provisions of
Fundamental Rule 54 applicable to State Government servants.

### 18.

Nothing in these regulations shall operate to deprive any member of any right
of appeal which he would have had if these regulations had not been made, in
respect of any order passed before they came into force. An appeal pending at
the time when, or preferred after these regulations came into force shall be
deemed to be an appeal under these regulations, and regulation 13 shall apply
as if the appeal were against an order appealable under these regulations.

### 19.

In matters in respect of which no provision has been made in these
regulations, every member of the establishment shall be governed by the
provisions applicable to Government servants of similar status and standing.

