## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Private Forests (Assumption of Management) Act, 1961

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Private Forests (Assumption of Management) Act, 1961

## Act 55 of 1961

  * Published on 10 March 1962 
  * Commenced on 10 March 1962 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 March 1962.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Private Forests (Assumption of Management) Act, 1961(Tamil Nadu Act
55 of 1961)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Private (Assumption
of Management) Act, 1961 (Tamil Nadu Act 55 of 1961). - The forest wealth of
the Gudalur and Ootacamund taluks of the Nilgiris district is being depleted
by the action of owners of private forests. It is considered necessary to take
over the management of the private forests in the Gudalur and Ootacamund taluk
of the Nilgiris district for a limited period in the public interest or in
order to secure the proper management of such forest.2\. The Bill seeks to
achieve the above object.Published in Part IV-Section 3, page 589 of the Fort
St. George Gazette, dated 22nd November 1961.Received the assent of the
President on the 10th March 1962 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette, dated 21st March 1962.An Act to provide for the taking over of the
management of private forests in certain areas in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 3969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.].Whereas it is expedient to provide for the taking
over by the Government, for a limited period, of the management of private
forests in certain areas in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the
expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969,
as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,
1969.] in the public interest or in order to secure proper management of such
forests;Be it enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Private Forests
(Assumption of Management) Act, 1961.(2)It applies to private forests situated
in the Gudalur and Ootacamund taluks of the Nilgiris district.(3)It shall come
into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(1)"Collector" means
the Collector of the Nilgiris district;(2)'forest" includes waste or arable
land containing trees and shrubs, pasture land and any other class of land
declared by the Government to be a forest by notification issued in this
behalf.Explanation. - A forest shall not cease to be such by reason only of
the fact that, in a portion thereof, trees or shrubs are felled with or
without the permission of the Collector, or lands are cultivated, or rocks,
roads, tanks, rivers, or the like exist;(3)"forest-produce" shall have the
meaning assigned to it in section 2 of the if [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Forest
Act, 1882;(4)"Government" means the State Government;(5)"owner" in relation to
a forest, includes a mortgagee, lessee or other person having right to
possession and enjoyment of the forest;(6)"person" includes a Hindu undivided
family, a Marumakkattayam tarwad or tavazhi and an Aliyasantana family or
branch;(7)"private forest" means a forest other than a reserved forest
constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Forest Act, 1882 [Tamil
Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1882), but does not include land, at the
disposal of Government as defined in that Act.

### 3. Taking over of management of private forests.

(1)Whenever it appears to the Government that it is necessary to take over the
management of any private forest in the public interest or in order to secure
the proper management of it, they may publish a notice to that effect in the
[Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.]. Such
notice shall state that any objections or suggestions which may be received by
the Government within a period to be specified in the notice will be
considered by them. Copies of the notice shall be served on the owner or any
other person in possession of the private forest.(2)After the expiry of the
period specified in the notice under sub-section (1) and after considering
such objections and suggestions as may be received before such expiry, the
Government may, by notification, declare that the management of the private
forest shall be taken over by the Government from such date, and for such
period not exceeding ten years, as may be specified in the notification.(3)On
and from the date specified in the notification under sub-section (2), the
management of the private forest shall vest in the Government and the
Collector or any officer authorized by him in this behalf may, after removing
any obstruction that may be offered, forthwith enter upon and take possession
of the private forest and all accounts, registers, maps, plans and other
documents relating to the private forest which the Government may require for
the management thereof.(4)Copies of the notification under sub-section (2)
shall be served in such manner as may be prescribed on the owner or any other
person in possession of the private forest.

### 4. Certain consequences of the taking over of management by Government.

(1)Where the management of any private forest has been taken over under
section 3, so long as such management remains vested in the Government,-(a)all
rights and interests created in or over the private forest by the owner or any
person interested in the private forest shall not be enforceable against the
Government;(b)the owner or any person interested in the private forest or any
person having any claim against the private forest or the forest produce shall
not be entitled to the rents and profits (including the forest-produce)
accruing therefrom during the period of such management, but shall be entitled
only to the compensation as provided in section 7;(c)such private forest shall
not be liable to be proceeded against in any manner whatsoever in execution of
any decree or order of any Court or other authority and any attachment or
injunction or order for the appointment of a receiver in respect of such
private forest subsisting on the date of taking over of such management shall
cease to have effect; and(d)no claim of any person in respect of such private
forest shall be enforced by any Court whether in execution of a decree or
otherwise against the Government or against any person holding such private
forest under the Government:Provided that, in computing the period of
limitation for a suit, or an application for the execution of a decree, the
time during which such proceeding, attachment, injunction, order or claim the
enforcement of which is barred under this sub-section shall be excluded.(2)The
Government shall receive all rents and profits (including the income from
forest-produce) accruing, from the management of the private forest and shall
incur the whole expenditure in the management of the private forest.

### 5. Power of the Government.

(1)Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the Government may
take such measures as they consider necessary or expedient for the purpose of
securing, administering, preserving and managing any private forest, the
management of which has been taken over under section 3.(2)Without prejudice
to the generality of the provision contained in sub-section (1), such powers
shall include the power -(a)to cut and remove trees in the private
forest;(b)to sell by auction or otherwise the timber and other forest-
produce;(c)to enter into contracts for cutting and removing trees;(d)to carry
on cultivation;(e)to improve the private forest by planting or otherwise;
and(f)to prevent trespasses and unauthorized removal of any forest-produce in
the private forest or to prevent the commission of any act of waste in the
private forest.

### 6. Release from management of private forests.

(1)On the expiration of the period specified in the notification under sub-
section (2) of section 3, or earlier, if the Government consider that it is no
longer necessary to continue in management of the private forest taken over
under section 3, the Government shall release from their management the
private forest taken over under section 3 and shall restore the private forest
in as good a condition as it was when possession thereof was taken subject
only to the changes caused in the ordinary course of management or husbandry
and by irresistible force.(2)Where any private forest is to be released from
management by the Government, the Government shall, after making an enquiry in
the prescribed manner, by notification, specify the date on which and the
person to whom possession of such private forest shall be given:Provided that
no notification under this sub-section specifying any person other than the
person from whom possession of the private forest was taken shall be published
unless notice has been given to the owner of the private forest, or if he is
dead, to his heirs or legal representatives and his or their representations,
if any, have been considered by the Government.(3)On the date specified in the
notification under sub-section (2), possession of the private forest shall be
deemed to have been given by the Government.(4)The delivery of possession of
the private forest to the person specified in the notification under sub-
section (2) shall be a full discharge of the Government from all liability in
respect of the private forest, but shall not prejudice any right in respect of
the private forest, which any other person may be entitled, by due process of
law, to enforce against the person to whom possession of the private forest is
given.

### 7. Compensation for period of possession.

(1)Where the management of any private forest has been taken over under
section 3, on completion of every twelve months from the date of such taking
over until the date specified in the notification under sub-section (2) of
section 6, the Collector shall, after the expiry of thirty- days from the date
of such completion, by order, determine the compensation payable in respect of
the private forest in accordance with the principles set out in sub-section
(4) and apportion such compensation in the manner specified in sub-section
(3).(2)Every person claiming the compensation or any portion thereof shall
apply to the Collector within the period of thirty days referred to in sub-
section (1) or within such further period not exceeding thirty days as the
Collector may, in his discretion, allow.(3)The Collector shall, after giving
notice to all persons who have applied under sub-section (2) and to any others
whom he considers to be interested and after making such enquiry as may be
prescribed, apportion the compensation among the owner, the persons interested
in the private forest and other persons having claim against the private
forest (including the forest-produce) as far as possible in accordance with
the value of their respective interests or claims.(4)The amount of
compensation payable for the private forest for any completed twelve months
shall be -(a)a sum calculated on the total area of the private forest at the
rate of one rupee per annum per acre; and(b)the net profits, if any, accruing
from the management of the private forest by the Government during the said
twelve months.(5)For the purpose of calculating the net profits, the total
expenditure incurred on the management of the private forest (including the
pay and allowances of the officers and staff appointed for the purpose and the
amount of any-tax, public charges and other dues paid in respect of the
private forest) shall be adjusted against the total income from the management
up to the date of account and the amount of any deficit shall be carried
forward with interest at the prescribed rate from year to year till such
amount is made up and surplus is effected.(6)For the purpose of sub-section
(5)-(a)the total expenditure shall include the sum paid by the Government
under clause (a) of sub-section (4), but shall not include the capital
expenditure incurred by the Government on improvements, the value of which is
payable to the Government under section 8; and(b)the total income shall not
include the profits accruing from the private forest as a result of such
improvements.(7)The amount of compensation determined under sub-section (1)
shall be paid by the Government to the person or persons entitled thereto in
such form and manner, and at such time or times, and in one or more
instalments, as may be prescribed.

### 8. Value of improvement to be paid to Government on release from
management by Government.

\- Where any private forest is released from management by Government, the
owner and any person interested in the private forest or in possession thereof
shall be liable to pay to the Government a sum equal to so much of the value
of the private forest as is attributable to anything done on the improvement
of the private forest for the purpose of enabling the forest to be properly
farmed or of securing increased efficiency in the farming of the private
forest. The Collector shall, by order, determine such sum which shall be
payable by such owner or person within one month from the date of a demand
made in writing by the Collector in this behalf:Provided that the owner or the
person by whom any sum is so payable may, by notice in writing served on the
Collector within the said one month, elect to pay the said sum together with
interest thereon from the said date at the rate of six per cent per annum, by
such number of equal annual instalments not exceeding ten, as may be specified
in the notice, the first instalment of which shall be paid within one year
from the said date.

### 9. Appeal.

(1)Any person aggrieved by an order of the Collector under subsection (1) of
section 7 or under section 8 may appeal to the 'Board of Revenue within such
period and in such manner as may be prescribed.(2)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the Board of Revenue may admit an appeal
preferred after the period specified therein if the 'Board of Revenue is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the
appeal in time.(3)The order of the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue
was abolished. By virtue of section 10(1) of the, Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue
Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to the Board of
Revenue shall be deemed to be a reference to the State Government.] on appeal
under this section, or the order of the Collector under sub-section (1) of
section 7 or under section 8 where no appeal is preferred under this section
to the [Board of Revenue] [The Board of Revenue was abolished. By virtue of
section 10(1) of the, Tamil Nadu Board of Revenue Abolition Act, 1980 (Tamil
Nadu Act 36 of 1980), any reference to the Board of Revenue shall be deemed to
be a reference to the State Government.], shall be final.

### 10. Penalties.

\- If any owner or person believed to be the owner or the person in possession
of the private forest or any other person resists or obstructs any officer in
the exercise of any power conferred on, or in the discharge of any duty
imposed upon, or in the performance of any function entrusted to, such officer
by or under this Act, or contravenes any provision of this Act, or any rule
made thereunder or any order made or direction given under this Act, he shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.

### 11. Amounts to be recovered as arrears of land revenue.

\- All amounts payable to, or recoverable by, the Government in respect of the
private forest, the management of which has been taken over under section 3,
may be recovered as if they were arrears of land revenue.

### 12. Procedure and power at enquiries.

\- Any authority having power to make an enquiry under this Act shall make the
enquiry in the manner provided in the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted/or 'Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Revenue Enquiries Act,
1893 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act V of 1893) and shall have all powers which are,
or may be, vested in the Revenue Officers by that Act and by the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Revenue Summonses Act, 1869 [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Act III of 1869).

### 13. Power to enter upon private forest.

\- The Collector or any officer authorized by him in writing in this behalf,
may enter upon any private forest with such other officers or persons as he
considers necessary and do all acts necessary for carrying out the purposes of
this Act.

### 14. Power to obtain information.

\- The Government or the Collector may, with a view- to carrying out the
purposes of this Act, by order, require any person to furnish to such officer
as may be specified in the order such information in his possession as may be
specified relating to the private forest, the management of which is taken
over or intended to be taken over under section 3.

### 15. Continuance of liability for land revenue, rates and cesses.

\- The taking over of the management of a private forest under section 3 shall
not affect the liability of any person to pay land revenue, rate or cess in
respect of such private forest for any period whether before or after the date
of taking over of such management.

### 16. Operation of other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force relating to forests.

### 17. Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
officer or other authority for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

### 18. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the
Collector or other authority is empowered by or under this Act to determine,
and no injunction shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect
of any action taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.

### 19. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes of
this Act.(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-(a)the procedure to be followed in taking possession of
private forests;(b)the preservation, maintenance and management of the private
forests;(c)the manner of service of notices and orders;(d)the proper
collection of the income of the private forest taken over by the Government
and the incurring of the expenditure in the management of the private
forests;(e)the manner in which the accounts relating to the management of the
private forest are to be maintained and audited;(f)any other matter which has
to be, or may be, prescribed.(3)All rules made under this Act shall be
published in the [Fort St. George Gazette] [Now the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette.], and unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular
day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.(4)Every
rule made under this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be
placed on the table of [the Legislature Assembly] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses of the Legislature' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses agree' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making
any modification in any such rule or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] that the rule should not be made, the rule "shall,
thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

### 20. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion may require, by order, do anything which
appears to them necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty.(2)Every
order made under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after it is made,
be placed on the table of [the Legislature Assembly] [Substituted for the
words 'both Houses of the Legislature' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.], and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or
the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees] [Substituted for the words
'both Houses agree' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1987.] in making
any modification in any such order or [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the words 'both Houses agree' by Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws Order, 1987.] that the order should not be made, the order shall,
thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
order.

