## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Receipts and Expenditure and Maintenance of
the Accounts of Village Panchayats) Rules, 2000

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Receipts and Expenditure and Maintenance of
the Accounts of Village Panchayats) Rules, 2000

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-VILLAGE-PANCHAYATS-RECEIPTS-AND-EXPENDITURE-AND-
MAINTENANCE-OF-THE-ACCOUNTS-OF-VILLAGE-PANCHAYATS-RULES-2000 of 2000

  * Published on 21 February 2000 
  * Commenced on 21 February 2000 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 February 2000.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Receipts and Expenditure and Maintenance of the
Accounts of Village Panchayats) Rules, 2000Published vide Notification No. G.
O. Ms. No. 43, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 21st February 2000 - No.
SRO-A-17(a)/2000Published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 23rd February 2000.G. O. Ms. No.
43, Rural Development (C-4), dated the 21st February 2000 - No.
SRO-A-17(a)/2000. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 and sub-
section (1) of section 191 read with sub-section (1) of section 242 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), and in
supersession of the rules relating to Receipts and Expenditure, the Governor
of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Receipts and
Expenditure and Maintenance of the Accounts of Village Panchayats) Rules,
2000.

## Part I – Receipts

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(b)"Form" means
the Form appended to these rules.

### 3. Maintenance of accounts and registers.

\- Every village panchayat shall have as many accounts and maintain separate
cash books and other registers for each one of the accounts as the Government
may direct, from time to time, in the specified forms.

### 4. Collection and remittance of taxes.

(1)The house tax levied under sections 171 and 172 of the Act or the
profession tax levied under section 198-A of the Act or the tax on
agricultural land levied under sub-section (3) of section 171 of the Act or
any other tax which may be levied in future shall be collected from the
assessees by granting a printed receipt, using double side carbon, in the form
prescribed by the Government. As and when receipts are granted, the details of
collection shall be entered in a collection register maintained for this
purpose. The receipt for the collection of taxes shall bear the signature of
the executive authority in the form of facsimile and shall be signed in ink by
the Panchayat Assistant/Part-time Clerk of the village panchayat.(2)The
amounts collected shall be entered in the tax and miscellaneous items
collection register and in the cash book. The amount collected shall be
remitted to the credit of the village panchayat fund account. Whenever the
remittances are made and credited to the fund accounts of village panchayat,
the details of the remittance shall be entered on the debit side of the cash
book on the date of remittance.(3)No part of receipt received in cash shall be
directly appropriated for any expenditure.

### 5. Fees for licence and permission.

(1)The fee payable in respect of every licence or permission granted under the
Act or any rule or regulations made thereunder, shall be collected in advance
when the application for the licence or permission is presented.(2)The
particulars relating to the collection of fee and the grant of such licence or
permission shall be entered consecutively in the register of licences and
permissions which shall be maintained in such form as may be laid down by the
Government, from time to time.

### 6. Income from endowments and trusts.

(1)The executive authority of the village panchayat shall maintain or cause to
be maintained in the office of the village panchayat, an up to date record of
every endowment or trust managed by it. Such record shall show -(a)the
authority under which the management of the endowment or trust was vested in
the village panchayat;(b)the assets and sources of income of the endowment or
trust; and(c)the expenditure chargeable to the endowment or trust.(2)The
executive authority of the village panchayat shall, in addition to the record
in sub-rule (1), maintain or cause to be maintained in the office of the
village panchayat, a register of endowments and trusts showing in separate
pages, the yearly transactions relating to each endowment or trust.

### 7. Contributions.

\- The receipt of contributions payable to a village panchayat from the
Government, other panchayats, municipal councils, other local authorities and
private persons shall be watched through the miscellaneous demand collection
and balance register.

### 8. Sale proceeds of tools and plants, sweepings, old stores materials.

\- The orders of the village panchayat shall be taken for the disposal of old
and unserviceable tools and plants, stores and materials, sweepings, wind
fallen and withered trees and usufruct of avenue trees over which the village
panchayat has control or ownership and they shall be sold in public auction
unless otherwise ordered by the village panchayat, for specific reasons to be
recorded. The sales shall be subject to confirmation by the village panchayat.
The receipts from all such sales shall be shown in the register of taxes and
miscellaneous items collection register.

### 9. Fees from markets, cart-stands, landing or halting places, slaughter-
houses, fisheries and ferries.

\- The village panchayat shall collect fees in respect of the use of any
market, cart-stand, landing or halting place, slaughter-house, fishery or
ferry through lease by public auction as per the rules prescribed by the
Government. Collection of amounts due shall be watched through the
miscellaneous demand register.

### 10. Collection of fees by village panchayat.

(1)Where any market, cart-stand landing or halting place, slaughter-house,
fishery or ferry is managed directly by village panchayat, all fees levied in
respect of the use thereof, shall be collected by means of tickets printed and
supplied by the executive authority.(2)The tickets shall be printed in foil
and counter-foil in different colours for different rates of fees, the rates
being printed in each case. Each kind of ticket shall be bound in books of 100
each and shall bear consecutive machine numbers. Before issue to the
collecting officers, they shall be stamped with the common seal of the village
panchayat in the presence of the executive authority or any person authorised
by him in this behalf.(3)A register in two parts shall be maintained in the
office of the village panchayat in respect of these tickets.(a)The first part
shall be a stock register, the entries for receipts being attested by the
executive authority or an officer authorised by him and the entries for issue
being attested by the collecting officer concerned.(b)The second part shall be
a personal ledger account for each officer entrusted with the collection of
revenue by means of these tickets. It shall be debited with the number and
value of each kind of ticket issued to each collecting officer and shall be
credited with the amount of the collections paid by him into the office of the
village panchayat. Remittances shall be made by the collecting officer every
day and shall be accompanied by the details of the number and value of each
kind of ticket issued by him.(4)Where any ticket book has been completely
used, the counter-foil shall be sent to the office of the village panchayat
for check with actual credits.(5)The collecting officer shall also keep an
account of the tickets entrusted to him and the collection made by him. The
daily collections by each kind of ticket shall be entered in such account and
the balances struck at the end of every day. The account and the stock of
tickets shall be verified at regular intervals by the executive authority of
any officer authorised by him who shall certify such verification.

### 11. Income from buildings, lands and other immovable property.

(1)If any building belonging to a village panchayat is rented out, then,
prompt recovery of the rent of such building shall be watched through the
miscellaneous demand collection and balance register.(2)A register in such
form as may be laid down by the Government, from time to time, shall be
maintained in every traveller's bungalow, rest-house or chatram under the
control of the village panchayat and the person occupying such traveller's
bungalow, rest-house or chatram shall be required to fill the particulars
specified in the register. Fees shall be charged for such occupation as
prescribed by the village panchayat.

### 12. Advance collection for services to be rendered.

\- Save as otherwise provided in the Act, no work for any private individual
or body shall be undertaken by a village panchayat unless the estimated cost
and service charges thereof has been paid in advance.

### 13. Tax and miscellaneous item collection register.

\- All transactions relating to miscellaneous dues for which miscellaneous
receipts are issued shall be recorded in the tax and miscellaneous item
collection register.

### 14. Utilisation of moneys.

\- No moneys received on behalf of the village panchayat shall be utilised for
its expenditure without first being brought into the concerned account. No
part of any receipt received in cash shall be directly appropriated for
expenditure.

### 15. Refunds of revenue.

(1)No item of revenue received by a village panchayat shall be refunded
without the sanction of the village panchayat. The sanction accorded by the
village panchayat shall lapse after one year from the date of grant thereof
and, thereafter, a fresh sanction shall be necessary.(2)Bills for refunds of
revenue shall be drawn in V.P. Form 34 (Appendix-XIII). As soon as a refund is
made, a note of the grant thereof shall be made against the original credit
entry in the relevant accounts.

### 16. Sale of usufruct of trees, wind fallen trees, etc.

(1)All sales of -(a)the produce or usufruct of trees;(b)wind fallen and
withered trees;(c)sweepings;(d)tools and plants; and(e)old stores and
materials;belonging to village panchayats shall be effected by public auction
by the executive authority of the village panchayat as per the procedure laid
down by the Government.(2)The sale proceeds realised by the executive
authority of the village panchayat shall be remitted immediately in the
village panchayat fund.

### 17. Security for collection of fees.

\- Security adequate in the opinion of the executive authority shall in all
cases be taken for the due fulfilment of the terms of a lease of the produce
or usufruct of trees or of the right to collect fees in respect of markets,
cart stands, landing places, halting places, slaughter-houses, fisheries or of
any other similar right. The security so taken shall not be repaid to the
lessee unless and until he has satisfactorily complied with all the terms of
the lease. But, the amount of security may be adjusted towards the last
instalment due under the lease.

### 18. to 20.

\- [Omitted by G. O. Ms. No. 14, RD and PR (PR.l), dated the 14th January
2008.]

### 21. Seigniorage fees.

(1)The village panchayat shall receive a sum equivalent to the seigniorage
fees collected by the Government every year from persons permitted to quarry
minor minerals in the panchayat village.(2)The District Collector shall adjust
the seigniorage fees to the village panchayat fund once a year.

### 22. Devolution grant by the State Government.

(1)Each village panchayat shall receive a devolution grant based on the
recommendation of the State Finance Commission based on the norms fixed by the
Government, from time to time. This grant shall be credited to village
panchayat fund.(2)The Government may also sanction equalisation and incentive
grant to the village panchayat based on the norms as may be fixed by the
Government, from time to time.

### 23. Devolution grant by the Government of India.

(1)Each village panchayat shall receive a devolution grant based on the
recommendation of the 1st Finance Commission as per the norms fixed by the
Government of India, from time to time. The grant and other such amounts shall
be credited to village panchayat Earmarked Funds.

### 24. Receipt of money.

\- All money received by the executive authority or under his authority by an
officer or servant of the village panchayat including a Government servant,
whose services have been placed at the disposal of the village panchayat in
his capacity as such, shall be brought into account as soon as they are
received. All money so received shall be credited into the village panchayat
office daily.

### 25. Payment into Co-operative Bank, Regional Rural Bank, Post Office
Savings Bank or Nationalised Bank.

\- Every payment into a Co-operative Bank, Regional Rural Bank, Post Office
Savings Bank or Nationalised Bank shall be accompanied by a chalan, which
shall show the amount of the payment made, the nature thereof and the person
or office on whose account it is made.

### 26. Application of capital receipts to ordinary expenditure.

\- No village panchayat shall apply its capital receipts, such as sale
proceeds of land, building or machinery, to ordinary expenditure without the
previous sanction of the Inspector.

### 27. Supply of collection book.

\- Every village panchayat servant or the Village Administrative Officer
entrusted with the collection of revenue due to village panchayat shall be
supplied with a collection book.

### 28. Collection of taxes and other revenues.

\- Collection of taxes and other village panchayat revenues made by Bill
Collectors or Village Administrative Officer or his subordinates or any other
person shall be remitted into the village panchayat office through the taxes
and miscellaneous items collection register maintained in the village
panchayat office.

### 29. Issue of receipts.

\- Receipts in the form laid down by the Government shall be given for all
moneys received in the village panchayat office from the public except in the
case of the receipts acknowledged in the taxes and miscellaneous item
collection register. Such receipts shall be signed by the executive authority
or by official of village panchayat authorised by him.

### 30. Cash book and subsidiary registers.

\- The executive authority shall maintain or cause to be maintained such
accounts and registers in the village panchayat office in such form as laid
down by the Government.

## Part II – Expenditure

### 31. Payments from village panchayat.

\- All payments out of the village panchayat fund against bills presented to
the village panchayat shall be made only after the bills are passed by the
executive authority or by any person authorised by Government in respect of
any particular scheme or fund.

### 32. Payments by cheque.

(1)Payments shall be made only by crossed account payee cheques drawn in
favour of the parties as per the procedure laid down by Government, from time
to time. The executive authority may draw amounts in self-cheque only in
respect of the following payments: -(1)Salaries to the village panchayat
staff;(2)Travelling allowance payable to the executive authority, members and
staff of the village panchayat;(3)Petty office contingent expenditure;
and(4)Advances to the staff for festival.

### 33. Drawal of cheques.

\- Where the executive authority or other person of a village panchayat who is
authorised to draw cheques against the funds of the village panchayat hands
over charges of the office either temporarily or permanently, he shall send a
specimen of the signature of the relieving person together with a certificate
in the Form-I to the local official of the bank, or the post master or
secretary of the co-operative bank, as the case may be.

### 34. Maintenance of cheque books.

\- Cheque books shall be kept in the personal custody of the drawing authority
and when a transfer of charge takes place, a note shall be recorded in the
cash book over the signature of both the relieved and the relieving persons
showing the number of unused cheques and cheque books made over and received
by them respectively.

### 35. Procedure for claims against the village panchayat hind.

(1)Every person having any claim against the village panchayat fund shall
present a bill in village panchayat office.(2)Wherever possible, printed forms
shall be used in preparing bills.(3)Where a claimant presents a bill in a form
different from the form provided for the purpose, a separate bill in the
proper form shall be prepared by the officer incurring the expenditure and the
claimant's bill shall be attached thereto as a sub-voucher.(4)Every bill shall
be presented to the executive authority of the village panchayat who shall
enter it in the register of bills and then check and examine the bills as
regards its admissibility with reference to sanction or other documents, the
propriety of the claim and the arithmetical accuracy. If, on such check and
examination, the bill is found to be correct, the executive authority shall
pass the bill.(5)In respect of any scheme or fund, where the bill is to be
scrutinised and passed by a person authorised by Government, the executive
authority shall send such bill to the authorised person, who shall thoroughly
scrutinise the bill as aforesaid and if the bill is found to be correct and in
order, pass and send it back to the executive authority within three days for
drawing the cheque for the amount passed by the notified person.

### 36. Acknowledgments for incurring of money.

(1)Separate acknowledgments (stamped where necessary) shall be taken in the
acquittance register from each officer or servant of the village panchayat to
whom any salary or allowance is paid except where the drawer of the bill is
the sole payee and has already furnished a receipt (stamped where necessary),
on the bill itself.(2)Where any officer or servant of a village panchayat
makes any payment from any sum drawn by him, he shall unless a receipt
(stamped where necessary) has been furnished on the bill itself obtain and
attach to the bill a separate receipt (stamped where necessary).

### 37. Sanction of expenditure.

\- Where any item of expenditure requires the sanction of any authority higher
than the officer or servant drawing the bill, such sanction shall be obtained
and the terms thereof shall be quoted on the bill.

### 38. Certificate for sanctioning of expenditure.

(1)No item of expenditure shall be sanctioned by a village panchayat unless a
certificate furnished by the executive authority in Form II.If there is no
budget provision under the head concerned and the executive authority of the
village panchayat decides to find the amount by re-appropriation from another
head, the words "by re-appropriation" shall be added after the word "met".The
certificate shall be entered in the agenda, circulated before the meeting and
if accepted by the village panchayat need not be written again as part of the
resolution in the minutes book. If, however, the village panchayat makes any
alteration either in the amount of expenditure or in the head from which the
expenditure is to be met, the certificate shall form part of the resolution of
the village panchayat and be entered as such in the minutes book.(2)A sanction
for any fresh charge which has not been acted on for a year shall be held to
have lapse unless it is specifically renewed:Provided that this sub-rule shall
not apply to a expenditure on works which shall be governed by the provisions
laid down in sub-rule (3).(3)(a)The sanction to an ordinary annual maintenance
estimate shall lapse on the last day of the financial year to which it
relates. If, however, inconvenience would arise in any exceptional case from
stoppage of the work on that date, the repairs may be carried on to
completion, the expenditure incurred after that date being treated as
expenditure against a fresh repair estimate for the next financial
year.(b)Estimate for special repairs shall remain current till the completion
of the repairs in the same manner as estimates for original works.(c)The
approval of sanction to an estimate for any public work other than annual
maintenance shall, unless such work has been commenced, cease to operate after
a period of three years from the date from which it was accorded.

### 39. Limitation of claims.

\- No claim made against a village panchayat other than one relating to any
officer or servant of the village panchayat which will be governed by rules
separately framed in that behalf, shall be laid -(1)where the bill is
presented more than six months, but not more than one year from the date on
which the claim became due without the order of the executive authority;
and(2)where such bill is presented more than one year from the date on which
the claim became due without the order of the village panchayat.

### 40. Overpayment.

\- The responsibility for the over payment shall rest primarily with the
drawer of a bill who shall be required to make good the over payment and in
cases where the bill is passed by a person notified by Government in respect
of any scheme of fund, the over payment shall be recovered from such notified
person.

### 41. Defalcation or loss of moneys or stamps.

(1)Any defalcation or loss of moneys or stamps belonging to a village
panchayat shall be reported immediately after discovery by the president or
any one of the inspecting officer to the Inspector and Auditor appointed under
section 193 of the Act. A further and complete report shall also be submitted
to such auditor as soon as may be after the matter has been fully enquired
into, by such inspecting officer setting for the nature and the extent of the
defalcation or loss. The errors or neglect of rules by which such defalcation
or loss was rendered possible, and the prospects of effecting a
recovery.(2)Loss by theft or otherwise of any property belonging to a village
panchayat shall also be reported by the president or inspecting officer to the
auditor, if the purchase value of the property exceeds rupees one
thousand.(3)The submission of the reports prescribed by sub-rules (1) and (2)
shall not be deemed to debar the village panchayat or the executive authority
from taking such further action as may be considered necessary.

### 42. Loss of property due to other causes.

(1)Any loss caused to any immovable property belonging to village panchayats
due to calamity, such as, fire or flood or cyclone other than wear and tear
shall be reported to the Inspector and auditor appointed under section 193 of
the Act in Form III.(2)In case of loss by way of damage to any portion of any
immovable property belonging to village panchayats, it shall not be necessary
to write off the value of the damaged portion, if the damaged portion is
replaced or reconstructed within a period of two years from the date of such
damage.(3)For the purpose of write off, the value of the temporary structures
damaged or destroyed which have served the period intended for and which are
therefore not proposed to be replaced or reconstructed, the value of such
structures shall be assessed by the Block Engineer/Assistant Engineer (Rural
Development) as on the date of damage or destruction.

### 43. Establishment bills.

\- Pay bills shall be prepared in such form as may be laid down by the
Government, from time to time. The monthly pay bill of the establishments
shall be supported either by an absentee statement in such form as may be laid
down by the Government, from time to time, or by a certificate in the bill
that no leave has been granted to any member of the establishment.

### 44. Increment certificate form.

\- To the first pay bill in which a periodical increment is drawn, an
increment certificate in such form as may be laid down by the Government, from
time to time, shall be attached.

### 45. Drawal of pay of officers.

\- The pay of an officer or servant lent by the Government to a village
panchayat or transferred to it from any other local body shall be drawn only
after the receipt,of the last pay certificate which shall be in such form as
may be laid down by the Government, from time to time, granted by the head of
his former office. Such certificate shall be attached to the first pay bill
drawn after such loan or transfer.

### 46. Payment due to a deceased officer or servant.

(1)Pay, leave salary and allowances may be drawn for the day of death of an
officer or servant of the village panchayat. The hour at which death takes
place does not affect the claim.(2)Payment due to a deceased officer or
servant of a village panchayat shall not be made except on the production of
an authority of the nature specified in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)
of sub-section (1) of section 214 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (Central
Act XXXIX of 1925):Provided that payment may be made without the production of
such authority -(i)to the extent of Rs. 250 under the orders of the village
panchayat, if it is satisfied after such enquiry as it may consider
sufficient, about the right and title of the claimant; and(ii)above Rs. 250
under the orders of the Inspector on the execution of an indemnity bond with
such security or securities as he may require if he is satisfied, after such
enquiry as he may consider sufficient, about the right and title of the
claimant and considers that undue delay and hardship would be caused by
insisting on the production of such authority.

### 47. Drawal of arrears of pay.

\- Arrears of pay shall be drawn not in the monthly bill, but in a separate
bill which shall quote the bill from which the charge was omitted or withheld
or on which it was refunded by deduction.

### 48. Authority to sign and pass pay bills.

\- Pay bills shall be signed and passed by the executive authority.

### 49. Date of payment of salaries and allowances.

\- Payment of salaries and fixed allowances shall be made on the last working
day of the month to which the payment relates:Provided that in the event of an
officer or servant finally quitting the service of the village panchayat or
being transferred to the service of another local body or the Government,
payment may be made on the date of such event.

### 50. Responsibility of the drawer of a bill.

\- The drawer of a bill for salary and allowances shall be personally
responsible for the amount so drawn until it has been disbursed to the proper
person or persons concerned and their acquittances have been obtained. If the
payee does not present himself within thirty days from the date of drawal of
moneys, the amount drawn for him shall be refunded by short drawal in the next
bill. The amount of salary and allowances drawn shall not, in any
circumstances, be placed under deposit.

### 51. Audit register.

\- In order to facilitate the check of monthly bills for recurring charges,
such as establishment, house-rent and conveyance, an audit register shall be
maintained in the office of every village panchayat.

### 52. Drawal of travelling allowance.

\- Travelling allowance other than fixed travelling allowances shall be drawn
in a separate bill in such form as may be laid down by the Government, from
time to time.

### 53. Drawal of conveyance allowance.

\- Conveyance allowance shall be drawn in the pay bill of the officer or
servant concerned and not on travelling allowance bills. To every bill for
conveyance allowance, a certificate shall be attached that the conveyance was
actually maintained in good condition and used by him during the month.

### 54. Placing of all bills before the village panchayat.

\- All bills for expenditure incurred in a month, whether with or without the
sanction of the village panchayat, shall be placed before it as early as
possible for being passed after such scrutiny as it may be consider necessary.

## Part III – General

### 55. Limited number of accounts.

\- Every village panchayat shall have accounts preferably Saving Bank Account
in the Post Office, Primary Co-operative Bank, the Nationalised Bank available
in the panchayat village. Total number of accounts to be opened and operated
by village panchayat shall, on no occasion, be more than five.

### 56. Reconciliation of receipt and expenditure.

\- The executive authority of village panchayat shall be responsible to
reconcile village panchayat funds with receipts and bank accounts. He shall be
responsible to reconcile all the expenditure accounts.

### 57. Placing receipts and expenditure details before the Grama Sabha.

\- The President of each village panchayat shall present in every Grama Sabha
meeting, the receipts and expenditure of village panchayat upto previous month
of the financial year. Once in a year, President of the village panchayat
shall present the annual report of the village panchayat for the previous
financial year which will include the annual accounts clearly indicating the
receipts and expenditure.Form I[See rule 33]Form of Certificate(Signed)A.
B.Signature and designation of the relieving person.I certify that the above
is the signature of the individual to whom I have made over charge of my
office with effect from the forenoon/afternoon of ........(date)
of.........(month).......of.......... (year).(Signed)C.D.Signature of the
authority handing over charge with date.Form II[See rule 38]Certificate For
Sanctioning Expenditure

The amount may be met from the budget allotmentof under the head - | Rs................  
---|---  
The amount spent under this head up-to-date is | Rs................  
The amount sanctioned up-to-date but not spentis | Rs................  
The amount to be sanctioned now is | Rs................  
| Total  
The balance remaining amount will beRs........... |   
  
Form III[See rule 42]Report of Damage To Immovable Property Belonging To
Village Panchayat

### 1\. Name of the Village Panchayat.

### 2\. Name and location of the property damaged or destroyed.

### 3\. Description of the property damaged or destroyed.

### 4\. Cause of the damage or destruction.

### 5\. Value of the damaged or destroyed portion of the property at the time
of damage or destruction.

### 6\. (a) Is it proposed to replace or reconstruct the damaged or destroyed
portion ?

(b)If so, what is the estimated cost of the replacement or reconstruction ?

### 7\. If it is not proposed to replace or reconstruct the damaged or
destroyed portion of the property, what is the amount to be written off in the
capital value of the property in the accounts ?

### 8\. What action is being taken to effect such write-off, if any ?

