## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937

## Act 10 of 1937

  * Published on 1 May 1981 
  * Commenced on 1 May 1981 
  * [This is the version of this document from 28 December 2022.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

  1. [Amended by Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 2022 (Act 48 of 2022) on 28 December 2022] 

Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937(Tamil Nadu Act No. 10 of 1937)Last Updated
23rd June, 2019An Act to introduce and extend the prohibition of the
manufacture, sale and consumption of intoxicating liquors and drugs in the
[State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for the expression
'province of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which
was deemed to have come into force on the 14th January 1969.].Whereas it is
expedient as early as possible to bring about the prohibition, except for
medicinal, scientific, industrial or such like purposes, of the production,
manufacture, possession, export, import, transport, purchase, sale and
consumption of intoxicating liquors and drugs in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'province of Madras' by
the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which was deemed to have come
into force on the 14th January 1969.];And Whereas it is desirable to give
effect to the above mentioned policy by introducing it in certain selected
areas in the [said State] [These words were substituted for the words 'said
Province' by paragraph 4 of, and the Schedule to, 14th January 1969.] and
utilizing the experience gained therein for extending it to the other areas
thereof ;It is hereby enacted as follows : -

## Chapter I  
Preliminary.

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for
the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Prohibition Act, 1937.(2)It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by 14th
January 1969.].(3)(a)This section and sections 3 and 6 shall come into force
in the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for
the expression 'State of Madras' by 14th January 1969.] at once.(b)The rest of
this Act shall come into force-(i)in the district of Salem, at once ;
and(ii)in any other local area in, the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression
was substituted for the-expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] on such date as the [State] [This word
was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Repeals.

\- From the date on which the provisions of this Act other than sections 1, 3
and 6 come into force in any local area, the enactments mentioned in [Schedule
I] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation
Order of 1950.] shall cease to be in force in such area to the extent
specified in the fourth column thereof :Provided that the [State] [This word
was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government may, by notification, declare that the provisions of this Act other
than sections 1, 3 and 6 shall cease to be in force in any local area on such
dates as may be specified in the notification and thereupon the enactments
mentioned in [Schedule I] [This word and figure were substituted for the words
'the Schedule' by the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act VIII of 1958), section 2.] with any subsequent statutory modifications
thereof shall revive and come into force in such area with effect on and from
such date.[Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that if a notification is issued in pursuance of the foregoing proviso, in
respect of any area which formerly formed part of the State of Pudukkottai,
[***] [This Explanation was added by section 10 (3) of the Tamil Nadu merged
States (Laws)Act, 1949 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1949,) which come into force on
the1st January 1950.] the enactments mentioned in [Schedule I] [This word and
figure were substituted for the words 'the Schedule' by the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958), section 2.]
with any subsequent statutory modifications thereof shall come into force in
such area with effect on and from such date as may be specified in the
notification.]

### 3. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context
-(1)[ "blending unit" means a unit where Indian-made foreign spirits are
manufactured;] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 14 of 1937.][(1-A)]
[Renumbered '(1)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.] "bottle" means to
transfer liquor from a cask or other vessel to a bottle, jar, flask or pot or
similar receptacle for the purpose of sale whether any process of manufacture
be employed or not and includes re-bottling;(2)"buy" or "buying" includes any
receipt including gift;(3)"Collector" means a Collector of land revenue or any
person appointed under clause (b) of section 25 to exercise all or any of the
powers or to perform all or any of the duties of a Collector under this Act
;[Explanation. - 'Collector of land revenue' includes Additional Collector and
District Revenue Officer;] [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of
1986.](4)"Commissioner" means the officer appointed under clause (a) of
section 25 ;(5)"cultivation" includes the tending or protecting of a plant
during growth and does not necessarily imply raising it from seed;[(5-A)
'excisable article' means any alcoholic liquor for human consumption but does
not include medicinal and toilet preparations mentioned in entry 84 of List I
in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No.
23 of 1981.](6)"export" means-(a)to take out of any local area to which this
Act applies to any other local area in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This
expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil
Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,1969.] to which this Act has not been
extended, or(b)to take out of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation
of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order,1969.] otherwise than across a customs frontier as defined by
the Central Government;[(6-A) 'foreign liquor' [***] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act No. 23 of 1981.] includes every liquor imported into India, other than
Indian-made foreign spirits, plain rectified spirits and denatured and
methylated spirits ;](7)"import" means -(a)to bring into any local area to
which this Act applies from any other local area in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[This expression was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,1969.] to which this Act has not
been extended, or(b)to bring into the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression
was substituted for the expression 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order,1969.], [including the bringing] [Substituted
'otherwise than' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 22 of 2007.] across a customs frontier
as defined by the Central Government;[(7-A) 'Indian-made foreign spirits'
means spirits manufactured and compounded in India and made in colour and
flavour to resemble gin, brandy, whisky or rum imported into India and
includes " milk punch " and other liquors consisting of or containing
spirits;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.](8)" intoxicating drug "
means-(i)the leaves, small stalks And flowering or fruiting tops of the Indian
hemp plant (Cannabis savita L.) including all forms known as bhang, siddhi or
ganja;(ii)charas, that is, the resin obtained from the Indian hemp plant,
which has not been,submitted to any manipulations other than those necessary
for packing and transport ;(iii)any mixture, with or without neutral
materials, of any of the above forms of intoxicating drug, or any drink
prepared therefrom; and(iv)any other intoxicating or narcotic substance which
the [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may, by notification, declare to be an
intoxicating drug, such substance not being opium, coca leaf, or a
manufactured drug, as defined in section 2 of the Dangerous Drugs Central Act,
1930 (Central Act II of 1930).(9)"liquor" includes toddy, [arrack] [This word
was inserted by section 3 (a) (0 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment)
Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).], spirits of wine, [denatured
spirits] [Those words were substituted for the words 'metholated spirit' by
section 3 (a) (ii) 1958.], spirits, wine, beer and all liquid consisting of or
containing alcohol;[Explanation. - "Denatured" means subjected to a process
prescribed by the State Government by notification for the purpose of
rendering unfit for human consumption.] [This explanation was added by section
3 (a) (iii) 1958.](10)"local body" means the Corporation of Madras, any
municipality constituted under the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted
for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as
amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order,1969.]
District Municipalities Act, 1920, or any local [board] [Now the district
board, panchayat union council and panchayat.] constituted under the [Tamil
Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order,1969.] [Local Boards Act, 1920] [Now t lit Tamil
Nadu District Boards Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1920), the Tamil Nadu
Village Panchayats Act, 1950 , (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1950) and the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats, Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXV of 1958).];(11)"manufacture"
includes every process, whether natural or artificial, by which any fermented,
spirituous, or intoxicating liquor or intoxicating drug is produced, prepared
or blended, and also re-distillation and every process for the rectification
of liquor;[(11-A) "molasses" means the heavy dark coloured residual syrup
drained away in the final stage of the manufacture of gur or sugar containing,
in solution or suspension,sugars which can be fermented and includes any
product formed by the addition to such syrup of any ingredient which does not
substantially alter the character of such syrup ; but does not include any
article which the State Government may, by notification, declare not to be
molasses, for the purposes of this Act ; [These clauses were inserted by
section 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act VIII of 1958.](11-B) "neera or padani" means juice drawn from a coconut,
palmyra, date or any other kind of palm tree into receptacles treated so as to
prevent any fermentation and not fermented ;](12)"place" includes also a
house, shed, enclosure, building, shop, tent and vessel ;(13)"police station"
includes any place which the [State] [This word was substituted for the word
'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order or 1950.] Government may, by
notification, declare to be a police station for the purposes of this
Act;(14)"Prohibition Officer" means the Commissioner, a Collector, or any
officer or other person lawfully appointed or invested with powers under
section 25 ;[***] [Omitted 'clause (14-A)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.](15)"rectification" includes every process whereby spirits are purified
or are coloured or flavoured by mixing any material therewith;(16)"sale" or
"selling" includes any transfer including gift ;(17)[ "spirits" means any
alcohol and includes any liquor containing alcohol and obtained by
distillation, whether such liquor is denatured or not ; [This clause was
substituted for the original clause (17) by section 3(c) of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).]Explanation.
- "Denatured" means subjected to a process prescribed by the State Government
by notification for the purpose of rendering unfit for human
consumption.][***] [Clause (18) was omitted by section 3(d), 1958.](19)"toddy"
means the fermented or unfermented juice drawn from a coconut, palmyra, date,
or any other kind of palm tree ; [***] [The word 'and' was omitted by section
2(i) of the Madras Prohibition (Second Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act XVII
of 1938).][(19-A) 'transit' means to move through the territory of the State
of Tamil Nadu from any place in India outside the State of Tamil Nadu to any
other place in India outside the state of Tamil Nadu;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act No. 2 of 1983.](20)" transport " means to move from one place to another
within any local area to which this Act applies [; and [This was added by
section 2(11), of the Madras Prohibition (Second Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras
Act XVII of 1938).](21)any references to a permit generally or 10 a permit
granted under section 18, 19 or 20 shall be construed as including a reference
to an Authority issued under section 16-A.]

## Chapter II  
Prohibitions and Penalties.

### 4. [ Prohibition of the manufacture of, traffic in , and consumption of,
liquor and intoxicating drugs. [This section was substituted for the original
section 4 by section of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958
(Tamil Nadu Act, VIII of 1958).]

(1)Whoever-(a)imports, exports, transports or possesses liquor or any
intoxicating drug; or(aa)[ imports, exports, transports or possesses liquor
exceeding fifty litres but less than one hundred litres ; or(aaa)imports,
exports, transports or possesses liquor of one hundred litres and above ;
or](b)manufactures liquor or any intoxicating drug ; or(c)except in accordance
with the rules made by the State Government in that behalf, cultivates the
hemp plant (Cannabis sativa); or collects any portion of such plant from which
an intoxicating drug has be manufactured; or(d)taps any toddy-producing tree
or permits or suffers to be tapped any toddy-producing tree belonging to him
or in his possession; or(e)draws toddy from any tree or permits or suffers
toddy to be drawn from any tree belonging to him or in his possession ;
or(f)constructs or works any distillery or brewery; or(g)uses, keeps or has in
his possession any materials, stilt, utensil, implement or apparitions
whatsoever for the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any
intoxicating drug, or keeps or has in his possession any materials which low
undergone any process towards the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating
drug or from which any liquor or intoxicating drug has been manufactured;
or(h)bottles any liquor for purposes of sale; or(i)sells liquor or any
intoxicating drug ; or(j)consumes or buys liquor or any intoxicating drug ;
or(jj)[ knowingly expends or applies any money in direct furtherance or
support of the commission of any of the acts specified in clauses (a) to (j);]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.](k)allows any of the acts aforesaid
upon premises in his immediate possession, [shall be punished - [Substituted
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.](i)in the case of an offence falling under
clause (a), clause (b), clause (f), clause (g), clause (h), clause (i) or
clause (jj) or an offence falling under clause (k) in so far as it relates to
an act specified in any of the clauses aforesaid, with rigorous imprisonment
for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to
seven thousand rupees :Provided that -(a)for a first offence, such rigorous
imprisonment shall not be -(A)less than six months in the case of any person
other than a public servant; or(B)less than one year in the case of a public
servantand such fine shall not be less than) two thousand rupees;(b)for a
second or subsequent offence, such rigorous imprisonment shall not be -(A)less
than one year in the case of any person other than a public servant; or(B)less
than two years in the case of a public servantand such fine shall not be less
than three thousand rupees;(ii-a) in the case of an offence falling under
clause (j), with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and with fine which may extend to three thousand rupees :Provided that
-(a)for a first offence, such rigorous imprisonment shall not be -(A)less than
three months in the case of any person other than a public servant; or(B)less
than one year in the case of a public servantand such fine shall not be less
than two thousand rupees;(b)for a second or subsequent offence, such rigorous
imprisonment shall not be -(A)less than one year in the case of any person
other than a public servant; or(B)less than two years in the case of a public
servantand such fine shall not be less than three thousand rupees;(ii-b) in
any other case with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and with fine which may extend to three thousand rupees;][(1-A) Where in
the case of an offence falling under clause (a), [clause (aa), clause (aaa),]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], clause (b), clause (h), or clause
(i) of sub-section (1), the liquor or any intoxicating drug involved contains
any ingredient which is likely to cause death or grievous hurt to the
consumer, then the offender, on conviction, shall be punished -(i)if death has
ensued due to its consumption, with rigorous imprisonment for life and with
fine which shall not be less than five thousand rupees; and(ii)in any other
case, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years and
with fine which may extend to seven thousand rupees :[***] [Omitted 'Proviso'
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.] ](2)It shall be presumed until the contrary
is shown-(a)that a person accused of any offence under [clauses (a) to (jj)]
[Substituted 'clauses (a) to (j)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] of sub-
section (1) has committed such offence in respect of any liquor or
intoxicating drug or any still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for
the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug or
any such materials as are ordinarily used in the tapping of toddy or the
manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug or any materials which have
undergone any process towards the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating
drug or from which any liquor or intoxicating drug has been manufactured, for
the possession of which he is unable to account satisfactorily , and(b)that a
person accused of any offence under clause (k) of sub-section (1) has
committed such offence if an offence is proved to have been committed in
premises in his immediate possession in respect of any liquor or intoxicating
drug or any still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the tapping
of toddy or the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug or any such
materials as are ordinarily used in the tapping of toddy or the manufacture of
liquor or any intoxicating drug or any materials which have undergone any
process toward the manufacture of liquor or any intoxicating drug or from
which any liquor or intoxicating drug has been manufactured.]

### 4A. [ Punishment for being found in a state of intoxication. [Substituted
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]

\- Whoever is found in a state of intoxication in any public place and
whoever, not having been permitted to consume any liquor or intoxicating drug
in pursuance of this Act, is found in a state of intoxication in any private
place, [shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees].Provided
that -(a)for a first offence, such rigorous imprisonment shall not be -(A)less
than three months in the case of any person other than a public servant;
or(B)less than six months in the case of a public servantand such fine shall
not be less than one thousand rupees;(b)for a second or subsequent offence,
such a rigorous imprisonment shall not be -(A)less than six months in the case
of any person other than a public servant; or(B)less than one year in the case
of a public servantand such fine shall not be less than two thousand rupees.]

### 5. Punishment for rendering or attempting to render denatured spirits fir
for human consumption.

\- Whoever renders or attempts to render fit for human consumption any spirit
whether , manufactured in [***] [The word 'British' was omitted by the
Adaptation (Amendment) Order of 1950.] India or not, which has been denatured
[or any preparation containing such spirit] [These words were inserted by
section 2 (i) of the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act. 1950 (Madras Act XXXI
of 1950).] or has, in his possession, any spirit '[or preparation containing
spirit] [These words were inserted by section 2 (ii), of the Madras
Prohibition (Amendment) Act. 1950 (Madras Act XXXI of 1950).] in respect of
which he knows or has reason to believe that any such attempt has been made
[shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.]
[Substituted 'shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees' by Tamil
Nadu Act No. 57 of 1998.]:[***] [Omitted 'Proviso' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.]For the purpose of this section it shall be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, that any spirit or preparation containing spirit which is proved on
chemical analysis to contain any quantity of any of the prescribed denaturants
is, or contains or has been, derived from, denatured spirit.

### 6. Prohibition of advertisement.

\- Whoever prints or publishes in any newspaper, book, leaflet, booklet or any
other single or periodical publication or otherwise or distributes any
advertisement or other matter [***][The word commending was omitted by section
6 (a) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII
of 1958).] soliciting the use of, or offering any liquor or intoxicating drug
other than liquor or drugs exempted under section 16 [***] [The words and
figures 'or specially approved as of medicinal value by the Medical Council
established by the Madras Medical Registration Act, 1914 ' were omitted by
section 2 (1) of the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act X of
1938).] shall be punished [ [with [***] [These words were substituted for the
words 'with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees ' by section 6 (b) of
the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of
1958).] imprisonment] which may extent to six months or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees or with both]:Provided that this section shall
not apply -(a)to plain catalogues and price lists which may be generally or
specially approved by the Commissioner; or(b)[ to advertisements in medical
journals, or to notices and literature circulated exclusively to members of
the medical profession, if such advertisements, notices or literature relate
to any liquor or intoxicating drug which has been specially approved as of
medicinal value - [Clauses (b) and (c) were lettered as clauses (c) and (d)
respectively, and clause (b) was inserted by section 2 (ii) of the Madras
Prohibition (Amendment). Act, 1938 (Madras Act X of 1938).](i)by the Medical
Council established by the [Tamil Nadu] Medical Registration Act, 1914, (Tamil
Nadu Act IV of 1914.) ; or(ii)by any other Medical Council which has been
established under any law for the time being in force [in any other State]
[These words were substituted for the words ' in any other Province in British
India or in any Indian State ' by the Adaptation (Amendment) Order of 1950.],
or which has been recognized by the Government of such [***] [The words
'Province or' were omitted by Order of 1950.] State ; or(iii)by such authority
in respect of Indian Medicine as may be notified by the [State] [This word was
substituted for the word ' Provincial ' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government ; or](c)[] [Clauses (b) and (c) were relettered as clauses (c) and
(d) respectively and clause (d) was inserted by section 2 (ii) of the Madras
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act X of 1938).] to the normal
circulation within the [State] [This word was substituted for the word '
Provincial ' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] of newspapers, periodicals and
books printed and published in accordance with law outside the [State] [This
word was substituted for the word ' Provincial ' by the Adaptation Order of
1950.] ; or(d)[] [Clauses (b) and (c) were relettered as clauses (c) and (d)
respectively and clause (d) was inserted by section 2 (ii) of the Madras
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act X of 1938).] to any
advertisement contained in a newspaper printed and published in the [State]
[This word was substituted for the word 'Province' by Act, 1938 (Madras Act X
of 1938).] before the first day of January 1938.

### 6A. [ Control and regulation of molasses. [This word was inserted by
section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act
VIII of 1958).]

(1)Except as otherwise provided in subsections (2) and (3) no person shall
import, export, transport, sell or have in his possession any quantity of
molasses.(2)The State Government may, by general or special order, authorise
any officer to grant licences for the import, export, sale or possession of
molasses.(3)The State Government may also authorise any officer to grant
permits for the transport of molasses.]

### 6B. [ Regulation of transit of liquor. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2
of 1983.]

(1)Except as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), no person shall transit
any liquor.(2)Subject to the control of the State Government, the Collector or
any officer not below the rank of a Deputy Collector empowered by him in this
behalf may issue permit for the transit of any liquor in such form and subject
to such conditions as may be prescribed. Every application for transit permit
shall be made within such time as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied
by copies of the export and import permits issued by the concerned States from
which, and to which, the liquor is in transit.(3)The following shall be
conditions of every permit issued under sub-section (2) : -(a)that the transit
of liquor shall be made along the route or routes specified in the permit ;
and(b)that the transit shall be under police escort at such scale as may be
prescribed provided by the prescribed authority at the cost of the person who
transits liquor.]

### 7. [ Punishment for conspiracy. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.]

\- When two or more persons agree -(i)to commit or cause to be committed any
offence under sub-section (1) of section 4 or under section 5; or(ii)to evade
or nullify the provisions of this Act,each of such persons shall,
notwithstanding that no act except the agreement was done by any of the
parties thereof in pursuance thereof, be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.][Provided that if the agreement relates to an offence under clause
(aaa), clause (b), clause (f), or clause (h) of sub-section (1), or punishable
under sub-section (1-A), of section 4, each of such persons shall be punished
with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with
fine may extend to ten thousand rupees.]

### 8. Punishment for vexatious search or areas.

\- Any officer or person exercising powers under this Act, who -(a)without
reasonable ground of suspicion, enters or searches or causes to be searched,
any closed place ; or(b)vexatiously and unnecessarily seizes the property of
any person on the pretence of seizing or searching for anything liable to
confiscation under this Act ; or(c)vexatiously and unnecessarily detains,
searches or arrests any person ; or(d)maliciously and falsely lays information
leading to a search, seizure, detention or arrest ; or(e)in any other way
maliciously exceeds his lawful powers, shall be punished [with [***]
[Substituted 'with imprisonment' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]
imprisonment] which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees, or with both.

### 9. Punishment for vexatious delay.

\- Any officer or person exercising powers under this Act, who vexatiously and
unnecessarily delays forwarding to a Prohibition Officer or to the officer in
charge of the nearest police station as required Section 38, any person
arrested or any article seized under this Act, shall be punished with fine
which may extend to two hundred rupees.

### 10. Punishment for abetment of escape of persons arrested, etc.

\- Any officer or person exercising powers under this Act who-(a)unlawfully
releases or abets the escape of any person arrested under this Act, or abets
the commission of any offence against this Act, or(b)acts in any manner
inconsistent with his duty for the purpose of enabling any person to do
anything whereby any of the provisions of this Act may be evaded or broken,
and any other officer of the [State] [This word was substituted for the word
'Provincial' by the Adaption Order of 1950.] Government or of a local body who
abets the commission of any offence against this Act,shall be punished [with
[***] [Substituted 'with imprisonment' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]
imprisonment] which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees, or with both.

### 11. Punishment for offences not otherwise provided for.

\- Whoever is guilty of any wilful act or intentional omission in
contravention of any of the order made thereunder and not otherwise provided
for in this Act, shall be punished [[with [***] [These words were substituted
for the words 'with fine which extend to two hundered rupees, by the section 8
of Tamily Naudu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamily Nadu Act, VIII of
1958).] imprisonment] which may extend to six months or with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees or with both].

### 12. Punishment for abetment of offence against Act in area to which Act is
not extended.

\- Where any offence against this Act is committed in any area to which it has
been extended, whoever commits, or attempts to commit, or abets the commission
of, any of the acts making up the offence shall be liable to be punished
therefor, whether such commission, attempt or abetment takes place within or
outside such area.

### 13. [Drug, etc., liable to confiscation] [Substituted 'Things liable to
confiscation' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of 1986.].

\- In any case in which an offence has been committed [against this Act or the
rules made thereunder] [Substituted 'against this Act' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2
of 1983.], [in relation to drug, the drug] [Substituted 'the liquor, drug' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of 1986.], material, still, utensil, implement, or
apparatus in respect or by means of which the offence has been committed shall
be liable to confiscation along with the receptacles, packages, coverings,
animals, vessels, carts or other vehicles used to hold or carry the same.

### 13A. [ Liquor, etc., liable to confiscation. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act
No. 68 of 1986.]

\- whenever an offence in relation to liquor has been committed, which is
punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the following things
shall be liable to confiscation, namely: -(1)any liquor, material, still,
utensil, implement, apparatus in respect or by means, of which such offence
has been committed;(2)any liquor lawfully imported, exported, transported,
manufactured, held in possession or sold along with, or in addition to any
liquor liable to confiscation under this section;(3)any receptacle, package or
covering in which anything liable to confiscation under clause (1) or clause
(2), is found and the other contents, if any, of such receptacle or package or
covering and any animal, cart vessel or other conveyance used for carrying the
same:Provided that, if anything specified in clause (3) is not the property of
the offender, it shall not be confiscated if the owner thereof had no reason
to believe that such offence was being or was likely to be committed.]

### 14. Confiscation how ordered.

(1)When the offender is convicted or when the person charged with an offence
against this Act is acquitted, but the Court decides that anything is liable
to confiscation, such confiscation [shall be ordered by the Court]
[Substituted 'may be ordered by the Court' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.].(2)[ Where, during the trial of a case for an offence against this Act,
the court decides that anything is liable to confiscation, the court shall
order the confiscation :Provided that no animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle
shall be confiscated under sub-section (1), or sub-section (2), if the court
after hearing the owner of such animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle and any
person claiming any right thereto, is satisfied that the owner and such person
had exercised due care in the prevention of the commission of such an
offence.] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.](3)[] [This section
(2) was inserted by section 9 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment), Act,
1958 (Tamil Nadu Act, VIII of 1958).] When an offence against Ibis Act has
been committed but the offender is not known, or cannot be found, or when
anything liable to confiscation under this Act and not in the possession of
any person cannot be satisfactorily accounted for, the case shall be inquired
into and determined by the Collector of other Prohibition Officer in charge of
the district or by any other officer authorized by the [State] [This word was
substituted for the word 'Provincial by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government in that behalf, who [shall order such confiscation] [Substituted
'may order such confiscation' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] :Provided that
no such order shall be made until the expiration of fifteen days from the date
of seizing the things intended to be confiscated or without hearing the
persons, if any, claiming any right thereto, and evidence, if any, which they
produce in support of their claims.(4)[ Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-sections (1) to (3), the Collector or other Prohibition Officer in-charge
of the district or any other officer authorised by the State Government in
that behalf, shall detain the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle used in
the commission of an offence against this Act till the case is disposed of by
the court and notwithstanding anything contained in. the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), no interim order regarding the
disposal of such property shall be passed by the court till the case is
disposed of.] [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]

### 14A. [ Owner of animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle deemed to be guilty
in certain cases. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]

\- Where any animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle is used in the commission
of any offence under this Act and is liable to confiscation, the owner thereof
shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence and such owner shall be liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly unless he satsifies the court
that he had exercised due care in the prevention of the commission of such an
offence.]

### 15. Offences under Act to be cognizable.

\- All offences under this Act shall be cognizable and the provisions of the
[Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted 'Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], with respect
to cognizable offences shall apply to them.

### 15A. [ Summary trial of certain offences. [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act
No. 9 of 1979.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974), the stated Government may confer on -(i)any Judicial
Magistrate of the first class, or(ii)any Judicial Magistrate of the second
class, or(iii)any Special Judicial Magistrate appointed under section 13 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974),power to try
summarily in accordance with the provisions contained in sections 262 to 265
of the said Code, all or any of the offences which are punishable under this
Act with [***] imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or with fine,
or with both, but as a result of such trial no sentence except a sentence of
fine shall be imposed.]

### 15B. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.]

15B. Enhanced jurisdiction of Judicial Magistrates, Metropolitan Magistrates
and Special Judicial Magistrates.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
section 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), it
shall be lawful for the Magistrates specified in column (1) of the Table below
to exercise the powers specified in the corresponding entry in column (2)
thereof, in respect of offences punishable under this Act: -{|  
---  
(1) |  | (2)  
Judicial Magistrates of the first class orMetropolitan Magistrates. |  |  Rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceedingfive years; fine not exceeding seven thousand rupees.  
Judicial Magistrates of the second class orSpecial Judicial Magistrates appointed under section 13 of theCode of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974). |  |  Rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceedingthree years; fine not exceeding three thousand rupees.  
  
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 26 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974), -(a)any offence punishable with
rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years may be tried by a
Judicial Magistrate of the second class or a Special Judicial Magistrate
appointed under section 13 of the said Code ;(b)any offence punishable with
rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years may be tried by a
Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate; and(c)any
offence under section 4 (1-A) may be tried by a Court of Session.|}

### 15C. Certain offences to be non-bailable.

(1)The offences punishable under this Act with rigorous imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three years and upwards shall be non-bailable and the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974),
with respect to non-bailable offences, shall apply to those
offences.(2)Nothing contained in sections 27, 28, 29, 32, 38 and 39 shall be
construed as enabling a person to be admitted to bail if the offence alleged
to have been committed by such person is one referred to in sub-section (1).]

## Chapter Exemptions  
and Licences.

### 16. Power to notify exemptions.

(1)The [State] [This word was substituted, for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaption Order of 1950.] Government may, by notification Lion and subject to
such conditions as they think fit, exempt any specified liquor or intoxicating
drug or article containing such liquor or drug from the observance of all or
any of the provisions of this Act on the ground that such liquor, drug or
article is required for a medicinal, scientific, industrial or such like
purpose,(2)[ Whoever commits a breach of any of the conditions subject to
which the exemption is notified under sub-section (1), [shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees] [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.] :[***] [Omitted 'Proviso' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.]]

### 16A. [ Authorities for bona fide religious purposes. [This section was
inserted by section 3 of the Madras Prohibition (Second Amendment) Act, 1938
(Madras Act XVII of 1938).]

\- [State] Government shall make suitable provision for issuing Authorities to
persons and institutions for the possession and use of such liquor as may be
required by them for any bona fide religious purpose in accordance with
ancient custom, under such terms and conditions, and penalties for
infringement, as may be prescribed.]

### 17. Exemption of bona fide travellers and lawful consignments.

\- Until the The [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial'
by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government by notification otherwise direct,
the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to apply-(a)to liquor in the
possession of bona fide travellers for their own personal use while passing
through any local area in which this Act is in force ; or(b)to lawful
consignments of liquor or intoxicating drugs carried [***] [The words ' by a
railway administration ' were omitted by section 2 of the Madras Prohibition
(Amendment) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XII of 1948). This amendment should be
deemed to have come into force on the 2nd day of August 1947.] through or into
any such local area.

### 17A. [ Exemption of members of armed forces, etc. [This section was
inserted by section 2 (1) of the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act 1949
(Madras Act XXVI of 1949); and the original section 17-A inserted earlier by
the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1948 (Madrs Act XII of 1948) was
omitted by section 2 (2) of the former Act.]

(1)The [State] Government may, by notification and subject to such conditions
as they think fit, exempt members of the armed forces of the [Union] [This
word was substituted for the words 'Dominion of India' by the Adaption
(Amendment) Order of 1950.] or of any other armed forces raised or maintained
by the [Union] [This word was substituted for the words 'Dominion of India' by
the Adaption (Amendment) Order of 1950.] or attached to or operating with any
of its armed forces, and the members of the medical or other staff attached to
any of the armed forces aforesaid, from all or any of the provisions of this
Act.](2)[ Whoever commits a breach of any of the conditions subject to which
the exemption is notified under sub-section (1), [shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees]: [Substituted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.][***] [Omitted 'Proviso' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.]]

### 17B. [ Licence for manufacture, etc., of portable liquor. [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]

\- The State Government or subject to their control, the Collector may,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, issue licence to any person
or any institution whether under the management of Government or not, -(a)for
the manufacture of liquor for human consumption -(i)for the purpose of sale to
persons and institutions who hold permits or licences for sale of such liquor
;(ii)for other purposes permitted under this Act ; or(b)for the import, export
or transport of liquor for human consumption.

### 17C. Exclusive privileges of manufacture, etc., may be granted.

(1)It shall be lawful for the State Government to grant to any person or
persons on such conditions and for such period as they may deem fit the
exclusive or other privilege -(a)of manufacturing [any liquor other than
foreign liquor, or] [Substituted 'or' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.]
supplying by wholesale,(b)of selling by retail, [[Indian-made foreign spirits
and foreign liquor] [Substituted 'or' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.]
[toddy or arrack] [Substituted 'or toddy but not arrack' by Tamil Nadu Act No.
33 of 1986.], or](c)of manufacturing or supplying by wholesale and selling by
retail,[within any local area] [Substituted 'any liquor other than foreign
liquor within any local area' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.] [toddy]
[Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.].(d)[ (i) The Tamil Nadu State
Marketing Corporation Limited shall , as soon as may be, after the grant of
the licence under clause (b) for the exercise of the exclusive privilege
referred to in item (ii) of clause (a), fix, locate and open as many shops as
may be necessary to effectively carry on the business of sale, by retail, of
arrack in the state and the said corporation in so fixing the shops, shall
take into account the population of the locality, the needs of the locality
and other relevant factors. [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.](ii)The
Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited shall carry on the business of
selling, by retail, arrack -(A)either directly through the employees of the
said Corporation; or(B)through the agents appointed by the said Corporation on
its behalf and on such terms and conditions as the said corporation may
specify; or(C)by both the methods specified in sub-items (A) and (B) of this
item.(iii)Any dispute between the said Corporation and the agent in respect of
any matter shall be referred to the Commissioner or an officer not below the
rank of District Revenue officer specially empowered by the state government
in this behalf, whose decision thereon shall be final and such decision shall
not be called in question in any court.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
act, an agent appointed by the Tamil Nadu state Marketing corporation limited
for selling on its behalf, by retail, arrack shall not be deemed to be
exercising any privilege of selling, by retail, arrack and accordingly the
provisions of this act relating to the grant of such privilege and licence for
selling by retail, arrack shall not apply to such agent.]

### 17D. [ Payment of a sum in consideration of the grant of any exclusive or
other privilege or fee on licences for manufacture or sale. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

\- The State Government may, by rules, levy a sum or fee or both in
consideration of the grant of any exclusive or other privilege under section
17-C and also a fee on licences granted under section 17-C.

### 17E. Licence for export, import, etc.

(1)The State Government or subject to the control of the State Government, the
Collector, may issue licences to any person or in respect of any institution
whether under the management of the Government or not, for the export, import,
transport or possession of any liquor or article containing such liquor on the
ground that such liquor or article, is required by such person or in respect
of such Institution for a bona-fide purpose.(2)Section 18 shall, in so far as
it relates to any liquor or article containing such liquor, cease to be in
force with effect on and from the 1st May 1981.]

### 18. Licences for bona fide medicinal or other purposes.

\- The [State] [This word was substituted for the word ' Provincial' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government or subject to the control of the [State]
[This word was substituted for the word ' Provincial' by the Adaptation Order
of 1950.] Government, the Collector,may issue licences to any person or in
respect of any institution whether under the management of Government or not,
for the manufacture, export, import, transport, sale or possession of any
liquor, intoxicating drug or article containing such liquor or drug, on the
ground that such liquor, drug or article is required by such person or in
respect of such institution for a bona fide medicinal, scientific, industrial
or such like purpose.

### 18A. [ Excise duty or countervailing duty on liquors and intoxicating
drugs. [This section was inserted by section 2 of the Madras Prohibition
(Second Amendment) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XIX of 1948).]

(1)An excise duty or countervailing duty of such amount as the [State]
Government may, by notification in the Fort St. George Gazette, specify from
time, to time shall, if they so direct, be levied on all liquors and
intoxicating drugs permitted to be imported, exported, transported,
manufactured, issued from any manufactory or institution or sold. under the
provisions of this Act or any rule, notification, licence or permit issued
thereunder.(2)Such duty may be levied in any one or more of the. ways
prescribed in the rules made under this Act.(3)Nothing in this section shall
authorize the levy of any duty which, as between goods manufactured or
produced in the [State] [This word was substituted for the word ' Province '
by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] and similar goods not so manufactured or
produced, discriminates in favour of the former or which, in the case of goods
manufactured or produced outside the [State] [This word was substituted for
the word 'Province' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.], discriminates between
goods manufactured or produced in one locality, and similar goods manufactured
or produced in another locality.]

### 18B. [ Excise duty or countervailing duty on excisable articles. [Inserted
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in section 18-A, an excise duty or
countervailing duty at such rate not exceeding -(a)rupees two hundred and
fifty per proof litre, for ordinary brands;(b)rupees three hundred per proof
litre, for medium brands;(c)rupees five hundred per proof litre, for premium
brands,as the State Government may, from time to time, by notification
specify, shall be levied only under this section on all excisable articles
-(a)permitted to be imported under this Act;(b)permitted to be exported under
this Act;(c)permitted to be transported under this Act;(d)manufactured under
any licence granted under this Act;(e)manufactured at any distillery, blending
unit or brewery licensed or established under this Act;(f)issued from a
distillery, blending unit, brewery or warehouse licensed or established under
this Act; or(g)sold in any part of this State.Explanation. - For the purpose
of this sub-section, -(a)ordinary, medium and premium brands mean the Indian-
made foreign spirits brands classified as such by notification by the State
Government;(b)each case of Indian-made foreign spirits containing nine bulk
litres or less than nine bulk litres shall be considered as containing 6.75
proof litres and excise duty shall be levied accordingly.](2)Nothing in this
section shall authorise the 1evy of any duty which as between excisable
articles manufactured or produced in the State and Similar excisable articles
not so manufactured of produced, discriminates in favour of the former or
which in the case of excisable articles manufactured or produced outside the
State discriminates between excisable articles manufactured or produced in one
locality and similar excisable articles, manufactured or produced in another
locality.(3)[ Section 18-A shall, in so far as it relates to matters specified
in this section, cease to be in force with effect on and from the 1st May
1981.] [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

### 18BB. [ Special fee on import of excisable articles. [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act No. 23 of 2008.]

\- A special fee at such rate not exceeding rupees one thousand per proof
litre, as the State Government may, from time to time, by notification
specify, shall be levied on all excisable articles permitted to be imported
under this Act.]

### 18C. How duty may be imposed.

\- The excise duty or the countervailing duty under section 18-B may be levied
in one or more of the following ways : -(a)by duty of excise to be charged in
the case or spirits or beer either on the quantity produced in, or passed out
of a distillery, blending unit, brewery or warehouse licensed or established
under this Act, or in accordance with such scale of equivalents, calculated on
the quantity of materials used or by the degree of attenuation of the wash or
wort, as the case may be, as may be prescribed ;[***] [Omitted 'clause (b) and
(c)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.][***] [Omitted '(d) in the case of
toddy, or spirits manufactured from toddy, by a tax on each tree from which
toddy is tapped or drawn, to be paid in such instalments and for such period
as the State Government may direct ; or' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of
1986.](e)by import, export or transport duties assessed in such manner as the
State Government may direct:Provided that where there is a difference of duty
as between two licence periods, such difference may be collected in respect of
all stocks of liquor other than foreign liquor held by licensees at the close
of the former period.]

### 18D. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

18D. Tax for tapping of, or drawing from, unlicensed trees from whom
leviable.- (1) When duty is levied by way of tax on toddy trees under section
18C, the State Government may, by notification, direct that the licence
required under this Act, shall be granted only on the production, by the
person applying for it, of the written consent of the owner, or person in
possession, of such trees to the licence being granted to such person so
applying for it; and when such notification has been issued such tax shall, in
default of payment by the licensee, be recoverable from the owner or other
person in possession who has so consented.(2) When, in like case, trees are
tapped or toddy is drawn without licence, the tax due shall be recoverable
primarily from the tapper or drawer or in default by him from the occupeir, if
any, of the land, or if the trees do not belong to the occupier of the land,
or if the land is not occupied, from the person, if any, who owns or is in
possession of the trees unless he proves that the trees were tapped or toddy
was drawn without his consent.  
---  
  
### 18E. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

18E. Duties may be farmed.- All or any of the duties leviable under this Act
in any local area may, with the section of the State Government, be farmed,
subject to such payment and on such other conditions as the State Government
shall specify. Farmers of duties under this section shall take out licences as
such from such authority as may be prescribed.  
---  
  
### 18F. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

18F. Toddy farmer may grant licence.- When the exclusive or other privilege of
manufacturing toddy has been granted under section 17-C, the State Government
may declare that the written permission of the grantee to tap or draw toddy
shall have, within the area to which the privilege extends,the same force and
effect as a licence from such authority as may be prescribed for that purpose
under this Act.  
---  
  
### 18G. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

18G. Farmer may let or assign.- In the absence of any contract or condition to
the contrary, any grantee of any exclusive or other privilege may let or
assign the whole or any portion of his privilege or farm. But no such lessee
or assignee shall exercise any rights as such unless and until the grantee or
farmer, as the case may be, shall have applied to tie prescribed authority for
a licence to be given to such lessee or assignee, and such lessee or assignee
shall have received the same.  
---  
  
### 18H. [ Exemption from payment of excise duty, countervailing duty or fee.
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

\- The State Government may, by notification and subject to such conditions,
if any, as the State Government may specify in such notification, -(1)make an
exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in regard to the excise
duty, countervailing duty or any fee payable by or under this Act by any
person or class of persons ; and(2)cancel or vary such exemption, reduction or
other modification.]

### 19. Licences for tapping for sweet toddy, etc.

\- Subject to the control of the [State] [This word was substituted for the
word ' Province ' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government, the Collector
or any officer empowered by him may issue -(a)licences for the tapping of any
trees for [neera or padani] [This word was substituted for the word '
Provincial ' by 1950.] for consumption thereof without fermentation or for the
manufacture of jaggery therefrom, or(b)permits for the possession, transport
or sale of such [neera or padani] [These words were substituted for the word '
toddy ' by section 11 (ii), of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act,
1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).].

### 19A. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

19A. [ Licence for tapping or drawing of any toddy, etc., [Inserted by Tamil
Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]\- Subject to the control of the State Government and
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the prescribed authority may,
-(i) issue licences to any person, -(a) for tapping any toddy-producing tree
or permitting or suffering toddy to be tapped form any tree belonging to him
or in his possession; or(b) for drawing toddy from any tree or permitting or
suffering toddy to be drawn form any tree belonging to him or in his
possession; or(ii) issue permits for the possession or transport of such
toddy.]  
---  
  
### 20. Permits and licences.

\- The [State] [These words were substituted for the words ' sweet toddy ' by
section 11 (i) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act VIII of 1958).] Government or any officer empowered by them in this behalf
may issue -(a)permits authorizing any person to consume and possess for
personal consumption any liquor or intoxicating drug ;(b)[] [Clause (b) was
omitted, and clauses (c) and (d) were relettered as clauses (b) and (c)
respectively by section 4 of the Madras Prohibition (Second Amendment) Act,
1938 (Madras Act XVII of 1938).] licences to any institution to possess liquor
and issue it to such of its members as hold permits under clause (a) ;[***]
[The word ' and ' was omitted by section 4 (i) of the Madras Prohibition
(Amendment) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XII of 1948).](c)[] [Clause (b) was omitted,
and clauses (c) and (d) were relettered as clauses (b) and (c) respectively by
section 4 of the Madras Prohibition (Second Amendment) Act, 1938 (Madras Act
XVII of 1938).] licences to any person in charge of a restaurant car attached
to a railway train to possess liquor and serve it to bona fide passengers
travelling by the train ;(d)[ licences to any person to possess liquor and
issue it to persons or institutions who hold permits or licences under this
Act or who, have been exempted under this Act from so much of the provisions
of section 4, sub-section (1), [clause (a), (aa) (aaa) or (j)] [This clause
was substituted by section 2 of the Madras Prohibition (Third Amendment) Act,
1949 (Madras Act XLVI of 1949), for clause (d) which was earlier added by
section 4 (ii) of the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XII
of 1948).], as relates to the possession, consumption or buying of liquor.]

### 20A. [ Matters to be taken into consideration by the licensing authority.
[Sections 204 and-20-B, were inserted by section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1975) and were deemed
to have come into force-on the 16t11 October 1974.]

\- Subject to the provisions of section 20-B, ITtte7nto in considering an
application for the grant of a licence or permit under this Act, the authority
competent to grant such licence or permit, as the case may be, shall have
regard to the following matters,namely :-(a)the suitability of the applicant
for the grant of licence or permit, as the case may be ;[***](c)such other
matters as may be prescribed.[Explanation. [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 42 of
1982.] \- It is hereby declared that, in judging the suitability of the
applicant for the grant of licence or permit, as the case may be, the
authority competent to grant such licence or permit shall have regard to the
following factors, namely : -(a)solvency of the applicant;(b)whetter the
applicant has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule,
notification or order made thereunder or has committed the breach of any of
the terms and conditions of any licence or permit granted under the provisions
of this Act or of any rule made thereunder;(c)whether the applicant has been
convicted of any offence punishable under this Act or of any cognisable and
non-bailable offence or of any offence under the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930
(Central Act II of 1930) or under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958
(Central Act 43 of 1958) or under sections 482 to 489 of the Indian Penal Code
(Central Act XLV of 1860) ;(d)whether the applicant carries on any other
business which is likely to prevent him from giving his due attention to the
purpose for which the licence or permit under this Act is sought for
;(e)whether the applicant was a defaulter in payment of any amount due to the
State Government under this Act or the rules made thereunder or of any taxes
or other amounts due to the State Government ;(f)any other matter relevant to
the purpose for which the licence or permit under this Act is sought for.]

### 20B. Co-Operative societies to be given preference.

\- Where any co-operative society registered or deemed to have been registered
under any law in force for the time being, makes an application for the grant
of a licence under clause (d) of section 20, the authority competent to grant
such licence shall, in granting such licence, give preference to such co-
operative society over every other applicant.]

### 20C. [ Licence for possession and use of denatured spirit in the
manufacture of specified commodities, etc. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 32
of 1978.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no licence under this Act
shall be issued -(i)for the possession and use of denatured spirit in the
manufacture of Varnish (French Polish), Picture Varnish, Insulating Varnish,
Paint Remover, Gasket Shellac, Printing ink or such other commodities as may
be specified by the State Government from time to time except to the units of
any department of the State Government or of any Government company within the
meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) or any Corporation
owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government and to
manufacturers of spirit based products who are registered with the Director-
General of Technical Development, Government of India or the Director of
Industries and Commerce, Madras ;(ii)for the possession and sale, whether
wholesale or retail, of denatured spirit or of Varnish (French Polish) except
to the units of any department of the State Government or of any Government
company within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956)
or any Corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State
Government or a co-operative society registered or deemed to have been
registered under any law in force for the time being.]

### 21. Form and conditions of licences and permits.

\- Every licence or permit granted under [sections 6-A, [17-B, 17-C, 18, 19,
[***] [These words, figures and letters were substituted for the words,
figures and letter ' sections 6-A, 18, 19 or 20' by section .3 of the Tamil
Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1970 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1970) the word,
figures and letter 'sections 6-A, 18' having been earlier substituted for the
word and figures ' section 18 ' by section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition
(Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act Via of 1958).] or 20] ] shall-(1)be
granted on payment of such fees, if any, for such period, and subject to such
restrictions and limitations and [on such terms and conditions including -
[Substituted 'on such conditions, and' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of
1986.](a)the condition for deposit of such sum as may be prescribed as
security for the observance of the term and conditions of any such licence or
permit;(b)the condition for forfeiture of the whole or part of the sum so
deposited for contravention of any term or condition on which the licence or
permit has been granted;(c)the condition for the replenishment of the sum so
forfeited within such time as may be prescribed; and](2)be in such form and
contain such particulars as the [State] [This word was substituted for the
word ' Provincial ' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may direct
either generally or in any particular case.

### 21A. [ Power to prescribe limit of wastage or shortage of spirits.
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of 1986.]

\- The State Government may, with a view to prevent or check the misuse of
spirits, prescribe the limit of -(a)wastage of spirits in the distillery,
blending unit, brewery or ware-house licenced or established under this Act;
or(b)shortage of spirits in transport:Provided that different limits may be
prescribed for different varieties of spirits.]

### 22. [ Counterpart agreement to be executed by licensees. [Substituted by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]

\- Every person taking out any licence or permit under section 6-A, 17-B,
17-C, 18, 19, [***] or 20 shall, if so required, execute a counterpart
agreement in conformity with the tenor of his licence or permit and give such
security for the performance of the agreement as the State Government, or the
Collector or the prescribed authority, as the case may be, may require.]

### 22A. [ Cancellation of licence granted under Madras Distillery Rules,
1960. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

(a)Every distillery licence granted in form II under the Madras Distillery
Rules, 1960 or deemed to have been granted under the Tamil Nadu Distillery
Rules, 1981, for the manufacture of rectified spirit and denatured spirit,
shall cancelled on the expiry of fifteen days from the 23rd May 1981.(b)Every
person who held the licence which stands cancelled under clause (a), shall, on
application made within a period of fifteen days from the 23rd May 1981 or
such further period as the State Government may specify from time to time, be
entitled to the grant c f licence t rider section 17-B and for the grant of
privilege of manufacturing rectified spirit under sub-section (1) of section
17-C and a licence under sub-section (2) of said section 17-C for the
manufacture of rectified spirit and denatured spirit under the Tamil Nadu
Distillery Rules, 1981, subject to the provisions of the said rules.(c)Any
application made for the grant or renewal of licence for the manufacture of
rectified spirit and denatured spirit in a distillery and pending before the
State Government or any other authority on the 23rd May 1981 shall a bate and
the fee, if any, already paid shall be refunded. Any person who has made such
application may apply afresh under the Tamil Nadu Distillery Rules, 1981, for
the grant of privilege of manufacturing rectified spirit and denatured spirit
and for a licence under the said rules and such application shall be disposed
of in accordance with the said rules.]

### 22C. [ ***] [Omitted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.]

22C. [ Retail sale of arrack. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 29 of 1985.]\-
(1) The licence to the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited for the
exercise of the exclusive privilege referred to in item (ii) of clause (a) of
sub-section (1-A) of section 17-C shall be granted with effect on and from the
16th day of July 1985 :Provided that -(a) every licence for selling, by
retail, arrack which is valid on the 15th day of July 1985 shall continue to
be valid up to and inclusive of the[15th day of November 1985], subject to the
same terms and conditions on which the licence was granted, if the licensee
concerned intimates in writing on or before the 1st day of July 1985 the
licensing authority his willingness to continue to sell, by retail, arrack,
subject to the same terms and conditions;(b) the Tamil Nadu Toddy and Arrack
Shops (Disposal in Auction) Rules, 1981, and the Tamil Nadu Arrack (Retail
Shops) Rules, 1981, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
(2), continue to apply to any licence referred to in clause (a), only upto
the[15th day of November 1985] [Substituted '15th day of October 1985' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 16 of 1986.]and the said rules shall cease to apply after
the said. date provided that the cesser of the said rules shall not affect any
offence Committed or any fine or penalty or forfeiture or liability incurred
before the[16th day of November 1985] [Substituted '16th day of October 1985'
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 16 of 1986.]:Provided further that where the licence for
selling, by retail, arrackis valid on the 15th day of July 1985, and the
licensee concerned is notwilling to continue to sell, by retail, arrack beyond
the 15th day of July1985, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited
shall,arrange for the sale, by retail, of arrack -(A) either directly through
the employees of the said Corporation; or(B) through the agents appointed by
the said Corporation on its behalf and on such terms and conditions as the
said Corporation may specify ; or(C) by both the methods specified in items
(A) and (B).[Provided also that where the licence for selling, by retail,
arrack is valid on the 15th day of October 1985, and the licensee concerned is
not willing to continue to sell, by retail, arrack beyond the 15th day of
October 1985, it shall be open to the licensee to surrender his licence to the
licensing authority, and thereupon the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation
Limited shall arrange for the sale, by retail of arrack by any of the methods
specified in item (A) B) or (C) of the immediately preceding proviso.] [Added
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 16 of 1986.](2) Without prejudice to the provisions
contained in clause (b) of the first proviso to sub-section (1), the Tamil
Nadu Toddy and Arrack Shops (Disposal in Auction) Rules, 1981, in so far as it
relates to arrack, and the Tamil Nadu Arrack (Retail Shops) Rules, 1981, are
hereby repealed with effect on and from the 16th day of July 1985:(3) Without
prejudice to the provisions contained in section 54, the State Government may
make rules for the purposes of carrying into effect the provisions of sub-
section (1-A) of section 17-C and this section].  
---  
  
### 22CC. [ Repeal of rules. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 2004.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any
court, rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu liquor (Retail Vending) Rules, 1989 is
repealed with effect from the 22nd day of June 2001.(2)Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act or !n any judgment, decree or order of any
court, -(i)the licence granted for selling, by retail, Indian Made Foreign
Spirit on or after the 22nd day of June 2001, under the Tamil Nadu Liquor
(Retail Vending) Rules, 1989, shall be ,deemed to have been granted without
the right of renewal;(ii)any grant of renewal at, licence for selling, by
retail, Indian Made Foreign Spirit on or after the 22nd day of June 2001,
under the rule repealed under sub-section (1) of this section shall be deemed
to be a grant of licence for selling, by retail, Indian Made Foreign Spirit
without the right of renewal and shall cease to be valid on the expiry of the
28th day of November 2003.(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in any
judgment, decree or order of any court, rule 5 of the Tamil Nadu Liquor
(Retail Vending in Bar) Rules, 2002 is repealed with effect from the 23rd day
of April 2002.(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any
judgment, decree or order of any court -(i)the licence granted for vending
liquor in bar, on or after the 23rd day of April 2002, under the Tamil Nadu
Liquor (Retail Vending in Bar) Rules, 2002, shall be deemed to have been
granted without the right of renewal;(ii)any grant of renewal of licence for
vending liquor in bar, on or after the 23rd day of April 2002 under the rule
repealed under sub-section (3) of this section shall be deemed to be a grant
of licence for vending liquor in bar without the right of renewal and shall
cease to be valid on the expiry of the 28th day of November 2003.]

### 22D. [ Licence granted for selling, by retail, Indian-made foreign spirits
to cease to be valid. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 31 of 2003.]

(a)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any judgment, decree
or order of any Court, [every licence granted or renewed [which is deemed to
be a grant of licence under sub-section 22-CC]] in respect of any privilege of
selling, by retail, Indian-made foreign spirits (other than the licence
granted or renewed for supply in hotels, clubs and stores and depots run by
the Defence Department, Government of India) and which is valid on the 26th
day of October 2003 shall cease to be valid on the expiry of the 28th day of
November 2003 on which date the validity of the said licence shall, under the
existing rules, expire and [any licence renewed [which is deemed to be a grant
of licence under sub-sections (2) and (4) of section 22-CC]] [Substituted 'any
licence renewed' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 2004.] for any period beyond 28th
day of November 2003 shall cease to be valid and in such cases all fees
(including the licence fee and the privilege amount) paid for renewal of lice
ice shall be refunded.(b)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in
any judgment, decree or order of any Court, every application made for the
grant or renewal of licence for selling, by retail, Indian-mad foreign spirits
and pending before the Commissioner or before the State Government or an other
authority on the 26th day of October 2003 and every action taken, or enquiry
made, in respect of such application, shall abate and all fees in connection
with such application (including the application fee and the licence fee, if
any), already paid shall be refunded.(c)The Tamil Nadu Liquor (Retail Vending)
Rules, 1989 and the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Retail Vending in Bar) Rules, 2002 are
hereby repealed with effect from the 29th day of November 2033:Provided that
such repeal shall not affect any offence committed or any fine, penalty or
forfeiture incurred before the 29th day of November 2003.(d)(i)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1-B) of section 17-C and without prejudice
to the provisions contained in section 54, the State Government may make rules
for grant of licences to such hotels, clubs and stores and depots run by the
Defence Department, Government of India, as may be prescribed and for the
purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this section and sub-section
(I-B) of section 17-C.(ii)Within a period of one month commencing on and from
the 29th day of November 2003, the State Government shall, on payment of the
price, take over the entire stock of Indian-made foreign spirits, if any,
which on the 29th day of November 2003, is in possession of any holder of a
licence which shall cease to be valid under clause (a).Explanation. - For the
purposes of item (ii) of this clause, the expression "stock of Indian-made
foreign spirits" shall include stocks in movement on the 29th day of November
2003, consequent on the orders placed by such holder with the suppliers in
pursuance of permits granted by the Competent Authority under this Act.]

### 23. Power to cancel or suspend licences and permits.

(1)[The State Government or the Collector or the prescribed authority, as the
case may be] [Substituted 'The Collector' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]
may cancel or suspend any such licence or permit-(a)if any fee payable by the
holder thereof be not duly paid ; or(b)in the event of any breach by the
holder of such licence or permit [issued by the Collector or the prescribed
authority] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.] or by his servants or
by any one acting with his express or implied permission on his behalf, of any
of the terms or conditions of such licence or permit ; or(c)if the holder
thereof is convicted of any offence against this Act, or of any cognizable and
non-bailable offence ; or(cc)[ if the holder thereof has furnished false or
incorrect information in connection with the obtaining or renewal of such
licence or permit; or] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of 1986.].(d)if the
conditions of such licence or permit provide for its cancellation or
suspension at will ; or(e)if the purpose for which the licence or permit is
granted ceases to exist.(2)[ The State Government may cancel or suspend arty
such licence or permit for any of the aforesaid reasons.(3)Before any licence
or permit is cancelled or suspended under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
the holder of the licence or permit shall be given an opportunity to state his
objections within a reasonable time, not ordinarily exceeding fourteen days,
and any representation made by him in this behalf shall be duly taken into
consideration before final orders are passed.] [These sub-sections were
substituted for the original sub-section (2) by section 13 of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).](4)[
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (3), in so far as it relates
to suspension of any such licence or permit, where a prima facie case has been
made out, the State Government or the Collector or the prescribed authority,
as the case may be, may, at any time and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, suspend any such licence or permit and in such case, it shall not be
necessary to give an opportunity to the holder of the licence or permit to
state his objections.] [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

### 23A. [ Licence for possession and sale or issue of bottled liquor to
cease. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]

(1)Every licence for possession and sale or issue of bottled liquor under the
Madras Liquor (Licence and permit) Rules, 1960 shall cease to be in force on
the expiry of the 30th day of September 1981:Provided that such cesser shall
not affect the previous operation of -(i)the said licence; and(ii)anything
done or any action taken in pursuance of the said licence; and(iii)every
proceeding by way of investigation or otherwise made or taken by the State
Government or other authority in respect of the said licence and any such
proceeding shall be continued or enforced as if this sub-section had not been
enacted.(2)Every person who held the licence which has ceased to be in force
under sub-section (1) may apply for the grant of privilege and licence under
the Tamil Nadu Indian-Made Foreign Spirits (Supply by Wholesale) Rules, 1981
or the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Licence and Permit) Rules, 1981.(3)The State
Government may make rules for the refund of the proportionate fee and for the
disposal of the unsold stock of liquor in the possession of any holder of a
licence which has ceased to be in force under sub-section (1).]

### 23B. [ Licences, granted for selling Indian-made foreign spirits to cease
to be valid. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 47 of 1992.]

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any rule made
thereunder or in any judgment, decree or order of any court or other
authority, every licence granted in respect of any privilege of selling, by
retail, Indian-made foreign spirits shall cease to be valid on the expiry of
the 31st day of May 1992:Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section
shall affect any liability in respect of such privilege incurred before the
1st day of June 1992.(2)The State Government may make rules for the refund of
the proportionate fee and for the disposal of the unsold stock of Indian-made
foreign spirits in the possession of any holder of the licence which has
ceased to be in force under sub-section (1).(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act or in any rule made thereunder or in any judgment,
decree or order of any' court or other authority, every application made for
the renewal of any licence for selling, by retail, Indian-made foreign spirits
and pending before the State Government or before the Commissioner or any
other authority on the 12th day of May 1992 and every action taken or enquiry
made in respect of such application, shall abate and all fees in connection
with such application (including the application fee and the licence fee, if
any) already paid shall be refunded.]

### 24. Penalty for breach of the conditions of licences and permits.

\- In the event of any breach by the holder of such licence or permit or by
his servants or by any one acting with his express or implied permission on
his behalf, of any of the terms or conditions of such licence or permit, such
holder shall, in addition to the cancellation or suspension of the licence or
permit granted to him, [be punished with [***] [Substituted 'be punished with
imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees or both' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to
three thousand rupees;][***] [Omitted by 'Proviso' Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.]

### 24A. [ Punishment for adulteration, etc., by licensed vendor or
manufacturer. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 23 of 1981.]

\- Whoever, being the holder of licence or permit for the sale or manufacture
of liquor under this Act, [or whoever being an employee of the Tamil Nadu
State Marketing Corporation Limited, [***]] -(a)mixes or permits to be mixed
with the liquor sold or manufacturer by him, -(i)any noxious drugs or any
foreign ingredient likely to add to its actual or apparent intoxicating
quality or strength, when such admixture shall not amount to the offence of
adulteration under section 272 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of
1860) ; or(ii)any illicit liquor ; or[***] [Omitted '(b) mixes or permits to
be mixed with the arrack sold or manufactured by him any colour and flavour to
resemble any Indian-made foreign spirit with the intention of causing it to be
believed that such arrack is Indian made foreign ; or' by Tamil Nadu Act No.
33 of 1986.](c)sells or keeps or exposes for gale, -(i)as foreign liquor,
liquor which he knows or has reason to believe to be liquor other than foreign
liquor ; or[(i-a) as Indian-made foreign spirits, liquor which he knows or has
reason to believe to be liquor other than Indian-made foreign spirits; or]
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.].(ii)as licit liquor, liquor which
he knows or has reason to believe to be illicit liquor ; or(d)dilutes or
permits to be diluted any liquor sold or manufactured by him with any matter
whatsoever ; or(e)marks the cork of any bottle or any bottle, case, package or
other receptacle containing liquor other than foreign liquor or uses any
bottle, case, package or other receptacle containing liquor other than foreign
liquor with any mark thereon or on the cork thereof with the intention of
causing it to be believed that such bottle case, package or other receptacle
contains foreign liquor when such act shall not amount to the offence of using
a false trade mark with intent to deceive or injure any person under section
482 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860); or(f)sells or keeps or
exposes for sale any liquor other than foreign liquor in a bottle, case,
package or other receptacle with any mark thereon or on the cork thereof with
the intention of causing it to be believed that such bottle, case, package or
other receptacle contains foreign liquor, when such act shall not amount to
the offence of selling goods marked with a counterfeit trade mark under
section 486 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860),[shall be
punished with imprisonment] [Substituted 'shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.] for a term which may extend to
three years and with fine which may extend to three thousand rupees :[***]
[Omitted 'proviso' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.]

### 24B. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in-charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly :Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any
offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of
this section -(a)'company' means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals, and(b)'director' in relation to a firm means
a partner in the firm.]

### 24C. [ Penalty for furnishing false or incorrect information. [Inserted by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 68 of 1986.]

\- Whoever, being the holder of any licence or permit in respect of liquor
under this Act, furnishes any information in connection with the obtaining or
renewal of licence or permit under this Act, which is either false or which he
knows or has reason to believe to be incorrect, shall in addition to the
cancellation or suspension of the licence or permit granted to him in respect
of such liquor, be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.]

### 24D. [ Power to compound offences. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.]

(1)Any Prohibition Officer specially empowered by the State Government in this
behalf may accept, fro any person who has committed or is reasonably suspected
of having committed an offence under this act or the rules made thereunder
other than [the offences under clauses (aaa), (b), (f) and (h) of sub-section
(1), and offence punishable under sub-section (1-A) of section 4 and offences
under sections 6 and 52-E] by way of composition of such offence a sum of
money not exceeding [ten thousand rupees but not less than one thousand
rupees] [Substituted 'two thousand rupees but not less than five hundred
rupees' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 57 of 1998.].(2)On payment of such sum of money
to such officer, the accused person, if in custody, shall be discharged and no
further proceedings in respect of the offence shall be taken against such
person.]

## Chapter IV  
. Establishment and Control.

### 25. Appointment of officers and withdrawal of powers.

\- The [State] [This word was substituted for the word Provincial ' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may, from time to time, by notification
-(a)appoint an officer to exercise all the powers of a Collector under this
Act in all local areas in which it is in fence and to have the control of the
administration of the provisions of this Act in such areas ;(b)appoint any
person other than the Collector of land revenue to exercise within a district
all or any of the powers and to perform all or any of the duties of a
Collector under this Act, either concurrently with or in exclusion of the
Collector of land revenue, subject to such control as the [State] [This word
was substituted for the word Provincial ' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government may from time to time direct ;(c)withdraw from the Commissioner or
the Collector of land revenue any or all of the powers conferred on him by
this Act ;(d)appoint paid or honorary officers with such designations, powers
and duties as the[State] [ This word was substituted for the word Provincial '
by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may think fit ;(e)order that all
or any of the powers and duties assigned to any person under clause (d) shall
be exercised and performed by any existing Government official or any other
person ; and(f)delegate to any Prohibition Officer all or any of their powers
under this Act.

### 25A. [ Delegation of powers of State Government. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act No. 23 of 1981.]

(1)The State Government may, by notification, authorise the Commissioner or
any other officer subordinate to them to exercise any of the powers vested in
them under this Act except the power to make rules and to issue
notification.(2)The exercise of any power delegated under sub-section (1)
shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in
the notification and subject also to control and revision by the State
Government.]

### 26. [ Prohibition Committees. [This section was substituted for the
original section 26 by section 14 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment)
Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).]

(1)The State Government may, for the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu] and
the Collector of a district may, for such area in the district as the State
Government may, by general or special order, determine in this behalf,
constitute prohibition committees to assist them or him in cat tying out the
objects of this Act.(2)Every member of a prohibition committee shall observe
the working of this Act and report thereon and on every matter connected
therewith at the prescribed intervals and at any other time he thinks fit, to
the State Government in case he is a member of the prohibition committee
constituted by the State Government, and to the Collector in case he is a
member of the prohibition committee constituted by the Collector.(3)Every
member of a prohibition committee shalt be entitled to give information at any
police station regarding the commission or suspected commission of any offence
against this Act in the area of the committee concerned, and the officer in
charge of such station shall take action on such information and investigate
the case in the manner laid down in the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]]

### 27. Power of State Government to authorize officers to admit persons
arrested to ball.

\- The [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Province' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may, by notification, and subject to
such conditions as may be prescribed in such notification, empower all or any
of the officers or classes of officers or persons mentioned in section 32
throughout the [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Province ' by
the Adaptation Order of 1950.] or in any local area, to admit a person
arrested under arrested to that section to bail to appear, when summoned or
otherwise directed, before a Police or Prohibition Officer or Magistrate
having jurisdiction to inquire into the offence for which such person has been
arrested, and may cancel or vary such notification.

## Chapter V  
. Powers Duties and Procedure of Officers, etc.

### 28. Issue of search warrants.

\- If any Collector, Prohibition Officer or Magistrate upon information
obtained and after such inquiry as he thinks necessary, has reason to believe
that an offence under sub-section (1) of section 4 has been committed, he may
issue a warrant for the search for any liquor, intoxicating drug, materials,
stilt, utensil, implement or apparatus in respect of which the alleged offence
has been committed. Any person who has been entrusted with the execution of
such a warrant may obtain and search, and if he thinks proper, arrest any
person found in the place searched. if he has reason to believe such person to
be guilty of any offence under this Act :Provided that every person arrested
under this section Shall be admitted to bail by the person arresting if
sufficient bail be tendered for his appearance either before a Magistrate or
before a Police or Prohibition Officer, as the case may be.Before issuing such
warrant, the Collector, Prohibition Officer or Magistrate shall examine the
information On oath and the examination shall be reduced into writing in a
summary manner and be signed by the informant, and also by the Collector,
Prohibition Officer or Magistrate.

### 29. Powers of entry and search without warrant.

\- Whenever a Collector, any Prohibition Officer not below, such rank as the
[State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial the Adaptation
Order of 1950.] Government may determine, any Police Officer not below the
rank of sub-inspector, any officer in charge of a police station, or any other
paid or honorary officer authorized by the [State] [This word was substituted
for the word 'Provincial the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government in this
behalf has reason to believe that an offence under sub-section (1) a section 4
has been committed and that the delay occasioned by obtaining a search warrant
under section 28 wilt prevent the execution thereof, he may, after recording
his reasons and the grounds of his belief, at any-time by day or night enter
and search any place and may seize anything found therein which he has reason
to believe to be liable to confiscation under this Act; and may detain and
search and, if he thinks proper, arrest any person found in such place whom he
has reason to believe to be guilty of any offence under this Act:Provided that
every person arrested under this section shall be admitted to bail by such
officer as aforesaid if sufficient bail be tendered for his appearance either
before a Magistrate or before a Police or Prohibition Officer, as the case may
be.

### 30. [ Powers of entry and inspection. [This section was substituted for
original section 30 by section 2 (1) of, the Madras Prohibition (Amendment)
Act, 1951 (Madras Act XXXI of 1951).]

\- The Collector; any Prohibition Officer not Powers of below such rank as the
State Government may determine, or any Police or other paid or honorary
officer authorized by the State Government in this behalf, may enter and
inspect, at any time by day or by night, any place in which it is reasonably
suspected -(a)that any toddy is drawn, or the manufacture of any other
,liquor, or of any intoxicating drug is carried on, or(b)that any liquor or
intoxicating drug is kept for sale or stored, or(c)that an offence under [***]
section 5 has been, or is being, committed ;and may examine, test, measure or
weigh any material, still, utensil, implement, apparatus, liquor or
intoxicating drug found in such place.]

### 31. Power to use force in case of resistance to entry.

\- If any officer empowered to make an entry under section 28, 29 or 30 cannot
otherwise make such entry, it shall be lawful for him to break open any outer
or inner door or window and to remove any other obstacles to his entry into
any such place.

### 32. Arrest of offenders and seizure of contra band liquor and articles
without warrant.

\- Any Prohibition Officer, any officer of the Police or Land Revenue
departments, and any other person authorized in that behalf -(a)may arrest
without warrant any person found committing an offence punishable [under
section 4, sub-section (1), [***] [This expression was substituted for the
words, brackets and figures 'under sub-section (1) of section 4 ' by section 2
(ii) of the Madras Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1951 (Madras Act XXXI of
1951).] or section 5 [or section 7 or section 24 or any offence punishable
with rigorous imprisonment for three years and upwards] [Added by Tamil Nadu
Act No. 9 of 1979.] ];(b)may seize and detain any liquor, drug or other
article which he has reason to believe to be liable to confiscation under this
Act; and(c)may search any person, vessel, vehicle, animal, package, receptacle
or covering, upon whom or in or upon which, he may have reasonable cause to
suspect any such liquor, drug or other article to be, or to be
concealed:Provided that if the officer or person making the arrest under this
section be not empowered under section 21 to admit to bail, the person
arrested shall be forthwith forwarded to an officer so empowered, if such an
officer is known to be within a distance of five miles from the place where
such arrest took place. And it shall be the duty of such officer empowered as
aforesaid to admit such person to bail if sufficient bail be tendered for his
appearance before a Police or Prohibition Officer or Magistrate having
jurisdiction to inquire into the case.[Provided further that where any toddy
or wash or any sonti soru is seized under this section by any officer or
person, such officer or person may destroy or cause to be destroyed on the
spot, the toddy, wash or sonti soru and send the pots or other receptacles in
which the toddy, wash or sonti soru was kept to the Police or Prohibition
Officer or Magistrate having jurisdiction to inquire into the case, [***]
[This proviso and Explanation were added, by section 16 (ii), Act, 1958 (Tamil
Nadu Act VIII of 1958).].[Provided also that where any illicit arrack is
seized under this section by any officer or person, such officer or person
may, in the presence of a Prohibition Officer or any Police Officer not below
the rank of Inspector, -(i)take two samples of the illicit arrack of such
quantity and in such manner as may be prescribed, and(ii)destroy or cause to
be destroyed the illicit arrack ; and send the pots or other receptacles in
which the illicit arrack was kept together With the samples taken and a
certificate from the Officer in whose presence the samples were taken and the
illicit arrack was destroyed, as to the total quantity of illicit arrack
seized, toe total quantity taken as sample and the total quantity destroyed,
to the Magistrate having jurisdiction to inquire into the case.The Magistrate
shall, upon the receipt of the samples, retain one in his court and send the
other to such Officer as may be prescribed for chemical analysis.] [Inserted
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.]Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, -"sonti soru" means a liquid prepared from rice or starch which is in
the process of vinous or alcoholic fermentation or in which such fermentation
has ceased; and"wash" means a mixture of water and saccharine materials which
is in the process of vinous or alcoholic fermentation or in which such
fermentation has ceased.]

### 32A. [ Establishment of checkpost or barrier and inspection of liquor
while in transit, etc. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1983.]

(1)If the State Government consider that with a view to prevent or check the
import, export, transport or transit of liquor without obtaining a licence or
permit as required under the provisions of this Act, it is necessary so to do,
they may, by notification, direct the setting up of checkpost or the erection
of barrier or both, at such place or places as may be notified.(2)At every
checkpost or barrier mentioned in sub-section (1) or at any other place when
so required by the Prohibition Officer or the officer-in-charge of the
checkpost or barrier or any other officer empowered by the State Government in
this behalf, the driver or any other person in-charge of any animal, vessel,
cart or other vehicles shall stop the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle,
as the case may be, and keep it stationary so long as may reasonably be
necessary and allow the Prohibition Officer or officer in-charge of the
checkpost or barrier or the officer empowered as aforesaid to inspect the
licence or permit obtained under the provisions of this Act.(3)Any Prohibition
Officer or any other officer specially empowered in this behalf may at any
Place require the driver or any other person in-charge of any animal, vessel,
cart or other vehicle who imports, exports, transports or transits the liquor
to stop the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle or keep it stationary so
long as may reasonably be necessary for the purpose of satisfying himself that
a licence or permit has been duly obtained in respect of such import, export,
transport or transit of liquor and the conditions of such licence or permit
and the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder have been duly
complied with in respect of such import, export, transport or transit of
liquor.(4)If, on such examination and inspection under sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3) it appears -(a)that the licence or permit as required under the
provisions of this Act in respect of the liquor carried has been obtained and
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder or the notification
or order issued thereunder are complied with, the said officer shall release
the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle with the liquor carried, or(b)that
the licence or permit as required under the provisions of this Act has not
been obtained or any of the provisions of this Act or any of the terms of any
rule, notification, order, licence or permit issued thereunder has not been
complied with in respect of the liquor carried, the said officer, after
making; such inquiry as he deems fit and satisfying himself as to such non-
obtainment or noncompliance, as the case may be, shall seize and confiscate
such liquor.(5)The driver or any other person in-charge of the animal, vessel,
cart or other vehicle shall, if so required, give his name and address and the
name and address of the owner of the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle as
well as those of the consignor and consignee, if any, of the liquor carried on
such animal or in such vessel, cart or vehicle, as the case may be.(6)The
driver of the vessel, cart or other vehicle, shall, on demand by the said
officer, produce for inspection his driving licence.(7)If it appears to the
said officer that the drivel or the person in-charge of the animal, vessel,
cart or other vehicle is not giving the correct name and address of the owner
of the animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle or of the consignor or of the
consignee, if any, of the liquor carried on such animal or in such vessel,
cart or other vehicle and if the said officer is satisfied after making such
inquiry as he deems fit that with a view to prevent the evasion of the
provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder it is necessary to
confiscate such liquor, he may take steps for the seizure and confiscation of
such liquor, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.]

### 33. Arrest of persons refusing to give name or give false name.

\- Any person, who may be accused or reasonably suspected of committing an
offence against this Act, and who on demand made by any Prohibition Officer or
any officer of the Police or Land Revenue departments or by any other person
authorized in that behalf refuses to give his name and residence or who gives
a name or residence which such officer or person has reason to believe to be
false, may be arrested by such officer-or person in order that his name and
residence may be ascertained.

### 34. Searches how to be made.

\- All searches under the provisions of this Act shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of
1974)] [Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9
of 1979.].

### 35. Duty of officials of all departments and local bodies to assist.

\- Officials of all departments of the [State] [This word was substituted for
the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government and of all
local bodies shall be legally bound to assist any Prohibition or Police
Officer in carrying out the provisions of this Act.

### 36. Offences to be reported etc.

\- Every official employed by the [State] [This word was substituted for the
word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government or by any local
body, other than a Police or Prohibition Officer, shall be bound to give
immediate information at the nearest police station or to a Prohibition
Officer, of all breaches of any of the provisions of this Act which may come
to his knowledge; and all such officials shall be bound to take all reasonable
measures in their power to prevent the commission of any such breaches which
they may know or have reason to believe are about or likely to be committed.

### 37. Landholders and others to give information.

\- All zamindars, proprietors, tenants, under tenants and cultivators who own
or hold land or house property on or in which there shall be any tapping for
toddy or manufacture of liquor or intoxicating drugs shall, in the absence of
reasonable excuse, be bound to give n3tice of the same to a Magistrate or to a
Prohibition Officer or to an officer of the Police or Land Revenue departments
immediately the same shall have come to their knowledge.

### 38. Persons arrested how to be dealt with.

(1)When any person is arrested under the provisions of section 28, 29, 32 or
33, the person arresting him shall, unless bail shall have been accepted under
the provisions of section 28, 29 or 32, forthwith forward him to the nearest
police station or to a Prohibition Officer, with a report of the circumstances
under which such arrest was made.(2)Procedure of police station officer. - On
any such person being brought to a police station as aforesaid,' the officer
in charge thereof shall either admit him to bail to appear when summoned,
before himself, or before the Prohibition Officer, if any, or any Police
Officer within the limits of the jurisdiction of which Prohibition or Police
Officer, the offence with which he is charged is suspected to have been
committed, or in default of bail, shall forward him in custody to such
officer.(3)Procedure of police or prohibition officer empowered to inquire. -
On any such person being brought in custody before a Prohibition or Police
Officer as aforesaid or appearing before such officer on bail or when such
officer as aforesaid has himself on bail or when such officer as aforesaid has
himself made the areas such officer shall hold such inquiry as he may think
necessary and shall either release such person, or forward him in custody to,
or admit him to bail to appear before, the Magistrate having jurisdiction to
inquire into or try the case:Provided that if such inquiry is not commenced
and completed on the day on which such person is arrested by or is brought or
appears before such officer, he shall if sufficient bail be tendered for the
appearance of the person arrested, admit such person to bail to appear on any
subsequent day before himself or any other officer having jurisdiction to
inquire into the case.

### 39. Persons arrested to be admitted to ball.

\- It shall be the duty of any officer arresting any person under the powers
conferred by section 28 or 29 and of any officer in charge of a police station
or any Police, or Prohibition Officer before whom a person arrested is brought
or appears under the provisions of section 38 to release such person on bail
if sufficient bail be tendered for his appearance before a Police or
Prohibition Officer or before a Magistrate, as the case may be.

### 40. Bond of accused and sureties.

(1)Before any person is released on bail, a bond in such sufficient but not
excessive sum of money as the officer admitting him to bail thinks proper
shall be executed by such person and by one or more sureties, conditioned that
such person shall attend in accordance with the terms of the bond and shall
continue to attend until otherwise directed by the Police or Prohibition
Officer before whom he was bailed to attend, or by the Magistrate, as the case
may be:Provided that the officer admitting any such person to bail may, in his
discretion, dispense with the requirement of a surety or sureties to the bond
executed by such person.(2)The [State] [This word was substituted for the word
'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government shall from time to
time determine the form of the bond to he used in any local area,

### 41. Procedure in case of default of person admitted to bail to appear
before Prohibition officer.

\- When by reason of default of appearance of a person bailed to appear before
a Police or Prohibition Officer, such officer is of opinion that proceedings
should be had to compel payment of the penalty or penalties mentioned in the
bond of the person bailed or of the surety or sureties, he shall forward the
bond to the Magistrate having jurisdiction to inquire into or try the offence
of which the person bailed was accused, and the Magistrate shall proceed to
enforce the payment of the penalty or penalties in the manner provided by the
[Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted 'Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], for the
recovery of penalties in the like case of default of appearance by a person
bailed to appear before his own Court.

### 41A. [ Obtaining of medical certificates in the case of persons found in a
state of intoxication. [This section was inserted by section 17 of the Tamil
Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).]

(1)Any officer authorized to arrest a person for an offence punishable under
section 4 (1) (j) in so far as it relates to consumption of liquor or any
intoxicating drug who has reason to believe that any person has consumed
liquor or any intoxicating drug, may produce such person for examination,
before any medical officer authorized by the State Government and request the
medical officer to furnish a certificate on his finding whether such person
has consumed any liquor or intoxicating drug or is in a state of intoxication
or not.(2)Any medical officer before whom such person is produced shall be
bound to examine such person and furnish to the officer by whom such person
has been produced a certificate as to the state of such person, and if any
form has been prescribed for the purpose, in such form.(3)If the person
produced is a woman, the examination shall be carried out by a woman medical
officer authorized by the State Government.(4)Any person who has been produced
before a medical officer in pursuance of this section shall allow himself to
be examined by the medical officer.(5)If any person who under this section
required to undergo medical examination resists or refuses to allow himself to
be produced before or to be examined by the medical officer, it shall be
lawful to use all means necessary to secure the production and examination of
such person.(6)Resistance to production or refusal to allow examination under
this section shall be deemed to be an offence under section 186 of the Indian
Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860):(7)In trials under this Act, it may be
presumed unless and until the contrary is proved, that the accused has
committed an offence under section 4 (1) (j) if he having been produced before
a medical officer under this section had resisted or had refused to allow
himself to be examined by such medical officer.(8)Any document purporting to
be a certificate signed by a medical officer authorized by the State
Government may be used as evidence of the facts stated therein in any
proceeding under this Act or under sections 272 to 276 of the Indian Penal
Code (Central Act XLV of 1860), [but the court may at the instance of the
accused order the attendance for cross examination of the medical officer who
issued the certificate. ]

### 41B. [ Presumption that the liquor consumed is an illicit variety.
[Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]

\- Where in any trial of an offence punishable under section 4 (1) (j), it is
proved that a person has consumed liquor or any intoxicating drug, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that such liquor or intoxicating drug
is an illicit variety.]

### 42. Power of Police or Prohibition officer to summon witnesses.

\- Any Police or Prohibition Officer holding an inquiry in the manner provided
in section 38 may summon any person to appear before himself to give evidence
on such inquiry or to produce any document relevant thereto which may be in
his possession or under his control :Provided that no such officer shall so
summon any person to appear before him if the journey to be made for complying
with such summons exceeds ten Miles by road or fifty miles by rail or such
other limits as the [State] [This word was substituted for the ward
'Provincial' by ,the Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may fix.

### 43. Terms of summons.

\- Every summons issued under section 42 shall state whether the person
summoned is required to give evidence or to produce a document, or both and
shall require him to appear before the said officer at a stated time and
place.

### 44. Examination witnesses.

\- Persons so summoned shall attend as required and shall answer all questions
relating to such inquiry put to them by such officer. Such answers shall be
reduced to writing and shall be signed by such officer.

### 45. When attendance of witnesses to be dispensed with, and procedure in
such cases.

\- It shall be lawful for a Police or a Prohibition Officer, instead of
summoning to appear before him any person who, from sickness or other
infirmity, may be unable so to do, or whom by reason of rank or sex, it may
not be proper to summon, to proceed to the residence of such person and there
to require him to answer such questions as he may consider necessary with
respect to such inquiry; and such person shall be bound so to answer
accordingly, and the provisions of section 44 shall apply to such answers.

### 46. Power of Police or Prohibition Officer to summon suspected persons.

\- Any Police or Prohibition Officer may after recording his reason in
writing, summon any person to appear before him whom he has good reason to
suspect of having committed an offence under this Act, On such person
appearing before such officer, the procedure prescribed by sections 38 to 45
shall become applicable.The officer may also, if he considers it necessary for
the investigation of the case, exercise the powers conferred by sections 42 to
45 before summoning the person suspected.

### 47. Law relating to criminal courts as to summoning of witnesses to apply.

\- The law for the time being in force as to summonses and compelling the
attendance of persons summoned in criminal courts shall, so far as the same
may be applicable, apply to any summons issued by a Police or Prohibition
Officer and to any person summoned by him to appear under the provisions of
this Act.

### 48. Report of Police or prohibition Officer to give jurisdiction to
competent Magistrate.

\- When a Police or Prohibition Officer forwards in custody any person accused
of an offence under this Act to the Magistrate having jurisdiction to inquire
into or try the case, or admits any such person to bail to appear before such
Magistrate, such officer shall also forward to such Magistrate a report
setting forth the name of the accused person and the nature of the offence
with which he is charged and the names of the persons who appear to be
acquainted with the circumstances of the case, and shall send to such
Magistrate any article which it may be necessary to produce before him. Upon
receipt of such report the Magistrate shall inquire into such offence and try
the person accused thereof in like manner as if complaint had been made before
him as prescribed in the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of
1974)] [Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9
of 1979.], [***] [Omitted '(Central Act V of 1898)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.].

### 49. Powers of police and Prohibition Officers to cause attendance of
witnesses before Magistrate.

\- When a Police or Prohibition Officer forwards in custody any person accused
of an offence against this Act to the Magistrate having jurisdiction to
inquire into or try the case, or admits him to bail to appear before such
Magistrate, such officer shall exercise all the powers conferred by the [Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted 'Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], on an officer in
charge of a police station in respect to causing the appearance before such
Magistrate of such persons acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the
case as he considers it necessary that such Magistrate shall examine as
witnesses for the prosecution of such case.

### 50. [ Procedure after arrest. [This section was substituted for original
section 50 by the Adaptation (Amendment) Order of 1950.]

\- Any person arrested for an offence under this Act shall be informed, as
soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest and Shall be produced before
the nearest Magistrate within a period of twenty-four hours of such arrest
excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the
Court of the Magistrate ; and no such person shall be detained in custody
beyond the said period without the authority of a Magistrate.]

### 51. Police to take charge of articles seized.

\- All officers in charge of police stations shall take charge of and keep in
safe custody pending the orders of a Magistrate or of a Prohibition Officer,
all articles seized under this Act which may be delivered to them ; and shall
allow any Prohibition Officer who may accompany such articles to the police
station, or who may be deputed for the purpose by his superior officer, to
affix his seal to such articles and to take samples of and from them. All
samples so taken shall also be sealed with the seal of the officer in charge
of the police station.

### 52. Power of District Magistrate to transfer cases.

\- The District Magistrate shall have power to transfer any case under this
Act pending inquiry or trial before any Magistrate or Officer in the district
to any other Magistrate or Officer therein.

### 52A. [ Security for abstaining from commission of certain offences.
[Sections 52-A to 52-D were inserted by section 18 of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958)]

(1)Whenever any person is convicted of an offence punishable under [clause
(a), [clause (aa), clause (aaa),] clause (b), clause (d), clause (e), clause
(f), clause (g), clause (h), clause (i) or clause (jj) of section 4(1)] and
the court convicting him is of opinion that such person habitually commits or
attempts to commit, or abets the commission of any such offence and that it is
necessary to require such person to execute a bond for abstaining from the
commission of any such offence, the Court may, at the time of passing sentence
on such person, order him to execute a bond for a sum proportionate to his
means, with or without sureties, for abstaining from the commission of such
offence during such period, not exceeding three years, as it thinks fit to
fix.(2)The bond shall be in the form contained in Schedule If, and the
provisions of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974)]
[Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.] [***] [Omitted '(Central Act V of 1898)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.] ; shall in so far as they are applicable, apply to all matters
connected with such bond as if it were a bond to keep the peace ordered to be
executed under See [section 106] [now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974), section 106.] of that Code.(3)If the conviction is
set aside on appeal or otherwise, the bond so executed shall become void.(4)An
order under this section may also be made by an Appellate Court or by the High
Court when exercising its powers of revision.

### 52B. Power to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] [***] [Omitted '(Central Act V of 1898)' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], [or the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958
(Central Act 20 of 1958)] [Substituted 'or the Madras Probation of Offenders
Act, 1936, (Madras Act III of 1937)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] when
any person is found guilty of -(a)any offence punishable under [section 6]
[Substituted 'section 4-A, 6, 11 or 24' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.],
or(b)the commission, attempt to commit, [***][Omitted 'or' by Tamil Nadu Act
No. 9 of 1979.] abetment of the commission of, any of the acts making up any
such offence as is referred to in clause (a), when such commission, attempt
[***] [Omitted 'or' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] abetment is punishable
under section 12, [***] [Omitted 'or' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.](c)[***] [Omitted 'any breach of any of the conditions subject to which
the exemption under section 16 or 17-A is notified' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.] no previous conviction for any offence tinder this Act is proved
against him, the Court by which he is found guilty may, instead of sentencing
him at once to any punishment release him on his entering into a bond, with at
least one surety to appear and receive sentence when called upon at any time
during such period not exceeding five years as the Court may direct and in the
meantime to abstain from committing any offence under this Act:Provided that
the Court shall not direct the release of an offender under this section,
unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety or one of his sureties
has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place for which the
Court acts or in which the offender is likely to live during the period named
for the observance of the conditions.(2)Where the offender referred to in
subsection (1) is under twenty-four years of age, the Court may make a
supervision order directing that such offender shall be under the supervision
of such probation officer appointed under the [or the Probation of Offenders
Act, 1958 (Central Act 20 of 1958)] [Substituted 'or the Madras Probation of
Offenders Act, 1936, (Madras Act III of 1937)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of
1979.], as may be named in the order during the period specified therein and
imposing such other conditions for securing such supervision as may be
specified in the order:Provided that the period so specified shall not extend
beyond the date on which, in the opinion of the Court, the offender will
attain the age of twenty five years.(3)A Court making a supervision order
under sub-section (2) shall require the offender, before he is released to
enter into a bond, with at least one surety, to observe the conditions
specified in such order and such additional conditions with respect to
residence, abstention from intoxicants and any other matters as the Court may,
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case, consider fit to
impose for preventing a commission of any offence under this Act by the
offender.(4)A Court making a supervision order Shall furnish to the offender
and the surety or sureties a notice in writing stating in simple terms the
conditions of the bond.(5)An order under this section may be made by any
Appellate Court or by the High Court when exercising its powers of revision.

### 52BB. [ Persons not to be released on probation. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu
Act No. 9 of 1979.]

\- Except as provided in section 52-B, notwithstanding anything contained in
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) and the Probation
of Offenders Act, 1958 (Central Act 20 of 1958), no person convicted under
this Act shall be released on probation or with admonition.]

### 52C. Procedure in case of offender failing to observe conditions of bond.

(1)if the Court before which the offender is bound by his bond under section
52-B to appear for sentence when called upon, or any Court which could have
dealt with the offender in respect of his original offence, has reason to
believe that the offender has failed to observe any of the conditions of the
bond executed by him, it may issue a warrant for his apprehension, or may, if
it thinks fit, issue a summons to the offender and his surety or sureties
requiring him or them to attend before it at such time as may be specified in
the summons.(2)The Court before which the offender is so brought or appears
may either remand him to custody until the case is concluded, or admit him to
bail with at least one surety, to appear on the date of hearing.(3)If the
Court after hearing the case is satisfied that the offender has failed to
observe any of the conditions of the bond executed by him, it may forthwith
sentence him for the original offence.(4)An order under this section may be
made by any Appellate Court or by the High Court when exercising its powers of
revision.

### 52D. Provision as to bonds.

\- The provisions of sections [121, 123, 124, 373, 446, 447, 448 and 449 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974)] [Substituted
'122, 126, 126-A, 406-A (b) and (c), 514, 514-A, 514-B and 515 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] (central Act V of
1898) shall so far as may be, apply in the case of sureties given under this
Act.]

### 52E. [ Removal of persons convicted of certain offences. [Inserted by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.]

(1)When any person having been previously convicted thrice or more -(i)of an
offence falling under clause (a), [clause (aa), clause (aaa),] clause (b),
clause (f), clause (g), clause (h), clause (i) or clause (jj) of sub-section
(1) of section 4, or an offence falling under clause (k) of the said sub-
section in so far as it relates to an act specified in any of the clauses
aforesaid; Or(ii)of an offence falling under section 5 or section 7,is again
convicted of the same offence the court may, if it thinks fit, at the time of
passing the sentence of [***] [Omitted 'rigorous' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of
1989.] imprisonment on such person, also by order direct such person to remove
himself after the expiry of such sentence outside the City of Madras or any
district in mofussil or other area specified in such order.(2)The order under
sub-section (1) shall specify the period not exceeding two years during which
such order shall remain in force and shall also specify such conditions and
restrictions as may be specified in the rules by the State Government.(3)The
court may, at any time, for reasons to be recorded in writing, cancel or
modify the order passed under sub-section (1).(4)If such conviction is set
aside on appeal or otherwise, such order shall become void.(5)An order under
this section may also be made by an appellate court or by the High Court when
exercising its powers of revision.(6)If a person to whom a direction is issued
under sub-section (1) to remove himself from any area -(i)fails to remove
himself as directed, or(ii)having so removed himself, except with the
permission in writing of the court mentioned in sub-section (1) enters the
area within the period specified in the order,the court may cause him to be
arrested and removed in police custody to such place outside the area as the
court may, in each case, specify.(7)Any person who is guilty of the breach of
any order passed under sub-section (1) or of any of the conditions or
restrictions specified in such order shall be punished with [***] [Omitted
'rigorous' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1989.] imprisonment which may extend to
three years or with fine, or with both.]

### 53. Operation of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973] [Substituted 'Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.].

\- [Save as expressly provided in this Act, nothing contained therein] [These
words were substituted for the words 'Nothing contained in this Act' by
section 19, Act VIII of 1958.] shall affect the operation of the [Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973] [Substituted 'Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898' by
Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.], [***] [Substituted '(Central Act V of 1898)'
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.].

### 53A. [ Prohibition Officer deemed to be a Police Officer for certain
purposes. [This section was inserted by section 2 of the Madras Prohibition
(Second Amendment) Act, 1949 (Madras Act XLV of 1949).]

\- A Prohibition Officer shall be deemed to be a Police Officer within the
meaning and for the purposes of section 125 of the Indian Evidence Act,
Central 1872,(Act I of 1872.)]

## Chapter VI  
. Rules and Notifications.

### 54. Power to make rules.

(1)The [State] [This word was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the
Adaptation Order of 1950.] Government may make rules for the purpose of
carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.(2)In particular and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the [State] [This word
was substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]
Government may make rules -(a)for the issue of licences and permits and the
enforcement of the conditions thereof ;(aa)[ prescribing the penalty for
wastage or shortage of spirits in excess of the prescribed limits at such rate
not exceeding twice the normal rate of excise duty or fee that would be
payable on the quantity of the spirits lost in excess of the prescribed
limits;] [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.](b)prescribing the powers
to be exercised and the duties to be performed by paid and honorary
Prohibition Officers in furtherance of the objects of the Act.(bb)[
prescribing the ways in which the duty tinder section 18-A may be levied ;]
[This clause was inserted by section 3 (If the Madras Prohibition (Second
Amendnynt) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XIX of 1948).](c)determining the local
jurisdiction of Police and Prohibition Officers in. regard to inquiries and
the exercise of preventive and investigating powers ;(d)authorizing any
officer or person to exercise any power or perform any duty under this Act
;(e)prescribing the powers and duties of prohibition committees and the
members thereof and the intervals at which the members of such committees
shall make their reports;(f)regulating the delegation by the Commissioner or
by Collectors or other district officers of any powers conferred on them by or
under this Act ;(g)regulating the cultivation of the hemp plant, the
collection of those portions of such plant from which intoxicating drugs can
be manufactured and the manufacture of such drugs therefrom ;(h)declaring how
denatured spirit shall be manufactured ;(i)declaring in what cases or classes
of cases and to what authorities appeals shall lie from orders, whether
original or appellate, passed under this Act or under any rule made
thereunder, or by what authorities such orders may be revised, and prescribing
the time and manner of presenting appeals, and the procedure for dealing
therewith ;(j)for the grant of batta to witnesses, and of compensation for
loss of time to persons released under sub-section (3) or section 38 on the
ground that they have been improperly arrested, and to persons charged before
a Magistrate with offences under this Act and acquitted ;(k)regulating the
power of Police and Prohibition Officers to summon witnesses from a distance
under section 42; [***] [The word 'and' was omitted by section 20 (a) (i) of
the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of
1958).](l)for the disposal of articles confiscated and of the proceeds
thereof.(m)[ fOr the prevention of the use of medicinal or toilet'
preparations for any purpose other than medicinal or toilet purposes and for
the regulation of the use of any liquor or drug exempted from all or any of
the provisions of this Act ; [Clauses (m), (n) and (o) were added by section
20 (a) (ii), of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu
Act VIII of 1958).](n)for the proper collection of duty on all kinds of liquor
or drugs ;(nn)[ for exemption from, or suspension of, the operation of any
rule made under this Act ;](o)for all matters expressly required or allowed by
this Act to be prescribed.][(2-A) A rule or notification under this Act may be
made or issued so as to have retrospective effect on and from a date not
earlier than, -(i)the 1st September 1973, in so far as it relates to toddy ;
and(ii)the 1st September 1974, in so far as it relates to any liquor other
than toddy.](iii)[ the 1st May 1981, in so far as it relates to the matters
dealt with in sections 17-B, 17-C, 17-D, 17-E, 18-B and 18-C.] [Added by Tamil
Nadu Act No. 51 of 1981.][Provided that a notification issued under sub-
section (1) of section 16 may have retrospective effect from a date not
earlier than 1st November 1972:Provided further that the retrospective
operation of any rule made or notification issued under this Act shall not
render any person guilty of any oftence in regard to the contravention of such
rule or the breach of any of the conditions subject to which the exemption is
notified in such notification when such contravention or breach occurred
before the date on which the rule or notification is published, as the case
may be.] [Added by Tamil Nadu Act No. 33 of 1986.](3)[ All rules made under
this Act shall, as soon as possible after they are made, be placed on the
table of both the Houses of the Legislature and shall be subject to such
modifications by way of amendments or repeal as the Legislative Assembly may
make within fourteen days on which the House actually sits either in the same
session or in more than one session.] [This sub-section was added by section
20 (b) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act
VIII of 1958).]

### 55. Publication of rules and notification.

\- All rules made and notifications issued under this Act shall be published
in the Official Gazette and upon such publication, shall have effect as if
enacted in this Act.

## Chapter VII  
. Legal Proceeding

### 56. Actions against the Government, etc.

\- No action shall lie against the [Government] [This word was substituted for
the word ' crown' by the Adaptation Order of 1950.]or against any Prohibition,
Police or other officer for damages in any civil court for any act bona fide
done or ordered to be done in pursuance of this Act.

### 56A. [ Injunctions not be granted in respect of sums payable in
consideration of the grant of any privilege or fee on licences for
manufacture, etc. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act No. 2 of 1983.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act V of 1908) or in any other law for the time being in force, no
Court shall grant any permanent or temporary injunction or make any interim
order restraining any proceeding which is being or about to be taken for,
-(i)the recovery of any sum or fee or both levied in consideration of the
grant of any exclusive or other privilege under this Act or the rules made
thereunder or any fee including vend fee or any duty levied by or under this
Act or the rules made thereunder ;(ii)the grant of any privilege under section
17-C or licence under section 17-B.]

### 56B. [ Bar of jurisdiction of civil courts. [Inserted by Tamil Nadu Act
No. 29 of 1985.]

\- No civil court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the
Commissioner or other officer or the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation
Limited or other authority empowered by or under this Act has to determine and
no injunction shall be granted by any court in respect of any action taken or
to be taken by such Commissioner, officer, Corporation or other authority in
pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.] [This sub-section was
Inserted, by section 4 (II),of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act,
1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 1 of 1975) and was deemed to have come into force on the
1st September 1974.]

### 57. Courts to take judicial notice of appointments.

\- All courts shall take judicial notice of all notifications and orders
conferring powers, imposing duties and making appointments under this
Act.[Schedule I ] [The original Schedule was numbered as Schedule I by section
21 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of
1958).](See section 2)

Year. | Number. | Short title or Subject. | Extent of repeal.  
---|---|---|---  
(1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  
|  | [Tamil Nadu Acts] [This expression was substituted for the expression ' Acts of the Governor of Fort St . George in Council' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970, which was deemed to have come into for on the 14th January 1969.] |   
1886 | I | The T[Tamil Nadu] [hese words were substituted for the word ' Madras ' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]Abkari Act, 1886. | The whole.  
1905 | I | The Madras Abkari (Amendment) Act, 1905 | Do.  
1913 | I | The Madras Abkari (Amendment) Act, 1913. | Do.  
1915 | I | The Madras Abkari (Amendment), Act, 1915. | Do.  
1929 | XVIII | The Madras Abkari (Amendment) Act, 1929. | The whole.  
1930 | II | The Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930. |  So much of Schedule II as relates to the[TamilNadu] [This Schedule was added by section 21 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).]Abkari Act, 1886.  
  
[Schedule II.] [This Schedule was added by section 21 of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).]Bond to
Abstain from the Commission of offences under the [Tamil Nadu] [These words
were substituted for the word ' Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Prohibition Act, 1937.(See section 52-A.)Whereas I,
(name), inhabitant of (place), have been called upon to enter into a bond to
abstain from the commission of any offence [under sections 4 (1) (a), [4 (1)
(aa), 4 (1) (aaa)] [Substituted 'under sections 4 (1) (b), 4 (1) (d), 4 (1)
(e) and 4 (1) (i)' by Tamil Nadu Act No. 9 of 1979.] , 4 (1) (b), 4 (1) (d) ,
4 (1) (e), 4 (1) (f), 4(1) (g), 4 (1) (h), 4 (1) (i) and 4 (1) (jj)] of the
[Tamil Nadu] [This Schedule was added by section 21 of the Tamil Nadu
Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1958).] Prohibition
Act, 1937, for the term ofI hereby bind myself not to commit any such offence
during the said term and, in case of my making default therein, I hereby bind
myself to forfeit to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was
substituted for the expression ' State of Madras ' by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of
Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.], the sum of rupeesDated thisday of
19.(Signature.)Where a bond with sureties is to be executed, add -We do hereby
declare ourselves sureties for the above named that he will abstain from the
commission of any offence under sections [4 (1) (aa), 4 (1) (aaa)] [Inserted
by Tamil Nadu Act No. 57 of 1998.] 4 (1) (b), 4 (1) (d), 4 (1) (e), 4 (1) (1)
of the [Tamil Nadu] [These words were substituted for the word 'Madras' by of
Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second
Amendment) Order, 1969.] Prohibition Act, 1937, during the said term, and in
case of his making default therein, we bind ourselves, jointly and severally,
to forfeit to the [State of Tamil Nadu] [This expression was substituted for
the expression ' State of Madras ' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.], the sum of rupeesDated thisday of 19 .(Signature.)]

