## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Jute (Control of Prices and Sales) Act, 1950

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Jute (Control of Prices and Sales) Act, 1950

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-JUTE-CONTROL-OF-PRICES-AND-SALES-ACT-1950 of 1950

  * Published on 21 April 1950 
  * Commenced on 21 April 1950 
  * [This is the version of this document from 21 April 1950.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Jute (Control of Prices and Sales) Act, 1950(Tamil Nadu Act V Of
1950)Received the assent of the Governor on the 21st April 1950 and first
published in the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 25th April 1950.An Act to
provide for controlling the prices and sales of jute in the [State Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment)
Order, 1969.].Whereas it is necessary to provide for controlling the prices
and sales of jute in the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for 'State of
Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the
Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]; It is hereby
enacted as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act maybe called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Jute (Control of Prices
and Sales) Act, 1950.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force at once.Notes. - This Act was extended to the
Kanyakumari District and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district by
section 3 of, and the First Schedule to, the Tamil Nadu (Transferred
Territory) Extension of Laws Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 23 of 1960) repealing
the corresponding law in force in that territory.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or
context,-(a)"jute" means the fibre of any plant belonging to any species of
the genus corchors and commonly called pat, kosta, nalia or bimalipatam and
includes the fibre of the plant hibiscus cannabinus, commonly called
mesta;(b)"pucca bale" means a package containing any jute or jute cutting
(whether containing any waste product or moisture or not) pressed by any
hydraulic or power driven machinery and commonly known in the jute trade as a
pucca bale;(c)"raw-jute" means jute which has notbeen subjected to any process
of spinning or weaving and includes jute or jute cuttings whether loose or
packed in bales or drums and whether containing any waste product or moisture
or not;(d)"surplus raw jute" means raw jute in the possession or control of
any person in excess of the quantity for which he holds for the time being a
valid export licence under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947
(Central Act XVIII of 1947);(e)"waste product" means strippings, odd filaments
or fragments droppings, sweepings or other waste products of jute, and
includes articles commonly known in the jute trade as hiji biji.

### 3. Maximum prices.

(1)The State Government may, by notification in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.], fix the maximum prices which may be
charged for pucca bales, or for surplus raw jute (not being pucca
bales).(2)Different maximum prices may be fixed under sub-section (1)-(a)for
pucca bales, according to the quality, variety or trade description of the
jute or jute cuttings contained therein; and(b)for surplus raw jute (not being
pucca bales) according to the quality, variety or trade description thereof.

### 4. Prohibition of sales and purchases at prices exceeding the maximum
prices.

\- No person shall sell, or agree to sell or offer to sell, and no person
shall buy, or agree to buy, or offer to buy, any pucca bale or any surplus raw
jute (not being a pucca bale) at a price exceeding the maximum price fixed
therefor under section 3.

### 5. Power of State Government to issue directions in respect of surplus raw
jute.

\- The State Government may, by order in writing, direct any person having any
surplus raw jute in his possession or control, to sell such surplus raw jute
or any portion thereof to any specified person or persons at a price not
exceeding the maximum price fixed therefor under section 3.

### 6. Power to require information, etc.

\- The State Government may, by order-(a)require any person to give any
information in his possession with respect to any business in jute carried on
by him or by any other person;(b)authorize any officer to inspect any books or
other documents belonging to, or under the control of, any person and relating
to any business in jute, or cause any such books or documents to be
inspected;(c)authorize any officer to enter and search any premises and seize
any pucca bales or surplus raw jute in respect of which he has reason to
believe that any provision of this Act has been, is being, or is about to be,
contravened, or to cause such entry, search and seizure to be made.

### 7. Delegation of powers.

\- The State Government may authorize any officer to exercise any power
conferred on them by section 5 or section 6.

### 8. Penalties.

\- Whoever-(a)contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any order made
there under, or(b)when required by any order made under clause (a) of section
6 to give any information, refuses or fails to give such information or gives
any information which is false in any material particular and which he knows
or has reason to believe to be false, or does not believe to be true,
or(c)conceals, destroys, mutilates or defaces any book or document of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of section 6, or(d)voluntarily obstructs any
officer in the exercise of his powers under this Act,shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with
both.

### 9. Offences by corporations.

\- Where a person committing any offence punishable under this Act is a
company or an association or a body of persons, whether incorporated or not,
the director, manager, secretary, agent or other principal officer managing
the affairs of such company, association or body shall be deemed to be guilty
of such offence.

