## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2007

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2007

## Act 39 of 2007

  * Published on 14 November 2007 
  * Commenced on 14 November 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 November 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2007(Tamil Nadu Act 39 of
2007)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions)
Act, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 2007). - There has been rapid increase in the
population owing to industrialisation, migration and various other factors,
putting pressure on land and infrastructure in the Chennai Metropolitan
Planning Area leading to unauthorised developments which are not in conformity
with the provisions of the Acts, building rules, regulations and bye-laws in
force in the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area.2\. The Government have
constituted a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court Judge to look into
all aspects of developments and to suggest necessary modifications to the
Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972).
The committee will look into the aspects including various aspects of
unauthorised constructions and unauthorised use of the premises. It is
expected that the recommendations of the committee aforesaid may involve
substantial amendments to the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972) and some with retrospective effect, and in
particular to the provisions relating to construction and use of the premises,
thereby changing the position as obtaining now under the said Act.3\. The
Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority has prepared the draft Master
Plan-11 for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area, with the perspective year,
2026 keeping in view the emerging new dimensions in urban development, which
has been published for public objections and suggestions giving time up to
31-8-2007 and the finalisation of the Master Plan-11 for Chennai Metropolitan
Planning Area, 2026 is likely to take some more time. It is also expected that
the Master Plan-II for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area, 2026 may change the
present position in urban development.4\. A comprehensive policy for the
improvement of slum areas and re-settlement of the people in shun area
wherever necessary in the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area is contemplated
by the State Government.5\. A detailed study of the issues relating to
unauthorised occupation by the vendors and hawkers in the public streets is
contemplated with a view to evolving a scheme for regulating their activities
in terms of the Master Plan-II.6\. Action for violation of the provisions of
the Acts, building rules, regulations, bye-laws in force in the Chennai
Metropolitan Planning Area before a final view is taken in the matter by the
Government may cause avoidable hardship and irreparable loss to a large number
of people including small traders.7\. The Government have, therefore, decided
to bring in a legislation to protect the owners and occupiers from the
enforcement action in respect of unauthorised developments in Chennai
Metropolitan Planning Area fora period of one year. Accordingly, the Tamil
Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2007 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance 1 of
2007) was promulgated by the Governor on the 27th July 2007 and the same was
published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 27th
July 2007.8\. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.Published in Part
IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 17th
October 2007.Received the assent of the Government on the 14th November 2007
and first published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 14th November 2007.An Act to make special provisions
for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area for a period of one year and for
matters connected therewith or incidental theretoWhereas, there had been rapid
increase in the population owing to industrialisation, migration and various
other factors, putting pressure on land and infrastructure in the Chennai
Metropolitan Planning Area leading to unauthorised developments which are not
in conformity with the first Master Plan for Chennai Metropolitan Planning
Area in force, the Development Control Rules contained therein and the
building rules, regulations and bye-laws;And Whereas, the Government have
constituted a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court Judge to look into
all aspects of developments and to suggest necessary modifications to the
Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972);And
Whereas, it is expected that the recommendations of the Committee aforesaid
may involve substantial amendments to the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972) and some with retrospective effect, and
in particular to the provisions relating to construction and use of the
premises, thereby changing the position as obtaining now under the said
Act;And Whereas, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority has prepared the
draft Master Plan-II for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area, with the
perspective year 2026 keeping in view the emerging new dimensions in urban
development, which has been published inviting public objections and
suggestions giving time up to 31-8-2007, and that the finalisation of the
Master Plan-II for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area, 2026 is likely to take
some more time;And Whereas, it is expected that the Master Plan-II for Chennai
Metropolitan Planning Area, 2026, may change the present position in urban
development;And Whereas, a comprehensive policy for the improvement of slum
areas and resettlement of the people in slum area wherever necessary in the
Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area is contemplated by the State Government;And
Whereas, a detailed study of the issues relating to unauthorised occupation by
the vendors and hawkers in the public street is contemplated with a view to
evolving a scheme for regulating their activities in terms of the Master Plan-
II;And Whereas, Action For Violation Of The Provisions Of The First Master
Plan For Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area In Force And Development Control
Rules Contained Therein, Before A Final View Is Taken In The Matter By The
Government May Cause Avoidable Hardship And Irreparable Loss To A Large Number
Of People Including Small Traders;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent, commencement and duration.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Act,
2007.(2)It extends to the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area.(3)It shall be
deemed to have come into force on the 27th day of July 2007.(4)It shall cease
to have effect on the expiry of one year from the date of its commencement,
except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such cesser, and
upon such cesser, section 8 of the Tamil Nadu General Clauses Act, 1891 (Tamil
Nadu Act I of 1891), shall apply as if this Act had then been repealed by a
Tamil Nadu Act.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"building rules,
regulations and bye-laws" means rules, regulations and bye-laws made under the
Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) and
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), as the case
may be, relating to buildings;(b)"Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area" means
the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area specified under clause (23-a) of
section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu
Act 35 of 1972);(c)"detailed development plan" means a detailed development
plan approved under the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 35 of 1972), in respect of any area covered under the Chennai
Metropolitan Planning Area;(d)"Development Control Rules" means the
Development Control Rules for Chennai Metropolitan Planning
Area;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"local authority" means the
Chennai City Municipal Corporation established under the Chennai City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919) or Municipalities
or Town Panchayats (within Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area) established
under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of
1920) or Panchayat Unions or Village Panchayats (within Chennai Metropolitan
Planning Area) established under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil
Nadu Act 21 of 1994) or the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority
constituted under the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil
Nadu Act 35 of 1972), legally entitled to exercise control in respect of the
areas under their respective jurisdictions;(g)"Master Plan" means the Master
Plan for Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area, published under the Tamil Nadu
Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972);(h)"public
street" means public street as defined in clause (37) of section 2 of the
Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of
1972);(i)"punitive action" means action taken by local authority within
Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area under the relevant law against unauthorised
development and shall include demolition, whether in pursuance of Court orders
or otherwise;(j)"relevant law" means in case of-(i)the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority, the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972);(ii)the Chennai City Municipal Corporation, the
Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of
1919);(iii)the Municipalities and Town Panchayats, the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920); and(iv)the Panchayat
Unions and Village Panchayats, the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu
Act 21 of 1994);(k)"unauthorised development" means use of any land or any
building or construction of any building carried out,-(i)in deviation from any
planning permission or building permit; or(ii)without obtaining any planning
permission or building permit; or(iii)in contravention of the land use zoning
under the Master Plan or any approved detailed development plan; or(iv)in
contravention of the Development Control Rules for Chennai Metropolitan
Planning Area, building rules, regulations, bye-laws applicable to areas
within the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area;and includes unauthorised
occupation by hawkers and street vendors in the public street and by the
people in the slum area;(2)The words and expressions used, but not defined
herein shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the Tamil
Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972), the
Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 (Tamil Nadu Act IV of 1919), the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920) and
the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994).

### 3. Government to finalise norms and policy guidelines, etc.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in any relevant law or any rules,
regulations or bye-laws made thereunder, the Government shall, within a period
of one year from the date of commencement of this Act, take all possible
measures, with due regard to environment, to finalise norms, policy guidelines
and feasible strategies to deal with the problems of unauthorised developments
with regard to the under mentioned categories, namely:-(a)land use not
conforming to the Master Plan, detailed development plans or any planning
permission;(b)construction in deviation from or beyond planning permission or
building permit;(c)development without any planning permission or building
permit; and(d)unauthorised occupation by, the hawkers and street vendors in
the public street and by the people in slum area,so that the developments of
Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area take place in a sustainable and planned
manner.(2)Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) and
notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court, status quo as on
the date of the commencement of this Act shall be maintained in respect of the
categories of unauthorised development mentioned in sub-section (1).(3)All
notices issued by any local authority or any authority empowered under
relevant law for initiating action against the categories of unauthorised
development mentioned in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been
suspended and no punitive action shall be taken during the said period of one
year.(4)Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Act, the
Government may, at any time, before the expiry of one year withdraw the
concession given in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be, by
notification in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette in respect of the categories
of unauthorised development mentioned in sub-section (1).

### 4. The provisions of this Act not to apply in certain cases.

\- During the period of operation of this Act, no relief shall be available
under section 3 in respect of the following categories of unauthorised
development, namely:-(a)any unauthorised development started or continued on
or after the date of commencement of this Act;(b)commencement of any activity
anywhere in the Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area in violation of the
provisions of the Master Plan or any detailed development plan on or after the
date of commencement of this Act;(c)unauthorised occupation on public street
except in those cases which are covered under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of
section 3; and(d)removal of people in slum area, hawkers and street vendors in
accordance with policies of the Government, for clearance of land required for
any public project.

### 5. Act to override other laws.

\- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any other law made by the Legislature of
the State for the time being in force.

### 6. Power to give directions.

\- The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to any local
authority or any authority under any relevant law as it may deem fit, for
giving effect to the provisions of this Act and it shall be the duty of such
local authority or authority to comply with such directions.

### 7. Repeal and saving.

(1)The Tamil Nadu Laws (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2007 (Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 1 of 2007) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done, any action taken or any direction given under the said
Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done, taken or given under this Act.

