## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Rules, 1979

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Rules, 1979

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-ELECTRICITY-BOARD-RECOVERY-OF-DUES-RULES-1979 of 1979

  * Published on 14 August 1979 
  * Commenced on 14 August 1979 
  * [This is the version of this document from 14 August 1979.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Rules, 1979Published vide
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 1464, P.W. (Electricity), Dated 14th August 1979
- SRO A-CC7(A)/79, w.e.f. 18.8.1979G.O. Ms. No. 1464. - In exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 7 read with clause (4) of
section 2 and sub-section (1) and clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 3
and section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1978
(Tamil Nadu Act 29 of 1978), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of
Dues) Rules, 1979.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)The "Act" means
the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act
29 of 1978);(b)"Annexure" means an Annexure to these rules;(c)"appellate
authority" means an officer specified by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act;(d)"appeal" means
an appeal to be filed within the time limit prescribed under rule 5;(e)"Board"
means the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board constituted under section 5 of the
[Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Central Act LIV of 1948)] [ This Act has been
repealed. Now see Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of2003)];
and(f)"prescribed authority" means the persons or authority appointed under
rule 3.

### 3. Persons or authority to be prescribed authority.

\- The Assistant Accounts Officers of the Revenue Units of the Board shall
exercise the powers and perform the functions of the prescribed authority in
their respective jurisdictions in respect of Low Tension bills. The
Superintending Engineers of the Board shall exercise the powers and perform
the functions of the prescribed authority in their respective jurisdictions in
respect of High Tension bills and other dues.

### 4. Procedure for serving the bill on consumers.

\- The bill shall be served in person or by registered post with
acknowledgement due to the address of the consumers indicated in the agreement
which he executed With the Board. When the bill is served in person and if he
is not present the bill shall be served to the adult member of his family or
to his authorised agent. If he or the adult member of the family or his
authorised agent refuses to receive the bill, it shall be affixed in a
conspicuous part of his residence or of his last known residence or in some
other conspicuous place of the locality, with the signature of at least two
literate residents of that locality.

### 5. Period within which an appeal has to be preferred.

\- The appeal shall be preferred within thirty days from the date of service
of the bill.

### 6. Procedure to be followed by the appellate authority.

\- The procedure to be followed by the appellate authority while deciding the
appeal under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act shall be as
follows: -(1)If an appeal is filed by a debtor against the decision of the
prescribed authority, the appellate authority shall issue a notice by
registered post with acknowledgement due to the prescribed authority, sending
a carbon copy of the appeal filed by the debtor to show cause within thirty
days from the date of receipt of the notice as to why the appeal filed by the
debtor should not be allowed, failing which the appeal shall be disposed of
ex-parte.(2)The appellate authority shall specify in the notice that he shall
conduct an inquiry in the presence of the debtor or his authorised agent or
his counsel and the prescribed authority, at the place and the time, as may-be
specified therein, regarding the liability of the debtor to pay the whole or
part of the dues specified in the bill, with oral and documentary evidence and
record his decision; and(3)The decision of the appellate authority shall be
communicated within thirty days from the date on which the inquiry was
conducted to the debtor and the prescribed authority by registered post with
acknowledgement due.

### 7. Form of notice of demand for dues and penalty not paid.

\- A notice of demand under section 4 of the Act specified in the Annexure
shall be issued by registered post with acknowledgment due, stating the name
of the debtor, the amount payable by him on account of various dues, penalty
and the costs of recovery.Annexure(see rule 7)Notice of Demand Under Section 4
of The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu
Act 29 of
1978)._____________________ElectricityStation:Date:System,ToThiru/Thirumathi..............Please
take notice that a sum of
Rs............(Rupees............................................... only), is
due from you by way of consumption of electrical energy supplied/ remuneration
rent or other charges for hire etc/price of any goods taken on loan. You are,
therefore, required to pay the amount specified in the following statement of
account within fifteen days from the date of receipt of the notice failing
which action will be taken to recover the amount due under section 6 of the
Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1978 (Tamil Nadu Act 29
of 1978).Statement of Account showing particulars of dues to the Board for
S.C. No.

Serial No | Description of the amount | Amount Rs. ps.  
---|---|---  
Total |  |   
  
Total amount in words (Rupees..........................)Prescribed Authority

