## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu District Panchayats (Submission of Annual Reports) Rules, 1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu District Panchayats (Submission of Annual Reports) Rules, 1999

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-DISTRICT-PANCHAYATS-SUBMISSION-OF-ANNUAL-REPORTS-RULES-1999
of 1999

  * Published on 1 February 1999 
  * Commenced on 1 February 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 February 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu District Panchayats (Submission of Annual Reports) Rules,
1999Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 23, Rural Development (C4),
dated the 1st February 1999 - No. SRO A-8 (a)/99Published in Part III -
Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 1st
February 1999.G.O. Ms. No. 23. - In exercise of powers conferred by sub-
section (1) of section 165 read with sub-section (1) of section 242 of the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. Short title.

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu District Panchayats (Submission of
Annual Reports) Rules, 1999.

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the contest otherwise requires, -"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994.

### 3. Submission of annual return.

\- Every district panchayat shall prepare and furnish in the format specified
in Appendix-A annual report consisting of the following particulars, namely:
-(i)name of the district panchayat area, population, demographic features,
village panchayats and panchayat unions in the district;(ii)composition of
district panchayat and its committees, functioning of the district panchayat
and committees including important resolutions passed;(iii)sectoral planning
and district planning undertaken under sub-section (3) of section 240 of the
Act;(iv)powers and functions exercised under sections 163 and 164 of the Act,
nature of advice tendered by district panchayat to Government and
panchayats;(v)exercise of powers and responsibilities entrusted under section
257 of the Act and other powers exercised under the Act;(vi)details of schemes
executed by district panchayat for the Government and Government of India and
for any other agency including its aim specifically and poverty alleviation
rural development and other programmes, and schemes implemented in any of the
subjects assigned under section 257 of the Act;(vii)statement of income and
expenditure of district panchayat during the year, funds received as per State
Finance Commission, devolution from State Government, grants received from the
Government and Government of India, scheme funds received for the development
programmes, their sources, use and applications during the year, schemes
implemented under Government of India, Finance Commission grants;(viii)audit
of accounts, audit certificate including observation made;(ix)district
panchayats interaction with district administration, District Collector,
District Rural Development Agency, Lead Banks, Co-operatives, Panchayat
Unions, Village Panchayats and Development Departments;(x)studies,
consultation, undertaken and reports prepared for the development and welfare
schemes of the districts; and(xi)analysis of past performance, current status
and future of the district in the overall economic development of the State.

### 4. Particulars of elected member.

\- Every district panchayat shall furnish particulars of its elected members,
as specified in Appendix-B.

### 5. Income and expenditure statement.

\- Every district panchayat shall furnish income and expenditure statement
specified in Appendix-C.

### 6. Activities.

\- Every district panchayat shall furnish its activities taken during the year
reported upon as specified in Appendix-C.

### 7. Preparation of annual report.

\- District panchayat shall prepare the annual report referred to under rule 3
for the previous financial year before the 30th day of September in the
succeeding financial year with audit certificate and statement as required by
the Director of Local Fund Audit. The district panchayat shall approve the
annual report before the 30th day of October in the succeeding financial year.
After approval of annual report, the same shall be signed and sealed by the
Chairman and Secretary, respectively.

### 8. Submission of annual report to Government.

\- Every district panchayat shall send 500 copies of annual reports in Tamil
and English to Government before the 30th day of November. Two sets of annual
reports shall also be sent to District Collector/Inspector and two sets of
annual reports shall be transmitted to the Director of Rural Development
before 30th day of November in the succeeding financial year. The Director of
Rural Development shall forward the annual reports of the district panchayats
with his views thereon before the 31st day of December in the succeeding
financial year to the Government. After scrutiny, the Government shall lay all
such reports within reasonable times with their comments thereon on the Table
of the Legislature as provided in sub-section (2) of section 165 of the
Act.Appendex-A(See rule 3)Annual Report on District Panchayat for the Year
(Year to be Mentioned)

### 1\. Name of the district.

### 2\. Total geographical area of the district.

### 3\. Population of the district.

Male Female.............SC ST..... BC/MBC...... Total

### 4\. Number of panchayat unions/taluks.

### 5\. Number of villages.

### 6\. Number of village panchayats.

### 7\. Name of panchayat unions.

### 8\. Composition of district panchayat (Details to be given in Annexure I).

(i)Total number of members in the district panchayat ST/SC/ ST(W) / SC
(W)/Women/General.(ii)Name of the Chairman.(iii)Name of the Vice-
Chairman.(iv)Whether any casual vacancy for any post occurred during the
period under report.(v)Action taken to fill it up.(vi)Number of meetings held
-(a)Ordinary;(b)Urgent;(c)Special.(vii)Whether the meetings have been
conducted regularly (sixty days shall not lapse between two
meetings).(viii)Follow up action taken on the resolution of the district
panchayats.

### 9. Number of standing committees according to subjects.

### 10. Number of members of each committee.

### 11. Function of each committee.

### 12. Brief on the proceedings of each of the committees.

### 13. Details of sectoral programmes enumerated in Schedule IV of the Act
being implemented by the district panchayat along with staff and financial
outlay during the year......

### 14. Details of the State Sector Schemes (other than mentioned in column
(13), if any, being implemented by district panchayat.

### 15. Details of entrustment of powers in respect of 29 items to the
district panchayat (relevant Government orders to be indicated) and action
taken in pursuance of entrustment (separate report to be annexed).

### 16. Personnel -

(a)transferred to district panchayat from each of the departments;(b)personnel
working on deputation basis.

### 17. Role of District Rural Development Agency and district panchayat in
the district development efforts.

### 18. Role of MPs and MLAs in district panchayat (Minutes of the meetings to
be scrutinised to examine their role).

### 19. Methodology for the preparation of annual plan for the district (A
simple copy of the plan prepared by the district panchayat for the current or
preceding year to be attached).

### 20. Budget estimates. -

(i)Whether the budget has been prepared by the district panchayat and duly
passed in its meeting ?(ii)Has the Inspector scrutinized the budget and
returned it with comments, if any ?(iii)Has the budget finally been passed by
the district panchayat in its meeting duly incorporating the suggestion and
remarks of the Inspector ?

### 21. Duties of Secretary (Job chart to be attached).

### 22. Duties of other officers of the district panchayat (Job chart to be
enclosed).

### 23. Powers of Chairman (Functional distribution of powers to be enclosed).

### 24. Part-wise affiliation of the district panchayat members.

### 25. Number of elected representatives trained so far.

### 26. Number of officials trained so far.

### 27. General powers of the district panchayat (Copy of the order to be
attached).

### 28. Statement of income and expenditure of district panchayat during the
year.

(i)Details of receipts and expenditure to be furnished separately as Annexure.

### 29. (a) Financial devolution as per State Finance Commission report
(otherwise).

(b)The devolution of Tenth Finance Commission Grant to district panchayat.

### 30. Amount of grants devolved to the district panchayat (Rs... in lakhs)
in each year.

### 31. District panchayat fund (Details to be furnished):

(a)What is the percentage of expenditure from the funds of the district
panchayat -(i)for maintenance;(ii)on capital items;(iii)any other items.

### 32. Can district panchayat raise loans ? If any, provide details.

### 33. Management of common property resources of the district panchayat
(Give details)

### 34. Mechanism for supervision and control of the Government over the
district panchayat (Furnish rules and Government orders).

### 35. Composition of District Planning Committee and the role of the
chairman, district panchayat.

### 36. Functions of District Planning Committee (Copy of the order to be
enclosed).

### 37. Maps, statistics, district profile, etc., to be attached.

### 38. Activities performed by district panchayat during the year (......)

### 39. Particulars of different departments operating at the district level
where district panchayat has interactions (example Electricity Board, Banks,
Public Works Department, Highways, Forest, etc.).

### 40. Particulars of different departments which are functioning under the
direct control of district panchayat.

### 41. Organisational chart of all administrative units with staffing pattern
functioning at the district panchayat.

### 42. Annual administration reports (attach copies for two years).

### 43. Role and involvement of district panchayat in the implementation of
various Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation Programmes.

### 44. Interaction between district panchayat with District Rural Development
Agencies (DRDAs).

### 45. District level plan aggregation activities undertaken for last two
years.

### 46. Any other items (please specify and furnish details)

Appendix-B(See rule 4)

SI. No. | Name | Sex | Age | Caste | Education | Occupation | Size of holding | Monthly income Rs.  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
  
Appendix - C(See rule 5)Income and Expenditure of District Panchayat

{|  
---  
SI. No. | Source of income | Year | Year  
|  |  |   
  
||

SI. No. | Source of expenditure | Year | Year  
---|---|---|---  
|  |  |   
  
|}Appendix - D(See rule 6)Activities of the District Panchayat (Year)

SI. No. | Activity | Total value of works | Value contribution obtained from panchayat fund | People's contribution  
---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Rs. | Rs. | Rs.  
|  |  |  |   
  
Place:..........Date:.......... | Seal of the district panchayat | Secretary.................................District Panchayat.  
---|---|---

