## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious Institutions (Officers and Servants) Service
Rules, 1964

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious Institutions (Officers and Servants) Service
Rules, 1964

## Act 1252 of 1964

  * Published on 16 November 1964 
  * Commenced on 16 November 1964 
  * [This is the version of this document from 16 November 1964.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious Institutions (Officers and Servants) Service Rules,
1964Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 2759, Revenue, dated 16th
November 1964 - SRO No. A-1252 of 1964Original rules were published in Part V
of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated the 23rd December 1964 (Pages
1324-1328.G. O. Ms. No. 2759, Revenue, dated 16th November 1964 - SRO No.
A-1252 of 1964. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (xxiii) of
sub-section (2) of section 116 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of
Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-

### 1. Short title and application.

(1)These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious Institutions
(Officers and Servants) Service Rules, 1964.(2)They shall apply to all
officers and servants of the religious institutions except Executive Officers.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959);(b)"Appointing Authority" means the authority who is vested with
the power to appoint an officer or servant;(c)"Officer" or ",servant" includes
a person who holds an office to which an inam granted, confirmed or recognised
by the Government, is attached or who is remunerated in kind or in
cash;(d)"Outdoor servant" means a servant other than a Ulthurai
servant;(e)"Ulthurai servant" means a servant whose duties relate mainly to
the performance or rendering assistance in the performance of pujas, rituals
or other services to the deity, the recitation of mantras, vedas, prabandas,
devarams and similar invocations and the performance of duties connected with
such performance or recitation.

### 3. Officers and servants to profess Hindu religion.

\- Every officer or servant of a religious institution shall profess the Hindu
religion and shall cease to hold office as such officer or servant when he
ceases to profess that religion.

### 4. Physical fitness.

(1)Every person appointed to a non-hereditary post in a religious institution
carrying a monthly salary of not less than ninety rupees shall, before
entering service, produce a certificate of fitness from a Civil Assistant
Surgeon to the satisfaction of the appointing authority.(2)No person, who is
suffering from any contagious or infectious disease, either congenial or
supervening, and no person, who is suffering from any mental or physical
infirmity, which renders him unfit for service, shall be appointed to, or
succeed to, or hold any office in a religious institution. Any doubt or
dispute as to whether a person is qualified under this rule shall be decided
by the appointing authority on production of a certificate of physical fitness
obtained from the nearest Civil Assistant Surgeon. Any person aggrieved by an
order of the appointing authority may prefer an appeal to the [Joint or Deputy
Commissioner] [Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 506, C-T. & R. E., dated the 13th
December 1991.] within one month from the date of receipt of such order.

### 5. Age.

\- No person shall be appointed to a non-hereditary office unless he has
completed [eighteen years of age] [Substituted for the words 'twenty-five
years of age' by G. O. Ms. No. 225, T. D. R. E. & 1., dated 16th July 2008.],
but has not completed forty-five years of age on the first day of July of the
year in which the selection for appointment is made and every person appointed
to such office shall retire from such office on completing sixty years of age.

### 6. Disqualifications.

(1)No person convicted and sentenced to imprisonment by a criminal Court for
an office involving moral turpitude or bound over for keeping the peace or for
good behaviour shall be appointed to or hold any office.(2)No person who has
been declared or adjudicated as an insolvent or who has applied to be
adjudicated or declared shall be appointed to or hold any office.(3)No person,
who has been removed or dismissed from service of any religious institution,
local authority, statutory body or Government, shall be employed or allowed to
hold office in any religious institution.

### 7. Probation.

\- Every person appointed to a non-hereditary office shall, from the date on
which he joins duty, be on probation for a total period of one year on duty
within a continuous period of two years.

### 8. Suspension or termination of probation.

\- Any time, before the expiry of the prescribed period of probation, or where
the period of probation has been extended under rule 10, before the expiry of
the extended period of probation, the appointing authority may-(i)suspend the
probation of the probationer and discharge him from the service for want of a
vacancy; or(ii)at his discretion, by order either extend the period of
probation of the probationer, in case the probation has not been extended
under rule 10 or terminate the probation and discharge him from service after
giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
termination of probation.

### 9. Probationer's suitability for full membership.

(a)At the prescribed or extended period of probation, as the case may be, the
appointing authority shall consider the probationer's suitability for full
membership of the service.(b)If the appointing authority decides that a
probationer is suitable for such membership, it shall issue an order declaring
the probationer to have satisfactorily completed his probation. If no such
order is issued within six months from the date on which he is eligible for
such declaration, the probationer shall be deemed to have satisfactorily
completed his probation on the date of expiry of the prescribed or extended
period of probation.(c)If the appointing authority decides that the
probationer is not suitable for such membership, it shall, unless the period
of probation is extended under rule 10, by order, discharge him from
service.Explanation I. - The decision of the appointing authority that the
probationer is not suitable for full membership may be based also on his work
and conduct till the date of decision inclusive 6f the period subsequent to
the prescribed or extended period of probation.Explanation II. - An
opportunity to show cause may be given after the appointing authority arrives
at a provisional conclusion on the suitability or otherwise of the probationer
for full membership of the service, either by such authority himself or by a
subordinate authority who is superior in rank to the probationer.

### 10. Extension of probation.

(1)In the case of any probationer falling under sub-rule (c) of rule 9, the
appointing authority may extend his probation. Such extended period of
probation shall terminate at the latest when the probationer has, after the
date of expiry of the period of probation for the category, completed six
months of duty in such category. A probationer shall be entitled to draw the
first increment after putting in the service necessary to earn the increment.
His next increment shall, however, be drawn only with effect from the date of
satisfactory completion of probation, but the period of service from the date
of increment shall count for-subsequent increments.(2)Seniority. - The
seniority of a person shall, unless he has been reduced to a lower rank as a
punishment, be determined by the date of his appointment to the service,
class, category or grade provided in the schedule of establishment of a
religions institution. If any portion of the service of such person does not
count towards probation, his seniority shall be determined by the date of
commencement of his service which counts towards probation. The authority may,
at the time of passing any order appointing two or more persons
simultaneously, fix the order of preference among them and seniority shall be
determined in accordance with it.Explanation. - The service, class, category
or grade in each institution shall be decided by the appointing authority and
included in the schedule of establishment submitted to the appropriate
authority under rule 14 of these rules.

### 11. Increment.

\- A probationer shall be allowed to draw his first increment in the scale of
pay, in the normal course, but his second increment shall be drawn only from
the date on which he is declared to have completed his probation.

### 12. Certificate of fitness for performing certain service.

\- Every ulthurai servant, whether hereditary or non-hereditary, whose duty is
to perform pujas and recite mantras, vedas, prabandams, thevarams and other
invocations shall, before succeeding, or appointment to an office, obtain a
certificate of fitness for performing his office, from the head of an
institution imparting instructions in agamas and ritualistic matters and
recognised by the Commissioner, by general or special order or from the head
of a math recognised by the Commissioner, by general or special order or such
other person as may be designated by the Commissioner, from time to time, for
the purpose.

### 13. [ Qualification for outdoor servant. [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 506,
C. T. & R. E., dated the 13th December 1991.]

\- The minimum general educational qualification prescribed for entry into the
Tamil Nadu Ministerial Service shall be the qualification for appointment to
the posts of outdoor servants to whom the duties of maintenance and custody of
accounts, collection of income and custody of cash and other valuables are
entrusted. The qualification prescribed for the entry into Government service
for the posts of Record Clerks and Office Assistants shall apply to the other
categories of like nature of posts in the temple services.]

### 14. Pay and emoluments of officers and servants.

(1)The pay and emoluments in cash and in kind, of each officer or servant
shall be in accordance with a schedule of establishment framed by the trustee
or trustees and approved [by the Assistant Commissioner in the case of
institutions under his jurisdiction] [Substituted for the words 'by the Area
Committee in the case of institution under the jurisdiction of the Committee'
by SRO No. A-667 of 1970.] and by the Joint or Deputy Commissioner in the case
of other institutions. The trustee or trustees shall not alter the schedule
without the previous[permission of the Assistant Commissioner] [ Substituted
for the words 'Permission of the Area Committee' by SRO No. A-667 of 1970.] or
[the Joint or Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be] [Substituted by G.O.
Ms. No. 506, C. T. & R. B., dated the 16th July 1997.]:Provided that this rule
shall not apply to maths and specific endowments attached to
maths.(2)Travelling allowance and daily allowance payable for the journeys
performed by the officers and servants shall be in accordance with the Tamil
Nadu Travelling Allowance Rules for the time being in force. The Executive
Officer and, in the absence of any such officer, the trustee or the Chairman
of Board of Trustees, as the case may be, shall be the controlling and
countersigning authority in respect of their travelling allowance
bills.(3)Advance of pay shall not be paid to any officer and servant except
with the previous permission of the [Assistant Commissioner] [Substituted for
the words 'Areas Committee' by SRO No. A-667 of 1970.] or the Joint or Deputy
Commissioner, as the case may be.

### 15. Leave.

(1)Hereditary servant shall not be entitled to any leave other than casual
leave, as is admissible to Government servants, from time to time.(2)Non-
hereditary servants shall be eligible for casual leave as is permissible to
Government servants, from time to time. In addition, they shall earn leave at
the rate of 1/22 of the duty period as earned leave with pay and accumulate
such earned leave up to a maximum of 50 days up to the 2nd September 1973, and
up to a maximum of 75 days thereafter, leave not availed of and in excess of
50 days on the 2nd September 1973 or 75 days thereafter, shall lapse.(3)Leave
on medical certificate with full pay may be granted to non-hereditary servants
for a period of ninety days in their total service.(4)Leave on medical
certificate may be combined with earned leave, but the total period so
combined shall be limited at a time to sixty days up to the 2nd September 1973
and eighty five days thereafter.(5)When a non-hereditary officer or servant
has neither earned leave nor leave on medical certificate to his credit,
extraordinary leave without pay and allowances may be granted to him.
Extraordinary leave may, however, be granted to a person who, being ineligible
for any other kind of leave specifically applies for it.(6)Leave may be
granted under this rule to the hereditary and non-hereditary ulthurai servants
on their providing proper substitutes to the satisfaction of the appointing
authority.

### 16. Special order of the Assistant Commissioner or of the Commissioner
laying down qualifications to certain posts.

\- The Assistant Commissioner in respect of the institutions under his
jurisdiction and with the previous approval of the Commissioner and the
Commissioner in respect of other institutions may, by special order, lay down
what office of non-hereditary outdoor servants shall be filled by
educationally qualified persons and what the qualifications shall be and when
such special order is made. No person who does not possess the qualifications
so specified shall be appointed to a post included in the order.

### 17. Power to exempt from the operation of these rules.

\- On the recommendation of the trustee or the trustees of a religious
institution, the Commissioner may exempt any person from the operation of
these rules.

### 18. Maintenance of service registers.

\- Service registers shall be maintained for all officers and servants
including ulthurai servants and they shall be verified by the appointing
authority every year in January and a certificate that "service certified"
shall be recorded in the register.

### 19. Maintenance of personal files.

\- Personal files in respect of all outdoor servants and defaulter sheets in
respect of all ulthurai servants shall be maintained by the Executive Officer
in the institutions where there are Executive Officers. Such personal files
and defaulter sheets shall be written every year by the Executive Officer and
scrutinised by the trustee or the Chairman, Board of Trustees, as the case may
be.

### 20. Cashier, etc., to execute security bond.

\- Every cashier, shroff, store-keeper and every other officer or servant of a
religious institution, who is entrusted, whether permanently or temporarily,
with the custody of cash or stores or valuables belonging to the institution
shall furnish security in the form of cash and shall execute a security bond
in the name of the institution setting forth the conditions under which the
institution holds the security and may ultimately refund or appropriate it.
The security bond shall be retained permanently or until it is certain that
there is no necessity for keeping it.

### 21. Fixing the amount of security.

\- The amount of security to be furnished by any officer or servant shall be
fixed by the appointing authority subject to the approval of the Assistant
Commissioner in the case of institutions within his jurisdiction and of the
Joint/Deputy Commissioner, in other cases, having regard to the circumstances
of the institution concerned, the nature of the post and the salary attached
thereto and local conditions.

### 22. Conditions as to the furnishing of security.

(1)No officer or servant referred to in rule 16 holding office on the date of
commencement of these rules shall continue to hold office, if he does not
furnish security before the expiry of three months from the date of such
commencement.(2)No person first appointed to any post for which security has
to be furnished shall assume office, unless he furnishes the security fixed
for the post within fifteen days of the receipt of the order of appointment or
within such period as may be specified in such order.(3)When a person holding
a post for which he has furnished security is appointed to another post, for
which the security fixed is higher than the amount of security already
furnished by him or is appointed to an additional post for which security has
to be furnished, he shall not continue in the new post, if he does not, within
three months from the date of assumption thereof, furnish the required
additional security.

### 23. Exemptions.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 22, the Assistant Commissioner
or the Joint/Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be, may on the
recommendation of the trustee or trustees-(a)extend the time for furnishing
the security or the additional security by any officer or servant;
or(b)exempt, subject to such conditions as he may fix, an officer or servant
from furnishing the whole or any part of the security or reduce the amount of
security.

### 24. Investment of security furnished.

(1)The cash security furnished by an officer or servant shall be invested as
early as possible in any one of the approved forms of securities with the
consent of the officer or servant and the interest earned by such security
shall be paid to him.(2)No interest shall be payable on the security amount
till it is invested in the manner indicated in sub-rule (1).

### 25. Refund of security.

\- The security furnished shall not be refunded before six months after the
officer or servant vacates offices, provided that before refunding the
security, the executive authority shall satisfy himself that no amount is due
by the officer or servant to the institution.

### 26. Gratuity.

(1)Every non-hereditary officer or servant who retires or dies after
completing ten years of service in a religious institution included in the
list published under section 46 of the Act shall become eligible for a
gratuity at the rate of half a month's salary for every completed year of
service subject to a maximum of 15 month's salary:Provided that this rule
shall not apply to any such institution where the Contributory Provident Fund
Scheme is in force.Explanation. - (1) Fraction of a year equal to six months
and above shall be treated as completed yean(2)"Retirement" for this purpose
shall mean retirement on superannuation or after completing twenty-five full
years of service and shall not include cessation of service on resignation or
as a result of disciplinary action.(3)"Salary" for the purpose of this rule
shall mean the average monthly salary excluding the dearness and other
allowances drawn during the last twelve months of service.

### 27. Reduction of gratuity.

\- If the service of an officer or servant has not been thoroughly
satisfactory, the authority sanctioning the gratuity may make such reduction
in the amount as it thinks proper, but the unfavourable circumstances
appearing against such officer or servant for reducing the gratuity shall be
recorded and communicated to him.

### 28. Recovery from gratuity and payment of gratuity to the family of
employees.

\- Any sum of money payable by the officer or servant to the religious
institution shall be deducted from the amount of gratuity payable to him. If
an officer or servant who has become eligible for gratuity dies while in
service or after retirement, the amount of gratuity shall be paid to his
family.Explanation. - (1) "Family" includes the officer's or servant's widow,
or widows, legitimate children, step children, parents, unmarried sisters and
minor brothers who had been wholly dependent on him.(2)When the amount of
gratuity is claimed by more than one person, payment shall be made to any one
person who is authorised by all the claimants to receive payment.

### 29. Appointing authority to sanction gratuity.

\- The appointing authority in respect of every officer or servant shall, with
the prior sanction of the Assistant Commissioner or the Joint or Deputy
Commissioner, as the case may be, sanction the gratuity amount.

### 30. Commissioner may sanction gratuity to servant of any institution.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 26 to 29 of these rules, the
Commissioner may, with the previous approval of the Government, sanction
compassionate gratuity to a non-hereditary officer or servant in respect of
any institution, for special reasons, to be recorded in writing:Provided that
the Commissioner shall, before passing an order under this rule, take into
account the service, character and conduct of the officer or servant and also
the financial position of the institution and its capacity to pay the amount.

### 31. Counting of service in a different institution.

\- Service in one institution shall not count in another institution for the
purpose of these rules.

### 32. Contributory Provident Fund Scheme.

(1)Every religious institution, the annual income of which, as calculated
under section 92 of the Act, is ten thousand or more rupees, shall, within six
months from the date of commencement of these rules or within such further
time as may be granted by the Commissioner, introduce for the benefit of its
non-hereditary officers and servants a Contributory Provident Fund
Scheme.(2)The rules governing the administration of the Contributory Provident
Fund shall be got approved by the Commissioner before the scheme is put into
force.(3)The Commissioner may, by general or special order, revise the rules
as may be required, from time to time.

### 32A.

The provisions of Articles 520 and 521 of the Civil Services Regulations shall
apply to the re-employment of retired Government servants as officers and
servants of religious institutions.

### 32B. [ Family Benefit Fund Scheme. [Added by G. O. Ms. No. 347, CT & R.E,
dated the 7th October 1993.]

(1)This scheme is applicable to regular servants of religious institutions.
The scheme is not applicable to the servants of maths and specific endowments
attached to maths and also to the part-time servants of temples or specific
endowments attached thereto. However, if any part-time servant is in regular
service in any temple or specific endowments attached thereto, then, the
scheme will be applicable to him.(2)The Commissioner shall sanction the lump-
sum amount to the nominee, legal heirs of the employee who dies in harness.
The amount shall be sanctioned even in the case of suicide, murder and
unnatural death like accident, poisoning, drowning and burning.(3)An amount of
rupees fifteen per month shall be collected from the salaries of the servants
as subscription towards the fund. The amount shall be collected during the
period of suspension and for the period of leave without pay as well.(G. O.
Ms. No. 163, Tamil Development Culture and Religious Endowments, dated 1st
August 2001).(4)Every institution shall calculate the total annual
subscriptions of all the employees, draw the amount from the General Funds of
Institutions and remit the amount in advance to the Commissioner before the
end of July of every year and such annual subscription so paid by the
institution on behalf of its servants shall be recovered from the salary of
the employees every month as mentioned above.(5)The Commissioner shall credit
the amount in Savings Bank Account in any nationalised or co-operative bank
and the account shall be operated by the Commissioner for this purpose.(6)In
case of death of a servant while in service, the Commissioner shall sanction
and pay a sum of rupees [seventy-five thousand] from out of the Fund to the
family of the deceased servant. If the legal heir is a minor, the amount shall
be deposited in a nationalised or co-operative bank in the name of the minor
person and the amount with the interest accrued shall be paid as and when the
person attains his legal majority.(7)The executive authorities of the
institutions and the administrative authorities of the Department are
responsible for the collection of the subscriptions due from all the servants
and necessary entries shall be made as to the payment of yearly subscription
in the service register of the incumbent along with the certificate of service
verification. Form of nomination shall be obtained from every servant and
affixed to the Service Register of the employees. The claim shall be made by
the eligible member of the family of the deceased servant through the
Executive Officer or Trustee of the institution and such applications shall be
sent to the Commissioner through the administrative authority of the
department having jurisdiction over the institution. The recommendation of the
authority shall contain the following particulars and documents and in the
absence of any of the following, no claim shall be entertained:-(a)Date of
birth (as per Service Register).(b)Date of entry into service.(c)Order No. and
date of authority sanctioning the post.(d)Date of death with original death
certificate(e)The nomination along with the Service Register.(f)Particulars
regarding the remittance of subscription.(g)Legal heirship certificate in
original in the absence of nomination.(8)The Commissioner may prescribe forms
for application, nomination and recommendation and for collection of
subscription as maybe necessary, from time to time.(9)The Commissioner may, at
his discretion, relax any of the rules relating to the Family Benefit Fund
Scheme in favour of the family of the deceased temple servant.(10)The rules
relating to nominations and conditions for sanction of Family Benefit Fund in
the Tamil Nadu Government Servants Family Benefit Fund Scheme shall apply
mutadis mutandis to temple servants also.]

### 33. Savings.

\- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any hereditary or
non-hereditary office-holder or servant, who has been holding any post
immediately before the date of the commencement of these Rules.

