## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Assessment and Collection of Taxes) Rules,
1999

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Assessment and Collection of Taxes) Rules,
1999

## Rule TAMIL-NADU-VILLAGE-PANCHAYATS-ASSESSMENT-AND-COLLECTION-OF-TAXES-
RULES-1999 of 1999

  * Published on 13 December 1999 
  * Commenced on 13 December 1999 
  * [This is the version of this document from 13 December 1999.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Assessment and Collection of Taxes) Rules,
1999Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 255, Rural Development, dated
13th December 1999 - No. SRO A-93 (a-1)/99Published in Part III - Section 1(a)
of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 27th December
1999.G.O. Ms. No. 255, Rural Development, dated 13th December 1999 - No. SRO
A-93 (a-1)/99. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 171, 172,
174, 176 and sub-section (1) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the rules relating to
house-tax, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -

### 1. [ Short title. [Substituted by G.O. Rt. No. 203, Rural Development
(C2), dated the 10th May 2000.]

\- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats-(Assessments
and Collection of Taxes) Rules, 1999.]

### 2. Definition.

\- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)"Act" means the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994);(b)"Schedule"
means the Schedule appended to these rules;(c)"Form" means the form appended
to these rules.

### 3. Determination of tax.

\- The executive authority shall, save as otherwise provided in these rules,
determine the tax to which each person or property is liable:Provided that, in
the case of taxes payable by the person exercising the functions of the
executive authority, the assessment shall be made by the village panchayat.

### 4. Power to amend assessment.

(1)If, at any time, it appears to the village panchayat that any person or
property has been inadequately assessed or inadvertently or improperly omitted
from the assessment book relating to any tax, or that there is any clerical or
arithmetical error in the said book, it may direct the executive authority to
amend the said book in such manner as if it deems just or necessary:Provided
that no such direction shall be given, where it involves an increase in the
assessment, unless the person concerned shall have been afforded a reasonable
opportunity to show cause to the village panchayat as to why the assessment
book should not be amended as proposed.(2)Such amendment shall be deemed to
have taken effect on the earliest date -(i)in the current year or in the two
years immediately preceding it, if the house-tax is levied annually; and(ii)in
the half-year or in the two half-years immediately preceding in the house-tax
is levied half-yearly. In the case of other taxes on which the circumstances
justifying the amendment existed.

### 5. Receipt for payment of tax.

(1)The executive authority shall give to every person making payment of a tax,
a receipt therefor signed by him or by some person duly authorised by him in
that behalf.(2)Such receipt shall specify -(a)the date of the payment of the
tax;(b)the name of the person to whom it is issued;(c)the tax in respect of
which the payment has been made;(d)the period for which payment has been made;
and(e)the amount paid as tax and the amount of interest, if any, collected
under sub-rule (3) of rule 17.A. Assessment of Tax

### 6. Basis of levy of house-tax.

(1)Every village panchayat shall have power to assess the levy and collect the
house-tax on the basis referred to under section 172 of the Act and in
accordance with the other provisions of the Act. The village panchayat
concerned shall decide of the basis of plinth area of house at the rate
specified in Schedule I of the Act subject to provision of sub-section (3) of
section 172 of the Act.(2)House-tax shall be levied by the village panchayat
either on half-yearly or on annual basis as notified by the Government as per
sub-section (3) of the section 172 of the Act.(3)Any house-tax so levied shall
not be altered or modified during the period of assessment year except with
the prior approval of the Inspector:Provided that, no such prior approval of
the Inspector is required if the enhancement of the tax is ordered by the
village panchayat under sub-rule (1) of rule 3.

### 7. Classification of houses.

(1)When a proportionate rate has been adopted by the village panchayat, it may
group the houses in the village into classes to simplify the calculation and
the collection of the tax.(2)When a progressive rate has been adopted by the
village panchayat, it shall -(i)specify the principles of classification (as
that a certain sum, which shall be tax-free, shall be deducted from the
assessment of each house, or that the progression shall be from a certain
percentage in the lowest to a certain percentage in the highest class);
and(ii)settle the precise number and limits of each class.(3)The village
panchayat shall not, in either case, so arrange the classes as to affect
substantially the principle of taxation, whether proportionate or progressive,
and the number of classes shall, in no case, be less than six.(4)Before
passing a resolution imposing a tax for the first time or increasing the rate
of an existing tax, the village panchayat shall publish a notice in at least
one Tamil newspaper and also on the notice board of the office of the village
panchayat and in such other places within the village panchayat limits as may
be specified by the village panchayat and by beat of drum, of its intention
proposed to levy any tax or increase the existing rate of tax, fixing a
reasonable period not being less than one month for submission of objections
and consider such objection, if any, received within the stipulated period
before passing the said resolution.

### 8. Preparation of house-tax assessment list.

\- The Panchayat Assistant or Part-time Clerk or any other person specified by
the Government having jurisdiction over the village panchayat shall prepare
and furnish to the executive authority, the house-tax assessment list in such
Form as may be specified by the Government, from time to time, duly signed.
The executive authority shall approve the house-tax assessment list so
prepared by him.

### 9. Preparation of assessment book.

\- The executive authority shall, on the receipt of the list specified in rule
8, cause the assessment book (House-Tax Demand Register) to be prepared. Such
assessment book will show in distinct columns, the name of the owner and of
the occupier of such house, the class, if any, under which such house is
taxed, the amount of the tax due and the yearly or half-year for which the tax
is payable.

### 10. Notice for inspection of the assessment book.

\- As soon as the assessment book is prepared, the executive authority shall,
by beat of drum in the village panchayat, give public notice thereof the place
and the time where the book may be inspected.

### 11. Manner of amendment of assessment book.

\- The executive authority may amend the assessment book at any time between
one general revision and another by inserting any house therein or removing
any house therefrom or by altering the valuation or classification of any
house, or the amount of tax payable in respect thereof, subject to any other
rules which the Government may make in this behalf, by substituting therein
for the name of the owner of any house, the names of any other person who has
succeeded by transfer or otherwise to the ownership of the house.(2)Such
amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect on the first day of the half-
year or year in which it is made:Provided that, where the amendment is
rendered necessary by reason of the fixation of the fair rent of a house under
the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (Tamil Nadu Act 18
of 1960), the amendment shall have effect as from the date on which the fair
rent was so fixed:Provided further that, the decision of the executive
authority, in any disputed case of transfer of ownership of a house shall not
give the transferee a legal title to the house.(3)In every case in which,
between one general revision and another, the executive authority assesses any
house-tax for the first time or increases the tax levied on any house
otherwise than in consequence of a general enhancement of the rates at which
the house-tax is leviable, the executive authority shall issue a special
notice to the owner or occupier of such house. Any objection or representation
against such levy or increase in tax received shall be considered by the
executive authority if it reaches the office of the village panchayat within
sixty days from the date of service of such notice in the case of the
Government, a Railway Administration or a company and within thirty days in
other cases.(4)When the assessment book has been prepared for the first time
and whenever a general revision of such book has been completed, the executive
authority shall give public notice stating that any revision petition shall be
considered, if they reach the office of the village panchayat within a period
of sixty days from the date of such notice in the case of the Government,
Railway Administration or a company and thirty days in other cases. The notice
shall also be displayed on the notice board of the village panchayat and on
the same day be announced in the village by beat of drum:Provided that, in
every case where there is an enhancement in the assessment already levied, the
executive authority shall also send in writing to the owner and occupier of
house concerned:Provided further that, in every case, where a special notice
is required to be served on the owner or occupier under the first proviso, the
period of sixty days and thirty days, as the case may be, referred to in, this
rule shall be calculated from the date of service of such special notice.

### 12. Revision petition against assessment.

\- Any person may, at any time not being less than thirty days or more than
sixty days before the end of a half-year or year, move the executive authority
by a revision petition, to reduce the tax to which he is liable for the
forthcoming half-year or year on the ground that the annual rental value or
capital value or on the plinth area, as the case may be, of the house in
respect of which the tax is imposed has decreased since the assessment of the
house was last made or revised.

### 13. Intimation of the result of the revision petition.

\- Immediately after the receipt of a revision petition preferred under sub-
rule (3) of rule 11 or rule 12, the executive authority shall pass final
orders on such revision petition within two months of its receipt and shall
inform the petitioner or his authorised agent in writing, of the orders passed
thereon, and shall direct him to pay the amount fixed on revision within
fifteen days after the date of receipt of such intimation, or, if the amount
is not yet due within fifteen days from the date on which it becomes due, and
shall, if necessary, cause the assessment book to be corrected:Provided that,
in exceptional circumstances, if any, to be specified in writing, no revision
petition may be kept pending up to the half-year or year to which such
revision petition relates to.

### 14. General revision of assessment book.

(1)The executive authority shall not be bound to cause new list or assessment
book to be prepared every half-year or year but may adopt those of the
preceding half-year or year with such amendment as has been or may be made for
the preceding half-year or year.(2)A general revision of assessment book shall
be made by the executive authority once in every five years:Provided that this
provision shall not apply to a fresh revision ordered by the Inspector under
sub-rule (6).(3)(a)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), the
Inspector may, for sufficient cause, from time to time, by order - (i)
postpone the general revision of assessment book, or(ii)stay the proceedings
relating to the general revision of assessment book, for a period of one or
more half-years at a time, but not exceeding in any case four half-
years:Provided that, such postponement or stay shall not affect any subsequent
general revision of assessment book.(b)Where the stay is vacated or the period
of stay expires, the Inspector may direct that proceedings for the general
revision of assessment book shall be either commenced de novo or continued
from the stage at which such proceedings were stayed.(4)The executive
authority shall give public notice of the amendment referred to in sub-rule
(1) and of the general assessment referred to in sub-rule (2) in the manner
provided in rule 11.(5)The general assessment shall be deemed to have taken
effect on the first day of the half-year or year in which the notice under
sub-rule (4) is given.(6)The Inspector may, by order, in writing, cancel the
general revision made under sub-rule (2), if in his opinion, the revision made
discloses that the assessment has been enhanced or reduced without reasonable
basis and shall direct the conduct of fresh revision by any person authorised
by him in this behalf (other than the person whose revision is cancelled under
this rule) in respect of such period as he considers necessary. The procedure
for the revision so ordered by the Inspector shall be in the manner provided
for in these rules for the assessment of house-tax:Provided that, the revision
ordered by the Inspector under this rule shall not have the effect of
postponing the next general revision.

### 15. Exemption of specified classes of houses from house-tax.

\- The following buildings shall, if they fall within the meaning of house as
defined in the Act, be exempt from the house-tax -(a)buildings set apart for
public worship and either actually so used or used for no other
purpose;(b)choultries for the occupation of which no rent is charged and
choultries where the rent charged for the occupation is used exclusively for
charitable purposes;(c)[ buildings used for educational purposes including
hostels and libraries run by the Government or local bodies and institutions
aided by the Government and public buildings used for charitable purpose of
sheltering the destitutes or animals;] [Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 38, RD &
PR (PR.1), dated the 5th March 2008.](d)such ancient monuments protected under
the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (Central Act 7 of 1904), or parts
thereof, as are not used as residential quarters or as public
offices;(e)charitable hospitals and dispensaries and other buildings
exclusively used for charitable purposes;(f)such hospitals and dispensaries
maintained by Railway Administration as may, from time to time, be notified by
the Government;(g)buildings belonging to village panchayats;(h)buildings of
the Forest Department situated within the forest area which are within the
jurisdiction of a village panchayat;(i)light houses;(j)all cattle pounds
maintained by the Revenue Department; and(k)cyclone shelters:Provided that
nothing contained in [clause (a)] [Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 38, RD & PR (PR.
1), dated the 5th March 2008.] shall be deemed to exempt from house-tax, if
any building for which rent is payable by the person or persons using the same
for the purposes referred to in the said clauses:Provided further that
educational institution (not commercial in nature) exempted from levy of
house-tax, immediately before the commencement of the Act shall continue to be
exempted under the said Act.[Provided also that the building used for
educational purposes by Government aided institutions, for conducting self-
financing unaided courses shall be subject to levy of house-tax.] [Inserted by
G.O. Ms. No. 38, RD & PR (PR. 1), dated the 5th March 2008.]Explanation. - The
exemption granted under this rule shall not extend to residential quarters
attached to schools or colleges not being the hostels or residential quarters
attached to hospitals, dispensaries and libraries.

### 16. Manner of ascertaining the annual or capital value of houses.

(1)For purposes of assessment of house-tax, the capital value of a house shall
be deemed to be the total of the estimated value of the land determined in
accordance with the procedure laid down in the rules prescribed for such
purpose and the present estimated cost of erecting the house after deducting
for depreciation a reasonable amount which shall, in no case, be less than ten
per cent of such cost.(2)Machinery and furniture shall be excluded for purpose
of determining the value under this rule. -(a)The annual rental value of house
shall be deemed to be the gross annual rent at which the house may reasonably
be expected to let from month to month, or from year to year, less a deduction
of ten per cent of such annual rent and the said deduction shall be in lieu of
all allowances for repairs or on any other account whatsoever.(b)In the case
of -(i)any Government or railway building falling within the definition of
"house" under the Act;(ii)any building falling within the definition aforesaid
of a class not ordinarily let and the gross annual rent which cannot in the
opinion of the executive authority be estimated,the annual value shall be
deemed to be six per cent of its capital value:Provided that in the case of
buildings in industrial estates and developed plot estates, where the
amenities are provided by the Industries Department or any other authority,
the annual value shall be deemed to be four percent of its capital value.

### 17. Persons liable to pay house-tax.

(1)The house-tax shall be paid by the owner of the house within thirty days
after the commencement of the half-year or sixty days, after the commencement
of the year according to the period of levy.(2)If the owner of a house fails
to pay the whole or any part of the house-tax due thereon within the
stipulated time, the executive authority may, if the said tax has remained
unpaid for more than twelve months, require by a notice in writing the
occupier for the time being of such house, to pay the amount within a
specified period, not being less than fifteen days in the case of half-yearly
levy and thirty days in the case of annual levy.(3)Every village panchayat may
collect an interest for the belated payment of tax due to it at rupees one and
fifty paise or two rupees as may be decided by the village panchayat concerned
for every hundred rupees of the tax for every month of belated payment. The
interest shall be levied after thirty days of the commencement of the year if
the tax is levied on half-yearly basis or sixty days of the commencement of
the year if the tax is levied on yearly basis.

### 18. Obligation of transferor and transferee to give notice of transfer.

(1)Whenever the title of any person, primarily liable to the payment of house-
tax for any house, to or over such house is transferred, the person whose
title is transferred and the person to whom the title is transferred shall,
within three months after the execution of the instrument of transfer or after
its registration if it is registered or after the transfer is effected, if no
instrument is executed, give notice of such transfer to the executive
authority.(2)In the event of the death of any person primarily liable as
aforesaid, the person to whom the title of the deceased is transferred or
inherited as heir or otherwise, shall give written notice of such transfer to
the executive authority within one year from the date of death of the
deceased.(3)The notice to be given under this rule shall be in such Form as
the executive authority may specify and the transferee or the person to whom
the title passes, as the case may be, shall, if so required, be bound to
produce before the executive authority any document evidencing the transfer or
succession.(4)Every person who makes a transfer as aforesaid fails to give
such notice to the executive authority shall, in addition to any other
liability which he incurs through such failure, continue to be liable for the
payment of house-tax assessed on the house transferred until he gives notice
or until the transfer shall have been recorded in the village panchayat
registers, but nothing in this rule shall be held to affect the liability of
the transferee for the payment of the said tax.

### 19. Vacancy remission.

(1)When any house or a portion of a house has been vacant for ninety or more
consecutive days in a half-year or one hundred and eighty or more consecutive
days in a year, the executive authority shall, on demand by the assessee,
remit so much, not exceeding two-thirds of the amount of the tax, as is
proportionate to the number of days during which the house was vacant in the
half-year or year.(2)Every demand for remission under sub-rule (1) shall be
made during the half-year or year in respect of which the remission is sought
or in the following half-year or year and not afterwards.(3)(a)No demand for
such remission shall be entertained unless the owner of the house or his agent
has previously given notice to the executive authority, the house is vacant
and the period in respect of which the remission is made shall be calculated
from the date of delivery of such notice.(b)Every such notice shall expire in
a half-year or year during which it is so delivered and shall take no effect
thereafter.

### 20. Owner's obligation to give notice of construction, reconstruction or
demolition of buildings.

(1)(a)If any house in the village panchayat is constructed or re-constructed,
the owner shall give notice thereof to the executive authority within fifteen
days from the date of completion or occupation of the house, whichever is
earlier.(b)If such date falls within the last two months of a half-year or
four months of a year, the owner shall, subject to notice being given under
clause(a), be entitled to a remission of the whole of the tax or enhanced tax,
as the case may be, payable in respect of the house for that half-year or
year.(c)If such date falls within the first four months of a half-year or
eight months of a year, the owner shall, subject to notice being given under
clause(b), be entitled to a remission of so much not exceeding a half of the
tax or enhanced tax, as the case may be, payable in respect of the house for
that half-year or year as is proportionate to the number of days in that half-
year or year preceding such date.(d)Any owner who commits a breach of the
provisions of this rule shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees, or in case of a continuing breach, with fine not exceeding
fifteen rupees for every day during which the breach continues after
conviction for the first breach.(2)(a)If any house in a village is demolished
or destroyed, the owner shall, until notice thereof is given to the executive
authority, be liable at his discretion for the payment of the tax which would
have been payable had the house not been demolished or destroyed.(b)If such
notice is given within the first two months of a half-year or four months of a
year, the owner shall be entitled for a remission of the whole of the tax
payable in respect of the house for that half-year or year.(c)If such notice
is given within the last four months of a half-year or eight months of a year,
the owner shall be entitled to a remission of so much not exceeding a half of
the tax payable in respect of the house for that half-year or year as is
proportionate to the number of days in that half-year or year succeeding the
demolition or destruction, as the case may be.

### 21. Remission of tax in areas included or excluded in the middle of a
half-year.

(1)If any area is included within a panchayat village in the middle of a half-
year, the owner of every house in such area shall, -(a)if the date of such
inclusion falls within the last two months of a half-year or four months of a
year, not be liable to pay any house-tax in respect thereof for that half-year
or year; and(b)if such date falls within the first four months of a half-year
or eight months of a year, be entitled to a remission of so much not exceeding
a half of the house-tax payable in respect thereof for that half-year or year,
as is proportionate to the number of days in that half-year or year preceding
such date.(2)If any area is excluded from a panchayat village, the owner of
every house in such area shall be entitled, -(a)if the date falls of such
exclusion within first two months of a half-year or four months of a year, to
a remission of the whole of the house-tax payable for that half-year or year;
and(b)if such day falls within the last four months of a half-year or eight
months of a year, to remission of so much amount not exceeding a half of the
house-tax payable in respect thereof for that half-year or year to the number
of days in that half-year or year succeeding such days.(3)No remission shall
be granted under sub-rule (2) in respect of any house unless an application
for such remission is made to the executive authority within three months from
the date of the exclusion of the area in which the house is situated.

### 22. Transfer of registry of ownership of houses.

\- In effecting changes in the ownership of properties in the assessment book
on the application of any party, whether at a general revision or between one
general revision and another, the executive authority shall observe the
following provisions, namely: -(a)In every case of absolute transfer of title,
the registry of properties may be altered to correspond with the transfer of
its ownership on the application of both the parties to the transfer or either
of them, provided that the application for change of registry is in every case
made in writing and is signed by the party or parties making it. It may be
sent by post or presented in person or by duly authorised agent, or through an
officer of the Registration department. Where such an application is presented
by both the parties and one of them is the registered owner, change of
registry as requested may be ordered at once. But, where only one of the
parties to the transfer makes the application, notice shall be served on the
other party. Where the registered owner is not a party to the transaction,
notice shall also be issued to him whether the application for transfer of
registry is presented by both the parties or one of them. If the registered
owner objects to the proposed transfer, no change shall be made unless the
person who claims to be the owner produces satisfactory legal evidence. Where
only one party to the transaction applies and the other either objects or is
silent, the parties should be connected by a complete chain of documents. When
the chain is not complete, it should be filled in by other evidence, such as
statements of respectable persons and tax receipts. A month's time shall be
allowed for filing objections and if any objection is found to be valid,
transfer of registry shall not be made.(b)In the case of transfer of title of
properties in the name of a decree-holder with reference to a decree of a
civil Court or of purchaser in auction sales held in execution of a civil
Court decree, change of registry may be made at once on the application of any
of the parties to the suit or of the auction-purchaser and on the production
of an authenticated copy of the decree or a certificate of sale, as the case
may be, and a certificate of delivery of possession in pursuance thereof,
provided the transfer is from the registered owner. When the transfer is from
a person who is not the registered owner, notice shall be given to the
registered owner in the manner provided in sub-rule (2) before a change of
registry is made. Where, however, a certificate of delivery of possession
cannot be produced, as for instance, where on decree passed possession is
conceded without execution proceedings and the decree is apparently final, the
case shall be dealt with as provided in sub-rule (2) in regard to application
for change of registry presented only by one of the parties of the
transfer.(c)In cases where transfer of registry is sought under a declaratory
decree on which no execution can be taken out, namely, where the decree merely
declares the title to be vested in a particular person, so as to entitle him
to registration, the executive authority may, on the production of any
authenticated copy of such decree, at once, make the transfer of
registry.(d)(1) The executive authority may, on production of satisfactory
proof, order transfer of registry in the case of transfers which accrue by
succession.(2)There shall be an appeal to the village panchayat against, the
order of the executive authority under the rule making or refusing to make a
transfer of registry. Such appeal shall be presented within thirty days after
the date of receipt of the order appealed against.

### 23. Tax on agricultural land.

(1)The tax on agricultural land as referred to in sub-section (3) of section
171 of the Act shall be leviable by the village panchayat for a specific
purpose and shall decide the rate of tax, period of tax and total period to
levy of such tax based on the purpose and paying capacity of the assessee:
-(a)repairs to irrigation channels and tanks in respect of which no
kudimaramath fee is levied under sub-section (2) of section 133 of the
Act;(b)construction, maintenance, repair, extension or improvement of water
works or drainage works;(c)lighting by electricity or any other
means;(d)construction of a road, or a bridge or culvert;(e)protection of
trees, plants and crops; or(f)raising matching contribution for any programme
of development specified in panchayat development Schematic Budget or that may
be included in it, from time to time, and the levy of such tax shall take
effect from the first day of the half-year or the year following that in which
it is sanctioned;(g)construction or maintenance of soil conservation
works:Provided that, the tax for the purpose specified in clause (g) shall be
leviable on such agricultural land as is benefited by the construction or
maintenance of works referred to in that clause;(h)for any other purpose which
will sub-serve the causes of agricultural development and improve the
productivity of agricultural land.Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule,
the tax on agricultural land levied by the village panchayat is in no way
related to land revenue, local cess or local cess surcharge collected by the
Revenue Department.(2)The rate of the tax shall be on the basis of the extent
and classification of land and the source of irrigation of land as provided in
the revenue record:Provided that, for the purpose of adopting different rates
for different classes of lands under this sub-rule, such lands may be
classified according to the number and nature of crops raised thereon or the
nature of the sources of irrigation.(3)(a)Every proposal for the levy of the
tax shall be submitted to the Assistant Director (Panchayats) through the
Block Development Officer (Village Panchayats). The Assistant Director
(Panchayats) shall forward it to the District Collector who is the sanctioning
authority for the levy of tax on agricultural land;(b)Every such proposal
shall be accompanied by -(i)resolution of the village panchayat passed at a
meeting specially convened for the purpose and supported by not less than one-
half of the sanctioned strength of the village panchayat specifying the levy
of tax either half-yearly or yearly the purpose for which, the rate at which,
and the total levy period for which, the tax is to be levied;(ii)a statement
showing the receipts and charges under the various heads of accounts for the
three years preceding the year in which the proposal is made;(iii)the budget
estimate for the year in which the proposal is made;(iv)particulars of the
approximate or estimated cost of the work in respect of which the tax is
proposed to be levied and the amount of tax likely to be realised in a half-
year or a year.(4)The rate at which and the period for which the tax to be
levied shall be specified in the order sanctioning the levy of the tax. The
period specified in the order may be extended, from time to time, if
necessary, in order that the purpose for which the tax is levied may be
fulfilled:Provided that the village panchayat may, for sufficient reason, and
with the approval of the sanctioning authority, alter the rate, suspend or
cancel the levy of the tax within the period so specified in the order.(5)The
proceeds of the tax shall form a separate fund, earmarked for the purpose for
which it is levied and a separate account shall be maintained for the
transactions relating to the fund.(6)The rules relating to levy and collection
of taxes on house shall apply mutatis mutandis to the assessment and
collection of the tax on agricultural land.

### 24. Appeal against imposition of taxes.

\- An appeal shall lie to the village panchayat against the levy or an
enhancement of the tax in respect of the following taxes: -(a)The assessment
and imposition of house-tax and an order of the executive authority under rule
13 upon a revision petition;(b)The assessment and levy of tax on agricultural
land;(c)Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the village panchayat
under clauses (a) or (b) may prefer a petition of revision within thirty days
after receipt of orders of the village panchayat to the Inspector. The
Inspector shall pass orders on such revision petition on the merits of the
claims within a reasonable time and such orders of the Inspector shall be
final.

### 25. Limitation for appeal.

(1)No appeal to village panchayat shall be entertained, -(i)unless it reaches
the office of the village panchayat within fifteen days after the receipt of
demand notice or an order under rule 13, as the case may be; and(ii)unless,
except when the executive authority otherwise directs on the ground of
poverty, the tax in respect of which the appeal is presented has been paid or
deposited at the office of the village panchayat within the period specified
in clause (i).(2)The village panchayat may admit an appeal presented after the
expiry of the period specified in sub-rule (1), but not exceeding fifteen days
thereafter, if it is satisfied that the party concerned had sufficient cause
for not presenting it within the said period.(3)On receipt of an appeal made
under sub-rule (1) or (2), the village panchayat may, after giving the
appellant an opportunity of being heard, shall pass appropriate orders on
merits by allowing the appeal or modify the orders appealed against or
rejecting the appeal.

### 26. Powers of a panchayat to cancel or modify the orders of the executive
authority.

\- The village panchayat may, of its own motion or otherwise, cancel or modify
any order passed by the executive authority reducing or remitting a tax.

### 27. Correction of assessment book and refund of house-tax on appeal.

(1)The assessment book in respect of house-tax shall be corrected in
accordance with any orders passed by the village panchayat on appeal; in the
event of the amount of any tax being reduced or remitted by the village
panchayat, the executive authority shall grant a refund of the tax already
paid.(2)The village panchayat may, on appeal, pass orders reducing such tax to
such an extent up to which such enhanced amount assessed by the executive
authority could be justified.

### 28. Assessment of tax when final.

\- Subject to the provisions of the Act, when no appeal or revision is made as
hereinbefore provided, the tax determined by the executive authority shall be
final. When an appeal or revision is made, the order passed in appeal or in
revision against assessment of tax made by the village panchayat thereon shall
be final:Provided that where any assessment or demand is not in accordance
with the assessment book, nothing in this rule shall be deemed to prohibit a
fresh assessment or demand of the tax being made in accordance therewith.B.
Collection of Tax

### 29. Collection of tax or fee due to a village panchayat.

\- Any tax or fee due to village panchayat shall be collected by the Panchayat
Assistant or Part-time Clerk of the village panchayat appointed for this
purpose.

### 30. Mode of collection.

(1)When house-tax or tax on agricultural land is due from any person and where
coercive action becomes absolutely necessary, the Panchayat Assistant or Part-
time Clerk, as the case may be, shall serve upon such person a demand notice
for house-tax or tax on agricultural land for the sum due before he proceeds
to enforce the provisions of rule 31.(2)A demand notice for house-tax or tax
on agricultural land under sub-rule (1) shall be signed by the executive
authority or bear his facsimile, and also by the Panchayat Assistant or Part-
time Clerk, as the case may be, and shall contain -(a)a description of the
house or agricultural land and a statement of the period for which the tax is
due; and(b)a notice of the liability incurred in default of payment.(3)No tax
for any year or half-years whichever is applicable shall be recovered from any
person in the manner laid down in rule 31 unless the bill is served upon such
person either within that year or half-years or in the succeeding year or
half-years whichever is applicable:Provided that where the assessment book has
been amended under rule 3, the bill may be served either in the year or half-
years whichever is applicable in which the amendment was made or in the
succeeding year or half-year whichever is applicable.(4)Nothing contained in
this rule or in rule 31 shall preclude the village panchayat from taking
appropriate legal proceedings in a Court for the tax due to it.

### 31. Distraint and sale of movable property.

(1)If the amount of the tax demanded is not paid within fifteen days from the
service of the demand notice referred in rule 13 and if the person from whom
the tax is due has not shown sufficient cause to the satisfaction of the
executive authority of the village panchayat concerned for non-payment of tax,
the executive authority may recover by taking distraint proceedings under his
warrant and sale of the movable property of the defaulter. The amount due on
account of the tax together with the warrant fee and the distraint fee and
with such further sum as will satisfy the probable charges that will be
incurred in connection with the detention and sale of the property so
distrained:Provided that the movable property described in the proviso to sub-
section (1) of section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V
of 1908) shall not be liable to distraint.(2)If, for any reason the distraint
or a sufficient distraint of the defaulter's properties is impracticable, the
executive authority may prosecute the defaulter before the Criminal Court
having jurisdiction.(3)The warrant under sub-rule (1) shall be in Form-1 and
for each such warrant, a fee of one rupee shall be levied.(4)Under a special
order in writing of the executive authority who signed the distraint warrant,
the Panchayat Assistant or Part-time Clerk, as the case may be, may, between
sunrise and sunset, break open any outer or inner door or window of any
building in order to make the distraint, if he has reasonable grounds for
believing that such building contains property which is liable to seizure and
if, after notifying his authority and purpose and duly demanding admittance,
he cannot otherwise obtain admittance:Provided that he shall not enter or
break open the door of any apartment appropriated to women until he has given
three hours notice of his intention and has given such women an opportunity to
withdraw.

### 32. Seizure of property.

(1)The Panchayat Assistant or Part-time Clerk, as the case may be, shall,
before making the distraint, demand payment of the tax due and warrant fee. If
the tax and fee are paid, no distraint shall be made, but if the tax or fee is
not paid, the Panchayat Assistant or Part-time Clerk, as the case may be,
shall -(a)seize such movable property of the defaulter as he may think
necessary having regard to the tax arrears;(b)make an inventory of the
property seized; and(c)give to the person in possession of the property seized
at the time of seizer, 3 copy of the inventory and the notice of sale in the
Form II:Provided that a period of seven days shall be allowed for paying the
amount due and redeeming the property seized.(2)The distraint shall not be
excessive, that is to say, the property distrained shall be, as nearly as
possible, equal in value to the tax due by the defaulter together with all
expenses incidental to the warrant, distraint, detention and sale.

### 33. Sale of property seized.

(1)If the amount due by the defaulter on account of the tax, the warrant fee
and distraint fee and all expenses incidental to the detention of the property
are not paid within the period of seven days specified in the notice given
under rule 32 and if the distraint warrant is not suspended by the executive
authority, the property seized or a sufficient portion thereof shall be sold
by public auction under the orders of the executive authority who shall apply
the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the amount due on account of the
tax, the warrant fee, the distraint fee and the expenses incidental to the
detention and the sale of the property and shall return to the person in whose
possession the property was at the time of seizure, any property or sum which
may remain after the sale and the application of the proceeds thereof as
aforesaid. If the proceeds of the sale are insufficient for the payment of the
amount due on account of the tax, the warrant fee and distraint fee and the
expenses incidental to the detention and sale of the property, then, the
executive authority may again proceed under rule 31 in respect of the sum
remaining unpaid.(2)When the property seized is subject to speedy and natural
decay, the executive authority may sell it at any time before the expiry of
the said period of seven days, unless the amount due is sooner paid.(3)The
executive authority shall consider any objection to the distraint of any
property which is made within the said period of seven days and may postpone
the sale pending investigation thereof. If the executive authority decides
that the property attached was not liable to distraint, he shall return it, or
if it has already been sold, the proceeds of the sale, to the person appearing
to be entitled thereto and may again proceed under rule 31 and all fee's and
expenses connected with the first distraint and sale shall be recoverable from
the defaulter if it shall appear, to the executive authority that he willfully
permitted the distraint of the property when to his knowledge it was not
liable to distraint.

### 34. Distraint fees.

(1)The distraint fees shall be payable at such rates as are specified in Form
III.(2)Such fees shall not be held to include the expenses incidental to the
detention of any property distrained.

### 35. Property to be distrained within the area of the village panchayat.

\- The property of a person in default under sub-rule (1) of rule 31 may be
distrained wherever it may be found within the area of the village panchayat.

### 36. Liability of occupier to pay house-tax.

\- If the tax due on account of any house remains unpaid in whole or in part
at the end of the period specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 31, the official
who is authorised to sign the warrant may, if the said tax has remained unpaid
for more than twelve months, require the occupier, for the time being, of such
building to pay the amount within a specified period, not being less than
fifteen days, and if the occupier fails to comply with such requisition, the
executive authority may distrain and sell any movable property found on the
building, and the provisions of the foregoing rules shall, mutatis mutandis
apply to all distraints and sales effected under this rule:Provided that no
occupier shall be liable to prosecution or any proceedings in a civil suit in
respect of any sum recoverable from him under this rule, unless he has
willfully prevented distraint or a sufficient distraint.

### 37. Recovery of arrears of tax.

\- If any tax due from any person remains unpaid in whole or in part at the
end of the period specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 31 and if such person has
left India or cannot be found, the said tax or such part thereof as remains
unpaid together with all sums payable in connection therewith shall be
recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.

### 38. Imposition of fine.

(1)Every person who is prosecuted under sub-rule (2) of rule 31 shall be
liable, on proof to the satisfaction of the Court that he willfully omitted to
pay the amount due by him, to pay a fine not less than five times of the
amount which may be due by him on account of -(a)the tax and the warrant fee,
if any, and(b)if distraint has taken place, the distraint fee and the expenses
incidental to the detention and sale, if any, of the property
distrained.(2)Whenever any person is convicted of an offence under sub-rule
(1), the Court shall, in addition to any fine which may be imposed, recover
summarily and pay over to the village panchayat the amount, if any, due under
the heads specified in clauses (a) and (b) of sub-rule (1) and also recover
summarily and pay the village panchayat such amount, as it may fix as the cost
of the prosecution, in its discretion.

### 39. Prohibition to purchase distrained property in certain cases.

\- Neither the executive authority nor any officer who signed the warrant or
servant of the village panchayat shall directly or indirectly purchase any
property at any sale distrained held under the foregoing rules.Form-I[See rule
31(3)]Distraint WarrantWarrant No............Dated...........To.........(Name
of officer charged with execution of warrant)(State tax or taxes due and
premises, if any, in respect of which the tax is or taxes are
due)Whereas.......... of...............has not paid or shown sufficient cause
for the non-payment of the sum of Rupees.............Paise......due for the
tax or taxes noted above for the............20..., although the said sum has
been duly demanded from the said and fifteen days have elapsed since such
demand was made.This is to command you to demand the said sum of
Rupees......... Paise .......together with one rupee for warrant fee, failing
which you are to distrain the goods and chattels of the said.......(or, as the
case may be, any goods and chattels found on the premises referred to) to the
amount of the said sum of Rupees..... Paise........together with Rupees..
Paise..... for warrant fee and distraint fee making sufficient to defray the
charges of keeping and selling such distraint; and, if within seven days next
after such distraint, the amount due on account of the said tax or taxes and
fees shall not be paid together with such further sum as may be sufficient to
defray the charges of keeping such distraint, to sell the said goods and
chattels under orders to be hereafter issued by me, and to remit to the
village panchayat the sale proceeds of the distrained property, out of which
the amount due on account of the said tax or taxes and fees, namely, viz.,
Rupees.......Paise........ and the charges of keeping and selling such
distraint, will be deducted and credited to the fund, and the surplus, if any,
returned to the owner of the goods and chattels distrained. If distraint or
sufficient distraint cannot be found of the goods and the chattels of the
said....... you are to certify the same together with this
warrant.Station:Date:Signature of the Executive Authority.Form-II[See rule
32(l)(c)]Form of Inventory and Notice of Sale(State particulars of goods and
chattels seized)Take notice that I have this day seized the goods and chattels
specified in the above inventory for the sum of Rupees ..........
Paise.......due towards the tax or taxes specified for the period ending......
20...... And that unless you pay into the office of the village panchayat, the
amount due together with the warrant fee, the distraint fee and the cost of
keeping the goods and chattels. Within seven days from the date of this
notice, the goods and chattels will be sold on the day of.... 20.... at the
office of the village panchayat as the executive authority may direct and that
the goods and chattels may be sold at any previous date, if they are liable to
speedy and natural decay.Station:Date:Signature of the Executive
Authority.Form-III[See rule 34]Table of Maximum Fee Payable on Distraint

Sums distrained for | Distraint fees  
---|---  
(1) | (2)  
Under Rs.30 | 6.00  
Above Rs.30 and up to Rs. 70 | 10.00  
Above Rs.70 and up to Rs. 100 | 20.00  
Above Rs.100 and up to Rs. 150 | 30.00  
Above Rs.150 and up to Rs. 200 | 40.00  
Above Rs.200 and up to Rs. 250 | 50.00  
Above Rs.250 and up to Rs. 300 | 60.00  
Above Rs.300 |  At the rate of twenty per cent of tax roundedoff to the next whole rupee.  
  
The above charge includes all expenses, except when menial are kept in-charge
of property distrained, in which case Rs. 5 shall be paid daily for each
menial.

