## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Act, 1992

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Act, 1992

## Act 40 of 1992

  * Published on 10 July 1992 
  * Commenced on 10 July 1992 
  * [This is the version of this document from 10 July 1992.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education Act, 1992(Tamil Nadu Act No. 40
of 1992)Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Tamil Nadu State Council for
Higher Education Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of l992). - The National Policy
on Education, 1986 of the Government of India contains recommendations that
State level planning and co-ordination of higher education shall be done
through the State Council for Higher Education. A committee constituted by the
University Grants Commission for making recommendations regarding the setting
up of State Council for Higher Education, as per the aforesaid National Policy
recommended that there is a pressing need for an effective machinery for
promotion and co-ordination of Higher Education at the State level and co-
ordination of State level programmes with those of the University Grants
Commission. The University Grants Commission has laid down guidelines for
setting up of State Councils of Higher Education as recommended by the said
committee. The State Government have accordingly decided to establish a State
Council for Higher Education as recommended in the National Policy on
Education of the Government of India and by the University Grants
Commission.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.Published
in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated
the 24th April 1992.Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Tamil Nadu State
Council for Higher Education (Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of
1999). - At present, there is no provision in the Tamil Nadu State Council for
Higher Education Act, 1992 (Tamil Nadu Act 40 of 1992) to give representation
for the Secretary to Governor as ex-office member in the Tamil Nadu State
Council for Higher Education. It has, therefore been decided to amend the said
Act for the above purpose.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
decision.Published in Part IV-Section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette
Extraordinary, dated the 10th May 1999.Received the assent of the Governor on
the 10th July 1992 and Published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 10th July 1992.An Act to provide
for the establishment of a State Council for Higher Education in the State of
Tamil Nadu and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.Whereas
the National Policy on Education, 1986 of the Government of India contains
recommendations that State level planning and co-ordination of higher
education shall be done through the State Councils for Higher Education;And
Whereas the University Grants Commission constituted a committee to make
recommendations regarding the setting up of State Councils for Higher
Education as per the aforesaid National Policy;And Whereas the said committee
recommended that there is a pressing need for an effective machinery for
promotion and co-ordination of Higher Education at the State level and co-
ordination of State level programmes with those of the University Grants
Commission;And Whereas the University Grants Commission has laid down the
guidelines for setting up of State Councils for Higher Education as
recommended by the said committee;And Whereas the State Government have
accordingly decided to . establish a State Council for Higher Education as
recommended in the National Policy on Education of the Government of India and
by the University Grants Commission;Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly
of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent, application and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education
Act, 1992.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.(3)It applies
to all the Universities, colleges and institutions of higher education. .(4)It
shall come into [force on such date] [Act came into force on the 9th day of
November 1992.] as the Government may, by notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"College" means any
college or any institution maintained or approved by, or affiliated to, any
University and providing courses of study for admission to the examination of
the University and includes autonomous college;(b)"Council" means the Tamil
Nadu State Council for Higher Education established under section
3;(c)"degree" means a degree in Art's, Science, Commerce, Teaching, Management
Science, Oriental Languages, Engineering, Technology, Law or such other degree
recognised by any University and includes a post-graduate degree;(d)"diploma"
means any diploma awarded by any University, but does not include a
certificate;(e)"Government" means the State Government;(f)"higher education"
means education, whether professional, technical or otherwise, leading to the
obtaining of any degree or diploma from any University;(g)"institution of
higher education" means an institution conducting any course of study in
higher education, which is approved as such by the Government in consultation
with the Council;(h)"member" means a member of the Council and includes the
Chairman, the Vice-Chairman, the Member-Secretary and the co-opted
member;(i)"regulations" means the regulations made by the Council under this
Act;(j)"University" means the [Chennai] [Substituted for the word 'Madras' by
the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of
1996).] University, the Annamalai University, the Madurai-Kamaraj University,
the Anna University, the Bharathiar University, the Bharathidasan University,
the Tamil University, the Mother Teresa Women's University, the Alagappa
University, the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University or such other Universities
that may be established in the State of Tamil Nadu under any law made by the
Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu to which the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 3 of 1956) applied;(k)"University Grants
Commission" means the University Grants Commission established under section 4
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (Central Act 3 of 1956).

### 3. Establishment of Council for Higher Education.

(1)There shall be established a Council by the name "the Tamil Nadu State
Council for Higher Education".(2)The Council shall be a body corporate having
perpetual succession and a common seal and shall sue and be sued by the said
name.(3)The headquarters of the Council shall be located at Chennai.

### 4. Composition of Council.

\- The Council shall consist of the following members, namely:-(a)the Minister
in-charge of Education, who shall be the Chairman, ex-officio;(b)the Vice-
Chairman appointed by the Government from among persons having experience in
the field of education;(bb)[ the Secretary to Governor, ex-officio;] [Clause
(bb) was inserted by the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education
(Amendment) Act, 1999 (Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 1999), with effect from the 17th
June 1999.](c)the Secretary to Government in-charge of Education, ex-
officio;(d)the Secretary to Government in-charge of Finance, ex-officio;(e)the
Secretary, University Grants Commission or his nominee, ex-officio;(f)the
Director of Collegiate Education, ex-officio;(g)the Director of Technical
Education, ex-officio;(h)one member nominated by the Government from among the
. eminent academicians or educational administrators;(i)one member nominated
by the Government from among the eminent scientists or engineers;(j)one member
nominated by the Government from among industrialists of high repute who have
contributed to the cause of higher education;(k)two members nominated by the
Government from among the Vice-Chancellors of the Universities including Vice-
Chancellors of Central Universities in this State, if any;(l)not more than
three eminent educationists co-opted by the Council; and(m)a full time Member-
Secretary appointed by the Government.

### 5. Disqualification for membership of Council.

\- A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as Vice-chairman or for
being nominated or co-opted as a member the Council or for being such Vice-
Chairman or nominated or co-opted member, if-(a)he is of unsound mind;(b)he is
an applicant to be adjudicated as insolvent or is an undischarged
insolvent;(c)he has been sentenced for any offence involving moral turpitude,
punishable under any law with imprisonment, such sentence not having been
annulled and a period of five years has not elapsed from the date of
expiration of the sentence;(d)he is a paid officer or employee of the Council;
or(e)he incurs such other disqualifications as may be prescribed by the
Government.

### 6. Terms and conditions of service of Vice-chairman and nominated and co-
opted members.

(1)The Vice-chairman and the nominated and co-opted members shall hold office
for a term of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-
nomination or co-option for a further term of three years:Provided that for
the purpose of this sub-section, a person who has held office as Vice-Chairman
or a nominated or co-opted member in a casual vacancy for a period of not less
than one year shall be deemed to have held office for a hill term of
office.(2)The Vice-chairman or the nominated or co-opted member may, by
writing under his hand addressed to the Government or the Council, as the case
may be,* resign his office but he shall continue to hold office until his
resignation is accepted by the Government or, as the case may be, by the
Council.(3)Subject to the provisions of this section, the terms and conditions
of service of the Vice-chairman and the nominated and co-opted members shall
be such as may be prescribed.(4)The Vice-Chairman shall exercise such powers
and perform such functions as may be prescribed.

### 7. Terms and conditions of service of Member-Secretary.

(1)The terms and conditions of service of the Member-Secretary shall be such
as may be prescribed.(2)The Member-Secretary shall exercise the powers and
perform the functions conferred or imposed on him under this Act and such
other powers and functions as may be prescribed.

### 8. Removal from membership of Council.

\- If at any time, it appears to the Government that the Vice-Chairman or a
nominated or co-opted member has shown himself to be unsuitable for office or
has been guilty of misconduct or neglect which renders his removal expedient,
the Government may, after giving the Vice-Chairman or such nominated or co-
opted member, as the case may be, a reasonable opportunity of showing cause,
by notification, remove the Vice-Chairman or such nominated or co-opted
member, as the case may be, from the office.

### 9. Filling up of casual vacancy.

\- If a casual vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-Chairman or of a
nominated or co-opted member, either by reason of his death, resignation,
removal or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled up, as soon as may be, by
the Government or by the Council, as the case may be, and such Vice-Chairman
or nominated or co-opted member shall hold office only for the remainder of
the term for which the person whose place he fills would have been the Vice-
Chairman or, a nominated or co-opted member, as the case may be.

### 10. Powers and functions of Council.

(1)The functions of the Council shall be to co-ordinate and determine
standards in institutions for higher education, or research and scientific and
technical institution in accordance with the guidelines issued by the
University Grants Commission, from time to time.(2)Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (1), the Council shall-(a)prepare consolidated programmes in
the sphere of Higher Education in the State keeping in view the overall
priorities and perspectives of Higher Education in the State and the
guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission and assist in their
implementation;(b)assist the University Grants Commission in respect of
determination and maintenance of standards and suggest remedial action
wherever necessary;(c)evolve perspective plans for development of higher
education in the State;(d)forward the developmental programmes of
Universities, Colleges and institutions of higher education to the University
Grants Commission along with its comments and recommendations and monitor the
progress of implementation of such developmental programmes;(e)promote co-
operation and co-ordination of institutions of higher education among
themselves and explore the scope for interaction with industries and other
related establishments;(f)formulate norms for starting new institution for
higher education in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Government
and University Grants Commission;(g)suggest ways and means for augmenting
additional resources for higher education in the State;(h)encourage and
promote innovations in curriculam development, restructuring and updating of
syllabi in Universities, colleges and institutions of higher
education;(i)promote and co-ordinate programmes of Universities and colleges,
set up a monitoring system and monitor its implementation;(j)devise methods
and steps to improve the standards of examinations conducted by the
Universities and autonomous colleges and suggest necessary
reforms;(k)facilitate training of teachers in Universities and colleges and
oversee the functioning of the academic staff colleges through co-ordination
and promote publication of quality text books, monographs and reference
books;(l)develop programmes for effective academic co-operation and
interaction between the faculties in the Universities and colleges and also
provide mobility of teachers and students in and outside the State;(m)regulate
the admission in Universities, colleges and institutions of higher
education;(n)encourage sports, games, physical education and cultural
activities in the Universities and colleges;(o)encourage extension activities
and promote interaction between Universities and industries through effective
consultancy in special areas relevant to the Universities and regional
planning development;(p)prepare an overview report on the working of the
colleges and furnish a copy of the report to the University Grants Commission;
(q) identify Centres of Excellence in the Universities and provide national
and international linkage for the growth of science and technology in frontier
areas;(r)co-ordinate research funding at national and international level for
promotion of scientific research in the Universities;(s)promote Institutes of
Excellence within or outside the University system in frontier areas of
knowledge like molecular biology, genetic engineering, aerospace,
biotechnology and the like;(t)make suggestions to the Government in
determining the block maintenance grants to Universities and institutions of
higher education, by evolving suitable guidelines for such grants;(u)set up a
State Centre for Scientific Research and to co-ordinate the research
activities among Universities;(v)examine the statutes, ordinances and
regulations of Universities in the State and suggest modifications to maintain
uniformity in the administration without prejudice to the autonomy for the
academic pursuits;(w)make suggestions to the Government regarding improvements
to the laws relating to Universities including the laws relating to the
establishment of new Universities;(x)institute prestigious awards to
outstanding scientists, academicians and technologists for their
contributions;(y)administer and release grants-in-aid from the Government to
Universities;(z)identify and administer innovative programmes for sustainable
growth through self-generating funds from services such as, consultancy to
industries, institutions and national and international
organisations;(aa)administer and release research funds, if any, received from
national and international funding agencies;(ab)work in liaison with the All
India Council for Technical Education in relation to technical
education;(ac)advise the Government or any University, college or institution
of higher education on any other matter relating to higher education and
research which they may refer to the council; and(ad)perform such other
functions necessary for promoting excellence in higher education and
scientific research, as may be prescribed.

### 11. Meetings of Council.

\- The Council shall meet, as often as may be necessary, at such time and
place and observe such rules of procedure as may be provided in the
regulations:Provided that the Council shall meet at least once in three
months.

### 12. Staff of Council.

\- The Council shall appoint such number of employees as may be necessary for
the efficient performance of its functions. The terms and conditions of
service of the employees of the Council shall be such as may be provided in
the regulations.

### 13. Budget of Council.

\- The Council shall prepare, in such form and as such time as may be
prescribed, a budget in respect of the next financial year showing the
estimate receipt and expenditure and a copy of the budget shall be forwarded
to the Government.

### 14. Fund of Council.

(1)The Council shall have its own Fund and all sums which may, from time to
time, be paid, to it by the Government and all the receipts of the Council
(including any sum which the Central Government, the University Grants
Commission or any other authority or person may hand over to the Council)
shall be credited to such Fund.(2)(a)The Government shall pay to the Council
in each financial year, block grants, development grants and matching grants
and such other sum intended for Universities as the Government may consider
necessary for the performance of the functions of the Council under this
Act.(b)The Government may pay to the Council in each financial year such sums
as may be considered necessary for the functioning of the Council.(3)All
expenditure incurred by the Council under, or for the purposes of this Act
shall be defrayed from out of the said Fund and any surplus remaining after
such expenditure has been met, shall be invested in such manner as may be
prescribed.

### 15. Annual account and audit.

(1)The accounts of the Council shall be maintained in such manner and in such
form as may be prescribed. The Council shall prepare an annual statement of
accounts in such form as may be prescribed.(2)The accounts of the Council
shall be audited at least once in a year by such auditor as the Government may
appoint in this behalf.(3)The auditor appointed under sub-section (2) shall,
lor purposes of audit, have such rights, privileges and authority as may be
prescribed.(4)The Member-Secretary to the Council shall cause the audit report
to be printed and forward a,printed copy thereof, to each member and shall
place such report before the Council for consideration at its next
meeting.(5)The Council shall take appropriate action forthwith to remedy any
defect or irregularity that may be pointed out in the audit report.(6)The
accounts of the Council as certified by the auditor together with the audit
report along with the remarks of the Council thereon shall be forwarded to the
Government within such time as may be prescribed.(7)The Government may, by
order in writing, direct the Council to take such action as may be specified
in the order to remedy, within such time as may be specified therein, the
defects, if any, disclosed in the audit report and the Council shall comply
with such direction.

### 16. Annual report.

\- The Council shall, as Soon as may be, after the end of each financial year,
prepare and submit to the Government, before such date and in such form as may
be prescribed, a report giving an account of its activities during the
previous year and the report shall also give an account of the activities, if
any, which are likely to be undertaken by the Council in the next financial
year and the Government shall cause every such report to be laid before the
Legislative Assembly as soon as may be after its receipt. A copy of the annual
report shall also be forwarded to the University Grants Commissions.

### 17. Power to issue directions.

\- The Government may issue to the Council such directions as in their opinion
are necessary or expedient for carrying out the purposes of this Act and the
Council shall give effect to all such directions.

### 18. Proceedings of Council not to be invalidated by infirmities.

\- The Council shall have power to act, notwithstanding any vacancy in the
membership, or any defect in the constitution thereof, and the proceedings of
the Council shall be valid notwithstanding that some person, who was not
entitled to be a member had sat, voted or otherwise taken part in the
proceedings of the Council.

### 19. Members and employees of Council to be public servants.

\- The Chairman, Vice-Chairman, members, the Member-Secretary and other
employees of the Council shall be deemed, when acting or purporting to act in
pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act, or any rule or regulation or
order or direction made or issued under this Act, to be public servants within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).

### 20. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government, the
Council or any member thereof or any employee or person acting under the
direction of the Government or the Council, in respect of anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule,
regulation, order or direction made or.issued under this Act.

### 21. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out the purposes of this
Act.(2)Every rule made under this Act or an order made under section 23 shall,
as soon as possible after it is made, be placed on the Table of the
Legislative Assembly and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is
so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
rule or order, or the Assembly decides that the rule or order should not be
made, the rule or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or order.

### 22. Power to make regulations.

\- The Council may, subject to any rules made by the Government and with the
previous approval of the Government, make regulations for carrying out the
powers and functions of the Council under this Act.

### 23. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, as occasion requires, by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made after the expiry of two years from the date of the commencement of
this Act.

