## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007

## Act 8 of 2007

  * Published on 22 May 2007 
  * Commenced on 22 May 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document from 22 May 2007.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007(Act No.
8 of 2007)Last Updated 27th November, 2019[Dated 22.05.2007]An Act to provide
measures for checking the encroachment, eviction of encroachment in tanks
which are under the control and management of Public Works Department,
protection of such tanks and for matters incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-eighth Year
of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of
Encroachment Act, 2007.(2)It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil
Nadu.(3)It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -(a)'ayacut area' means
area irrigated under any irrigation system within its command
ability:(b)'field channel' means a channel existing or to be constructed to
receive and distribute water for irrigation;(c)'field drainage' means a water
course which discharges waste or surplus water from the land;(d)'foreshore
area' means the land above full tank level and upstream of the tank
bund;(e)'full tank level' means the level of water in the tank when the water
is stored up to the crest of the surplus weir;(f)'Government' means the State
Government;(g)'land' includes benefits to arise out of land and things
attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the
earth;(h)'prescribed' means prescribed by rules;(i)'supply channel' means a
channel, which receives water from a water source and supply to the lower down
tank;(j)'surplus course' means a channel which conveys the surplus spilling
from the tank to the next tank downstream or river nearby;(k)'surplus weir'
means a device to lead away the surplus water not required to be stored in the
tank safely to the river lower down or tank;(l)'tank' means a storage
structure built in for harnessing water for use and includes supply channel,
and its cross masonries, tank sluice, surplus weir, surplus course and its
cross masonries; field channel and its cross masonries besides the drains and
tank poramboke lands which are under the control and management of Public
Works Department;(m)'tank bund' means a small fixed earth dam;(n)'tank sluice'
means a vent way provided for the purpose of supplying water from the
tank;(o)'water spread area' means an area covered by water spread at full tank
level.

### 3. Power to direct survey of tanks.

\- The Government may direct that a survey- be made, with reference to the
records available with the Revenue Department, of tanks in every district for
the purpose of determining their limits in respect of area and that proper
charts and registers be prepared setting- forth the channel and all boundaries
and- marks and all other matters necessary for the purpose of identifying such
limits.

### 4. Appointment of Survey Officers.

(1)The Government or any other officer-authorized by it may, by order, appoint
any officer not below the rank of Taluk Surveyor as Survey Officer for
surveying the tanks within such local limits as may be specified in such
order.(2)The Survey Officer shall carry out the survey of tanks in such manner
as may be prescribed.(3)The Survey Officer shad be assisted by such officers
of the Public Works Department having control over such tanks.

### 5. Power to enter upon.

\- The Survey Officer and officers assisting the Survey Officer shall have
power to enter upon any land and to do all acts necessary for the survey of
tanks.

### 6. Report of Survey Officer.

(1)The Survey Officer shall after the completion of the survey of tanks,
prepare a chart and a register pointing out the boundaries of the tanks and
such other informations necessary for the purpose of identifying the limits of
tank.(2)The chart and the register prepared under sub-section (1) shall be
handed over to an Officer of the Public Works Department, having control over
such tanks as may be specified by the Government.(3)The officer referred to in
sub-section (2), shall within one month from the date of handing over of the
chart and register, publish a notice in such manner as may be prescribed
pointing out the boundaries of the tank.

### 7. Eviction of encroachment.

(1)If the officer specified in sub-section (2) of Section 6 is of opinion that
any person has encroached upon any land within the boundaries of the tank and
that the encroacher should be evicted, the officer shall issue a notice in the
manner as may be prescribed, calling upon the person concerned to remove the
encroachment before a date specified in the notice.(2)Where, within the period
specified in the notice under sub-section (1), the encroacher has not removed
the encroachment and has not vacated the land within the boundaries of the
tank, the officer referred to in sub-section (2) of section 6 shall remove the
encroachment and take possession of the land within the boundaries of the tank
encroached upon, by taking such police assistance as may be necessary. Any
police officer whose help is required for this purpose shall render necessary
help to that officer.(3)Any crop or other product raised on the land within
the boundaries of the tank shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or
other construction erected or anything deposited thereon shall also, if not
removed by the encroacher after a notice under subsection (1), be liable to
forfeiture.

### 8. Offences and Penalties.

\- Whoever,-(a)Enters the land in the water spread and foreshore areas of the
tank without any lawful authority,(b)practices crop cultivation without any
lawful authority,(c)raises plantation crops without any lawful
authority,(d)damages the tank bund, tank sluices, surplus weirs and other
built in structures,(e)obstructs the officers in carrying out their work under
this Act,(f)interferes with the flow in the supply channels feeding the tanks
and encroaches upon adjoining canal poramboke lands,(g)interferes with the
flow in the field channels taking off from tank sluices to feed the ayacut
area,(h)damages distribution and control structures located in the field
channels,(i)damages and obstructs the flows in the field drainage
systems,(j)lifts water from the tank through mechanical and electrical devices
for cultivation, without lawful authority,shall on conviction, be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine of
rupees five thousand or with both.

### 9. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or a rule or order made thereunder:

### 10. Power to remove difficulties.

\- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the Act, the
Government may by order published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear
to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulties:Provided
that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the
date of commencement of this Act.

### 11. Operation of other laws not affected.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of
any other law for the time being in force.

### 12. Alienation of poramboke lands.

\- The Government may, in the public interest, alienate any part of the tank
poramboke land which is under the control of Public Works Department without
interfering with storage capacity and water quality.

### 13. Power to make rules.

(1)The Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes
of this Act.(2)(a)All rules made under this Act. shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(b)All notifications issued under this Act shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and unless they are expressed to come into force
on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so
published.(3)Every rule or order made or notification issued under this Act
shall as soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the Table
of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which
it is so placed or in the next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in any such rule, order or notification or the Legislative
Assembly decides that the rule, order or notification should not be made or
issued, the rule, order or notification shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule, order or notification.

