## State of Tamilnadu- Act

## Tamil Nadu Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) (Repeal) Act, 1967

TAMILNADU  
India

# Tamil Nadu Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) (Repeal) Act, 1967

## Act 12 of 1948

  * Published on 8 September 1967 
  * Commenced on 8 September 1967 
  * [This is the version of this document from 8 September 1967.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Tamil Nadu Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) (Repeal) Act, 1967(Tamil
Nadu Act 12 of 1948)Statement of Objects and Reasons - Madras Land Revenue and
Water-Cess (Surcharge) (Repeal) Act, 1967. - In order to augment the resources
of the State in the context of the emergency and to implement the development
schemes, the Madras Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) Act, 1965 (Madras
Act 34 of 1965) was enacted. Under the provisions of this Act the Government
could levy a surcharge of 25 per cent on the basic land revenue and water-
cess. This Act came into force on the 1st July 1965. To give some relief to
the agriculturists the Government decided to abolish this surcharge with
effect from fasli 1376. It is now proposed to repeal the Act with effect on
and from the 1st July 1966.2\. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above
proposal.Published in Part IV-Section 3, pages 27 and 28 of the Fort St.
George Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 4th July 1967.Received the assent of
the Governor on the 8th September 1967 and first published in the Fort
St.George Gazette, dated the 13th September 1967.An Act to repeal the Madras
Land Revenue and Water-cess (Surcharge) Act, 1965.Be it enacted by the
Legislature of the [State of Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the expression
'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] in the
Eighteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu] [Substituted for the word 'Madras'
by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.] Land Revenue and Water-
Cess (Surcharge) (Repeal) Act, 1967.(2)It shall be deemed to have come into
force on the 1st day of July 1966.Title. - This Act was deemed to have come
into force on the 1st day of July 1966 and on coming into force of the said
Act, the Madras Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) Act, 1965 (Madras Act
34 of 1965) repealed.

### 2. Repeal of Madras Act 34 of 1965.

\- The Madras Land Revenue and Water-Cess (Surcharge) Act, 1965 (Madras Act 34
of 1965) is hereby repealed.

