## Union of India - Act

## Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions)
Act, 2020

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions)
Act, 2020

## Act 38 of 2020

  * Published on 1 January 2020 
  * Commenced on 1 January 2020 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 January 2020.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act,
2020(Act No. 38 of 2020)Last Updated 1st October, 2020[Dated29.9.2020.]An Act
to provide for relaxation and amendment of provisions of certain Acts and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by Parliament
in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and
Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act, 2020.(2)Save as otherwise provided, it
shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of March, 2020.

### 2. Definitions.

(1)In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)"notification" means
the notification published in the Official Gazette;(b)"specified Act"
means-(i)the Wealth-tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957);(ii)the Income-tax Act, 1961
(43 of 1961);(iii)the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988
(45 of 1988);(iv)Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 (22 of
2004);(v)Chapter VII of the Finance Act, 2013 (17 of 2013);(vi)the Black Money
(Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 (22 of
2015);(vii)Chapter VIII of the Finance Act, 2016 (28 of 2016); or(viii)the
Direct Tax Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020 (3 of 2020).(2)The words and expressions
used herein and not defined, but defined in the specified Act, the Central
Excise Act,1944 (1 of 1944), the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Customs
Tariff Act,1975 (51 of 1975) or the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994), as the
case may be, shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to them in that
Act.

## Chapter II  
Relaxation of Certain Provisions of Specified Act

### 3. Relaxation of certain provisions of specified Act.

(1)Where, any time-limit has been specified in, or prescribed or notified
under, the specified Act which falls during the period from the 20th day of
March, 2020 to the 31st day of December, 2020, or such other date after the
31st day of December, 2020, as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify in this behalf, for the completion or compliance of such action as
-(a)completion of any proceeding or passing of any order or issuance of any
notice, intimation, notification, sanction or approval, or such other action,
by whatever name called, by any authority, commission or tribunal, by whatever
name called, under the provisions of the specified Act; or(b)filing of any
appeal, reply or application or furnishing of any report, document, return or
statement or such other record, by whatever name called, under the provisions
of the specified Act; or(c)in case where the specified Act is the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961),-(i)making of investment, deposit, payment,
acquisition, purchase, construction or such other action, by whatever name
called, for the purposes of claiming any deduction, exemption or allowance
under the provisions contained in -(I)sections 54 to 54GB, or under any
provisions of Chapter VI-A under the heading "B.-Deductions in respect of
certain payments" thereof; or(II)such other provisions of that Act, subject to
fulfilment of such conditions, as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify; or(ii)beginning of manufacture or production of articles or things or
providing any services referred to in section 10AA of that Act, in a case
where the letter of approval, required to be issued in accordance with the
provisions of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005, has been issued on or
before the 31st day of March, 2020 (28 of 2005), and where completion or
compliance of such action has not been made within such time, then, the time-
limit for completion or compliance of such action shall, notwithstanding
anything contained in the specified Act, stand extended to the 31st day of
March, 2021, or such other date after the 31st day of March, 2021, as the
Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf:Provided that
the Central Government may specify different dates for completion or
compliance of different actions:Provided further that such action shall not
include payment of any amount as is referred to in sub-section (2):Provided
also that where the specified Act is the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the
compliance relates to-(i)furnishing of return under section 139 thereof, for
the assessment year commencing on the-(a)1st day of April, 2019, the provision
of this sub-section shall have the effect as if for the figures, letters and
words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words "30th day of
September, 2020" had been substituted;(b)1st day of April, 2020, the provision
of this sub-section shall have the effect as if for the figures, letters and
words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words "30th day of
November, 2020" had been substituted;(ii)delivering of statement of deduction
of tax at source under sub-section (2A) of section 200 of that Act or
statement of collection of tax at source under sub-section (3A) of section
206C thereof for the month of February or March, 2020, or for the quarter
ending on the 31st day of March, 2020, as the case may be, the provision of
this sub-section shall have the effect as if for the figures, letters and
words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words "15th day of
July, 2020" had been substituted;(iii)delivering of statement of deduction of
tax at source under sub-section (3) of section 200 of that Act or statement of
collection of tax at source under proviso to sub-section (3) of section 206C
thereof for the month of February or March, 2020, or for the quarter ending on
the 31st day of March, 2020, as the case may be, the provision of this sub-
section shall have the effect as if for the figures, letters and words "31st
day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words "31st day of July, 2020"
had been substituted;(iv)furnishing of certificate under section 203 of that
Act in respect of deduction or payment of tax under section 192 thereof for
the financial year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2019, the provision of
this sub-section shall have the effect as if for the figures, letters and
words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words "15th day of
August, 2020" had been substituted;(v)sections 54 to 54GB of that Act,
referred to in item (I) of sub-clause (i) of clause (c), or sub-clause (ii) of
the said clause, the provision of this subsection shall have the effect as
if-(a)for the figures, letters and words "31st day of December, 2020", the
figures, letters and words "29th day of September, 2020" had been substituted
for the time-limit for the completion or compliance; and(b)for the figures,
letters and words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and words
"30th day of September, 2020" had been substituted for making such completion
or compliance;(vi)any provisions of Chapter VI-A under the heading "B.-
Deductions in respect of certain payments" of that Act, referred to in item
(I) of sub-clause (i) of clause (c), the provision of this sub-section shall
have the effect as if- 43 of 1961.(a)for the figures, letters and words "31st
day of December, 2020", the figures, letters and words "30th day of July,
2020" had been substituted for the time-limit for the completion or
compliance; and(b)for the figures, letters and words "31st day of March,
2021", the figures, letters and words "31st day of July, 2020" had been
substituted for making such completion or compliance;(vii)furnishing of report
of audit under any provision thereof for the assessment year commencing on the
1st day of April, 2020, the provision of this sub-section shall have the
effect as if for the figures, letters and words "31st day of March, 2021", the
figures, letters and words "31st day of October, 2020" had been
substituted:Provided also that the extension of the date as referred to in
sub-clause (b) of clause (i) of the third proviso shall not apply to
Explanation 1 to section 234A of the Income-tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961) in cases
where the amount of tax on the total income as reduced by the amount as
specified in clauses (i) to (vi) of sub-section (1) of the said section
exceeds one lakh rupees:Provided also that for the purposes of the fourth
proviso, in case of an individual resident in India referred to in sub-section
(2) of section 207 of the Income-tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961), the tax paid by
him under section 140A of that Act within the due date (before extension)
provided in that Act, shall be deemed to be the advance tax:Provided also that
where the specified Act is the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act, 2020(3 of
2020), the provision of this sub-section shall have the effect as if-(a)for
the figures, letters and words "31st day of December, 2020", the figures,
letters and words "30th day of December, 2020" had been substituted for the
time limit for the completion or compliance of the action; and(b)for the
figures, letters and words "31st day of March, 2021", the figures, letters and
words "31st day of December, 2020" had been substituted for making such
completion or compliance.(2)Where any due date has been specified in, or
prescribed or notified under the specified Act for payment of any amount
towards tax or levy, by whatever name called, which falls during the period
from the 20th day of March, 2020 to the 29th day of June, 2020 or such other
date after the 29th day of June, 2020 as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify in this behalf, and if such amount has not been paid
within such date, but has been paid on or before the 30th day of June, 2020,
or such other date after the 30th day of June, 2020, as the Central Government
may, by notification, specify in this behalf, then, notwithstanding anything
contained in the specified Act,-(a)the rate of interest payable, if any, in
respect of such amount for the period of delay shall not exceed three-fourth
per cent. for every month or part thereof;(b)no penalty shall be levied and no
prosecution shall be sanctioned in respect of such amount for the period of
delay.Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, "the period of
delay" means the period between the due date and the date on which the amount
has been paid.

## Chapter III  
Amendments to the Income-Tax Act, 1961

### 4. Amendment of Act 43 of 1961.

\- In the Income-tax Act, 1961,-(I)in section 6, with effect from the 1st day
of April, 2021,-(a)in clause (1), in Explanation 1, in clause (b), for the
words "the citizen or person of Indian origin", the words "such person" shall
be substituted;(b)in clause (1A), the following Explanation shall be inserted,
namely:-"Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that
this clause shall not apply in case of an individual who is said to be
resident in India in the previous year under clause (1).";(c)in clause (6), in
the Explanation, the words "and which is not deemed to accrue or arise in
India." shall be added at the end;(II)in section 10,-(a)in clause (4D), with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,-(i)for the words "convertible foreign
exchange, to the extent such income accrued or arisen to, or is received in
respect of units held by a non-resident", the words and brackets 'convertible
foreign exchange or as a result of transfer of securities (other than shares
in a company resident in India) or any income from securities issued by a non-
resident (not being a permanent establishment of a non-resident in India) and
where such income otherwise does not accrue or arise in India or any income
from a securitisation trust which is chargeable under the head "profits and
gains of business or profession", to the extent such income accrued or arisen
to, or is received, is attributable to units held by non-resident (not being
the permanent establishment of a non-resident in India) computed in the
prescribed manner' shall be substituted;(ii)in the Explanation, after clause
(b), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-(ba)"permanent
establishment" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in clause (iiia) of
section 92F;(bb)"securities" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956(42
of 1956) and shall also include such other securities or instruments as may be
notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette in this
behalf;(bc)"securitisation trust" shall have the same meaning assigned to it
in clause (d) of the Explanation to section 115TCA;';(b)in clause (23C),
-(i)in sub-clause (i), after the word "Fund", the words and brackets "or the
Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund
(PM CARES FUND)" shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2020;(A)with effect from the 1st day of
June, 2020, the following provisos shall be substituted and shall be deemed to
have been substituted, namely:-(ii)for the first and second
provisos,-"Provided that the fund or trust or institution or any university or
other educational institution or any hospital or other medical institution
referred to in sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-
clause (via) shall make an application in the prescribed form and manner to
the prescribed authority for the purpose of grant of the exemption, or
continuance thereof, under sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause
(vi) or sub-clause (via):Provided further that the prescribed authority,
before approving any fund or trust or institution or any university or other
educational institution or any hospital or other medical institution, under
sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (via), may
call for such documents (including audited annual accounts) or information
from the fund or trust or institution or any university or other educational
institution or any hospital or other medical institution, as the case may be,
as it thinks necessary in order to satisfy itself about the genuineness of the
activities of such fund or trust or institution or any university or other
educational institution or any hospital or other medical institution, as the
case may be, and the compliance of such requirements under any other law for
the time being in force by such fund or trust or institution or any university
or other educational institution or any hospital or other medical institution,
as the case may be, as are material for the purpose of achieving its objects
and the prescribed authority may also make such inquiries as it deems
necessary in this behalf:";(B)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, the
following provisos shall be substituted, namely:-"Provided that the exemption
to the fund or trust or institution or university or other educational
institution or hospital or other medical institution referred to in sub-clause
(iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (via), under the
respective sub-clauses, shall not be available to it unless such fund or trust
or institution or university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution makes an application in the prescribed form and
manner to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, for grant of
approval,-(i)where such fund or trust or institution or university or other
educational institution or hospital or other medical institution is approved
under the second proviso [as it stood immediately before its amendment by the
Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain provisions) Act,
2020], within three months from the 1st day of April, 2021;(ii)where such fund
or trust or institution or university or other educational institution or
hospital or other medical institution is approved and the period of such
approval is due to expire, at least six months prior to expiry of the said
period;(iii)where such fund or trust or institution or university or other
educational institution or hospital or other medical institution has been
provisionally approved, at least six months prior to expiry of the period of
the provisional approval or within six months of commencement of its
activities, whichever is earlier;(iv)in any other case, at least one month
prior to the commencement of the previous year relevant to the assessment year
from which the said approval is sought,and the said fund or trust or
institution or university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution is approved under the second proviso:Provided
further that the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, on receipt of an
application made under the first proviso, shall, -(i)where the application is
made under clause (i) of the said proviso, pass an order in writing granting
approval to it for a period of five years;(ii)where the application is made
under clause (ii) or clause (iii) of the said proviso,-(a)call for such
documents or information from it or make such inquiries as he thinks necessary
in order to satisfy himself about-(A)the genuineness of activities of such
fund or trust or institution or university or other educational institution or
hospital or other medical institution; and(B)the compliance of such
requirements of any other law for the time being in force by it as are
material for the purpose of achieving its objects; and(b)after satisfying
himself about the objects and the genuineness of its activities under item
(A), and compliance of the requirements under item (B), of sub-clause
(a),-(A)pass an order in writing granting approval to it for a period of five
years;(B)if he is not so satisfied, pass an order in writing rejecting such
application and also cancelling its approval after affording it a reasonable
opportunity of being heard;(iii)where the application is made under clause
(iv) of the said proviso, pass an order in writing granting approval to it
provisionally for a period of three years from the assessment year from which
the registration is sought, and send a copy of such order to the fund or trust
or institution or university or other educational institution or hospital or
other medical institution:";(iii)for the eighth and ninth provisos,-(A)with
effect from the 1st day of June, 2020, the following provisos shall be
substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted, namely:-"Provided
also that any notification issued by the Central Government under sub-clause
(iv) or sub-clause (v), before the date on which the Taxation Laws (Amendment)
Bill, 2006 receives the assent of the President, shall, at any one time, have
effect for such assessment year or years, not exceeding three assessment years
(including an assessment year or years commencing before the date on which
such notification is issued) as may be specified in the notification:Provided
also that where an application under the first proviso is made on or after the
date on which the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2006 receives the assent of
the President, every notification under sub-clause (iv) or sub clause (v)
shall be issued or approval under sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-
clause (vi) or sub-clause (via) shall be granted or an order rejecting the
application shall be passed within the period of twelve months from the end of
the month in which such application was received:";(B)with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2021, the following provisos shall be substituted,
namely:-"Provided also that any approval granted under the second proviso
shall apply in relation to the income of the fund or trust or institution or
university or other educational institution or hospital or other medical
institution,-(i)where the application is made under clause (i) of the first
proviso, from the assessment year from which approval was earlier granted to
it;(ii)where the application is made under clause(iii)of the first proviso,
from the first of the assessment years for which it was provisionally
approved;(iii)in any other case, from the assessment year immediately
following the financial year in which such application is made:Provided also
that the order under clause (i), subclause (b) of clause (ii) and clause (iii)
of the second proviso shall be passed, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, before expiry of the period of three months, six months and one
month, respectively, calculated from the end of the month in which the
application was received:";(iv)in the twelfth proviso, for the word, figures
and letters "section 12AA", the words, figures and letters "section 12AA or
section 12AB" shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2021;(v)after fifteenth proviso, with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020,
the following proviso shall be inserted and shall be deemed to have been
inserted, namely:-"Provided also that in case the fund or trust or institution
or any university or other educational institution or any hospital or other
medical institution referred to in the first proviso makes an application on
or after the 1st day of June, 2006 for the purposes of grant of exemption or
continuance thereof, such application shall be made on or before the 30th day
of September of the relevant assessment year from which the exemption is
sought:";(vi)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, the sixteenth
proviso as so inserted, shall be omitted;(vii)for the eighteenth
proviso,-(A)with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020, the following proviso
shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted,
namely:-"Provided also that all pending applications, on which no notification
has been issued under subclause (iv) or sub-clause (v) before the 1st day of
June, 2007, shall stand transferred on that day to the prescribed authority
and the prescribed authority may proceed with such applications under those
sub-clauses from the stage at which they were on that day:";(B)with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2021, the following proviso shall be substituted,
namely:-"Provided also that all applications made under the first proviso [as
it stood before its amendment by the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and
Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act, 2020] pending before the Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner, on which no order has been passed before the 1st
day of April, 2021, shall be deemed to be applications made under clause (iv)
of the first proviso on that date:";(c)after clause (23FBB), the following
clause shall be inserted, with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,
namely:-"(23FBC) any income accruing or arising to, or received by, a unit
holder from a specified fund or on transfer of units in a specified
fund.Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, the
expressions-(a)"specified fund" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it
in clause (c) of the Explanation to clause (4D);(b)"unit" means beneficial
interest of an investor in the fund and shall include shares or partnership
interests.";(d)in clause (23FE), in the Explanation, with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2021,-(i)in clause (a), in sub-clause (ii), for the words
"United Arab Emirates", the words "Abu Dhabi" shall be substituted";(ii)in
clause (b), in sub-clause (vi), after the words "for this purpose", the words
"and fulfils conditions specified in such notification" shall be
inserted;(iii)in clause (c), in sub-clause (iv), for the words "for this
purpose", the words "for this purpose and fulfils conditions specified in such
notification" shall be substituted;(III)in section 11,-(a)in sub-section (1),
in Explanation 2, after the word, figures and letters "section 12AA", the
words, figures and letters "or section 12AB, as the case may be" shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021;(b)in sub-section
(7),-(i)for the words, figures and letters "under section 12AA or section
12AB", the words, brackets, letters and figures "under clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(A)with effect
from the 1st day of June, 2020, for the words, figures and letters "under
section 12AB", the words, figures and letters "under section 12AA," shall be
substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted;(B)with effect from
the 1st day of April, 2021, after the words, figures and letters "under
section 12AA", the words, figures and letters "or section 12AB" shall be
inserted;(IV)in section 12A,-(ii)for the words, brackets, letters and figures
"under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12AA", the words, figures and
letters "under section 12AA or section 12AB" shall be substituted with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2021;(iii)in the second proviso,-(a)in sub-section
(1),-(i)with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020, clause (ac) shall be
omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted;(ii)with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2021, after clause (ab), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:-"(ac) notwithstanding anything contained in clauses (a) to (ab), the
person in receipt of the income has made an application in the prescribed form
and manner to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, for registration of
the trust or institution,-(i)where the trust or institution is registered
under section 12A as it stood immediately before its amendment by the Finance
(No. 2) Act, 1996 or under section 12AA [as it stood immediately before its
amendment by the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain
Provisions) Act, 2020], within three months from the 1st day of April,
2021;(ii)where the trust or institution is registered under section 12AB and
the period of the said registration is due to expire, at least six months
prior to expiry of the said period;(iii)where the trust or institution has
been provisionally registered under section 12AB, at least six months prior to
expiry of period of the provisional registration or within six months of
commencement of its activities, whichever is earlier;(iv)where registration of
the trust or institution has become inoperative due to the first proviso to
sub-section (7) of section 11, at least six months prior to the commencement
of the assessment year from which the said registration is sought to be made
operative;(v)where the trust or institution has adopted or undertaken
modifications of the objects which do not conform to the conditions of
registration, within a period of thirty days from the date of the said
adoption or modification;(vi)in any other case, at least one month prior to
the commencement of the previous year relevant to the assessment year from
which the said registration is sought,and such trust or institution is
registered under section 12AB;";(b)in sub-section (2),-(A)with effect from the
1st day of June, 2020,-(i)the first proviso shall be omitted and shall be
deemed to have been omitted;(ii)in the second proviso, for the words, figures
and letters "Provided further that where registration has been granted to the
trust or institution under section 12AA or section 12AB", the words, figures
and letters "Provided that where registration has been granted to the trust or
institution under section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to
have been substituted;(iii)in the third proviso, for the words "provided
also", the words "provided further" shall be substituted and shall be deemed
to have been substituted;(iv)in the fourth proviso, for the words, figures and
letters "section 12AA or section 12AB", the word, figures and letters "section
12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(B)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,-(i)in the first
proviso, for the words figures and letters "Provided that where registration
has been granted to the trust or institution under section 12AA", the
following shall be substituted, namely:-"Provided that the provisions of
sections 11 and 12 shall apply to a trust or institution, where the
application is made under-(a)sub-clause (i) of clause (ac) of sub-section (1),
from the assessment year from which such trust or institution was earlier
granted registration;(b)sub-clause (iii) of clause (ac) of sub-section (1),
from the first of the assessment year for which it was provisionally
registered:Provided further that where registration has been granted to the
trust or institution under section 12AA or section 12AB";(ii)in the second
proviso, for the words "Provided further", the words "Provided also" shall be
substituted;(iii)in the fourth proviso, for the word, figures and letters
"section 12AA", the words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB"
shall be substituted;(V)in section 12AA,-(a)sub-section (5) shall be omitted
and shall be deemed to have been omitted with effect from the 1st day of June,
2020;(b)after sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be inserted
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-"(5) Nothing contained in
this section shall apply on or after the 1st day of April, 2021.";(VI)section
12AB shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with effect
from the 1st day of June, 2020;(VII)after section 12AA, the following section
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-

### 12AB. Procedure for fresh registration. - (1) The Principal Commissioner
or Commissioner, on receipt of an application made under clause (ac) of sub-
section (1) of section 12A, shall,-

(a)where the application is made under sub-clause (i) of the said clause, pass
an order in writing registering the trust or institution for a period of five
years;(b)where the application is made under sub-clause (ii) or sub-clause
(iii) or sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) of the said clause,-(i)call for
such documents or information from the trust or institution or make such
inquiries as he thinks necessary in order to satisfy himself about-(A)the
genuineness of activities of the trust or institution; and(B)the compliance of
such requirements of any other law for the time being in force by the trust or
institution as are material for the purpose of achieving its objects;(ii)after
satisfying himself about the objects of the trust or institution and the
genuineness of its activities under item (A) and compliance of the
requirements under item (B), of sub-clause (i),-(A)pass an order in writing
registering the trust or institution for a period of five years; or(B)if he is
not so satisfied, pass an order in writing rejecting such application and also
cancelling its registration after affording a reasonable opportunity of being
heard;(c)where the application is made under sub-clause (vi) of the said
clause, pass an order in writing provisionally registering the trust or
institution for a period of three years from the assessment year from which
the registration is sought,and send a copy of such order to the trust or
institution.(2)All applications, pending before the Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner on which no order has been passed under clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 12AA before the date on which this section has come into force,
shall be deemed to be applications made under sub-clause (vi) of clause (ac)
of sub-section (1) of section 12A on that date.(3)The order under clause (a),
sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) and clause (c), of sub-section (1) shall be
passed, in such form and manner as may be prescribed, before expiry of the
period of three months, six months and one month, respectively, calculated
from the end of the month in which the application was received.(4)Where
registration of a trust or an institution has been granted under clause (a) or
clause (b) of sub-section (1) and subsequently, the Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner is satisfied that the activities of such trust or institution are
not genuine or are not being carried out in accordance with the objects of the
trust or institution, as the case may be, he shall pass an order in writing
cancelling the registration of such trust or institution after affording a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5)Without prejudice to the provisions
of sub-section (4), where registration of a trust or an institution has been
granted under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) and subsequently, it
is noticed that-(a)the activities of the trust or the institution are being
carried out in a manner that the provisions of sections 11 and 12 do not apply
to exclude either whole or any part of the income of such trust or institution
due to operation of sub-section (1) of section 13; or(b)the trust or
institution has not complied with the requirement of any other law, as
referred to in item (B) of sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-section (1),
and the order, direction or decree, by whatever name called, holding that such
non-compliance has occurred, has either not been disputed or has attained
finality,then, the Principal Commissioner or the Commissioner may, by an order
in writing, after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard, cancel
the registration of such trust or institution.";(VIII)in section 13, in
Explanation 1, after the figures and letter "12A", the figures and letters ",
12AA, 12AB" shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2021;(IX)in section 35,-(a)in sub-section (1),-(i)with effect from the 1st day
of June, 2020, in clause (iii), in the Explanation,-(A)for the words,
brackets, figures and letter "to which clause (ii) or clause (iii) or to a
company to which clause (iia)", the words, brackets and figures "to which
clause (ii) or clause (iii)" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted;(B)for the words, brackets, figures and letter "clause (ii)
or clause (iii) or to a company referred to in clause (iia)", the words,
brackets and figures "clause (ii) or clause (iii)" shall be substituted and
shall be deemed to have been substituted;(ii)with effect from the 1st day of
April, 2021, in sub-clause (iii), in the Explanation,-(A)for the words,
brackets and figures "to which clause (ii) or clause (iii)", the words,
brackets, figures and letter "to which clause (ii) or clause (iii) or to a
company to which clause (iia)" shall be substituted;(B)for the words, brackets
and figures "clause (ii) or clause (iii)", the words, brackets, figures and
letter "clause (ii) or clause (iii) or to a company referred to in clause
(iia)" shall be substituted;(iii)the fifth and sixth provisos occurring after
clause (iv) shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with
effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(iv)after the fourth proviso occurring
after clause (iv), the following provisos shall be inserted with effect from
the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-"Provided also that every notification
under clause (ii) or clause (iii) in respect of the research association,
university, college or other institution or under clause (iia) in respect of
the company issued on or before the date on which this proviso has come into
force, shall be deemed to have been withdrawn unless such research
association, university, college or other institution referred to in clause
(ii) or clause (iii) or the company referred to in clause (iia) makes an
intimation in such form and manner, as may be prescribed, to the prescribed
income-tax authority within three months from the date on which this proviso
has come into force, and subject to such intimation the notification shall be
valid for a period of five consecutive assessment years beginning with the
assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 2022:Provided
also that any notification issued by the Central Government under clause (ii)
or clause (iia) or clause (iii), after the date on which the Taxation and
Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020
receives the assent of the President, shall, at any one time, have effect for
such assessment year or years, not exceeding five assessment years as may be
specified in the notification.";(b)sub-section (1A) shall be omitted and shall
be deemed to have been omitted with effect from the 1st day of June,
2020;(c)after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-(1A)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), the research association, university,
college or other institution referred to in clause (ii) or clause (iii) or the
company referred to in clause (iia) of sub-section (1) shall not be entitled
to deduction under the respective clauses of the said sub-section, unless such
research association, university, college or other institution or
company-(i)prepares such statement for such period as may be prescribed and
deliver or cause to be delivered to the said prescribed income-tax authority
or the person authorised by such authority such statement in such form,
verified in such manner, setting forth such particulars and within such time,
as may be prescribed:Provided that such research association, university,
college or other institution or the company may also deliver to the prescribed
authority a correction statement for rectification of any mistake or to add,
delete or update the information furnished in the statement delivered under
this sub-section in such form and verified in such manner as may be
prescribed;(ii)furnishes to the donor, a certificate specifying the amount of
donation in such manner, containing such particulars and within such time from
the date of receipt of sum, as may be prescribed.";(X)in section 35AC, with
effect from the 1st day of November, 2020,-(i)in sub-section (4)-(a)in clause
(i), for the word "Committee", the words and brackets "the Principal Chief
Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax
(Exemption)" shall be substituted;(b)in clause (ii), for the words "National
Committee", the words and brackets "the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income
Tax (Exemption) or the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption)" shall be
substituted;(c)in the long line, for the words "National Committee", the words
and brackets "the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or
the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption)" shall be substituted;(d)in
the proviso, for the words "National Committee", the words and brackets "the
Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or the Chief
Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption)" shall be substituted;(ii)in sub-
section (5),-(a)in clause (i), for the words "National Committee", the words
and brackets "the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or
the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption)" shall be substituted;(b)in
the first proviso, for the words "National Committee", the words and brackets
"the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or the Chief
Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption)" shall be substituted;(iii)in sub-
section (6), in clause (ii), after the words "National Committee", the words
and brackets "or the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) or
the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption), as the case may be," shall
be inserted;(XI)in section 56, in sub-section (2),-(a)with effect from the 1st
day of June, 2020,-(i)in clause (v), in the proviso, in clause (g), for the
words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB", the word, figures
and letters "section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted;(ii)in clause (vi), in the proviso, in clause (g), for the
words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB", the word, figures
and letters "section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted;(iii)in clause (vii), in the second proviso, in clause (g),
for the words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB", the word,
figures and letters "section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to
have been substituted;(b)with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,-(i)in
clause (v), in the proviso, in clause (g), for the word, figures and letters
"section 12AA", the words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB"
shall be substituted;(ii)in clause (vi), in the proviso, in clause (g), for
the word, figures and letters "section 12AA", the words, figures and letters
"section 12AA or section 12AB" shall be substituted;(iii)in clause (vii), in
the second proviso, in clause (g), for the word, figures and letters "section
12AA", the words, figures and letters "section 12AA or section 12AB" shall be
substituted;(c)in clause (x), in the proviso, in clause (VII),-(i)for the
words, figures and letters "section 12A or section 12AA or section 12AB", the
words, figures and letters "section 12A or section 12AA" shall be substituted
and shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day of
June, 2020;(ii)for the words, figures and letters "section 12A or section
12AA", the words, figures and letters "section 12A or section 12AA or section
12AB" shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021;(XII)in
section 80G,-(a)in sub-section (2), in clause (a), in sub-clause (iiia), after
the word "Fund", the words and brackets "or the Prime Minister's Citizen
Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES FUND)" shall be
inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2020;(b)in sub-section (5),-(i)with effect from the 1st day of
June, 2020,-(A)in clause (vi), for the words "approved by the Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner;" the words "approved by the Commissioner in
accordance with the rules made in this behalf; and" shall be substituted and
shall be deemed to have been substituted;(B)clauses (viii) and (ix) shall be
omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted;(ii)with effect from the 1st
day of April, 2021,-(A)in clause (vi), for the words "approved by the
Commissioner in accordance with the rules made in this behalf; and", the words
"approved by the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner;" shall be
substituted;(B)after clause (vii), the following clauses shall be inserted,
namely:-(viii)the institution or fund prepares such statement for such period
as may be prescribed and deliver or cause to be delivered to the prescribed
income-tax authority or the person authorised by such authority such statement
in such form and verified in such manner and setting forth such particulars
and within such time as may be prescribed:Provided that the institution or
fund may also deliver to the said prescribed authority, a correction statement
for rectification of any mistake or to add, delete or update the information
furnished in the statement delivered under this sub-section in such form and
verified in such manner as may be prescribed; and(ix)the institution or fund
furnishes to the donor, a certificate specifying the amount of donation in
such manner, containing such particulars and within such time from the date of
receipt of donation, as may be prescribed:Provided that the institution or
fund referred to in clause (vi) shall make an application in the prescribed
form and manner to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, for grant of
approval,-(i)where the institution or fund is approved under clause (vi) [as
it stood immediately before its amendment by the Taxation and Other Laws
(Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act, 2020], within three
months from the 1st day of April, 2021;(ii)where the institution or fund is
approved and the period of such approval is due to expire, at least six months
prior to expiry of the said period;(iii)where the institution or fund has been
provisionally approved, at least six months prior to expiry of the period of
the provisional approval or within six months of commencement of its
activities, whichever is earlier;(iv)in any other case, at least one month
prior to commencement of the previous year relevant to the assessment year
from which the said approval is sought:Provided further that the Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner, on receipt of an application made under the
first proviso, shall,-(i)where the application is made under clause (i) of the
said proviso, pass an order in writing granting it approval for a period of
five years;(ii)where the application is made under clause (ii) or clause (iii)
of the said proviso,-(a)call for such documents or information from it or make
such inquiries as he thinks necessary in order to satisfy himself about-(A)the
genuineness of activities of such institution or fund; and(B)the fulfilment of
all the conditions laid down in clauses (i) to (v);(b)after satisfying himself
about the genuineness of activities under item (A), and the fulfilment of all
the conditions under item (B), of sub-clause (a),-(A)pass an order in writing
granting it approval for a period of five years; or(B)if he is not so
satisfied, pass an order in writing rejecting such application and also
cancelling its approval after affording it a reasonable opportunity of being
heard;(iii)where the application is made under clause (iv) of the said
proviso, pass an order in writing granting it approval provisionally for a
period of three years from the assessment year from which the registration is
sought,and send a copy of such order to the institution or fund:Provided also
that the order under clause (i), sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) and clause
(iii) of the first proviso shall be passed in such form and manner as may be
prescribed, before expiry of the period of three months, six months and one
month, respectively, calculated from the end of the month in which the
application was received:Provided also that the approval granted under the
second proviso shall apply to an institution or fund, where the application is
made under-(a)clause (i) of the first proviso, from the assessment year from
which approval was earlier granted to such institution or fund;(b)clause (iii)
of the first proviso, from the first of the assessment years for which such
institution or fund was provisionally approved;(c)in any other case, from the
assessment year immediately following the financial year in which such
application is made.";(c)sub-section (5E) shall be omitted and shall be deemed
to have been omitted with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(d)after sub-
section (5D), the following sub-section shall be inserted with effect from the
1st day of April, 2021, namely:-"(5E) All applications, pending before the
Commissioner on which no order has been passed under clause (vi) of sub-
section (5) before the date on which this sub-section has come into force,
shall be deemed to be applications made under clause (iv) of the first proviso
to sub-section (5) on that date.";(e)Explanation 2A shall be omitted and shall
be deemed to have been omitted with effect from the 1st day of June,
2020;(f)after Explanation 2, the following Explanation shall be inserted with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2021, namely:-"Explanation 2A.-For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that claim of the assessee for a
deduction in respect of any donation made to an institution or fund to which
the provisions of sub-section (5) apply, in the return of income for any
assessment year filed by him, shall be allowed on the basis of information
relating to said donation furnished by the institution or fund to the
prescribed income-tax authority or the person authorised by such authority,
subject to verification in accordance with the risk management strategy
formulated by the Board from time to time.";(XIII)in section 92CA, after sub-
section (7), the following sub-sections shall be inserted with effect from the
1st day of November, 2020, namely:-"(8) The Central Government may make a
scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of
determination of the arm's length price under sub-section (3), so as to impart
greater efficiency, transparency and accountability by-(a)eliminating the
interface between the Transfer Pricing Officer and the assessee or any other
person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the
resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based determination of arm's length price
with dynamic jurisdiction.(9)The Central Government may, for the purpose of
giving effect to the scheme made under sub-section (8), by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not
apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as
may be specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be
issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(10)Every notification issued under
sub-section (8) and sub-section (9) shall, as soon as may be after the
notification is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XIV)in
section 115AD, with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,-(a)in sub-section
(1),-(i)in the opening portion, for the words "Foreign Institutional
Investor", the words "specified fund or Foreign Institutional Investor" shall
be substituted;(ii)for clause (i), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:-"(i) the amount of income-tax calculated on the income in respect of
securities referred to in clause (a), if any, included in the total
income,-(A)at the rate of twenty per cent. in case of Foreign Institutional
Investor;(B)at the rate of ten per cent. in case of specified fund;";(iii)in
clause (iv), for the words "Foreign Institutional Investor", the words
"specified fund or Foreign Institutional Investor" shall be
substituted;(b)after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:-"(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),
in case of specified fund, the provision of this section shall apply only to
the extent of income that is attributable to units held by non-resident (not
being a permanent establishment of a non-resident in India) calculated in the
prescribed manner.";(c)in sub-section (2), for the words "Foreign
Institutional Investor", at both the places where they occur, the words
"specified Fund or Foreign Institutional Investor" shall be substituted;(d)in
the Explanation, for clause (b), the following clauses shall be substituted,
namely:-(b)the expression "permanent establishment" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in clause (iiia) of section 92F;(c)the expression "securities"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of section 2 of the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956(42 of 1956);(d)the expression
"specified fund" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of
the Explanation to clause (4D) of section 10.';(XV)in section 115BBDA, in the
Explanation, in clause (b), in sub-clause (iii),-(i)for the words, figures and
letters "under section 12A or section 12AA or section 12AB", the words,
figures and letters "under section 12A or section 12AA" shall be substituted
and shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day of
June, 2020;(ii)for the words, figures and letters, "under section 12A or
section 12AA" the words, figures and letters "under section 12A or section
12AA or section 12AB" shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of
April, 2021;(XVI)in section 115JEE, after sub-section (2), the following sub-
section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021,
namely:-(2A)The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to specified fund
referred to in clause (c) of the Explanation to clause (4D) of section
10.";(XVII)in section 115TD,-(i)for the words, figures and letters "under
section 12AA or section 12AB" wherever they occur, the words, figures and
letters "under section 12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have
been substituted with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(ii)for the words,
figures and letters "under section 12AA" wherever they occur, the words,
figures and letters "under section 12AA or section 12AB" shall be substituted
with effect from the 1st day of April, 2021;(XVIII)after section 129, the
following section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November,
2020, namely:-

### 130. Faceless jurisdiction of income-tax authorities. - (1) The Central
Government may make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the
purposes of-

(a)exercise of all or any of the powers and performance of all or any of the
functions conferred on, or, as the case may be, assigned to income-tax
authorities by or under this Act as referred to in section 120; or(b)vesting
the jurisdiction with the Assessing Officer as referred to in section 124;
or(c)exercise of power to transfer cases under section 127; or(d)exercise of
jurisdiction in case of change of incumbency as referred to in section 129,so
as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and accountability
by-(i)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the
assessee or any other person, to the extent technologically
feasible;(ii)optimising utilisation of the resources through economies of
scale and functional specialisation;(iii)introducing a team-based exercise of
powers and performance of functions by two or more income-tax authorities,
concurrently, in respect of any area or persons or classes of persons or
incomes or classes of income or cases or classes of cases, with dynamic
jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after
the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued,
be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XIX)in section 133A, with effect
from the 1st day of November, 2020,-(i)in sub-section (6), for the proviso,
the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:-Provided that no action
under this section shall be taken by an income-tax authority without the
approval of the Principal Director General or the Director General or the
Principal Chief Commissioner or the Chief Commissioner.";(ii)in the
Explanation, for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:-(a)"income-tax authority" means-(i)a Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner, a Principal Director or Director, a Joint Commissioner or Joint
Director, an Assistant Director or a Deputy Director or an Assessing Officer,
or a Tax Recovery Officer; and(ii)includes an Inspector of Income-tax, for the
purposes of clause (i) of sub-section (1), clause (i) of sub-section (3) and
sub-section (5),who is subordinate to the Principal Director General of
Income-tax (Investigation) or the Director General of Income-tax
(Investigation) or the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income-tax (TDS) or the
Chief Commissioner of Income-tax (TDS), as the case may be;';(XX)in section
133C, with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020,-(a)in sub-section (2),
for the words "such information or document and make available the outcome of
such processing to the Assessing Officer", the words, brackets, figures and
letter "and utilise such information and document in accordance with the
scheme notified under sub-section (3) or the provisions of section 135A" shall
be substituted;(b)after sub-section (3), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:-(4)The scheme made under sub-section (3) shall cease to have
effect from the date on which the scheme notified under section 135A in
respect of this section comes into effect.";(XXI)after section 135, the
following section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November,
2020, namely:-

### 135A. Faceless collection of information. - (1) The Central Government may
make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of
calling for information under section 133, collecting certain information
under section 133B, or calling for information by prescribed income-tax
authority under section 133C, or exercise of power to inspect register of
companies under section 134, or exercise of power of Assessing Officer under
section 135 so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based exercise of powers, including to
call for, or collect, or process, or utilise, the information, with dynamic
jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after
the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued,
be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XXII)after section 142A, the
following section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November,
2020, namely:-

### 142B. Faceless inquiry or Valuation. - (1) The Central Government may make
a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of issuing
notice under sub-section (1) or making inquiry before assessment under sub-
section (2), or directing the assessee to get his accounts audited under sub-
section (2A) of section 142, or estimating the value of any asset, property or
investment by a Valuation Officer under section 142A, so as to impart greater
efficiency, transparency and accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority or Valuation
Officer and the assessee or any person to the extent technologically
feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the resources through economies of scale
and functional specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based issuance of notice
or making of enquiries or issuance of directions or valuation with dynamic
jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after
the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued,
be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XXIII)in section 143, with effect
from the 1st day of April, 2021,-(i)in sub-section (3B), in the proviso, for
the figures "2022", the figures "2021" shall be substituted;(ii)after sub-
section (3C), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:-(3D)Nothing
contained in sub-section (3A) and sub-section (3B) shall apply to the
assessment made under sub-section (3) or under section 144, as the case may
be, on or after the 1st day of April, 2021.";(XXIV)after section 144A, the
following section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2021, namely:-

### 144B. Faceless assessment. - (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other provisions of this Act, the assessment under sub-
section (3) of section 143 or under section 144, in the cases referred to in
sub-section (2), shall be made in a faceless manner as per the following
procedure, namely:-

(i)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall serve a notice on the
assessee under sub-section (2) of section 143;(ii)the assessee may, within
fifteen days from the date of receipt of notice referred to in clause (i),
file his response to the National Faceless Assessment Centre;(iii)where the
assessee-(a)has furnished his return of income under section 139 or in
response to a notice issued under sub-section (1) of section 142 or under sub-
section (1) of section 148, and a notice under sub-section (2) of section 143
has been issued by the Assessing Officer or the prescribed income-tax
authority, as the case may be; or(b)has not furnished his return of income in
response to a notice issued under sub-section (1) of section 142 by the
Assessing Officer; or(c)has not furnished his return of income under sub-
section (1) of section 148 and a notice under sub-section (1) of section 142
has been issued by the Assessing Officer,the National Faceless Assessment
Centre shall intimate the assessee that assessment in his case shall be
completed in accordance with the procedure laid down under this
section;(iv)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall assign the case
selected for the purposes of faceless assessment under this section to a
specific assessment unit in any one Regional Faceless Assessment Centre
through an automated allocation system;(v)where a case is assigned to the
assessment unit, it may make a request to the National Faceless Assessment
Centre for-(a)obtaining such further information, documents or evidence from
the assessee or any other person, as it may specify;(b)conducting of certain
enquiry or verification by verification unit; and(c)seeking technical
assistance from the technical unit;(vi)where a request for obtaining further
information, documents or evidence from the assessee or any other person has
been made by the assessment unit, the National Faceless Assessment Centre
shall issue appropriate notice or requisition to the assessee or any other
person for obtaining the information, documents or evidence requisitioned by
the assessment unit;(vii)the assessee or any other person, as the case may be,
shall file his response to the notice referred to in clause (vi), within the
time specified therein or such time as may be extended on the basis of an
application in this regard, to the National Faceless Assessment
Centre;(viii)where a request for conducting of certain enquiry or verification
by the verification unit has been made by the assessment unit, the request
shall be assigned by the National Faceless Assessment Centre to a verification
unit in any one Regional Faceless Assessment Centre through an automated
allocation system;(ix)where a request for seeking technical assistance from
the technical unit has been made by the assessment unit, the request shall be
assigned by the National Faceless Assessment Centre to a technical unit in any
one Regional Faceless Assessment Centre through an automated allocation
system;(x)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall send the report
received from the verification unit or the technical unit, based on the
request referred to in clause (viii) or clause (ix) to the concerned
assessment unit;(xi)where the assessee fails to comply with the notice
referred to in clause (vi) or notice issued under sub-section (1) of section
142 or with a direction issued under sub-section (2A) of section 142, the
National Faceless Assessment Centre shall serve upon such assessee a notice
under section 144 giving him an opportunity to show-cause, on a date and time
to be specified in the notice, why the assessment in his case should not be
completed to the best of its judgment;(xii)the assessee shall, within the time
specified in the notice referred to in clause (xi) or such time as may be
extended on the basis of an application in this regard, file his response to
the National Faceless Assessment Centre;(xiii)where the assessee fails to file
response to the notice referred to in clause (xi) within the time specified
therein or within the extended time, if any, the National Faceless Assessment
Centre shall intimate such failure to the assessment unit;(xiv)the assessment
unit shall, after taking into account all the relevant material available on
the record make in writing, a draft assessment order or, in a case where
intimation referred to in clause (xiii) is received from the National Faceless
Assessment Centre, make in writing, a draft assessment order to the best of
its judgment, either accepting the income or sum payable by, or sum refundable
to, the assessee as per his return or making variation to the said income or
sum, and send a copy of such order to the National Faceless Assessment
Centre;(xv)the assessment unit shall, while making draft assessment order,
provide details of the penalty proceedings to be initiated therein, if
any;(xvi)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall examine the draft
assessment order in accordance with the risk management strategy specified by
the Board, including by way of an automated examination tool, whereupon it may
decide to-(a)finalise the assessment, in case no variation prejudicial to the
interest of assessee is proposed, as per the draft assessment order and serve
a copy of such order and notice for initiating penalty proceedings, if any, to
the assessee, along with the demand notice, specifying the sum payable by, or
refund of any amount due to, the assessee on the basis of such assessment;
or(b)provide an opportunity to the assessee, in case any variation prejudicial
to the interest of assessee is proposed, by serving a notice calling upon him
to show-cause as to why the proposed variation should not be made; or(c)assign
the draft assessment order to a review unit in any one Regional Faceless
Assessment Centre, through an automated allocation system, for conducting
review of such order;(xvii)the review unit shall conduct review of the draft
assessment order referred to it by the National Faceless Assessment Centre
whereupon it may decide to-(a)concur with the draft assessment order and
intimate the National Faceless Assessment Centre about such concurrence;
or(b)suggest such variation, as it may deem fit, in the draft assessment order
and send its suggestions to the National Faceless Assessment Centre;(xviii)the
National Faceless Assessment Centre shall, upon receiving concurrence of the
review unit, follow the procedure laid down in-(a)sub-clause (a) of clause
(xvi); or(b)sub-clause (b) of clause (xvi);(xix)the National Faceless
Assessment Centre shall, upon receiving suggestions for variation from the
review unit, assign the case to an assessment unit, other than the assessment
unit which has made the draft assessment order, through an automated
allocation system;(xx)the assessment unit shall, after considering the
variations suggested by the review unit, send the final draft assessment order
to the National Faceless Assessment Centre;(xxi)the National Faceless
Assessment Centre shall, upon receiving final draft assessment order follow
the procedure laid down in-(a)sub-clause (a) of clause (xvi); or(b)sub-clause
(b) of clause (xvi);(xxii)the assessee may, in a case where show-cause notice
has been served upon him as per the procedure laid down in sub-clause (b) of
clause (xvi), furnish his response to the National Faceless Assessment Centre
on or before the date and time specified in the notice or within the extended
time, if any;(xxiii)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall,-(a)where no
response to the show-cause notice is received as per clause (xxii),-(A)in a
case where the draft assessment order or the final draft assessment order is
in respect of an eligible assessee and proposes to make any variation which is
prejudicial to the interest of said assessee, forward the draft assessment
order or final draft assessment order to such assessee; or(B)in any other
case, finalise the assessment as per the draft assessment order or the final
draft assessment order and serve a copy of such order and notice for
initiating penalty proceedings, if any, to the assessee, alongwith the demand
notice, specifying the sum payable by, or refund of any amount due to, the
assessee on the basis of such assessment;(b)in any other case, send the
response received from the assessee to the assessment unit;(xxiv)the
assessment unit shall, after taking into account the response furnished by the
assessee, make a revised draft assessment order and send it to the National
Faceless Assessment Centre;(xxv)the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall,
upon receiving the revised draft assessment order,-(a)in case the variations
proposed in the revised draft assessment order are not prejudicial to the
interest of the assessee in comparison to the draft assessment order or the
final draft assessment order, and-(A)in case the revised draft assessment
order is in respect of an eligible assessee and there is any variation
prejudicial to the interest of the assessee proposed in draft assessment order
or the final draft assessment order, forward the said revised draft assessment
order to such assessee;(B)in any other case, finalise the assessment as per
the revised draft assessment order and serve a copy of such order and notice
for initiating penalty proceedings, if any, to the assessee, along with the
demand notice, specifying the sum payable by, or refund of any amount due to,
the assessee on the basis of such assessment;(b)in case the variations
proposed in the revised draft assessment order are prejudicial to the interest
of the assessee in comparison to the draft assessment order or the final draft
assessment order, provide an opportunity to the assessee, by serving a notice
calling upon him to show-cause as to why the proposed variation should not be
made;(xxvi)the procedure laid down in clauses (xxiii), (xxiv) and (xxv) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the notice referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause
(xxv);(xxvii)where the draft assessment order or final draft assessment order
or revised draft assessment order is forwarded to the eligible assessee as per
item (A) of sub-clause (a) of clause (xxiii) or item (A) of sub-clause (a) of
clause (xxv), such assessee shall, within the period specified in sub-section
(2) of section 144C, file his acceptance of the variations to the National
Faceless Assessment Centre;(xxviii)the National Faceless Assessment Centre
shall,-(a)upon receipt of acceptance as per clause (xxvii); or(b)if no
objections are received from the eligible assessee within the period specified
in sub-section (2) of section 144C,finalise the assessment within the time
allowed under sub-section (4) of section 144C and serve a copy of such order
and notice for initiating penalty proceedings, if any, to the assessee, along
with the demand notice, specifying the sum payable by, or refund of any amount
due to, the assessee on the basis of such assessment;(xxix)where the eligible
assessee files his objections with the Dispute Resolution Panel, the National
Faceless Assessment Centre shall upon receipt of the directions issued by the
Dispute Resolution Panel under sub-section (5) of section 144C, forward such
directions to the concerned assessment unit;(xxx)the assessment unit shall in
conformity of the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel under sub-
section (5) of section 144C, prepare a draft assessment order in accordance
with sub-section (13) of section 144C and send a copy of such order to the
National Faceless Assessment Centre;(xxxi)the National Faceless Assessment
Centre shall, upon receipt of draft assessment order referred to in clause
(xxx), finalise the assessment within the time allowed under sub-section (13)
of section 144C and serve a copy of such order and notice for initiating
penalty proceedings, if any, to the assessee, along with the demand notice,
specifying the sum payable by, or refund of any amount due to, the assessee on
the basis of such assessment;(xxxii)The National Faceless Assessment Centre
shall, after completion of assessment, transfer all the electronic records of
the case to the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over the said case for
such action as may be required under the Act.(2)The faceless assessment under
sub-section (1) shall be made in respect of such territorial area, or persons
or class of persons, or incomes or class of incomes, or cases or class of
cases, as may be specified by the Board.(3)The Board may, for the purposes of
faceless assessment, set up the following Centres and units and specify their
respective jurisdiction, namely:-(i)a National Faceless Assessment Centre to
facilitate the conduct of faceless assessment proceedings in a centralised
manner, which shall be vested with the jurisdiction to make faceless
assessment;(ii)Regional Faceless Assessment Centres, as it may deem necessary,
to facilitate the conduct of faceless assessment proceedings in the cadre
controlling region of a Principal Chief Commissioner, which shall be vested
with the jurisdiction to make faceless assessment;(iii)assessment units, as it
may deem necessary to facilitate the conduct of faceless assessment, to
perform the function of making assessment, which includes identification of
points or issues material for the determination of any liability (including
refund) under the Act, seeking information or clarification on points or
issues so identified, analysis of the material furnished by the assessee or
any other person, and such other functions as may be required for the purposes
of making faceless assessment;(iv)verification units, as it may deem necessary
to facilitate the conduct of faceless assessment, to perform the function of
verification, which includes enquiry, cross verification, examination of books
of account, examination of witnesses and recording of statements, and such
other functions as may be required for the purposes of
verification;(v)technical units, as it may deem necessary to facilitate the
conduct of faceless assessment, to perform the function of providing technical
assistance which includes any assistance or advice on legal, accounting,
forensic, information technology, valuation, transfer pricing, data analytics,
management or any other technical matter which may be required in a particular
case or a class of cases, under this section; and(vi)review units, as it may
deem necessary to facilitate the conduct of faceless assessment, to perform
the function of review of the draft assessment order, which includes checking
whether the relevant and material evidence has been brought on record, whether
the relevant points of fact and law have been duly incorporated in the draft
order, whether the issues on which addition or disallowance should be made
have been discussed in the draft order, whether the applicable judicial
decisions have been considered and dealt with in the draft order, checking for
arithmetical correctness of variations proposed, if any, and such other
functions as may be required for the purposes of review.(4)The assessment
unit, verification unit, technical unit and the review unit shall have the
following authorities, namely:-(a)Additional Commissioner or Additional
Director or Joint Commissioner or Joint Director, as the case may be;(b)Deputy
Commissioner or Deputy Director or Assistant Commissioner or Assistant
Director, or Income-tax Officer, as the case may be;(c)such other income-tax
authority, ministerial staff, executive or consultant, as considered necessary
by the Board.(5)All communication among the assessment unit, review unit,
verification unit or technical unit or with the assessee or any other person
with respect to the information or documents or evidence or any other details,
as may be necessary for the purposes of making a faceless assessment shall be
through the National Faceless Assessment Centre.(6)All communications between
the National Faceless Assessment Centre and the assessee, or his authorised
representative, or any other person shall be exchanged exclusively by
electronic mode; and all internal communications between the National Faceless
Assessment Centre, Regional Faceless Assessment Centres and various units
shall be exchanged exclusively by electronic mode:Provided that the provisions
of this sub-section shall not apply to the enquiry or verification conducted
by the verification unit in the circumstances referred to in sub-clause (g) of
clause (xii) of sub-section (7).(7)For the purposes of faceless
assessment-(i)an electronic record shall be authenticated by-(a)the National
Faceless Assessment Centre by affixing its digital signature;(b)assessee or
any other person, by affixing his digital signature if he is required to
furnish his return of income under digital signature, and in any other case,
by affixing his digital signature or under electronic verification code in the
prescribed manner;(ii)every notice or order or any other electronic
communication shall be delivered to the addressee, being the assessee, by way
of-(a)placing an authenticated copy thereof in the assessee's registered
account; or(b)sending an authenticated copy thereof to the registered email
address of the assessee or his authorised representative; or(c)uploading an
authenticated copy on the assessee's Mobile App,and followed by a real time
alert;(iii)every notice or order or any other electronic communication shall
be delivered to the addressee, being any other person, by sending an
authenticated copy thereof to the registered email address of such person,
followed by a real time alert;(iv)the assessee shall file his response to any
notice or order or any other electronic communication, through his registered
account, and once an acknowledgement is sent by the National Faceless
Assessment Centre containing the hash result generated upon successful
submission of response, the response shall be deemed to be
authenticated;(v)the time and place of dispatch and receipt of electronic
record shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of section 13 of
the Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(vi)a person shall not be
required to appear either personally or through authorised representative in
connection with any proceedings before the income-tax authority at the
National Faceless Assessment Centre or Regional Faceless Assessment Centre or
any unit set up under this sub-section;(vii)in a case where a variation is
proposed in the draft assessment order or final draft assessment order or
revised draft assessment order, and an opportunity is provided to the assessee
by serving a notice calling upon him to show-cause as to why the assessment
should not be completed as per the such draft or final draft or revised draft
assessment order, the assessee or his authorised representative, as the case
may be, may request for personal hearing so as to make his oral submissions or
present his case before the income-tax authority in any unit;(viii)the Chief
Commissioner or the Director General, in charge of the Regional Faceless
Assessment Centre, under which the concerned unit is set up, may approve the
request for personal hearing referred to in clause (vii) if he is of the
opinion that the request is covered by the circumstances referred to in sub-
clause (h) of clause (xii);(ix)where the request for personal hearing has been
approved by the Chief Commissioner or the Director General, in charge of the
Regional Faceless Assessment Centre, such hearing shall be conducted
exclusively through video conferencing or video telephony, including use of
any telecommunication application software which supports video conferencing
or video telephony, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the
Board;(x)subject to the proviso to sub-section (6), any examination or
recording of the statement of the assessee or any other person (other than
statement recorded in the course of survey under section 133A of the Act)
shall be conducted by an income-tax authority in any unit, exclusively through
video conferencing or video telephony, including use of any telecommunication
application software which supports video conferencing or video telephony in
accordance with the procedure laid down by the Board;(xi)the Board shall
establish suitable facilities for video conferencing or video telephony
including telecommunication application software which supports video
conferencing or video telephony at such locations as may be necessary, so as
to ensure that the assessee, or his authorised representative, or any other
person is not denied the benefit of faceless assessment merely on the
consideration that such assessee or his authorised representative, or any
other person does not have access to video conferencing or video telephony at
his end;(xii)the Principal Chief Commissioner or the Principal Director
General, in charge of the National Faceless Assessment Centre shall, with the
prior approval of the Board, lay down the standards, procedures and processes
for effective functioning of the National Faceless Assessment Centre, Regional
Faceless Assessment Centres and the unit set up, in an automated and
mechanised environment, including format, mode, procedure and processes in
respect of the following, namely:-(a)service of the notice, order or any other
communication;(b)receipt of any information or documents from the person in
response to the notice, order or any other communication;(c)issue of
acknowledgement of the response furnished by the person;(d)provision of
"e-proceeding" facility including login account facility, tracking status of
assessment, display of relevant details, and facility of
download;(e)accessing, verification and authentication of information and
response including documents submitted during the assessment
proceedings;(f)receipt, storage and retrieval of information or documents in a
centralised manner;(g)circumstances in which proviso to sub-section (6) shall
apply;(h)circumstances in which personal hearing referred to clause (viii)
shall be approved;(i)general administration and grievance redressal mechanism
in the respective Centres and units.(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the Principal Chief Commissioner or the
Principal Director General in charge of National Faceless Assessment Centre
may at any stage of the assessment, if considered necessary, transfer the case
to the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over such case, with the prior
approval of the Board.(9)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provision of this Act, assessment made under sub-section (3) of section 143 or
under section 144 in the cases referred to in sub-section (2) [other than the
cases transferred under sub-section (8)], on or after the 1st day of April,
2021, shall be non-est if such assessment is not made in accordance with the
procedure laid down under this section.Explanation. - In this section, unless
the context otherwise requires-(a)"addressee" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(b)"authorised representative"
shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (2) of section
288;(c)"automated allocation system" means an algorithm for randomised
allocation of cases, by using suitable technological tools, including
artificial intelligence and machine learning, with a view to optimise the use
of resources;(d)"automated examination tool" means an algorithm for
standardised examination of draft orders, by using suitable technological
tools, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, with a view to
reduce the scope of discretion;(e)"computer resource" shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in clause (k) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(f)"computer system" shall have
the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (l) of sub-section (1) of section
2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(g)"computer resource of
assessee" shall include assessee's registered account in designated portal of
the Income-tax Department, the Mobile App linked to the registered mobile
number of the assessee, or the registered email address of the assessee with
his email service provider;(h)"digital signature" shall have the same meaning
as assigned to it in clause (p) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(i)"designated portal" means the
web portal designated as such by the Principal Chief Commissioner or the
Principal Director General, in charge of the National Faceless Assessment
Centre;(j)"Dispute Resolution Panel" shall have the same meaning as assigned
to it in clause (a) of sub-section (15) of section 144C;(k)"faceless
assessment" means the assessment proceedings conducted electronically in
'e-Proceeding' facility through assessee's registered account in designated
portal;(l)"electronic record" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (t) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act,
2000(21 of 2000);(m)"eligible assessee" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to in clause (b) of sub-section (15) of section 144C;(n)"email" or
"electronic mail" and "electronic mail message" means a message or information
created or transmitted or received on a computer, computer system, computer
resource or communication device including attachments in text, image, audio,
video and any other electronic record, which may be transmitted with the
message;(o)"hash function" and "hash result" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to them in the Explanation to sub-section (2) of section 3 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000(21 of 2000);(p)"Mobile app" shall mean the
application software of the Income-tax Department developed for mobile devices
which is downloaded and installed on the registered mobile number of the
assessee;(q)"originator" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (za) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act,
2000(21 of 2000);(r)"real time alert" means any communication sent to the
assessee, by way of Short Messaging Service on his registered mobile number,
or by way of update on his Mobile App, or by way of an email at his registered
email address, so as to alert him regarding delivery of an electronic
communication;(s)"registered account" of the assessee means the electronic
filing account registered by the assessee in designated portal;(t)"registered
e-mail address" means the e-mail address at which an electronic communication
may be delivered or transmitted to the addressee, including-(i)the e-mail
address available in the electronic filing account of the addressee registered
in designated portal; or(ii)the e-mail address available in the last income-
tax return furnished by the addressee; or(iii)the e-mail address available in
the Permanent Account Number database relating to the addressee; or(iv)in the
case of addressee being an individual who possesses the Aadhaar number, the
e-mail address of addressee available in the database of Unique Identification
Authority of India; or(v)in the case of addressee being a company, the e-mail
address of the company as available on the official website of Ministry of
Corporate Affairs; or(vi)any e-mail address made available by the addressee to
the income-tax authority or any person authorised by such
authority.(u)"registered mobile number" of the assessee means the mobile
number of the assessee, or his authorised representative, appearing in the
user profile of the electronic filing account registered by the assessee in
designated portal;(v)"video conferencing or video telephony" means the
technological solutions for the reception and transmission of audio-video
signals by users at different locations, for communication between people in
real time.';(XXV)in section 144C, after sub-section (14A), the following sub-
sections shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020,
namely:-(14B)The Central Government may make a scheme, by notification in the
Official Gazette, for the purposes of issuance of directions by the dispute
resolution panel, so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by-(a)eliminating the interface between the dispute resolution
panel and the eligible assessee or any other person to the extent
technologically feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the resources through
economies of scale and functional specialisation;(c)introducing a mechanism
with dynamic jurisdiction for issuance of directions by dispute resolution
panel.(14C)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect to the
scheme made under sub-section (14B), by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply
with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the
notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after the 31st day of
March, 2022.(14D)Every notification issued under sub-section (14B) and sub-
section (14C) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued, be
laid before each House of Parliament.";(XXVI)after section 151, the following
section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020,
namely:-

### 151A. Faceless assessment of income escaping assessment. - (1) The Central
Government may make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the
purposes of assessment, reassessment or re-computation under section 147 or
issuance of notice under section 148 or sanction for issue of such notice
under section 151, so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based assessment, reassessment, re-
computation or issuance or sanction of notice with dynamic jurisdiction.(2)The
Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect to the scheme made
under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that
any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such
exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the
notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after the 31st day of
March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1) and sub-section
(2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before
each House of Parliament.";(XXVII)after section 157, the following section
shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020, namely:-

### 157A. Faceless rectification, amendments and issuance of notice or
intimation. - (1) The Central Government may make a scheme, by notification in
the Official Gazette, for the purposes of rectification of any mistake
apparent from record under section 154 or other amendments under section 155
or issue of notice of demand under section 156, or intimation of loss under
section 157, so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based rectification of mistakes,
amendment of orders, issuance of notice of demand or intimation of loss, with
dynamic jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving
effect to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not
apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as
may be specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be
issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under
sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the
notification is issued, be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XXVIII)in
section 196D, after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020, namely:-(1A)Where any
income in respect of securities referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1)
of section 115AD, not being income by way of interest referred to in section
194LD, is payable to a specified fund [referred to in clause (c) of the
Explanation to clause (4D) of section 10], the person responsible for making
the payment shall, at the time of credit of such income to the account of the
payee, or at the time of payment thereof by any mode, whichever is earlier,
deduct the income-tax thereon at the rate of ten per cent.:Provided that no
deduction shall be made in respect of an income exempt under clause (4D) of
section 10.";(XXIX)after section 197A, the following section shall be inserted
and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 14th day of
May, 2020, namely:-

### 197B. Lower deduction in certain cases for a limited period. - In case the
provisions of sections 193, 194, 194A, 194C, 194D, 194DA,194EE, 194F, 194G,
194H, 194-I,194-IA, 194-IB, 194-IC, 194J, 194K,194LA, sub-section (1) of
section 194LBA, clause (i) of section 194LBB, sub-section (1) of section
194LBC, sections 194M and 194-O require deduction of tax at source during the
period commencing from the 14th day of May, 2020 to the 31st day of March,
2021, then notwithstanding anything contained in these sections the deduction
of tax shall be made at the rate being the three-fourth of the rate specified
in these sections.";

(XXX)in section 206C, after sub-section (10), the following sub-section shall
be inserted and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the
14th day of May, 2020, namely:-(10A)In case the provisions of sub-sections (1)
[except the goods referred at serial number (i) in the TABLE], (1C), (1F) or
(1H) require collection of tax at source during the period commencing from the
14th day of May, 2020 to the 31st day of March, 2021, then, notwithstanding
anything contained in these sub-sections the collection of tax shall be made
at the rate being the three-fourth of the rate specified in these sub-
sections.";(XXXI)after section 230, the following section shall be inserted
with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020, namely:-

### 231. Faceless collection and recovery of tax. - (1) The Central Government
may make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes
of issuance of certificate for deduction of income-tax at any lower rates or
no deduction of income-tax under section 197, or deeming a person to be an
assessee in default under sub-section (1) of section 201 or sub-section (6A)
of section 206C, issuance of certificate for lower collection of tax under
sub-section (9) of section 206C or passing of order or amended order under
sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) of section 210, or reduction or waiver of
the amount of interest paid or payable by an assessee under sub-section (2A),
or extending the time for payment or allowing payment by instalment under sub-
section (3), or treating the assessee as not being in default under sub-
section (6) or sub-section (7) of section 220, or levy of penalty under
section 221, or drawing of certificate by the Tax Recovery Officer under
section 222, or jurisdiction of Tax Recovery Officer under section 223, or
stay of proceedings in pursuance of certificate and amendment or cancellation
thereof by the Tax Recovery Officer under section 225, or other modes of
recovery under section 226 or issuance of tax clearance certificate under
section 230 so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and
accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based issuance of certificate for
deduction or collection of income-tax at lower rate, or for no deduction, or
for deeming a person to be an assessee in default, or for passing of an order
or amended order, or extending the time for payment, or allowing payment by
instalment, or reduction or waiver of interest, or for treating the assessee
as not being in default, or for levy of penalty or for drawing of certificate
or stay of proceedings in pursuance of certificate and amendment or
cancellation thereof, by, or jurisdiction of, Tax Recovery Officer or other
modes of recovery or issuance of tax clearance certificate, with dynamic
jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after
the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued,
be laid before each House of Parliament.";(XXXII)in section 253,-(a)in sub-
section (1), in clause (c),-(i)for the words, figures and letters "under
section 12AA or section 12AB", the words, figures and letters "under section
12AA" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with
effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(ii)for the words, figures and letters
"under section 12AA", the words, figures and letters "under section 12AA or
section 12AB" shall be substituted with effect from the 1st day of April,
2021;(b)after sub-section (7), the following sub-sections shall be inserted
with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020, namely:-(8)The Central
Government may make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the
purposes of appeal to the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2), so as to
impart greater efficiency, transparency and accountability by-(a)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(b)introducing a team-based mechanism for appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal, with dynamic jurisdiction.(9)The Central Government may,
for the purpose of giving effect to the scheme made under sub-section (8), by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of
this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications
and adaptations as may be specified in the notification:Provided that no
direction shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(10)Every
notification issued under sub-section (8) and sub-section (9) shall, as soon
as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.";(XXXIII)in section 263, in sub-section (1), in Explanation 1, in
clause (b), and in Explanation 2, after the words "the Principal", the words
"Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal" shall be inserted with
effect from the 1st day of November, 2020;(XXXIV)in section 264, in sub-
section (1), in sub-section (2), in proviso to sub-section (3), in sub-section
(4), in Explanation 1 and in Explanation 2, after the words "the Principal",
the words "Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal" shall be
inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020;(XXXV)after section
264, the following sections shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of
November, 2020, namely:-

### 264A. Faceless revision of orders. - (1) The Central Government may make a
scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of revision
of orders under section 263 or section 264, so as to impart greater
efficiency, transparency and accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based revision of orders, with dynamic
jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or
shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be
specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be issued after
the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under sub-section (1)
and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the notification is issued,
be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 264B. Faceless effect of orders. - (1) The Central Government may make a
scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of giving
effect to an order under section 250, 254, 260, 262, 263 or 264, so as to
impart greater efficiency, transparency and accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee
or any other person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising
utilisation of the resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based giving of effect to orders, with
dynamic jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the purpose of giving
effect to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of this Act shall not
apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications and adaptations as
may be specified in the notification:Provided that no direction shall be
issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every notification issued under
sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, as soon as may be after the
notification is issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.";(XXXVI)section 271K shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have
been omitted with effect from the 1st day of June, 2020;(XXXVII)after section
271J, the following section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of
April, 2021, namely:-

### 271K. Penalty for failure to furnish statements, etc. - Without prejudice
to the provisions of this Act, the Assessing Officer may direct that a sum not
less than ten thousand rupees but which may extend to one lakh rupees shall be
paid by way of penalty by-

(i)the research association, university, college or other institution referred
to in clause (ii) or clause (iii) or the company referred to in clause (iia)
of sub-section (1) of section 35, if it fails to deliver or cause to be
delivered a statement within the time prescribed under clause (i), or furnish
a certificate prescribed under clause (ii) of sub-section (1A) of that
section; or(ii)the institution or fund, if it fails to deliver or cause to be
delivered a statement within the time prescribed under clause (viii) of sub-
section (5) of section 80G, or furnish a certificate prescribed under clause
(ix) of the said sub-section.";(XXXVIII)in section 274, in sub-section (2A),
in clause (a), for the words "Assessing Officer and the assessee in the course
of proceedings", the words "incometax authority and the assessee or any other
person" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with
effect from the 1st day of April, 2020;(XXXIX)in section 279, after sub-
section (3), the following sub-sections shall be inserted with effect from the
1st day of November, 2020, namely:-(4)The Central Government may make a
scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of granting
sanction under sub-section (1) or compounding under sub-section (2), so as to
impart greater efficiency, transparency and accountability by-(a)eliminating
the interface between the income-tax authority and the assessee or any other
person to the extent technologically feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the
resources through economies of scale and functional
specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based sanction to proceed against, or for
compounding of, an offence, with dynamic jurisdiction.(5)The Central
Government may, for the purpose of giving effect to the scheme made under sub-
section (4), by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any of the
provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such exceptions,
modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the notification:Provided
that no direction shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(6)Every
notification issued under sub-section (4) and sub-section (5) shall, as soon
as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.";(XXXX)after section 293C of the Income-tax Act, the following
section shall be inserted with effect from the 1st day of November, 2020,
namely:-

### 293D. Faceless approval or registration. - (1) The Central Government may
make a scheme, by notification in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of
granting approval or registration, as the case may be, by income-tax authority
under any provision of the Act, so as to impart greater efficiency,
transparency and accountability by-

(a)eliminating the interface between the income-tax authorities and the
assessee or any other person to the extent technologically
feasible;(b)optimising utilisation of the resources through economies of scale
and functional specialisation;(c)introducing a team-based grant of approval or
registration, with dynamic jurisdiction.(2)The Central Government may, for the
purpose of giving effect to the scheme made under sub-section (1), by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any of the provisions of
this Act shall not apply or shall apply with such exceptions, modifications
and adaptations as may be specified in the notification:Provided that no
direction shall be issued after the 31st day of March, 2022.(3)Every
notification issued under sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, as soon
as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before each House of
Parliament.".

## Chapter IV  
Amendments to the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act

### 5. Amendment of section 3 of Act 3 of 2020.

\- In section 3 of the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act, 2020,-(a)in the
opening portion, for the words, "under the provisions of this Act on or before
the last date" the words "under the provisions of this Act on or before such
date as may be notified" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(b)in the Table,-(i)in third column, in the heading, for the
figures, letters and words "31st day of March, 2020", the figures, letters and
words "31st day of December, 2020 or such later date as may be notified" shall
be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted;(ii)in fourth
column, in the heading, for the figures, letters and words "1st day of April,
2020", the figures, letters and words "1st day of January, 2021 or such later
date as may be notified" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;

## Chapter V  
Relaxation of time Limit Under Certain Indirect Tax Laws

### 6. Relaxation of time limit under Central Excise Act, 1944, Customs Act,
1962, Customs Tariff Act, 1975 and Finance Act, 1994.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of
1944), the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (except sections 30, 30A, 41, 41A,
46 and 47), the Customs Tariff Act, 1975(51 of 1975) or Chapter V of the
Finance Act,1994(32 of 1994), as it stood prior to its omission vide section
173 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (12 of 2017) with effect
from the 1st day of July, 2017, the time limit specified in, or prescribed or
notified under, the said Acts which falls during the period from the 20th day
of March, 2020 to the 29th day of September, 2020 or such other date after the
29th day of September, 2020 as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify, for the completion or compliance of such action as-(a)completion of
any proceeding or issuance of any order, notice, intimation, notification or
sanction or approval, by whatever name called, by any authority, commission,
tribunal, by whatever name called; or(b)filing of any appeal, reply or
application or furnishing of any report, document, return or statement, by
whatever name called,shall, notwithstanding that completion or compliance of
such action has not been made within such time, stand extended to the 30th day
of September, 2020 or such other date after 30th day of September, 2020 as the
Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf:Provided that
the Central Government may specify different dates for completion or
compliance of different actions under clause (a) or clause (b).

## Chapter VI  
Amendment To The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017

### 7. Insertion of new section 168A in Act 12 of 2017.

\- After section 168 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, the
following section shall be inserted, namely:-

### 168A. Power of Government to extend time limit in special circumstances. -
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Government may, on the
recommendations of the Council, by notification, extend the time limit
specified in, or prescribed or notified under, this Act in respect of actions
which cannot be completed of complied with due to force majeure.

(2)The power to issue notification under sub-section (1) shall include the
power to give retrospective effect to such notification from a date not
earlier than the date of commencement of this Act.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section, the expression "force majeure" means a case of war,
epidemic, flood, drought, fire, cyclone, earthquake or any other calamity
caused by nature or otherwise affecting the implementation of any of the
provisions of this Act.'.

## Chapter VII  
Amendment to the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2019

### 8. Amendment of section 127 of Act 23 of 2019.

\- In section 127 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2019,-(i)in sub-section (1), for
the words "within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of the said
declaration", the words, figures and letters "on or before the 31st day of
May, 2020" shall be substituted;(ii)in sub-section (2), for the words "within
thirty days of the date of receipt of the declaration", the words, figures and
letters "on or before the 1st day of May, 2020" shall be substituted;(iii)in
sub-section (4), for the words "within a period of sixty days from the date of
receipt of the declaration", the words, figures and letters "on or before the
31st day of May, 2020" shall be substituted;(iv)in sub-section (5), for the
words "within a period of thirty days from the date of issue of such
statement", the words, figures and letters "on or before the 30th day of June,
2020" shall be substituted.

## Chapter VIII  
Amendment to the Finance Act, 2020

### 9. Amendment of Act 12 of 2020.

\- In the Finance Act, 2020, in section 2, with effect from the 1st day of
April, 2020,-(i)in sub-section (6),-(A)in clause (a), for the words "being a
non-resident", the words, figures and letter "being a non-resident, except in
case of deduction on income by way of dividend under section 196D of the
Income-tax Act" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(B)after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted and
shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely:-(aa)in the case of every
individual or Hindu undivided family or association of persons or body of
individuals, whether incorporated or not, or every artificial juridical person
referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2 of the Income-tax
Act, being a non-resident, in case of deduction on income by way of dividend
under section 196D of that Act, calculated,-(i)at the rate of ten per cent. of
such tax, where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to
be paid and subject to the deduction exceeds fifty lakh rupees but does not
exceed one crore rupees;(ii)at the rate of fifteen per cent. of such tax,
where the income or the aggregate of such incomes paid or likely to be paid
and subject to the deduction exceeds one crore rupees;(ii)in sub-section (9),
in the third proviso, in clause (aa),-(A)in sub-clause (iii), for the words
"excluding the income", the words "excluding the income by way of dividend or
income" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(B)in sub-clause (iv), for the words "excluding the income", the
words "excluding the income by way of dividend or income" shall be substituted
and shall be deemed to have been substituted;(C)in sub-clause (v), for the
words "including the income", the words "including the income by way of
dividend or income" shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been
substituted;(D)in the proviso, for the words "any income", the words "any
income by way of dividend or income" shall be substituted and shall be deemed
to have been substituted.

### 10. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, remove the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall be made
after the expiry of a period of two years from the end of the month in which
this Act has received the assent of the President.(2)Every order made under
this section shall be laid before each House of Parliament.

### 11. Repeal and savings.

(1)The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance,
2020(Order 2 of 2020.) is hereby repealed.(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,
anything done, any notification issued or any action taken under the said
Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done, issued or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.

