## Union of India - Act

## The Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits
and Services) Act, 2016

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits
and Services) Act, 2016

## Act 18 of 2016

  * Published in Government of India - Extraordinary, 2016-03-26, Part II-Section 1 19 on 26 March 2016 
  * Not commenced 
  * [This is the version of this document as it was from 23 July 2019 to None.] 

The Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and
Services) Act, 2016(Act No. 18 of 2016)Last Updated 30th December, 2019[Dated
25th March, 2016]Ministry of Law and Justice(Legislative Department)An Act to
provide for, as a good governance, efficient, transparent, and targeted
delivery of subsidies, benefits and services, the expenditure for which is
incurred from the Consolidated Fund of India, to individuals residing in India
through assigning of unique identity numbers to such individuals and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it Enacted by Parliament
in the Sixty-Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title, extent and commencement.

(1)This Act may be called the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and
Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016.(2)It shall extend to the
whole of India [***] [The words 'except the State of Jammu and Kashmir'
omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule (w.e.f. 31-10-2019)]
and save as otherwise provided in this Act, it shall also apply to any offence
or contravention thereunder committed outside India by any person.(3)It shall
come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint; and different dates may, be appointed for
different provisions of this Act and any reference in any such provision to
the commencement of this Act shall be construed as a reference to the
commencement of that provision.

### 2. Definitions.

\- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a)[ "Aadhaar number"
means an identification number issued to an individual under sub-section (3)
of section 3, and includes any alternative virtual identity generated under
sub-section (4) of that section;] [Substituted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.](aa)[ "Aadhaar ecosystem" includes enrolling agencies, Registrars,
requesting entities, offline verification-seeking entities and any other
entity or group of entities as may be specified by regulations;] [Inserted by
Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](b)"Aadhaar number holder" means an
individual who has been issued an Aadhaar number under this Act;(ba)[
"Adjudicating Officer" means an Adjudicating Officer appointedunder sub-
section (1) of section 33B; [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.](bb)"Appellate Tribunal" means the Appellate Tribunal referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 33C;](c)"authentication" means the process by
which the Aadhaar number alongwith demographic information or biometric
information of an individual is submitted to the Central Identities Data
Repository for its verification and such Repository verifies the correctness,
or the lack thereof, on the basis of information available with
it;(d)"authentication record" means the record of the time of authentication
and identity of the requesting entity and the response provided by the
Authority thereto;(e)"Authority" means the Unique Identification Authority of
India established under sub-section (1) of section 11;(f)"benefit" means any
advantage, gift, reward, relief, or payment, in cash or kind, provided to an
individual or a group of individuals and includes such other benefits as may
be notified by the Central Government;(g)"biometric information" means
photograph, finger print, Iris scan, or such other biological attributes of an
individual as may be specified by regulations;(h)"Central Identities Data
Repository" means a centralised database in one or more locations containing
all Aadhaar numbers issued to Aadhaar number holders along with the
corresponding demographic information and biometric information of such
individuals and other information related thereto;(i)"Chairperson" means the
Chairperson of the Authority appointed under section 12;(ia)[ "child" means a
person who has not completed eighteen years of age;] [Inserted by Act No. 14
of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](j)"core biometric information" means finger print,
Iris scan, or such other biological attribute of an individual as may be
specified by regulations;(k)"demographic information" includes information
relating to the name, date of birth, address and other relevant information of
an individual, as may be specified by regulations for the purpose of issuing
an Aadhaar number, but shall not include race, religion, caste, tribe,
ethnicity, language, records of entitlement, income or medical
history;(l)"enrolling agency" means an agency appointed by the Authority or a
Registrar, as the case may be, for collecting demographic and biometric
information of individuals under this Act;(m)"enrolment" means the process, as
may be specified by regulations, to collect demographic and biometric
information from individuals by the enrolling agencies for the purpose of
issuing Aadhaar numbers to such individuals under this Act;(n)"identity
information" in respect of an individual, includes his Aadhaar number, his
biometric information and his demographic information;(o)"Member" includes the
Chairperson and Member of the Authority appointed under section
12;(p)"notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette
and the expression "notified" with its cognate meanings and grammatical
variations shall be construed accordingly;(pa)[ "offline verification" means
the process of verifying the identity of the Aadhaar number holder without
authentication, through such offline modes as may be specified by regulations;
[Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](pb)"offline verification-
seeking entity" means any entity desirous of undertaking offline verification
of an Aadhaar number holder;](q)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made by
the Central Government under this Act;(r)"records of entitlement" means
records of benefits, subsidies or services provided to, or availed by, any
individual under any programme;(s)"Registrar" means any entity authorised or
recognised by the Authority for the purpose of enrolling individuals under
this Act;(t)"regulations" means the regulations made by the Authority under
this Act;(u)"requesting entity" means an agency or person that submits the
Aadhaar number, and demographic information or biometric information, of an
individual to the Central Identities Data Repository for
authentication;(v)"resident" means an individual who has resided in India for
a period or periods amounting in all to one hundred and eighty-two days or
more in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of application for
enrolment;(w)"service" means any provision, facility, utility or any other
assistance provided in any form to an individual or a group of individuals and
includes such other services as may be notified by the Central
Government;(x)"subsidy" means any form of aid, support, grant, subvention, or
appropriation, in cash or kind, to an individual or a group of individuals and
includes such other subsidies as may be notified by the Central Government.

## Chapter II  
Enrolment

### 3. Aadhaar number.

(1)Every resident shall be entitled to obtain an Aadhaar number by submitting
his demographic information and biometric information by undergoing the
process of enrolment:Provided that the Central Government may, from time to
time, notify such other category of individuals who may be entitled to obtain
an Aadhaar number.(2)The enrolling agency shall, at the time of enrolment,
inform the individual undergoing enrolment of the following details in such
manner as may be specified by regulations, namely:-(a)the manner in which the
information shall be used;(b)the nature of recipients with whom the
information is intended to be shared during authentication; and(c)the
existence of a right to access information, the procedure for making requests
for such access, and details of the person or department in-charge to whom
such requests can be made.(3)On receipt of the demographic information and
biometric information under sub-section (1), the Authority shall, after
verifying the information, in such manner as may be specified by regulations,
issue an Aadhaar number to such individual.(4)[ The Aadhaar number issued to
an individual under sub-section (3) shall be a twelve-digit identification
number and any alternative virtual identity as an alternative to the actual
Aadhaar number of an individual that shall be generated by the Authority in
such manner as may be specified by regulations.] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of
2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

### 3A. [ Aadhaar number of children. [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.]

(1)The enrolling agency shall, at the time of enrolment of a child, seek the
consent of the parent or guardian of the child, and inform the parent or
guardian, the details specified under sub-section (2) of section 3.(2)A child
who is an Aadhaar number holder may, within a period of six months of
attaining the eighteen years of age, make an application to the Authority for
cancellation of his Aadhaar number, in such manner as may be specified by
regulations and the Authority shall cancel his Aadhaar
number.(3)Notwithstanding anything in section 7, a child shall not be denied
any subsidy, benefit or service under that section in case of failure to
establish his identity by undergoing authentication, or furnishing proof of
possession of Aadhaar number, or in the case of a child to whom no Aadhaar
number has been assigned, producing an application for enrolment.]

### 4. Properties of Aadhaar number.

(1)An Aadhaar number, issued to an individual shall not be re-assigned to any
other individual.(2)An Aadhaar number shall be a random number and bear no
relation to the attributes or identity of the Aadhaar number holder.(3)[ Every
Aadhaar number holder to establish his identity, may voluntarily use his
Aadhaar number in physical or electronic form by way of authentication or
offline verification, or in such other form as may be notified, in such manner
as may be specified by regulations.Explanation. - For the purposes of this
section, voluntary use of the Aadhaar number by way of authentication means
the use of such Aadhaar number only with the informed consent of the Aadhaar
number holder.(4)An entity may be allowed to perform authentication, if the
Authority is satisfied that the requesting entity is-(a)compliant with such
standards of privacy and security as may be specified by regulations;
and(b)(i)permitted to offer authentication services under the provisions of
any other law made by Parliament; or(ii)seeking authentication for such
purpose, as the Central Government in consultation with the Authority, and in
the interest of State, may prescribe.(5)The Authority may, by regulations,
decide whether a requesting entity shall be permitted the use of the actual
Aadhaar number during authentication or only an alternative virtual
identity.(6)Every requesting entity to whom an authentication request is made
by an Aadhaar number holder under sub-section (3) shall inform to the Aadhaar
number holder of alternate and viable means of identification and shall not
deny any service to him for refusing to, or being unable to, undergo
authentication.(7)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing
provisions, mandatory authentication of an Aadhaar number holder for the
provision of any service shall take place if such authentication is required
by a law made by Parliament.] [Substituted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.]

### 5. Special measures for issuance of Aadhaar number to certain category of
persons.

\- The Authority shall take special measures to issue Aadhaar number to women,
children, senior citizens, persons with disability, unskilled and unorganised
workers, nomadic tribes or to such other persons who do not have any permanent
dwelling house and such other categories of individuals as may be specified by
regulations.

### 6. Update of certain information.

\- The Authority may require Aadhaar number holders to update their
demographic information and biometric information, from time to time, in such
manner as may be specified by regulations, so as to ensure continued accuracy
of their information in the Central Identities Data Repository.

## Chapter III  
Authentication

### 7. Proof of Aadhaar number necessary for receipt of certain subsidies,
benefits and services, etc.

\- The Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government may,
for the purpose of establishing identity of an individual as a condition for
receipt of a subsidy, benefit or service for which the expenditure is incurred
from, or the receipt therefrom forms part of, the Consolidated Fund of India,
[or the Consolidated Fund of State] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.] require that such individual undergo authentication, or furnish
proof of possession of Aadhaar number or in the case of an individual to whom
no Aadhaar number has been assigned, such individual makes an application for
enrolment:Provided that if an Aadhaar number is not assigned to an individual,
the individual shall be offered alternate and viable means of identification
for delivery of the subsidy, benefit or service.

### 8. Authentication of Aadhaar number.

(1)The Authority shall perform authentication of the Aadhaar number of an
Aadhaar number holder submitted by any requesting entity, in relation to his
biometric information or demographic information, subject to such conditions
and on payment of such fees and in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(2)A requesting entity shall-(a)unless otherwise provided in this
Act, obtain the consent of an individual [, or in the case of a child obtain
the consent of his parent or guardian] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.] before collecting his identity information for the purposes of
authentication in such manner as may be specified by regulations; and(b)ensure
that the identity information of an individual is only used for submission to
the Central Identities Data Repository for authentication.[Provided that the
requesting entity shall, in case of failure to authenticate due to illness,
injury or infirmity owing to old age or otherwise or any technical or other
reasons, provide such alternate and viable means of identification of the
individual, as may be specified by regulations.] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of
2019, dated 23.7.2019.](3)A requesting entity shall inform, in such manner as
may be specified by regulations, the individual submitting his identity
information for authentication, [or in the case of a child, his parent or
guardian] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.] the following
details with respect to authentication, namely:-(a)the nature of information
that may be shared upon authentication;(b)the uses to which the information
received during authentication may be put by the requesting entity;
and(c)alternatives to submission of identity information to the requesting
entity.(4)The Authority shall respond to an authentication query with a
positive, negative or any other appropriate response sharing such identity
information excluding any core biometric information.

### 8A. [ Offline verification of an Aadhaar number. [Inserted by Act No. 14
of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

(1)Every offline verification of an Aadhaar number holder shall be performed
in accordance with the provisions of this section.(2)Every offline
verification-seeking entity shall,-(a)before performing offline verification,
obtain the consent of an individual, or in the case of a child, his parent or
guardian, in such manner as may be specified by regulations; and(b)ensure that
the demographic information or any other information collected from the
individual for offline verification is only used for the purpose of such
verification.(3)An offline verification-seeking entity shall inform the
individual undergoing offline verification, or in the case of a child, his
parent or guardian, the following details with respect to offline
verification, in such manner as may be specified by regulations,
namely:-(a)the nature of information that may be shared upon offline
verification;(b)the uses to which the information received during offline
verification may be put by the offline verification-seeking entity;
and(c)alternatives to submission of information requested for, if any.(4)No
offline verification-seeking entity shall-(a)subject an Aadhaar number holder
to authentication;(b)collect, use, or store an Aadhaar number or biometric
information of any individual for any purpose;(c)take any action contrary to
any obligation on it as may be specified by regulations.]

### 9. Aadhaar number not evidence of citizenship or domicile, etc.

\- The Aadhaar number or the authentication thereof shall not, by itself,
confer any right of, or be proof of, citizenship or domicile in respect of an
Aadhaar number holder.

### 10. Central Identities Data Repository.

\- The Authority may engage one or more entities to establish and maintain the
Central Identities Data Repository and to perform any other functions as may
be specified by regulations.

## Chapter IV  
Unique Identification Authority of India

### 11. Establishment of Authority.

(1)The Central Government shall, by notification, establish an Authority to be
known as the Unique Identification Authority of India to be responsible for
the processes of enrolment and authentication and perform such other functions
assigned to it under this Act.(2)The Authority shall be a body corporate by
the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power,
subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of
property, both movable and immovable, and to contract, and shall, by the said
name, sue or be sued.(3)The head office of the Authority shall be in New
Delhi.(4)The Authority may, with the prior approval of the Central Government,
establish its offices at other places in India.

### 12. Composition of Authority.

\- The Authority shall consist of a Chairperson, appointed on part-time or
full-time basis, two part-time Members, and the chief executive officer who
shall be Member-Secretary of the Authority, to be appointed by the Central
Government.

### 13. Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of
Authority.

\- The Chairperson and Members of the Authority shall be persons of ability
and integrity having experience and knowledge of at least ten years in matters
relating to technology, governance, law, development, economics, finance,
management, public affairs or administration.

### 14. Term of office and other conditions of service of Chairperson and
Members.

(1)The Chairperson and the Members appointed under this Act shall hold office
for a term of three years from the date on which they assume office and shall
be eligible for re-appointment:Provided that no person shall hold office as
the Chairperson or Member after he has attained the age of sixty-five
years.(2)The Chairperson and every Member shall, before entering office, make
and subscribe to, an oath of office and of secrecy, in such form and in such
manner and before such Authority as may be prescribed.(3)Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), the Chairperson or Member
may-(a)relinquish his office, by giving in writing to the Central Government,
a notice of not less than thirty days; or(b)be removed from his office in
accordance with the provisions of section 15.(4)The salaries and allowances
payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson
and allowances or remuneration payable to part-time Members shall be such as
may be prescribed.

### 15. Removal of Chairperson and Members.

(1)The Central Government may remove from office, the Chairperson, or a
Member, who-(a)is, or at any time has been adjudged as insolvent;(b)has become
physically or mentally incapable of acting as the Chairperson or, as the case
may be, a Member;(c)has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of
the Central Government, involves moral turpitude;(d)has acquired such
financial or other interest as is likely to affect pre-judicially his
functions as the Chairperson or, as the case may be, a Member; or(e)has, in
the opinion of the Central Government, so abused his position as to render his
continuance in office detrimental to the public interest.(2)The Chairperson or
a Member shall not be removed under clause (b), clause (d) or clause (e) of
sub-section (1) unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.

### 16. Restrictions on Chairperson or Members on employment after cessation
of office.

\- The Chairperson or a Member on ceasing to hold office for any reason, shall
not, without previous approval of the Central Government,-(a)accept any
employment in, or be connected with the management of any organisation,
company or any other entity which has been associated with any work done or
contracted out by the Authority, whether directly or indirectly, during his
tenure as Chairperson or Member, as the case may be, for a period of three
years from the date on which he ceases to hold office:Provided that nothing
contained in this clause shall apply to any employment under the Central
Government or a State Government or local authority or in any statutory
authority or any corporation established by or under any Central, State or
provincial Act or a Government Company, as defined in clause (45) of section 2
of the Companies Act, 2013;(b)act, for or on behalf of any person or
organisation in connection with any specific proceeding or transaction or
negotiation or a case to which the Authority is a party and with respect to
which the Chairperson or such Member had, before cessation of office, acted
for or provided advice to, the Authority;(c)give advice to any person using
information which was obtained in his capacity as the Chairperson or a Member
and being unavailable to or not being able to be made available to the public;
or(d)enter, for a period of three years from his last day in office, into a
contract of service with, accept an appointment to a board of directors of, or
accept an offer of employment with, an entity with which he had direct and
significant official dealings during his term of office.

### 17. Functions of Chairperson.

\- The Chairperson shall preside over the meetings of the Authority, and
without prejudice to any provision of this Act, exercise and discharge such
other powers and functions of the Authority as may be prescribed.

### 18. Chief executive officer.

(1)There shall be a chief executive officer of the Authority, not below the
rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India, to be appointed by
the Central Government.(2)The chief executive officer shall be the legal
representative of the Authority and shall be responsible for-(a)the day-to-day
administration of the Authority;(b)implementing the work programmes and
decisions adopted by the Authority;(c)drawing up of proposal for the
Authority's decisions and work programmes;(d)the preparation of the statement
of revenue and expenditure and the execution of the budget of the Authority;
and(e)performing such other functions, or exercising such other powers, as may
be specified by regulations.(3)Every year, the chief executive officer shall
submit to the Authority for approval-(a)a general report covering all the
activities of the Authority in the previous year;(b)programmes of work;(c)the
annual accounts for the previous year; and(d)the budget for the coming
year.(4)The chief executive officer shall have administrative control over the
officers and other employees of the Authority.

### 19. Meetings of Authority.

(1)The Authority shall meet at such times and places and shall observe such
rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings,
including quorum at such meetings, as may be specified by regulations.(2)The
Chairperson, or, if for any reason, he is unable to attend a meeting of the
Authority, the senior most Member shall preside over the meetings of the
Authority.(3)All questions which come up before any meeting of the Authority
shall be decided by a majority of votes by the Members present and voting and
in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence the
presiding Member shall have a casting vote.(4)All decisions of the Authority
shall be signed by the Chairperson or any other Member or the Member-Secretary
authorised by the Authority in this behalf.(5)If any Member, who is a director
of a company and who as such director, has any direct or indirect pecuniary
interest in any manner coming up for consideration at a meeting of the
Authority, he shall, as soon as possible after relevant circumstances have
come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and
such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Authority, and the
Member shall not take part in any deliberation or decision of the Authority
with respect to that matter.

### 20. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Authority.

\- No act or proceeding of the Authority shall be invalid merely by reason
of-(a)any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the
Authority;(b)any defect in the appointment of a person as Chairperson or
Member of the Authority; or(c)any irregularity in the procedure of the
Authority not affecting the merits of the case.

### 21. [ Officers and other employees of Authority. [Substituted by Act No.
14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

(1)The Authority shall appoint such officers and employees as may be required
for the discharge of its functions under this Act.(2)The salaries and
allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the
officers and employees of the Authority shall be such as may be specified by
regulations.]

### 22. Transfer of assets, liabilities of Authority.

\- On and from the establishment of the Authority-(a)all the assets and
liabilities of the Unique Identification Authority of India, established vide
notification of the Government of India in the Planning Commission number
A-43011/02/2009-Admin. I, dated the 28th January, 2009, shall stand
transferred to, and vested in, the Authority.Explanation. - The assets of such
Unique Identification Authority of India shall be deemed to include all rights
and powers, and all properties, whether movable or immovable, including, in
particular, cash balances, deposits and all other interests and rights in, or
arising out of, such properties as may be in the possession of such Unique
Identification Authority of India and all books of account and other documents
relating to the same; and liabilities shall be deemed to include all debts,
liabilities and obligations of whatever kind;(b)without prejudice to the
provisions of clause (a), all data and information collected during enrolment,
all details of authentication performed, debts, obligations and liabilities
incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things engaged to be
done by, with or for such Unique Identification Authority of India immediately
before that day, for or in connection with the purpose of the said Unique
Identification Authority of India, shall be deemed to have been incurred,
entered into or engaged to be done by, with or for, the Authority;(c)all sums
of money due to the said Unique Identification Authority of India immediately
before that day shall be deemed to be due to the Authority; and(d)all suits
and other legal proceedings instituted or which could have been instituted by
or against such Unique Identification Authority of India immediately before
that day may be continued or may be instituted by or against the Authority.

### 23. Powers and functions of Authority.

(1)The Authority shall develop the policy, procedure and systems for issuing
Aadhaar numbers to individuals and perform authentication thereof under this
Act.(2)Without prejudice to sub-section (1), the powers and functions of the
Authority, inter alia, include-(a)specifying, by regulations, demographic
information and biometric information required for enrolment and the processes
for collection and verification thereof;(b)collecting demographic information
and biometric information from any individual seeking an Aadhaar number in
such manner as may be specified by regulations;(c)appointing of one or more
entities to operate the Central Identities Data Repository;(d)generating and
assigning Aadhaar numbers to individuals;(e)performing authentication of
Aadhaar numbers;(f)maintaining and updating the information of individuals in
the Central Identities Data Repository in such manner as may be specified by
regulations;(g)omitting and deactivating of an Aadhaar number and information
relating thereto in such manner as may be specified by
regulations;(h)specifying the manner of use of Aadhaar numbers for the
purposes of providing or availing of various subsidies, benefits, services and
other purposes for which Aadhaar numbers may be used;(i)specifying, by
regulations, the terms and conditions for appointment of Registrars, enrolling
agencies and service providers and revocation of appointments
thereof;(j)establishing, operating and maintaining of the Central Identities
Data Repository;(k)sharing, in such manner as may be specified by regulations,
the information of Aadhaar number holders, subject to the provisions of this
Act;(l)calling for information and records, conducting inspections, inquiries
and audit of the operations for the purposes of this Act of the Central
Identities Data Repository, Registrars, enrolling agencies and other agencies
appointed under this Act;(m)specifying, by regulations, various processes
relating to data management, security protocols and other technology
safeguards under this Act;(n)specifying, by regulations, the conditions and
procedures for issuance of new Aadhaar number to existing Aadhaar number
holder;(o)levying and collecting the fees or authorising the Registrars,
enrolling agencies or other service providers to collect such fees for the
services provided by them under this Act in such manner as may be specified by
regulations;(p)appointing such committees as may be necessary to assist the
Authority in discharge of its functions for the purposes of this
Act;(q)promoting research and development for advancement in biometrics and
related areas, including usage of Aadhaar numbers through appropriate
mechanisms;(r)evolving of, and specifying, by regulations, policies and
practices for Registrars, enrolling agencies and other service
providers;(s)setting up facilitation centres and grievance redressal mechanism
for redressal of grievances of individuals, Registrars, enrolling agencies and
other service providers;(t)such other powers and functions as may be
prescribed.(3)The Authority may,-(a)enter into Memorandum of Understanding or
agreement, as the case may be, with the Central Government or State
Governments or Union territories or other agencies for the purpose of
performing any of the functions in relation to collecting, storing, securing
or processing of information or delivery of Aadhaar numbers to individuals or
performing authentication;(b)by notification, appoint such number of
Registrars, engage and authorise such agencies to collect, store, secure,
process information or do authentication or perform such other functions in
relation thereto, as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.(4)The
Authority may engage such consultants, advisors and other persons as may be
required for efficient discharge of its functions under this Act on such
allowances or remuneration and terms and conditions as may be specified by
contract.

### 23A. [ Power of Authority to issue directions. [Inserted by Act No. 14 of
2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

(1)The Authority may for the discharge of its functions under this Act, or any
rules or regulations made thereunder, by order, issue such directions from
time to time to any entity in the Aadhaar ecosystem, as it may consider
necessary.(2)Every direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be complied
with by the entity in the Aadhaar ecosystem to whom such direction is issued.]

## Chapter V  
Grants, Accounts and Audit and Annual Report

### 24. Grants by Central Government.

\- The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, make to the Authority, grants of such sums of money as the
Central Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of this
Act.

### 25. [ Fund. [Substituted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

(1)There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the Unique Identification
Authority of India Fund and there shall be credited thereto-(a)all grants,
fees and charges received by the Authority under this Act; and(b)all sums
received by the Authority from such other sources as may be decided upon by
the Central Government.(2)The Fund shall be applied for meeting-(a)the
salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and members and
administrative expenses including the salaries, allowances and pension payable
to or in respect of officers and other employees of the Authority; and(b)the
expenses on objects and for purposes authorised by this Act.]

### 26. Accounts and audit.

(1)The Authority shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed by
the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.(2)The accounts of the Authority shall be audited annually by
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India at such intervals as may be
specified by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit
shall be payable by the Authority to the Comptroller and Auditor-
General.(3)The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any person
appointed by him in connection with the audit the accounts of the Authority
under this Act shall have the same rights and privileges and authority in
connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General generally
has in connection with the audit of Government accounts, and in particular,
shall have the right to demand production of books, accounts, connected
vouchers and other documents and papers, and to inspect any of the offices of
the Authority.(4)The accounts of the Authority, as certified by the
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him
in this behalf, together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded
annually to the Central Government by the Authority and the Central Government
shall cause the audit report to be laid, as soon as may be after it is
received, before each House of Parliament.

### 27. Returns and annual report, etc.

(1)The Authority shall furnish to the Central Government at such time and in
such form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may
direct, such returns and statements and particulars in regard to any matter
under the jurisdiction of the Authority, as the Central Government may from
time to time require.(2)The Authority shall prepare, once in every year, and
in such form and manner and at such time as may be prescribed, an annual
report giving-(a)a description of all the activities of the Authority for the
previous years;(b)the annual accounts for the previous year; and(c)the
programmes of work for coming year.(3)A copy of the report received under sub-
section (2) shall be laid by the Central Government, as soon as may be after
it is received, before each House of Parliament.

## Chapter VI  
Protection of Information

### 28. Security and confidentiality of information.

(1)The Authority shall ensure the security of identity information and
authentication records of individuals.(2)Subject to the provisions of this
Act, the Authority shall ensure confidentiality of identity information and
authentication records of individuals.(3)The Authority shall take all
necessary measures to ensure that the information in the possession or control
of the Authority, including information stored in the Central Identities Data
Repository, is secured and protected against access, use or disclosure not
permitted under this Act or regulations made thereunder, and against
accidental or intentional destruction, loss or damage.(4)Without prejudice to
sub-sections (1) and (2), the Authority shall-(a)adopt and implement
appropriate technical and organisational security measures;(b)ensure that the
agencies, consultants, advisors or other persons appointed or engaged for
performing any function of the Authority under this Act, have in place
appropriate technical and organisational security measures for the
information; and(c)ensure that the agreements or arrangements entered into
with such agencies, consultants, advisors or other persons, impose obligations
equivalent to those imposed on the Authority under this Act, and require such
agencies, consultants, advisors and other persons to act only on instructions
from the Authority.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
the time being in force, and save as otherwise provided in this Act, the
Authority or any of its officers or other employees or any agency that
maintains the Central Identities Data Repository shall not, whether during his
service or thereafter, reveal any information stored in the Central Identities
Data Repository or authentication record to anyone:Provided that an Aadhaar
number holder may request the Authority to provide access to his identity
information excluding his core biometric information in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.

### 29. Restriction on sharing information.

(1)No core biometric information, collected or created under this Act, shall
be-(a)shared with anyone for any reason whatsoever; or(b)used for any purpose
other than generation of Aadhaar numbers and authentication under this
Act.(2)The identity information, other than core biometric information,
collected or created under this Act may be shared only in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(3)[ No identity information available with a requesting entity or
offline verification-seeking entity shall be-(a)used for any purpose, other
than the purposes informed in writing to the individual at the time of
submitting any information for authentication or offline verification;
or(b)disclosed for any purpose, other than purposes informed in writing to the
individual at the time of submitting any information for authentication or
offline verification:Provided that the purposes under clauses (a) and (b)
shall be in clear and precise language understandable to the individual.]
[Substituted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](4)No Aadhaar number
[demographic information or photograph] [Substituted 'or core biometric
information' by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.] collected or created
under this Act in respect of an Aadhaar number holder shall be published,
displayed or posted publicly, except for the purposes as may be specified by
regulations.

### 30. Biometric information deemed to be sensitive personal information.

\- The biometric information collected and stored in electronic form, in
accordance with this Act and regulations made thereunder, shall be deemed to
be "electronic record" and "sensitive personal data or information", and the
provisions contained in the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules
made thereunder shall apply to such information, in addition to, and to the
extent not in derogation of the provisions of this Act.Explanation. - For the
purposes of this section, the expressions-(a)"electronic form" shall have the
same meaning as assigned to it in clause (r) of sub-section (1) of section 2
of the Information Technology Act, 2000;(b)"electronic record" shall have the
same meaning as assigned to it in clause (t) of sub-section (1) of section 2
of the Information Technology Act, 2000;(c)"sensitive personal data or
information" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (iii) of
the Explanation to section 43A of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

### 31. Alteration of demographic information or biometric information.

(1)In case any demographic information of an Aadhaar number holder is found
incorrect or changes subsequently, the Aadhaar number holder shall request the
Authority to alter such demographic information in his record in the Central
Identities Data Repository in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(2)In case any biometric information of Aadhaar number holder is
lost or changes subsequently for any reason, the Aadhaar number holder shall
request the Authority to make necessary alteration in his record in the
Central Identities Data Repository in such manner as may be specified by
regulations.(3)On receipt of any request under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2), the Authority may, if it is satisfied, make such alteration as may be
required in the record relating to such Aadhaar number holder and intimate
such alteration to the concerned Aadhaar number holder.(4)No identity
information in the Central Identities Data Repository shall be altered except
in the manner provided in this Act or regulations made in this behalf.

### 32. Access to own information and records of requests for authentication.

(1)The Authority shall maintain authentication records in such manner and for
such period as may be specified by regulations.(2)Every Aadhaar number holder
shall be entitled to obtain his authentication record in such manner as may be
specified by regulations.(3)The Authority shall not, either by itself or
through any entity under its control, collect, keep or maintain any
information about the purpose of authentication.

### 33. Disclosure of information in certain cases.

(1)Nothing contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (5) of section 28 or
sub-section (2) of section 29 shall apply in respect of any disclosure of
information, including identity information or authentication records, made
pursuant to an order of a court not inferior to that of a [Judge of a High
Court] [Substituted 'District Judge' by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.]:Provided that no order by the court under this sub-section shall
be made without giving an opportunity of hearing to the Authority [and the
concerned Aadhaar number holder] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.].[Provided further that the core biometric information shall not be
disclosed under this sub-section.] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.](2)Nothing contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (5) of
section 28 and clause (b) of sub-section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section
(3) of section 29 shall apply in respect of any disclosure of information,
including identity information or authentication records, made in the interest
of national security in pursuance of a direction of an officer not below the
rank of [Secretary] [Substituted 'Joint Secretary' by Act No. 14 of 2019,
dated 23.7.2019.] to the Government of India specially authorised in this
behalf by an order of the Central Government:Provided that every direction
issued under this sub-section, shall be reviewed by an Oversight Committee
consisting of the Cabinet Secretary and the Secretaries to the Government of
India in the Department of Legal Affairs and the Department of Electronics and
Information Technology, before it takes effect:Provided further that any
direction issued under this sub-section shall be valid for a period of three
months from the date of its issue, which may be extended for a further period
of three months after the review by the Oversight Committee.[Chapter VIA]
[Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.] Civil Penalties

### 33A. Penalty for failure to comply with provisions of this Act, rules,
regulations and directions.

(1)Where an entity in the Aadhaar ecosystem fails to comply with the provision
of this Act, the rules or regulations made thereunder or directions issued by
the Authority under section 23A, or fails to furnish any information,
document, or return of report required by the Authority, such entity shall be
liable to a civil penalty which may extend to one crore rupees for each
contravention and in case of a continuing failure, with additional penalty
which may extend to ten lakh rupees for every day during which the failure
continues after the first contravention.(2)The amount of any penalty imposed
under this section, if not paid, may be recovered as if it were an arrear of
land revenue.

### 33B. Power to adjudicate.

(1)For the purposes of adjudication under section 33A and imposing a penalty
thereunder, the Authority shall appoint an officer of the Authority, who is
not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India and
possessing such qualification and experience as may be prescribed, to be an
Adjudicating Officer for holding an inquiry in such manner as may be
prescribed.(2)No inquiry under sub-section (1) shall be initiated except by a
complaint made by the Authority.(3)While holding an inquiry, the Adjudicating
Officer shall-(a)provide the entity in the Aadhaar ecosystem against whom
complaint is made, an opportunity of being heard;(b)have the power to summon
and enforce the attendance of any person acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of the case to give evidence or to produce any document which,
in the opinion of the Adjudicating Officer, may be useful for or relevant to
the subject matter of the inquiry.(4)If the Adjudicating Officer, on such
inquiry, is satisfied that the entity in the Aadhaar ecosystem has failed to
comply with any provision of this Act or the rules or regulations made
thereunder or directions issued by the Authority under section 23A, or has
failed to furnish any information, document, or return of report required by
the Authority, the Adjudicating Officer may, by order, impose such penalty
under section 33A as he thinks fit.

### 33C. Appeals to Appellate Tribunal.

(1)The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal established under
section 14 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997, (24 of
1997) shall be Appellate Tribunal for the purposes of hearing appeals against
the decision of the Adjudicating Officer under this Act.(2)A person or entity
in the Aadhaar ecosystem aggrieved by an order of the Adjudicating Officer
under section 33B, may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal within a
period of forty-five days from the date of receipt of the order appealed
against, in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be
prescribed:Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after
the expiry of the said period of forty-five days if it is satisfied that there
was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.(3)On receipt of an
appeal under sub-section (2), the Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the
parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon
as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside the order appealed
against.(4)The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it
to the parties to the appeal and to the Adjudicating Officer.(5)Any appeal
filed under sub-section (2) shall be dealt with by the Appellate Tribunal as
expeditiously as possible and every endeavour shall be made by it to dispose
of the appeal within six months from the date on which it is presented to
it.(6)The Appellate Tribunal may, for the purpose of deciding an appeal before
it, call for the records relevant to disposing of such appeal and make such
orders as it thinks fit.

### 33D. Procedure and powers of the Appellate Tribunal.

\- The provisions of sections 14-I to 14K (both inclusive), 16 and 17 of the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (24 of 1997) shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the Appellate Tribunal in the discharge of its functions
under this Act, as they apply to it in the discharge of its functions under
that Act.

### 33E. Appeal to Supreme Court of India.

(1)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 or
in any other law for the time being in force, an appeal shall lie against any
order, not being an interlocutory order, of the Appellate Tribunal to the
Supreme Court on any substantial question of law arising out of such
order.(2)No appeal shall lie against any decision or order made by the
Appellate Tribunal which the parties have consented to.(3)Every appeal under
this section shall be preferred within a period of forty-five days from the
date of the decision or order appealed against:Provided that the Supreme Court
may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of forty-five days
if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within
that period.

### 33F. Civil court not to have jurisdiction.

\- No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding
in respect of any matter which an Adjudicating Officer appointed under this
Act or the Appellate Tribunal is empowered, by or under this Act to determine,
and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect
of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or
under this Act.

## Chapter VII  
Offences and Penalties

### 34. Penalty for impersonation at time of enrolment.

\- Whoever impersonates or attempts to impersonate another person, whether
dead or alive, real or imaginary, by providing any false demographic
information or biometric information, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years or with a fine which may extend to
ten thousand rupees or with both.

### 35. Penalty for impersonation of Aadhaar number holder by changing
demographic information or biometric information.

\- Whoever, with the intention of causing harm or mischief to an Aadhaar
number holder, or with the intention of appropriating the identity of an
Aadhaar number holder changes or attempts to change any demographic
information or biometric information of an Aadhaar number holder by
impersonating or attempting to impersonate another person, dead or alive, real
or imaginary, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and shall also be liable to a fine which may extend to
ten thousand rupees.

### 36. Penalty for impersonation.

\- Whoever, not being authorised to collect identity information under the
provisions of this Act, by words, conduct or demeanour pretends that he is
authorised to do so, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years or with a fine which may extend to ten thousand
rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to one lakh
rupees or with both.

### 37. Penalty for disclosing identity information.

\- Whoever, intentionally discloses, transmits, copies or otherwise
disseminates any identity information collected in the course of enrolment or
authentication to any person not authorised under this Act or regulations made
thereunder or in contravention of any agreement or arrangement entered into
pursuant to the provisions of this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years or with a fine which may extend to
ten thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend
to one lakh rupees or with both.

### 38. Penalty for unauthorised access to the Central Identities Data
Repository.

\- Whoever, not being authorised by the Authority, intentionally,-(a)accesses
or secures access to the Central Identities Data Repository;(b)downloads,
copies or extracts any data from the Central Identities Data Repository or
stored in any removable storage medium;(c)introduces or causes to be
introduced any virus or other computer contaminant in the Central Identities
Data Repository;(d)damages or causes to be damaged the data in the Central
Identities Data Repository;(e)disrupts or causes disruption of the access to
the Central Identities Data Repository;(f)denies or causes a denial of access
to any person who is authorised to access the Central Identities Data
Repository;(g)reveals any information in contravention of sub-section (5) of
section 28, or shares, uses or displays information in contravention of
section 29 or assists any person in any of the aforementioned
acts;(h)destroys, deletes or alters any information stored in any removable
storage media or in the Central Identities Data Repository or diminishes its
value or utility or affects it injuriously by any means; or(i)steals,
conceals, destroys or alters or causes any person to steal, conceal, destroy
or alter any computer source code used by the Authority with an intention to
cause damage,shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to [ten years] [Substituted 'three years' by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.] and shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than
ten lakh rupees.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the
expressions "computer contaminant", "computer virus" and "damage" shall have
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Explanation to section 43 of
the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the expression "computer source
code" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation to section 65
of the said Act.

### 39. Penalty for tampering with data in Central Identities Data Repository.

\- Whoever, not being authorised by the Authority, uses or tampers with the
data in the Central Identities Data Repository or in any removable storage
medium with the intent of modifying information relating to Aadhaar number
holder or discovering any information thereof, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to [ten years] [Substituted 'three
years' by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.] and shall also be liable to a
fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

### 40. [ Penalty for unauthorised use by requesting entity or offline
verificationseeking entity. [Substituted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.]

\- Whoever,-(a)being a requesting entity, uses the identity information of an
individual in contravention of sub-section (2) of section 8; or(b)being an
offline verification-seeking entity, uses the identity information of an
individual in contravention of sub-section (2) of section 8A,shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three years or with a fine
which may extend to ten thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a
fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or with both.]

### 41. Penalty for noncompliance with intimation requirements.

\- Whoever, being an enrolling agency or a requesting entity, fails to comply
with the requirements of sub-section (2) of section 3 or sub-section (3) of
section 8, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year
or with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or, in the case of a
company, with a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or with both.

### 42. General penalty.

\- Whoever commits an offence under this Act or any rules or regulations made
thereunder for which no specific penalty is provided elsewhere than this
section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
[three year] [Substituted 'one year' by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.]
or with a fine which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees or, in the case
of a company, with a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both.

### 43. Offences by companies.

(1)Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company
and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.Explanation. - For the purposes of this section-(a)"company" means
any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;
and(b)"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.

### 44. Act to apply for offence or contravention committed outside India.

(1)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the provisions of this Act
shall apply also to any offence or contravention committed outside India by
any person, irrespective of his nationality.(2)For the purposes of sub-section
(1), the provisions of this Act shall apply to any offence or contravention
committed outside India by any person, if the act or conduct constituting the
offence or contravention involves any data in the Central Identities Data
Repository.

### 45. Power to investigate offences.

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,
a police officer not below the rank of Inspector of Police shall investigate
any offence under this Act.

### 46. Penalties not to interfere with other punishments.

\- No penalty imposed under this Act shall prevent the imposition of any other
penalty or punishment under any other law for the time being in force.

### 47. Cognizance of offences.

(1)No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act,
save on a complaint made by the Authority or any officer or person authorised
by it.[Provided that the court may, on a complaint made by an Aadhaar number
holder or individual take cognizance of any offence punishable under section
34 or 35 or 36 or 37 or 40 or section 41.] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019,
dated 23.7.2019.](2)No court inferior to that of a Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate or a Chief Judicial Magistrate shall try any offence punishable
under this Act.

## Chapter VIII  
Miscellaneous

### 48. Power of Central Government to supersede Authority.

(1)If, at any time, the Central Government is of the opinion,-(a)that, on
account of circumstances beyond the control of the Authority, it is unable to
discharge the functions or perform the duties imposed on it by or under the
provisions of this Act; or(b)that the Authority has persistently defaulted in
complying with any direction given by the Central Government under this Act or
in the discharge of the functions or performance of the duties imposed on it
by or under the provisions of this Act and as a result of such default the
financial position of the Authority or the administration of the Authority has
suffered; or(c)that a public emergency exists, the Central Government may, by
notification, supersede the Authority for such period, not exceeding six
months, as may be specified in the notification and appoint a person or
persons as the President may direct to exercise powers and discharge functions
under this Act:Provided that before issuing any such notification, the Central
Government shall give a reasonable opportunity to the Authority to make
representations against the proposed supersession and shall consider the
representations, if any, of the Authority.(2)Upon the publication of a
notification under sub-section (1), superseding the Authority,-(a)the
Chairperson and other Members shall, as from the date of supersession, vacate
their offices as such;(b)all the powers, functions and duties which may, by or
under the provisions of this Act, be exercised or discharged by or on behalf
of the Authority shall, until the Authority is reconstituted under sub-section
(3), be exercised and discharged by the person or persons referred to in sub-
section (1); and(c)all properties owned or controlled by the Authority shall,
until the Authority is reconstituted under sub-section (3), vest in the
Central Government.(3)On or before the expiration of the period of
supersession specified in the notification issued under sub-section (1), the
Central Government shall reconstitute the Authority by a fresh appointment of
its Chairperson and other Members and in such case any person who had vacated
his office under clause (a) of sub-section (2) shall not be deemed to be
disqualified for reappointment.(4)The Central Government shall cause a copy of
the notification issued under sub-section (1) and a full report of any action
taken under this section and the circumstances leading to such action to be
laid before each House of Parliament at the earliest.

### 49. Members, officers, etc., to be public servants.

\- The Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Authority
shall be deemed, while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code.

### 50. Power of Central Government to issue directions.

(1)Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Authority
shall, in exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under
this Act be bound by such directions on questions of policy, as the Central
Government may give, in writing to it, from time to time:Provided that the
Authority shall, as far as practicable, be given an opportunity to express its
views before any direction is given under this sub-section:Provided further
that nothing in this section shall empower the Central Government to issue
directions pertaining to technical or administrative matters undertaken by the
Authority.(2)The decision of the Central Government, whether a question is one
of policy or not, shall be final.

### 50A. [ Exemption from tax on income. [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019,
dated 23.7.2019.]

\- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
or any other enactment for the time being in force relating to tax on income,
profits or gains, the Authority shall not be liable to pay income-tax or any
other tax in respect of its income, profits or gains.]

### 51. Delegation.

\- The Authority may, by general or special order in writing, delegate to any
[Member or officer] [Substituted 'Member, officer' by Act No. 14 of 2019,
dated 23.7.2019.] of the Authority or any other person, subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and
functions under this Act (except the power under section 54) as it may deem
necessary.

### 52. Protection of action taken in good faith.

\- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Central Government or the Authority or the Chairperson or any Member or any
officer, or other employees of the Authority for anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rule or regulation
made thereunder.

### 53. Power of Central Government to make rules.

(1)The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:-(a)the form and manner in which and the
authority before whom the oath of office and of secrecy is to be subscribed by
the Chairperson and Members under sub-section (2) of section 14;(aa)[ the
purpose for which the requesting entity may be allowed by the Authority to
perform authentication under sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (4)
of section 4;] [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](b)the salary
and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, the
Chairperson and the allowances or remuneration payable to Members of the
Authority under sub-section (4) of section 14;(c)the other powers and
functions of the Chairperson of the Authority under section 17;(d)the other
powers and functions of the Authority under clause (t) of sub-section (2) of
section 23;.(e)the form of annual statement of accounts to be prepared by
Authority under sub-section (1) of section 26;(f)the form and the manner in
which and the time within which returns and statements and particulars are to
be furnished under sub-section (1) of section 27;(g)the form and the manner
and the time at which the Authority shall furnish annual report under sub-
section (2) of section 27;(ga)[ the qualification and experience of, and the
manner of appointment of, the Adjudicating Officer under sub-section (1) of
section 33B; [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](gb)the form,
manner, and fee for an appeal to be filed under sub-section (2) of section
33C;](h)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed, or in
respect of which provision is to be or may be made by rules.

### 54. Power of Authority to make regulations.

(1)The Authority may, by notification, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules made thereunder, for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-(a)[ the entities or group of entities in the Aadhaar ecosystem under
clause (aa), the biometric information under clause (g) and the demographic
information under clause (k), the process of collecting demographic
information and biometric information from the individuals by enrolling
agencies under clause (m), and the modes of offline verification of Aadhaar
number holder under clause (pa) of section 2;] [Substituted by Act No. 14 of
2019, dated 23.7.2019.](b)the manner of verifying the demographic information
and biometric information for issue of Aadhaar number under sub-section (3) of
section 3;(ba)[ the manner of generating an alternative virtual identity under
sub-section (4) of section 3; [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated
23.7.2019.](bb)the manner in which cancellation of an Aadhaar number may be
carried out under sub-section (2) of section 3A;](c)the conditions for
accepting an Aadhaar number as proof of identity of the Aadhaar number holder
under sub-section (3) of section 4;(ca)[ standards of privacy and security to
be complied with by the requesting entities under sub-section (4) of section
4; [Inserted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.](cb)the classification of
requesting entities under sub-section (5) of section 4;](d)the other
categories of individuals under section 5 for whom the Authority shall take
special measures for allotment of Aadhaar number;(e)the manner of updating
biometric information and demographic information under section 6;(f)the
procedure for authentication of the Aadhaar number under section 8;(fa)[ the
alternate and viable means of identification of individual under the proviso
to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 8; [Inserted by Act No. 14 of
2019, dated 23.7.2019.](fb)the manner of obtaining consent under clause (a) of
sub-section (2), the manner of providing information to the individual
undergoing offline verification under sub-section (3), and the obligations of
offline verification-seeking entities under clause (c) of sub-section (4) of
section 8A;](g)the other functions to be performed by the Central Identities
Data Repository under section 10;(h)the time and places of meetings of the
Authority and the procedure for transaction of business to be followed by it,
including the quorum, under sub-section (1) of section 19;(i)the salary and
allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, the chief
executive officer, officers and other employees of the Authority under sub-
section (2) of section 21;(j)the demographic information and biometric
information under clause (a) and the manner of their collection under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(k)the manner of maintaining and updating
the information of individuals in the Central Identities Data Repository under
clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(l)the manner of omitting and
deactivating an Aadhaar number and information relating thereto under clause
(g) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(m)the manner of use of Aadhaar numbers
for the purposes of providing or availing of various subsidies, benefits,
services and other purposes for which Aadhaar numbers may be used under clause
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(n)the terms and conditions for
appointment of Registrars, enrolling agencies and other service providers and
the revocation of appointments thereof under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of
section 23;(o)the manner of sharing information of Aadhaar number holder under
clause (k) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(p)various processes relating to
data management, security protocol and other technology safeguards under
clause (m) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(q)the procedure for issuance of
new Aadhaar number to existing Aadhaar number holder under clause (n) of sub-
section (2) of section 23;(r)manner of authorising Registrars, enrolling
agencies or other service providers to collect such fees for services provided
by them under clause (o) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(s)policies and
practices to be followed by the Registrar, enrolling agencies and other
service providers under clause (r) of sub-section (2) of section 23;(t)the
manner of accessing the identity information by the Aadhaar number holder
under the proviso to sub-section (5) of section 28;(u)the manner of sharing
the identity information, other than core biometric information, collected or
created under this Act under sub-section (2) of section 29;(v)the manner of
alteration of demographic information under sub-section (1) and biometric
information under sub-section (2) of section 31;(w)the manner of and the time
for maintaining the request for authentication and the response thereon under
sub-section (1), and the manner of obtaining, by the Aadhaar number holder,
the authentication records under sub-section (2) of section 32;(x)any other
matter which is required to be, or may be, specified, or in respect of which
provision is to be or may be made by regulations.

### 55. Laying of rules and regulations before Parliament.

\- Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
regulation, or both the Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be
made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation.

### 56. Application of other laws not barred.

\- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of, any other law for the time being in force.

### 57. [ [Omitted by Act No. 14 of 2019, dated 23.7.2019.]

***]

57\. Act not to prevent use of Aadhaar number for other purposes under law.-
Nothing contained in this Act shall prevent the use of Aadhaar number for
establishing the identity of an individual for any purpose, whether by the
State or any body corporate or person, pursuant to any law, for the time being
in force, or any contract to this effect:Provided that the use of Aadhaar
number under this section shall be subject to the procedure and obligations
under section 8 and Chapter VI.  
---  
  
### 58. Power to remove difficulties.

(1)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear
to be necessary for removing the difficulty:Provided that no such order shall
be made under this section after the expiry of three years from the
commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under this section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.

### 59. Savings.

\- Anything done or any action taken by the Central Government under the
Resolution of the Government of India, Planning Commission bearing
notification number A-43011/02/2009-Admin. I, dated the 28th January, 2009, or
by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology under the Cabinet
Secretariat Notification bearing notification number S.O. 2492(E), dated the
12th September, 2015, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been validly
done or taken under this Act.

