## International Treaty - Act

## The Agreement Between the Government of India and Government of Afghanistan
for avoidance of Double Taxation of income of enterprises operating aircraft.

TREATY  
India

# The Agreement Between the Government of India and Government of Afghanistan
for avoidance of Double Taxation of income of enterprises operating aircraft.

## Rule THE-AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-INDIA-AND-GOVERNMENT-OF-
AFGHANISTAN-FOR-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-OF-INCOME-OF-ENTERPRISES-
OPERATING-AIRCRAFT of 1975

  * Published on 1 October 1975 
  * Commenced on 1 October 1975 
  * [This is the version of this document from 1 October 1975.] 
  * [Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.] 

The Agreement Between the Government of India and Government of Afghanistan
for avoidance of Double Taxation of income of enterprises operating
aircraft.Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section
3(i), dated 1st October, 1975.

### 1993.

G.S.R. 514(E), dtd. 30.9.1975. - Whereas the Government of India and the
Government of Afganistan have concluded an Agreement through exchange of
letters as set out in the Annexure hereto, for the avoidance of double
taxation of income of enterprises operating aircraft;Now, therefore, in
exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961) and section 24-A of the Companies (Profits) Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of
1964), the Central Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the
said Agreement shall be given effect to in the Union of
India.ANNEXUREAmbassador of IndiaKabul,September 14, 1975.Excellency,I have,
the honour to refer to the Agreement dated the 26th January, 1952 between the
Government of India and the Government of Afghanistan relating to air services
and to the discussions between the representatives of our two Governments on
the reciprocal exemption of the airlines of India and Afghanistan from payment
of income-tax and to confirm on behalf of the Government of India the
following understandings reached between our two Governments:(1)Income derived
from the operation of aircraft by the airlines of India shall be exempt from
the Afghanistan tax.(2)Income derived from the operation of aircraft by the
airlines of Afghanistan shall be exempt from the Indian tax.(3)The exemption
provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall also apply in respect of
participation in pools of any kind regarding air transport by the airlines of
India or Afghanistan; the exemption shall not, however, apply to income from
operation of aircraft in internal traffic in India or Afghanistan.(4)The
exemption provided for in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) above shall have effect
in relation to the income derived from the operation of aircraft on or after
the 26th day of January, 1952, on which date the Agreement relating to air
services was signed between India and Afghanistan.In case any tax on income
relatable to the aforesaid period has been recovered by either Government as
of the date of this Agreement, the same shall be refunded by that Government
on an application to be made in this behalf within twelve months of the said
date by the airlines of India or the airlines of Afghanistan as the case may
be.(5)It is understood that:(a)The term " Indian tax " means the income-tax
and surtax imposed under the tax laws of India.(b)The term " Afghanistan tax "
means the income tax and the business transactions tax imposed by the Income
Tax Law of Afghanistan.(c)The terms " Indian tax " and " Afghanistan tax "
shall also include any identical or substantially similar taxes which are
imposed hereafter by India or Afghanistan respectively in addition to or in
place of the existing taxes.(d)The term " airlines of India " or " airlines of
Afghanistan " means---(i)airlines designated by the Government of India or the
Government of Afghanistan, as the case may be, in pursuance of the Agreement
dated 26th January, 1952 (as amended or revised from time to time) between the
two Govern ment relating to air services; or(ii)airlines which are authorised
by the Government of India or the Government of Afghanistan, as the case may
be, by a general or special arrangement of between the two Governments to
operate chartered flights between or beyond their territories.(e)The term "
internal traffic " shall mean traffic which originates and terminates within
India or within Afghanistan, as the case may be.(f)The term " operation of
aircraft " means a business of transportation by air of persons, livestock,
goods or mail carried on by the owners or lessors or charterers of aircraft,
including the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other
enterprises and any other activity directly connected with such
transportation.I have the honour also to propose that this letter and Your
Excellency's letter of reply confirming the foregoing understandings shall be
regarded as constituting an agreement between the two Governments for the
avoidance of double, taxation of income of enterprises operating aircraft
which shall enter into force on the date of Your Excellency's reply and shall
remain in force indefinitely, unless either of the Governments gives notice to
the other Government of its intention to terminate this Agreement on or before
the thirtieth day of June in any calendar year after the year 1980. In the
event of such a notice, this agreement shall cease to be effective:(a)in India
in respect of income assessable for the assessment year commencing on the 1st
day of April in the second calendar year following the calendar year in which
the notice is given and the subsequent assessment years; and(b)in Afghanistan
in respect of income assessable for the taxable year commencing on the 1st day
of Hamal corresponding to the 21st day of March, in the second calendar year
following the calendar year in which the notice, is given and the subsequent
taxable years.I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency
the assurances of my highest consideration.(Sd.)K. R. P. Singh,Ambassador of
India in Afghanistan,Kabul-Afghanistan.H.E. Mr. Sultan Mahmood
Ghazi,President,Civil Aviation and Tourism Authority.Kabul-
Afghanistan.September 14, 1975.PresidentCivil Aviation And Tourism
AuthorityExcellency,I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your
Excellency's letter of today's date which reads as follows:"I have the honour
to refer to the Agreement date the 26th January, 1952 between the Government
of India and the Government of Afghanistan relating to air services and to the
discussions between the, representatives of our two Governments on the
reciprocal exemption of the airlines of India and Afghanistan from payment of
income-tax and to confirm on behalf of the Government of India the following
understandings reached between our two Governments:(1)Income denied from the
operation of aircraft by the airlines of India shall be exempt from the
Afghanistan tax.(2)Income derived from the operation of aircraft by the
airlines of Afghanistan shall be exempt from the Indian tax.(3)The exemption
provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall also apply in respect of
participation in pools of any kind regarding air transport by the airlines of
India or Afghanistan; the exemption shall not, however, apply to income from
operation of aircraft in internal traffic in India or Afghanistan.(4)The
exemption provided for in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) above shall have effect
in relation to the income derived from the operation of aircraft on or after
the 26th day of January, 1952, on which date the Agreement relating to air
services was signed between India and Afghanistan.In case any tax on income
relatable to the, aforesaid period has been recovered by either Government as
of the date of this Agreement, the same shall be refunded by that Government
on an application to be made in this behalf within twelve months of the said
date by the airlines of India or the airlines of Afghanistan as the case may
be.(5)It is understood that:(a)The term " Indian tax " means the income-tax
and surtax imposed under the tax laws of India.(b)The term " Afghanistan tax "
means the income-tax and the business transactions tax imposed by the Income
Tax Law of Afghanistan.(c)The terms " Indian-tax " and " Afghanistan tax "
shall also include any identical or substantially similar taxes which are
imposed hereafter by India or Afghanistan respectively in addition to or in
place of the existing taxes.(d)The term " airlines of India " or " airlines of
Afghanistan " means---(i)Airlines designated by the Government of India or the
Government of Afghanistan, as the case may be, in pursuance of the Agreement
dated 26th January, 1952 (as amended or revised from time to time) between the
two Governments relating to air services; or(ii)airlines which are autliorised
by the Government of India or the Government of Afghanistan, as the case may
be, by a general or special arrangement between the two Governments to operate
chartered flights between or beyond their territories.(e)The term " internal
traffic " shall mean traffic which originates and terminates within India or
within Afghanistan, as the case may be.(f)The term " operation of aircraft "
means a business of transportation by air of persons, livestock, goods or
mail, carried on by the owners or lessors or charterers of aircraft, including
the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other enterprises and
any other activity directly connected with such transportation."I have the
honour also to propose that this letter and Your Excellency's letter of reply
confirming the foregoing understandings shall be regarded as constituting an
agreement between the two Governments for the avoidance of double taxation of
income of enterprises operating aircraft, which shall enter into force on the
date of Your Excellency's reply and shall remain in force indefinitely, unless
either of the Governments gives notice to the other Government of its
intention to terminate this agreement on or before the thirtieth day of June
in any calendar year after the year 1980. In the event of such a notice, this
agreement shall cease to be effective.(a)in India, in respect of income
assessable for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April in the
second calendar year following the calendar year in which the notice is given
and the subsequent assessment years; and(b)in Afghanistan, in respect of
income assessable for the taxable year commencing on the 1st day of Hamal
corresponding to the 21st day of March in the second calendar year following
the calendar year in which the notice is given and the subsequent taxable
years."I have further the honour to confirm the foregoing understandings on
behalf of the Government of Afghanistan and to agree that Your Excellency's
letter and my reply thereto shall constitute an agreement between the two
Governments as stated in Your Excellency's above-mentioned letter.I avail
myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my
highest consideration.(Sd.) Sultan Mahmood Ghazi,President, Civil Aviation and
Tourism Authority,Kabul-Afghanistan.H.E. Mr. K. R. P. Singh,Ambassador of
India in Afghanistan,Kabul-Afghanistan

