## Union of India - Act

## The Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007

UNION OF INDIA  
India

# The Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007

## Act 55 of 2007

  * Published in Gazette 55 on 25 December 2007 
  * Assented to on 25 December 2007 
  * Commenced on 25 December 2007 
  * [This is the version of this document at 4 June 2022.] 

  1. [Amended by The Armed Forces Tribunal (Financial and Administrative Powers) Rules, 2008 (Rule THE-ARMED-FORCES-TRIBUNAL-FINANCIAL-AND of 2008) on 1 January 2008] 

The Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007(55 OF 2007)

### 277.

Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The existing system of administration of
justice in the Army and Air Force provides for submission of statutory
complaints against grievances relating to service matters and pre and post
confirmation petitions to various authorities against the findings and
sentences of Courts-Martial. In Navy, an aggrieved person has a right to
submit a complaint relating to service matters and has a right of audience
before the Judge Advocate General in the Navy in regard to the finding and
sentence of a Court-Martial before the same are finally put up to the Chief of
the Naval Staff.2\. Having regard to the fact that a large number of cases
relating to service matters of the members of the above-mentioned three armed
forces of Union have been pending in the Courts for a long time, the question
of constituting an independent adjudicatory forum for the Defence personnel
has been engaging the attention of the Central Government for quite some time.
In 1982, the Supreme Court in Prithi Pal Singh Bedi v. Union of India, A.I.R.
1982 S.C. 1413 held that the absence of even one appeal with power to review
evidence, legal formulation, conclusion and adequacy or otherwise of
punishment in the laws relating to the armed forces was a distressing and
glaring lacuna and urged the Government to take steps to provide for at least
one judicial review in service matters. The Estimates Committee of the
Parliament in their 19th Report presented to the Lok Sabha on 20th August,
1992 had desired that the Government should constitute an independent
statutory Board or Tribunal for service personnel.3\. In view of the above, it
is proposed to enact a new legislation by constituting an Armed Forces
Tribunal for the adjudication of complaints and disputes regarding service
matters and appeals arising out of the verdicts of the Courts-Martial of the
members of the three service (Army, Navy and Air Force) to provide for quicker
and less expensive justice to the members of the said Armed Forces of the
Union.4\. Establishment of an independent Armed Forces Tribunal will fortify
the trust and confidence amongst members of the three services in the system
of dispensation of justice in relation to their service matters.5\. The Bill
seeks to provide for a judicial appeal on points of law and facts against the
verdicts of Courts-Martial which is a crying need of the day and lack of it
has often been adversely commented upon by the Supreme Court. The Tribunal
will oust the jurisdiction of all Courts except the Supreme Court whereby
resources of the Armed Forces in terms of manpower, material and time will he
conserved besides resulting in expeditious disposal of the cases and reduction
in the nu rnber of cases pending before various Courts. Ultimately, it will
result in speedy and less expensive dispensation of justice to the Members of
the above mentioned three Armed Forces of the Union.6\. The Notes on Clauses
explain in detail the various provisions contained in the Bill.7\. The Bill
seeks to achieve the above objective.[25th December, 2007]An Act to provide
for the adjudication or trial by Armed Forces Tribunal of disputes and
complaints with respect to commission, appointments, enrolment and conditions
of service in respect of persons subject to the Army Act, 1950, the Navy Act,
1957 and the Air Force Act, 1950 and also to provide for appeals arising out
of orders, findings or sentences of Court-Martial held under the said Acts and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.Be it enacted by
Parliament in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-

## Chapter I  
Preliminary

### 1. Short title and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called the Armed
Forces Tribunal Act, 2007.

(2)It shall come into force on such [date] as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint.

### 2. Applicability of the Act .-(1) The provisions of this Act shall apply
to all persons subject to the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957
(62 of 1957) and the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950).

(2)This Act shall also apply to retired personnel subject to the Army Act,
1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force Act,
1950 (45 of 1950), including their dependants, heirs and successors, in so far
as it relates to their service matters.

### 3. Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--

(a)"Administrative Member" means a Member of the Tribunal who is not a
Judicial Member within the meaning of clause (g);(b)"application" means an
application made under sub-section (2) of section 14;(c)"appointed day" means
the date with effect from which the Tribunal is established by notification
under section 4;(d)"Bench" means a Bench of the Tribunal;(e)"Chairperson"
means the Chairperson of the Tribunal;(f)"Court-Martial" means a Court-Martial
held under the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957)
including the disciplinary Courts constituted under the Act or the Air Force
Act, 1950 (45 of 1950);(g)"Judicial Member" means a Member of the Tribunal
appointed as such under this Act, and includes the Chairperson, who possesses
any of the qualifications specified in sub-section (2) of section
6;(h)"Member" means a Member (whether Judicial or Administrative) of the
Tribunal and includes the Chairpersons;(i)"military custody" means the arrest
or confinement of a person according to the usages of the service and includes
naval or air force custody;(j)"notification" means a notification published in
the Official Gazette;(k)"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this
Act;(l)"President" means the President of India;(m)"rules" means the rules
made under this Act;(n)"service" means the service within or outside
India;(o)"service matters", in relation to the persons subject to the Army
Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) and the Air Force Act,
1950 (45 of 1950), mean all matters relating to the conditions of their
service and shall include--(i)remuneration (including allowances), pension and
other retirement benefits;(i)order issued under section 18 of the Army Act,
1950 (46 of 1950), sub--section (1) of section 15 of the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of
1957) and section 18 of the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950); and(ii)transfers
and postings including the change of place or unit on posting whether
individually or as a part of unit, formation or ship in relation to the
persons subject to the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) , the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of
1957) and the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950);(iii)leave of any
kind;(iv)summary Court-Martial except where the punishment is of dismissal or
imprisonment for more than three months;(ii)tenure, including commission,
appointment, enrolment, probation, confirmation, seniority, training,
promotion, reversion, premature retirement, superannuation, termination of
service and penal deductions;(iii)summary disposal and trials where the
punishment of dismissal is awarded;(iv)any other matter, whatsoever, but shall
not include matters relating to-(p)"summary disposals and trials" means
summary disposals and trials held under the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) , the
Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) and the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of
1950);(q)"Tribunal" means the Armed Forces Tribunal established under section
4.

## Chapter II  
Establishment Of Tribunal And Benches Thereof

### 4. Establishment of Armed Forces Tribunal .-The Central Government shall,
by notification, establish a Tribunal to be known as the Armed Forces Tribunal
to exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on it by or under
this Act.

### 5. Composition of Tribunal and Benches thereof .-(1) The Tribunal shall
consist of a Chairperson, and such number of Judicial and Administrative
Members as the Central Government may deem fit and, subject to the other
provisions of this Act, the jurisdiction, powers and authority of the Tribunal
may be exercised by Benches thereof.

(2)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a Bench shall consist of one
Judicial Member and one Administrative Member.(3)Notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the Chairperson¬-(a)may, in addition to
discharging the functions of a Judicial Member of the Bench to which he is
appointed, discharge the functions of an Administrative Member of any other
Bench;(b)may transfer a member from one Bench to another Bench;(c)may, for the
purpose of securing that any case or cases, which having regard to the nature
of the questions involved, requires or require, in his opinion, or under the
rules made under this Act, to be decided by a Bench composed of more than two
Members, issue such general or special orders, as he may deem fit:Provided
that every Bench constituted in pursuance of this clause shall include at
least one Judicial Member and one Administrative Member.(4)Subject to the
other provisions of this Act, the Benches of the Tribunal shall ordinarily sit
at Delhi (which shall be known as the Principal Bench), and at such other
places as the Central Government may, by notification, specify.

### 6. Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and other Members .-(1) A
person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chairperson unless he is
a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High
Court.

(2)A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judicial Member unless
he is or has been a Judge of a High Court.(3)A person shall not be qualified
for appointment as an Administrative Member unless¬-(a)he has held or has been
holding the rank of Major General or above for a total period of at least
three years in the Army or equivalent rank in the Navy or the Air Force;
and(b)he has served for not less than one year as Judge Advocate General in
the Army or the Navy or the Air Force, and is not below the rank of Major
General, Commodore and Air Commodore respectively.Explanation .-When a serving
person is appointed as an Administrative Member, he shall have retired from
service prior to assuming such appointment.

### 7. Appointment of Chairperson and other Members .-(1) Subject to the
provisions of this section, the Chairperson and other Members of the Tribunal
shall be appointed by the President:

Provided that no appointment under this sub-section shall be made except after
consultation with the Chief Justice of India.(2)The President may appoint one
or more Members of the Tribunal to be the Vice¬-Chairperson, or, as the case
may be, the Vice-Chairpersons, thereof.

### 8. Term of office .-The Chairperson or a Member shall hold office for a
term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his office and shall
be eligible for re¬-appointment:

Provided that no Chairperson shall hold office as such after he has
attained,¬-(a)in case he has been a Judge of the Supreme Court, the age of
seventy years; and(b)in case he has been the Chief Justice of a High Court,
the age of sixty-five years:Provided further that no other Member shall hold
office as such Member after he has attained the age of sixty-five years.

### 9. Resignation and removal .-(1) The Chairperson or a Member may, by
notice in writing under his hand addressed to the President, resign his
office:

Provided that the Chairperson or a Member shall, unless he is permitted by the
President to relinquish his officer sooner, continue to hold office until the
expiry of three months from that date of receipt of such notice or until a
person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the
expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.(2)The Chairperson or
a Member shall not be removed from his office except by an order made by the
President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after an inquiry
made by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court in which such Chairperson or
other Member had been informed of the charges against him and given a
reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges.(3)The
Central Government may, by rules, regulate the procedure for the investigation
of misbehaviour or incapacity of the Chairperson or other Member referred to
in sub-section (2).

### 10. Salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson and other Members .-The salaries and allowances payable to, and
the other terms and conditions of service (including pension, gratuity and
other retirement benefits) of, the Chairperson and other Members shall be such
as may be prescribed by the Central Government:

Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and
conditions of service of the Chairperson and other Members shall be varied to
their disadvantage after their appointment.

### 11. Prohibitions as to holding of offices, etc., by Chairperson or Member
on ceasing to be such Chairperson or Member .-On ceasing to hold office¬-

(a)the Chairperson shall be ineligible for further employment either under the
Government of India or under the Government of a State;(b)a Member other than
the Chairperson shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be eligible for
appointment as a member of any other Tribunal but not for any other employment
either under the Government of India or under the Government of a State;
and(c)the Chairperson or other Members shall not appear, act or plead before
the Tribunal.

### 12. Financial and administrative powers of Chairperson .-The Chairperson
shall exercise such financial and administrative powers over the Benches as
may be prescribed:

Provided that the Chairperson shall have the authority to delegate such of his
financial and administrative powers as he may think fit to any other Member or
any officer of the Tribunal, subject to the conditions that such Member or
officer shall, while exercising such delegated powers, continue to act under
the direction, control and supervision of the Chairperson.

### 13. Staff of the Tribunal .-(1) The Central Government shall determine the
nature and categories of the officers and other employees required to assist
the Tribunal in the discharge of its functions and provide the Tribunal with
such officers and other employees as it may think fit.

(2)The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions
of service of the officers and other employees of the Tribunal shall be such
as may be prescribed.(3)The officers and other employees of the Tribunal shall
discharge their functions under the general superintendence of the
Chairperson.

## Chapter III  
Jurisdiction, Powers And Authority Of The Tribunal

### 14. Jurisdiction, powers and authority in service matters .-(1) Save as
otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Tribunal shall exercise, on and
from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers and authority,
exercisable immediately before that day by all Courts (except the Supreme
Court or a High Court exercising jurisdiction under articles 226 and 227 of
the Constitution) in relation to all service matters.

(2)Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a person aggrieved by an order
pertaining to any service matter may make an application to the Tribunal in
such form and accompanied by such documents or other evidence and on payment
of such fee as may be prescribed.(3)On receipt of an application relating to
service matters, the Tribunal shall, if satisfied after due inquiry, as it may
deem necessary, that it is fit for adjudication by it, admit such application;
but where the Tribunal is not so satisfied, it may dismiss the application
after recording its reasons in writing.(4)For the purpose of adjudicating an
application, the Tribunal shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil
Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit
in respect of the following matters, namely¬:-(a)summoning and enforcing the
attendance of any person and examining him on oath;(b)requiring the discovery
and production of documents;(c)receiving evidence on affidavits;(d)subject to
the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of
1872), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or
document from any office;(e)issuing commissions for the examination of
witnesses or documents;(f)reviewing its decisions;(g)dismissing an application
for default or deciding it ex parte ;(h)setting aside any order of dismissal
of any application for default or any order passed by it ex parte ; and(i)any
other matter which may be prescribed by the Central Government.(5)The Tribunal
shall decide both questions of law and facts that may be raised before it.

### 15. Jurisdiction, powers and authority in matters of appeal against Court-
Martial .¬-(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Tribunal
shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers
and authority exercisable under this Act in relation to appeal against any
order, decision, finding or sentence passed by a Court-Marital or any matter
connected therewith or incidental thereto.

(2)Any person aggrieved by an order, decision, finding or sentence passed by a
Court-Martial may prefer an appeal in such form, manner and within such time
as may be prescribed.(3)The Tribunal shall have power to grant bail to any
person accused of an offence and in military custody, with or without any
conditions which it considers necessary:Provided that no accused person shall
be so released if there appears reasonable ground for believing that he has
been guilty of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for
life.(4)The Tribunal shall allow an appeal against conviction by a Court-
Martial where¬-(a)the finding of the Court-Martial is legally not sustainable
due to any reason whatsoever; or(b)the finding involves wrong decision on a
question of law; or(c)there was a material irregularity in the course of the
trial resulting in miscarriage of justice, but, in any other case, may dismiss
the appeal where the Tribunal considers that no miscarriage of justice is
likely to be caused or has actually resulted to the appellant:Provided that no
order dismissing the appeal by the Tribunal shall be passed unless such order
is made after recording reasons therefor in writing.(5)The Tribunal may allow
an appeal against conviction, and pass appropriate order
thereon.(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of
this section, the Tribunal shall have the power to¬-(a)substitute for the
findings of the Court-Martial, a finding of guilty for any other offence for
which the offender could have been lawfully found guilty by the Court-Martial
and pass a sentence afresh for the offence specified or involved in such
findings under the provisions of the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy
Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950), as the case
may be; or(b)if sentence is found to be excessive, illegal or unjust, the
Tribunal may¬-(i)remit the whole or any part of the sentence, with or without
conditions;(ii)mitigate the punishment awarded;(iii)commute such punishment to
any lesser punishment or punishments mentioned in the Army Act, 1950 (46 of
1950), the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) and the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of
1950), as the case may be;(c)enhance the sentence awarded by a Court-
Martial:Provided that no such sentence shall be enhanced unless the appellant
has been given an opportunity of being heard;(d)release the appellant, if
sentenced to imprisonment, on parole with or without conditions;(e)suspend a
sentence of imprisonment;(f)pass any other order as it may think
appropriate.(7)Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Act, for the
purposes of this section, the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Criminal Court
for the purposes of section 175, 178, 179, 180, 193, 195, 196 or 228 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).

### 16. Re-trial .-(1) Except as provided by this Act, where the conviction of
a person by Court-Martial for an offence has been quashed, he shall not be
liable to be tried again for that offence by a Court-Martial or by any other
Court.

(2)The Tribunal shall have the power of quashing a conviction, to make an
order authorising the appellant to be retried by Court-Martial, but shall only
exercise this power when the appeal against conviction is allowed by reasons
only of evidence received or available to be received by the Tribunal under
this Act and it appears to the Tribunal that the interests of justice require
that an order under this section should be made:Provided that an appellant
shall not be retried under this section for an offence other than,-(a)the
offence for which he was convicted by the original Court-Martial and in
respect of which his appeal is allowed;(b)any offence for which he could have
been convicted at the original Court-Martial on a charge of the first-
mentioned offence;(c)any offence charged in the alternative in respect of
which the Court-Martial recorded no finding in consequence of convicting him
of the first-mentioned offence.(3)A person who is to be retried under this
section for an offence shall, if the Tribunal or the Supreme Court so directs,
whether or not such person is being tried or retried on one or more of the
original charges, no fresh investigation or other action shall be taken under
the ¬relevant provision of the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy Act,
1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950), as the case may be,
or rules and regulations made thereunder, in relation to the said charge or
charges on which he is to be retried.

### 17. Powers of the Tribunal on appeal under section 15.-The Tribunal, while
hearing and deciding an appeal under section 15, shall have the power¬-

(a)to order production of documents or exhibits connected with the proceedings
before the Court-Martial;(b)to order the attendance of the witnesses;(c)to
receive evidence;(d)to obtain reports from Court-Martial;(e)order reference of
any question for enquiry;(f)appoint a person with special expert knowledge to
act as an assessor; and(g)to determine any question which is necessary to be
determined in order to do justice in the case.

### 18. Cost .-While disposing of the application under section 14 or an
appeal under section 15, the Tribunal shall have power to make such order as
to costs as it may deem just.

### 19. Power to punish for contempt .-(1) Any person who is guilty of
contempt of the Tribunal by using any insulting or threatening language, or by
causing any interruption or disturbance in the proceedings of such Tribunal
shall, on conviction, be liable to suffer imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years.

(2)For the purposes of trying an offence under this section, the provisions of
sections 14, 15, 17, 18 and 20 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (70 of
1971) shall mutatis mutandis apply, as if a reference therein to¬-(a)Supreme
Court or High Court were a reference to the Tribunal;(b)Chief Justice were a
reference to the Chairperson;(c)Judge were a reference to the Judicial or
Administrative Member of the Tribunal;(d)Advocate-General were a reference to
the prosecutor; and(e)Court were a reference to the Tribunal.

### 20. Distribution of business among the Benches .-The Chairperson may make
provisions as to the distribution of the business of the Tribunal among its
Benches.

## Chapter IV  
Procedure

### 21. Application not to be admitted unless other remedies exhausted .-(1)
The Tribunal shall not ordinarily admit an application unless it is satisfied
that the applicant had availed of the remedies available to him under the Army
Act, 1950 (46 of 1950) or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force
Act, 1950 (45 of 1950), as the case may be, and respective rules and
regulations made thereunder.

(2)For the purposes of sub-section (1), a person shall be deemed to have
availed of all the remedies available to him under the Army Act, 1950 (46 of
1950) or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of
1950), and respective rules and regulations¬-(a)if a final order has been made
by the Central Government or other authority or offices or other person
competent to pass such order under the said Acts, rules and regulations,
rejecting any petition preferred or representation made by such
person;(b)where no final order has been made by the Central Government or
other authority or officer or other person competent to pass such order with
regard to the petition preferred or representation made by such person, if a
period of six months from the date on which such petition was preferred or
representation was made has expired.

### 22. Limitation .-(1) The Tribunal shall not admit an application¬-

(a)in a case where a final order such as is mentioned in clause (a) of sub-
section (2) of section 21 has been made unless the application is made within
six months from the date on which such final order has been made;(b)in a case
where a petition or a representation such as is mentioned in clause (b) of
sub-section (2) of section 21 has been made and the period of six months has
expired thereafter without such final order having been made;(c)in a case
where the grievance in respect of which an application is made had arisen by
reason of any order made at any time during the period of three years
immediately preceding the date on which jurisdiction, powers and authority of
the Tribunal became exercisable under this Act, in respect of the matter to
which such order relates and no proceedings for the redressal of such
grievance had been commenced before the said date before the High
Court.(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Tribunal
may admit an application after the period of six months referred to in clause
(a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1), as the case may be, or prior to the
period of three years specified in clause (c), if the Tribunal is satisfied
that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application within
such period.

### 23. Procedure and powers of the Tribunal .-(1) The Tribunal shall not be
bound by the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908) but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice and subject to
the other provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, the Tribunal
shall have the power to lay down and regulate its own procedure including the
fixing of place and time of its inquiry and deciding whether to sit in public
or in camera.

(2)The Tribunal shall decide every application made to it as expeditiously as
possible after a perusal of documents, affidavits and written representations
and after hearing such oral arguments as may be advanced:Provided that where
the Tribunal deems it necessary, for reasons to be recorded in writing, it may
allow oral evidence to be adduced.(3)No adjournment shall be granted by the
Tribunal without recording the reasons justifying the grant of such
adjournment and cost shall be awarded, if a party requests for adjournment
more than twice.

### 24. Term of sentence and its effect on appeal .-(1) The term of any
sentence passed by the Tribunal under clause (a) of sub-section (6) of section
15 of this Act, shall, unless the Tribunal otherwise directs, be reckoned to
commence on the day on which it would have commenced under the Army Act, 1950
(46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) or the Air Force Act, 1950 (45
of 1950), as the case may be, under which the Court-Martial against which the
appeal was filed, had been held.

(2)Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), any sentence passed on an
appeal from the Tribunal to the Supreme Court in substitution for another
sentence shall, unless the Supreme Court otherwise directs, be reckoned to
commence on the day on which the original sentence would have
commenced.(3)Where a person who is undergoing sentence is granted stay of the
operation of the said sentence, either by suspension or otherwise, pending an
appeal, the period during which he is so released due to the sentence having
been so stayed, shall be excluded in computing the term for which he is so
sentenced by the Tribunal or the Supreme Court, as the case may be.

### 25. Right of applicant or of appellant to take assistance of a legal
practitioner and of Government, etc., to appoint counsel .-(1) A person making
an application or preferring an appeal to the Tribunal may either appear in
person or take the assistance of a legal practitioner of his choice to present
his case before the Tribunal.

(2)The Central Government or the competent authority, as may be prescribed,
may authorise one or more legal practitioners or any of its law officers to
act as counsel and every person so authorised by it may present its case with
respect to any application or appeal, as the case may be, before the Tribunal.

### 26. Condition as to making of interim order .-(1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other provisions of this Act or in any other law for the time
being in force, no interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in
any other manner) shall be made on an application or appeal, or in any
proceeding relating thereto, unless,¬-

(a)copies of such application or appeal, as the case may be, and all documents
in support of the plea for such interim order are furnished to the party
against whom such application or appeal, as the case may be, is made or
proposed to be made; and(b)opportunity of being heard is given to the other
party in the matter:Provided that the Tribunal may dispense with the
requirements of clauses (a) and (b) and make an interim order as an
exceptional measure if it is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
that it is necessary so to do for preventing any loss being caused to the
applicant or to the appellant, as the case may be.(2)Where any party against
whom an interim order, whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other
manner, is made on an application or appeal or in any proceeding relating
thereto under sub-section (1), without¬-(a)furnishing to such party copies of
such application or appeal, as the case may be, and all documents in support
of the plea for such interim order; and(b)giving such party an opportunity of
being heard, and making an application to the Tribunal for the vacation of
such order and furnishing a copy of such application or appeal, as the case
may be, to the party in whose favour such order has been made or the counsel
of such party, the Tribunal shall dispose of the application within a period
of fourteen days from the date on which it is received or from the date on
which the copy of such application is so furnished, whichever is later, or
where the Tribunal is closed on the last day of that period, before the expiry
of the next working day; and if the application is not so disposed of, the
interim order shall, on the expiry of that period, or, as the case may be, the
expiry of the said next working day, stand vacated.

### 27. Power of Chairperson to transfer cases from one Bench to another .-On
the application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties
concerned, and after hearing such of them as he may desire to be heard, or on
his own motion without such notice, the Chairperson may transfer any case
pending before one Bench for disposal, to any other Bench.

### 28. Decision to be by majority .-If the Members of a Bench differ in
opinion on any point, the point shall be decided according to the opinion of
the majority, if there is a majority, but if the Members are equally divided,
they shall state the point or points on which they differ and make a reference
to the Chairperson who shall either hear the point or points himself or refer
the case for hearing on such point or points by one or more of the Members of
the Tribunal and such point or points shall be decided according to the
opinion of the majority of the Members of the Tribunal who have heard the
case, including those who first heard it.

### 29. Execution of order of Tribunal .-Subject to the other provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder, the order of the Tribunal disposing of
an application shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court
and such order shall be executed accordingly.

## Chapter V  
Appeal

### 30. Appeal to Supreme Court .-(1) Subject to the provisions of section 31,
an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court against the final decision or order
of the Tribunal (other than an order passed under section 19) :

Provided that such appeal is preferred within a period of ninety days of the
said decision or order:Provided further that there shall be no appeal against
an interlocutory order of the Tribunal.(2)An appeal shall lie to the Supreme
Court as of right from any order or decision of the Tribunal in the exercise
of its jurisdiction to punish for contempt:Provided that an appeal under this
sub-section shall be filed in the Supreme Court within sixty days from the
date of the order appealed against.(3)Pending any appeal under sub-section
(2), the Supreme Court may order that¬-(a)the execution of the punishment or
the order appealed against be suspended; or(b)if the appellant is in
confinement, he be released on bail:Provided that where an appellant satisfies
the Tribunal that he intends to prefer an appeal, the Tribunal may also
exercise any of the powers conferred under clause (a) or clause (b), as the
case may be.

### 31. Leave to appeal .-(1) An appeal to the Supreme Court shall lie with
the leave of the Tribunal; and such leave shall not be granted unless it is
certified by the Tribunal that a point of law of general public importance is
involved in the decision, or it appears to the Supreme Court that the point is
one which ought to be considered by that Court.

(2)An application to the Tribunal for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court
shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date of the
decision of the Tribunal and an application to the Supreme Court for leave
shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date on which
the application for leave is refused by the Tribunal.(3)An appeal shall be
treated as pending until any application for leave to appeal is disposed of
and if leave to appeal is granted, until the appeal is disposed of; and an
application for leave to appeal shall be treated as disposed of at the
expiration of the time within which it might have been made, but it is not
made within that time.

### 32. Condonation .-The Supreme Court may, upon an application made at any
time by the appellant, extend the time within which an appeal may be preferred
by him to that Court under section 30 or sub-section (2) of section 31.

## Chapter VI  
Miscellaneous

### 33. Exclusion of jurisdiction of Civil Courts .-On and from the date from
which any jurisdiction, powers and authority becomes exercisable by the
Tribunal in relation to service matters under this Act, no Civil Court shall
have, or be entitled to exercise, such jurisdiction, power or authority in
relation to those service matters.

### 34. Transfer of pending cases .-(1) Every suit, or other proceeding
pending before any Court including a High Court or other authority immediately
before the date of establishment of the Tribunal under this Act, being a suit
or proceeding the cause of action whereon it is based, is such that it would
have been within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, if it had arisen after such
establishment within the jurisdiction of such Tribunal, stand transferred on
that date to such Tribunal.

(2)Where any suit, or other proceeding stands transferred from any Court
including a High Court or other authority to the Tribunal under sub-section
(1),¬-(a)the Court or other authority shall, as soon as may be, after such
transfer, forward the records of such suit, or other proceeding to the
Tribunal;(b)the Tribunal may, on receipt of such records, proceed to deal with
such suit, or other proceeding, so far as may be, in the same manner as in the
case of an application made under sub-section (2) of section 14, from the
stage which was reached before such transfer or from any earlier stage or de
novo as the Tribunal may deem fit.

### 35. Provision for filing of certain appeals .-Where any decree or order
has been made or passed by any Court (other than a High Court) or any other
authority in any suit or proceeding before the establishment of the Tribunal,
being a suit or proceeding the cause of action whereon it is based, is such
that it would have been, if it had arisen after such establishment, within the
jurisdiction of the Tribunal, and no appeal has been preferred against such
decree or order before such establishment or if preferred, the same is pending
for disposal before any Court including High Court and the time for preferring
such appeal under any law for the time being in force had not expired before
such establishment, such appeal shall lie to the Tribunal, within ninety days
from the date on which the Tribunal is established, or within ninety days from
the date of receipt of the copy of such decree or order, whichever is later.

### 36. Proceedings before Tribunal to be judicial proceedings .-All
proceedings before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings
within the meaning of sections 193, 219 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).

### 37. Members and staff of Tribunal to be public servants .-The Chairperson,
other Members and the officers and other employees provided under section 13
to the Tribunal shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

### 38. Protection of action taken in good faith .-No suit, prosecution or
other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or against the
Chairperson or any other Member or any other person authorised by the
Chairperson, for anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done
in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder in the discharge
of official duties.

### 39. Act to have overriding effect .-The provisions of this Act shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue
of any law other than this Act.

### 40. Power to remove difficulties .-(1) If any difficulty arises in giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty:

Provided that no order shall be made under this section after the expiry of
two years from the date of commencement of this Act.(2)Every order made under
this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each
House of Parliament.

### 41. Power of Central Government to make rules .-(1) The Central Government
may, by notification, make rules for the purposes of carrying out the
provisions of this Act.

(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:¬-(a)the case or cases
which shall be decided by a Bench composed of more than two Members under
clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 5;(b)the procedure under sub-section
(3) of section 9 for the investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of
Chairperson or other Member;(c)the salaries and allowances payable to, and the
other terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson and other Members
under section 10;(d)the financial and administrative powers which the
Chairperson may exercise over the Benches of the Tribunal under section
12;(e)the salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions
of service of the officers and other employees of the Tribunal under sub-
section (2) of section 13;(f)the form in which an application may be made
under sub-section (2) of section 14, the documents and other evidence by which
such application shall be accompanied and the fee payable in respect of the
filing of such application or for the service of execution of processes;(g)the
other matter which may be prescribed under clause (i) of sub-section (4) of
section 14;(h)the form and manner in which an appeal may be filed, the fee
payable thereon and the time within which such appeal may be filed under sub-
section (2) of section 15;(i)the rules subject to which the Tribunal shall
have power to regulate its own procedure under sub-section (1) of section
23;(j)competent authority who may authorise legal practitioners or law
officers to act as counsel under sub-section (2) of section 25;(k)any other
matter which may be prescribed or in respect of which rules are required to be
made by the Central Government.

### 42. Power to make rules retrospectively .-The powers to make rules under
section 41 shall include the power to make such rules or any of them
retrospectively from a date not earlier than the date on which this Act shall
come into operation but no such retrospective effect shall be given to any
such rule so as to prejudicially affect the interests of any person to whom
such rule may be applicable.

### 43. Laying of rules .-Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is
in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

